Migori county is set to host Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday, just four days after he was in the county in what is expected to rise political temperatures in South Nyanza region. Ruto will tour Kuria East constituency where he will be hosted by area MP Marwa Kitayama to launch a Technical Training Institute (TTI) at Kendege and preside over a fundraiser in aid of over 20 churches in the region. “We are set for his visit after a promise he made in the region two months ago to commission the Kendege Technical Training Institute and lead a funds drive for churches,’ Kitayama said. Read: Eyes on Obado as Ruto tours Migori on Monday During the visit, Ruto will not launch Isibania-Kehancha-Kegonga-Ntimaru road in minority Kuria area. On Monday, the DP came under criticism from Luo leaders who skipped his function accusing him of launching roads in Kuria and none in majority Luo areas in the county. On Monday, Ruto commissioned the C13 road from Kehancha-Migori-Masara which stalled before reaching Muhuru Bay in Nyatike constituency. “The DP requested to postpone the launching of the road to next year. This is owing to time constraints as he will be expected somewhere else, “ Kitayama explained. His Monday visit, where he was hosted by governor Okoth Obado and several leaders was skipped by all ODM leaders who said he was on 2022 campaign mission. See: [VIDEO] Raila wants me out of Jubilee, says Ruto Nyatike MP Tom Odege, Suna West MP Peter Masara and Suna East’s Junet Mohammed who skipped the functions in their constituencies said Ruto was out picking his campaign foot soldiers in the county ahead of 2022 elections. “I am a member of Roads Parliamentary Committee and I can authoritatively report that the Muhuru - Masara road which he launched in my constituency is non-existent without any budget allocation,” said Odege said. ODM National Chairman and Suba South MP John Mbadi said the DP’s office instead chose to involve “former MPs without the peoples’ mandate”. The Saturday tour with another similar one within a month has put Ruto in cross hairs of ODM leaders in Raila backyard. In the past, Ruto has been skipping the Luo section of Migori, with his Monday tour largely seen as a success. In 2013 and 2017 elections, the Kuria community overwhemingly voted for Jubilee. Click here for the latest political news  