It is becoming "popular", and
perhaps even "politically correct", to oppose innovative ideas by
county governments, which are deemed to be "too large" for them to
handle. It is even more "politically
correct" to assert — without any research or shred of evidence — that
where money is involved, governors are creating avenues for self-enrichment. Let me debunk these assumptions, innuendos and "politically correct"
assertions with regard to the proposal by the governors in the Lake Region
Economic Block to invest substantially in a financial institution called a
"bank" for the purpose of accessing finance for capital investment or
recurrent expenditure. In other words, a commercial as well as a development
bank. The idea of having a bank is a very simple
idea. This does not, however, mean that running it as a going concern in this
day and age is an easy matter. The field is rough, competitive and full of skeletons
of those who have ventured and fallen by the wayside. But the fact that
failures litter many avenues of capitals in modern nations does not also mean
that bank mergers and takeovers are not signs of growth and expansion of
monopoly capital. And this is where small banks serving small businesses and
accessible to small people become relevant. Why do you think that when you go
to the US and walk on the Main Street of any little town you will find a bank
called "The First National Bank of Lovelady, Texas?" I said earlier that the idea of starting a
bank is a simple idea. Take Equity Bank for example. Those who started it saw
something in what the "big banks" such as Barclays were doing, which
they thought was not quite appropriate in modern day Kenya. Barclays, for
example, had a rule that one could only open an account with Sh5, 000 as the
minimum deposit. Well, how many Kenyans could afford to put aside that kind of
money to run a current or savings account? Not many. So a good number of
Kenyans could remain unbanked. Further, in a rural Market such as Ndori in
Rarieda, while there were booming commercial activities, businessmen had to
travel to Siaya or Kisumu to bank. The risk of carrying bags of money the
Kabura way in a bus could be cured by having banking facilities nearerby or in
Ndori itself. Equity, therefore, decided to "bank with the
small man" by accepting deposits of as little as Sh500. They then moved to
"small towns" and opened branches for the unbanked. Many thought the
Equity entrepreneurs were crazy: They were not. They were simply seeing what
others were not seeing. They were also building for the future in reverence to
the Makerere University motto "Pro futuro edificanos"— we build for
the future. But let me go back a little: How and why did
banks come into being in the first place? The word "bank" in Italian
means "banca": e bench. History has it that the first prototype banks
started with Italian merchants, who used to sit on benches, perhaps in city
centres or markets, ready to make grain loans to farmers and traders who
carried goods between cities. History further has it that it is not the
Americans, the British or the French who invented banking. Not at all! It was the Italians who ensured
banking spread from northern Italy throughout the Holy Roman Empire, where
lenders based in temples made loans, while accepting deposits from traders,
eventually creating "promissory notes" called "money" to
make these transactions easier. Some of these banks, dating back to
the days of the Medici in the 14th Century, still exist in Italy to this day.
Hence if one wants a good lesson on banking, please look up the Italian banking
world. Notwithstanding the mafia and all
that, please get advice from the earliest experience from the Italians: They
are likely to give you more courage on how to start a bank that fulfils a sustainable
purpose and role in a market economy. Banks are not started for sentimental
purposes but by hard-nosed business persons who know the role that money pays
in commercial transactions that make profit for capital accumulation. So why do we want a LREB bank, either as a
stand alone initiative or by investing in an existing going concern?
I admire the Italians who founded banking from
very rudimentary levels. They had a purpose of facilitating trade while making
money. They were not fools. In like manner, governors of the LREB have money: We
want to stimulate development in our region by using it intelligently not
foolishly. Let us put it this way. We have 14 counties in the LREB. Put
together, these counties get at least Sh84 billion a year through the Division
of Revenue Act. I have said "at least"; it could be more. Supposing we said 70 per cent of
this money turns around rather fast to meet recurrent expenditures. That is, Sh63
billion may stay in the banks where it is paid for no more than a month. But
every day the bank holds even that they do business with it. The other Sh21
billion for development may stay in the banks for three to 12 months, depending
on the kind of development projects the counties are pursuing. The question I
am asking myself is: Do we commit any mistake to deposit it in banks where we,
as governments, have shares? After all, the Kenya Commercial Bank has succeeded
because the majority shareholder, government, transacts most of its business
through "its bank", the KCB. Remember, the Constitution says there are two
types of governments in Kenya, separate but interdependent — the national
government and the counties. The first one owns its own bank the second is just
preparing to invest heavily in a bank that is already a going concern; in other
words, to put our eggs in a nest already built but where we shall have a voice. KCB has succeeded as a public owned bank because of good management and business
practices. Which are the God-given rules that say the LREB is bound to fail if
we invest in our own type of KCB? Why can't we also allow that bank to be run
by professionals in our interest? Any intelligent capitalist does not manage
his own business: He hires experts. Some of my readers may be too young to
remember the history of KCB. At independence, there were only 8.908 million
people in Kenya. In 1970, when the government decided to buy National and
Grindlays Bank, the population was 11.25 million, about four million less than
the current population in the LREB counties. Of course Kenya's GDP then needed
to be taken into account just as much as the GDP of the LREB counties would be
important in assessing the potentiality of a bank focussing on the economy of
the area. KCB, as it was born, had a mission
of using its financial and managerial muscle to play a major role in the
country's economic development. But it has since gone beyond Kenyan borders.
Capitalism, as it were, knows no borders: It only respects market forces. And
when it abuses these forces, it collapses. When these forces likewise go rogue,
banks also collapse. In 2007-08 the capitalist world economy "went
rogue" and many banks, mighty and tiny, went tumbling down. But this
didn't mean that world of banking disappeared; governments across the globe
found ways and means to cushion their economies against "that shock." We in the LREB are in a situation that the government
was in 1970; only that the region now has a bigger population than Kenya had
then, with quite a number of banking institutions wanting to do business with
us not simply as "transit facilities" for our monies but as partners
in development. When we say we want to buy an existing bank, we want to do
exactly what the government did with the National and Grindlays Bank in 1970. And we want the management of such a bank to be top notch. We want it to bank
"the unbankable": Mop up the entire table banking monies so that our
villagers can be saved from so many losses they suffer now. We want to speed up the
disbursement of development funds, which at times take ages in the banks for
reasons that escape our imagination. Not to mention the outright theft that we
have come across in certain banks when they collude with crafty officials in
our governments. The latter has led to the collapse of certain " national
banks". It is an issue of governance that we must remain vigilant to
whether we put our money in a bank in which we have majority share or we
continue to use the commercial banks, big and small, that we currently depend
on. Lastly, I assure Kenyans we have consulted
with the best and brightest on this matter, locally and abroad; and we shall
continue to consult even with our erstwhile detractors. Knowledge, like the
capitalist market, knows no boundaries. So let all flowers bloom; let a
thousand thoughts contend. But come to us to reason, not to shout. Come to us
with proposals and not with ultimata. 