President Uhuru Kenyatta wants Sh11.9 billion to run his office in the next financial year. This year, the Presidency’s budget was Sh9.8 billion. It has proposed an additional Sh2.1 billion for 2019-20. Kenyans are expected to give their views on the 2019-20 budget during the Treasury’s public forum at KICC from Tuesday to Thursday next week. The request comes as Treasury CS Henry Rotich raises concerns over huge wastage of public funds by government institutions. “Ministries, departments and agencies should identify cost-saving measures to eliminate wastage in their budgets,” the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework report for 2018 reads. It was released yesterday. Rotich has urged state agencies to strengthen their strategies of mobilising resources to overcome funding shortfalls that force the exchequer to subject them to austerity measures. “The sector should put in place effective measures, including public finance management reforms for enhanced revenue collection and resource mobilisation,” he says. Read: State House defends Sh9.8bn budget above allowed ceiling He wants them to strengthen and monitor implementation of projects to ensure prudent use of public funds. The government has been unable to meet revenue targets for the current financial year. The Kenya Revenue Authority targeted Sh1.949 trillion, which was slashed by Sh96 billion to Sh1.853 trillion. “This led to frequent rescheduling of financing for projects of the sector, austerity measures, budget cuts, exchequer delays and accumulation of pending bills,” the report says. It highlights the current and projected expenditure by 15 state institutions for the next three financial years. They institutions, including the Presidency, are requesting Sh380 billion in 2019-20, against the Treasury’s proposed Sh238.5 billion budget, creating a shortfall of Sh141.7 billion. DP William Ruto’s office, which is included in the Presidency budget, is to receive Sh2.9 billion up from the current Sh2.1 billion. Read: State House, Parliament budget cuts due to repeat polls, drought Also Read:  [VIDEO] Sh3 trillion budget not oppressive, Kanze Dena says in maiden press briefing Click here for the latest political news