Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma wants her name expunged from a report tabled in Parliament linking her to audit queries. Juma in a letter to the National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai said the PAC report on the investigations into tender of the National Police Service Comprehensive Life Insurance Cover stating that she be reprimanded is neither a fact or is it correct. She said the reason given in the report is that she was the accounting officer as the PS during the tendering process. "The contract investigated by the PAC was signed and executed on August 12 2014. This event was reported accordingly in the local media and it is worth noting that President Uhuru Kenyatta announced my appointment/transfer to the State Department of Interior as PS in August 14 2014," the CS quotes in the letter dated November 25. The Parliamentary Accounts Committee in the report incriminated several accounting officers for dubious expenditures during the Jubilee administration's first term. Top on the list is Monica Juma, former Attorney General Githu Muigai and several Principal Secretaries indicted by the auditor general’s report for Financial Year 2014/2015. Among the PSs incriminated by the PAC are Cooperatives PS Ali Ismail Noor, Petroleum Chief Administrative Secretary John Musonik and the Registrar of the Judiciary, Anne Amadi. The report also nails PSs already dropped from government —Nduva Muli (Transport), Richard Lesiyampe (Environment), Khadijah Kassachom (Health) and Richard Ekai (Sports). Juma, according to the report, served as Interior PS at the time in indicted for a Sh1.7 billion comprehensive group life insurance cover for the Police and Prisons services. Read: MPs want Monica Juma, Githu Muigai charged over audit queries But in her response, Juma said she took the office on August 20 2014 and thus it is not clear why she's linked to the alleged scam. "By the time I took office, the said contract had been signed and executed. In the light of this I urge my name be expunged from the report," she said. She said failure to expunge her name from the report will otherwise disparage and damage her reputation for the records. Click here for the latest political news