MPs from Pokot yesterday  stormed Eldoret police station demanding the release of a suspect held in connection with banditry along the West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet border. Four people have been killed by bandits along the border in the last one week and more than 1,000 people have fled from their homes fearing retaliatory attacks. Pokot South MP David Pkosing and his Sigor counterpart Peter Lochakapong stormed the station after police arrested Jackson Kibet at the Moi Referral Hospital. Kibet was reportedly taking care of his brother who is admitted in ICU at the hospital. The brother was among those injured when bandits suspected to be from Marakwet raided Chemusto area in Pokot on Friday. Two of the raiders were killed in a gun fight. "We have come here because the man arrested is innocent and was just taking care of his brother. It is the Pokot community which was attacked and we cannot thus be suspects," Pkosing said. He said police had failed to arrest five key suspects who were involved in the raid and instead went for innocent people. Pkosing and Lochakapong said they had asked the residents to remain calm as the matter was being handled. Uasin Gishu Police  Commander Augustine Thumbi said the matter was under investigations. The man arrested was to be transferred to Tot police station in Elgeyo Marakwet but the two MPs opposed the move. Police in the volatile region have been on high alert following fears of an upsurge in violence ahead of the festive season. The first attacks took place in Sewes, Marakwet East subcounty. Residents fear the attackers were out to kill and not to steal cattle. "No livestock was stolen. The first victim was waylaid and shot dead by bandits. The reservist was killed when he responded to the distress call," a witness said. Those killed were Kenya Police Reservist Luka Suter, 30, and villager Joel Kirotich, 35. The bodies were taken to Iten County Referral Hospital mortuary. Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen appealed for calm, asking police to ensure the bandits do not kill people he told residents to be peaceful and resist carrying out retaliatory attacks. Click here for the latest political news