The National Land Commission is seeking to unravel the circumstances under which military land near Eldoret was grabbed. The 4,000 acres were designated as a buffer zone between the Kenya Ordnance Factories Corporation and the public. The parcel has been the centre of a controversy between the KDF and Leseru Tebeson Farmers Society. It is located about 20km from Eldoret town. Acting NLC chairperson Abigael Mukolwe chaired the hearing at ACK Bishop Annex offices.Commissioners Abdulkadir Khalif, Emma Njogu, Rose Musyoka and Samuel Tororei were also present. The government compulsory acquired part of the land for the Department of Defence, documents show. The society told the NLC that the department was issued with two titles — LR No 27206/1 and LR No 27206/2. Leseru was allotted the remainder of LR. No. 11039, which later became LR No. 27206/3 and LR No. 27206/4. A document submitted by the society before the NLC says LR 27206/R belongs to the society. The society was issued with allotment letter by the Lands ministry on December 21, 2005. Read: Duale tells KDF to stop ‘land grab’ in Garissa It shows the land first belonged to European settler Alexander Douglas of Lewa Downs Limited. Before he died, documents show that Douglas had written a will dated December 19,1979, and appointed Madam Noel Amatasi Lijina to be its sole executor. In the will, Douglas said Noel had been co-manager of his property and all machinery and bequeathed her the property and the machinery. Noel, according to documents, later became a director of Lewa Downs Limited. “The settler in his will directed that the executor of his will ensures the property is subdivided and each of 350 genuine squatters to get a share,” the document says. Yunis Mohamed and Associates presented it. It says Noel had powers to employ officials to assist her manage the land. The document says that before the government acquired the land, the squatters had purchased part of it from the settler. “They wrote several cheques to Alexander which were never banked but later on paid cash to him. His son is going to provide proof at a later date,” the NLC was told. In 1979, Noel and three officials — Charles Walekhwa, Kisorio and Wilson Too started managing the squatters while seeking funds for subdivision and title production as per the will. She however died, paving the way for Miriam Kubai, her daughter, to take over the role. Miriam became a trustee and member of Leseru Tebeson Farmers Society. The Lands ministry cancelled the society’s allotment on August 3, 2006. The society paid Sh 25,411,210 as stand premium for reinstatement of allotment letter. The NLC said plans to repossess grabbed parcels are underway. Mukolwe urged the military to provide letter of allotment and a map showing where the bullet factory is by November 15. “Anyone with titles will have to appear and say how they got them, We will repossess them [grabbed parcels],” Mukolwe said. Click here for the latest political news  