Warring parties in Nyandarua have finally declared a ceasefire after a meeting in Nairobi. The meeting started on Friday and ended yesterday at 4:00am.Governor Francis Kimemia was the winner, having had his way in the Nyandarua assembly leadership dispute that has lasted for three months. In a statement sent to the media, Kimemia said that after “very in-depth, frank and candid discussion, a clear roadmap for commencement of business of the assembly from Tuesday [tomorrow] was fast tracked”. The meeting adopted the new leadership, which was elected by 22 Jubilee MCAs at a Nakuru hotel in September and later approved by the Jubilee Party governing council .The new development will see Kimemia’s faction take control of the powerful House Business Committee. North Kinangop MCA Ednald Kingori will be the leader of the Majority. Kiriita’s Justus Wagura will be Majority deputy leader. Former Kipipiri chief and nominated MCA Wangari Methu will be the chief whip, while nominated MCA Geoffrey Kariuki Ngaruiya will be her deputy. Former leader of Majority Kamau Gathungu will be chairman PIC/PAC committee, while Ken Mukira, who deputised him, becomes the chairperson of the Intergovernmental Relations and Coordination, ICT and e-government committee. Read: Drama as Nyandarua MCA refuses to surrender his gun to assembly orderlies Ousted chief whip Hussein Kassana takes over as the chairperson of the Lands,Housing and Physical Planning committee. The seat of the speaker of the County Assembly to continues being held by Hon James Wahome Ndegwa. The meeting also resolved to extend teh assembly’s calender to ensure all pending businesses are processed. All court cases will be withdrawn unconditionally. They, include one at the Political Parties Tribunal in Nairobi and the others inthe High Court in Nyahururu. All elected leaders will visit the wards together and “heal our people and foster development”. Kimemia said this win-win strategy took cognisant of the fact that “Nyandarua county is greater than all of us and we must not allow such situations as we have witnessed in the last three months to recur”. “We sincerely apologise to our people for this embarrassment,” Kimemia said. Click here for the latest political news  