Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka embarked on his new job as peace envoy last week. At his father’s funeral on November 9, Kalonzo begged to be President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ‘mtu wa mkono’ or errand boy, vowing allegiance to him. This bootlicking marks another step in the evisceration of Opposition politics in Kenya after ODM leader Raila Odinga was neutered in February. The media still calls him Opposition leader, but is he? Kalonzo was Raila’s running mate in last year’s presidential election, which was rigged for Uhuru. The Supreme Court nullified the result. The Opposition demanded reforms in the IEBC before a repeat poll. Nothing happened. Nasa boycotted the October 26 election, which Uhuru ‘won’. The nation became sharply polarised. By January 30 when Raila was sworn in as the ‘People’s President’, Kenya was on the cusp of a revolution. State brutality against Opposition supporters, even murder of children, was met with heroic resistance. The regime’s foreign masters were dumbstruck. They forgot their sermons about human rights. Raila’s Waterloo came about 10 days after his ‘swearing in’. Western powers – Kenya’s actual rulers – openly isolated him. Eleven diplomats led by the US on February 11 endorsed Uhuru’s victory, telling Raila to go hang. They spat on his face. “A father of multiparty democracy has made unsubstantiated claims about elections and unilaterally sworn himself as ‘President’, in deliberate disregard of the Constitution for which he so proudly fought,” the envoys mocked Raila. “Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto are the legitimate President and Deputy President of Kenya. The Opposition needs to accept this as the basis for the dialogue that it and many Kenyans want. Stoking and threatening violence are not acceptable, nor are extra-Constitutional measures to seize power.” Raila had a rare historical moment: Choose revolution, stand for African dignity, or surrender. He dithered. The rest is history. On March 9 Raila shook hands with Uhuru, pledging to work with him. He dropped all the demands Nasa supporters had been killed for. In exchange for what? No one knows. Raila’s sudden about-face plunged his supporters into mourning. No one – except the two ‘friends’ - knew details of the handshake. It was the clearest sign that Raila was arm-twisted or bought. He couldn’t admit it in public. What is in the handshake for others, beyond Raila and his cronies? What is in it for murdered Baby Pendo? For the slain children Moraa Nyarangi and Geoffrey Mutinda? For Musando? On August 1, Citizen TV journalist Hussein Mohammed unmasked Raila the political mongrel. No, he was not in government, he said. But he was a roving ambassador for Jubilee. Yes, he was still leader of the Opposition, head of Nasa and ODM. No, he had not given up the quest for reforms. Yes, he supported Uhuru. Raila’s transmogrification was complete. Months later, he would blame his Luo community for their poverty. They should work harder and stop expecting everything from the government, he hectored. This insult is ahistorical. It is the ultimate betrayal of a people who have suffered some of the worst forms of politically instigated marginalisation in neo-colonial Kenya. It is the absolute negation of the purpose of Raila's entire political life, or whatever he claimed his cause was. Raila knows the truth about poverty in Kenya. But that truth is inconvenient for his come-we-stay ‘marriage’ to Uhuru. He chose the language of the oppressor. On Mashujaa Day, October 20, Uhuru announced Raila had been appointed African Union envoy. Before then, his minions had got government jobs. The AU post sparked a debate about whether Raila would be active in local politics. Raila said he was going nowhere. And then he said he would focus on AU work. His allies weren’t clear on the issue either. This equivocation, again, is deliberate. Raila is unable to face his supporters and tell them the plain truth. His betrayal of the people's revolutionary aspirations has emboldened the country's thieves and their imperialist accomplices, notably the West. The progressive agenda has suffered a major setback. Kenyans who want to emancipate the country should forget about the Railas and Kalonzos and organise. They are part of the oppressive system that must be dismantled.