Bomet MPs who walked out of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s function last month have apologised to Governor Joyce Laboso, saying they didn’t mean to embarrass her. The legislators laid blame on the master of ceremonies for excluding them on October 22. They accused him of snubbing them, saying they were denied a chance to speak, air grievances and discuss development priorities in their five constituencies. The MPs were meeting Governor Laboso for the first time since the walkout. They were Senator Christopher Langat, Woman Representative Joyce Korir and Brighton Yegon of Konoin. The legislators on Saturday said as leaders from the region, they are united and behind President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. The three said they walked out of the meeting to express their dissatisfaction for not being recognised. The MPs had accused Laboso of failing to give them an opportunity to speak during the opening of a Bomet University tuition block by the President and Ruto two weeks ago. They said they had serious issues to raise and which they wanted addressed. “Madam Governor, we support you and respect you...our anger was not directed at you but such misunderstandings are normal in any family,” Korir said. She said they have met the President and explained why they stormed out of his meeting. Langat said the matter was blown out of proportion. “We have no problem with anyone. We just wanted the President to have time with us,” he said. Langat said they have good working relations with the governor. He said people from the Office of the President who were handling protocol snubbed them. The lawmakers spoke during the commissioning of a classroom block at Sotik Primary School on Saturday. The institution was renovated by Sotik businessman Akshar Patel at a cost of Sh1.7 million. Kesses MP Mishra Kiprop was the chief guest during the function. Sotik MP Dominic Koskei, who hosted the leaders, was absent during the walkout. Laboso said leaders from Jubilee support unity talks being spearhead in the country. Responding to the recent visit to former Bomet governor Isaac Rutto by some Jubilee governors, she said she welcomes such initiatives. Laboso dismissed claims she was left out of the meeting. Last month, the legislators had warned Laboso against remitting Sh200 million for the establishment of Lake Region Economic Bloc bank. Ronald Tonui of Bomet Central had said atop their list was the slow construction at Bomet University and “irregularities” in employment. The MP said legislators are not happy with a contractor on site, saying he had taken a lot of time and there was little work to show for it “despite receiving more than Sh500 million”. “By now, five buildings are supposed to have been completed, but one is complete and the President was called in to open it. What a shame,” Tonui had said. He said the tuition and administration blocs, hostels, library and multipurpose hall were supposed to be completed. The MP said the contractor should be stopped and a new one brought to finish the work. Tonui said the contractor’s were questionable. “The contractor is a politician who should be stopped due to lack of capacity,” he said. Click here for the latest political news