The Kenyatta National Hospital has maintained that it will not budge to calls, instigations or incitement of its employees to take part in illegal meetings with the sole purpose of advancing courses that disrupt essential services at the facility. Addressing the press at the hospital on Thursday, KNH acting CEO Thomas Mutie said the management has no intention to stop nurses from joining the union of their choice or refuse to recognise any union including the Kenya National Union of Nurses. He, however, said those wishing to do so must follow due process as stipulated by law. "One such requirement is that an employee can only facilitate deductions for an employee for one union. Therefore, those who desire to join another union ought to resign from their current union and present acknowledged and approved resignation letters," Mutie said. He, however, noted that no staff shall be reprimanded for participating in the picketing on Monday and Tuesday this week. He said both parties resolved to enhance consultation for dialogue to prevent disharmony in the hospital that would compromise patient care. Read: Seth Panyako arrested for inciting KNH nurses to strike On the matter of assault on one of the nurses at the facility on October 13, Mutie said the management has taken full responsibility of all medical expenses amounting to Sh598,000 incurred by Mildred Akinyi during her hospitalisation and will further meet the cost of post discharge follow up clinics. "Akinyi has been paid all her dues. Further, the management has provided and facilitated for the prosecution of assailants of Akinyi and investigations are being carried out by the DCI," he said. According to the CEO, the management has engaged with the National Police Service and increased guards to secure high-risk areas especially accident and emergency, entrances and all floors. The hospital has since initiated a rapid response system dubbed 'mulika uhalifu' to enhance real-time response and responding of incidences. "The management will also strengthen communication to bereaved families and clients as well as briefing sessions for the healthcare workers," he concluded. Also read;Nurses accuse KNH of barring them from union Click here for the latest political news