My favourite time to travel in Kenya (but really anywhere in sub-Saharan Africa) is on Sunday mornings. Everyone is in Church! Usually my travel on Sundays prompts my Kenyan colleagues to ask me whether I am Christian, and if Chinese are religious. Officially speaking, the Communist Party of China (CPC) is strongly and strictly atheist. In fact, China is one of only two countries (including Cuba) in the world that is officially atheist. While in general, the CPC believes that religious belief and devotion to the party are incompatible, they are also not allowed to force citizens to be atheists. Furthermore, there is a high level of hypocrisy in this, as even high-level officials in the party are typically religious, going to Buddhist temples in secret or sending wives and secretaries for blessings. As I’ve mentioned in my other articles, the Chinese are extremely superstitious, and traditionally have practised a number of folk religions, as well as Confucianism, Taoism and Buddhism. It wasn’t until 1949, after the Cultural Revolution, that the State became officially atheists. Before that, the dynasties claiming ‘The Mandate of Heaven’ always had spiritual sages close to the emperor in court. Growing up, my favourite bedtime stories were about The Monkey King and his mystical journeys with teasing deities, fighting demons, and attaining new powers. To so many of us young ones, they were not so much fairytales as they were religious fables. Despite my grandfather’s staunch support of the Communist Party, he is also a devout Catholic. When he was a young impoverished child, he was treated with great kindness by the Jesuits, and still fondly remembers St Ignatius Cathedral in Shanghai (recently restored after being vandalised during the Cultural Revolution). Because he was not allowed to practise openly, it was not until he moved to the US that he was able to be baptised, an emotional event for the whole family. It also meant a lot to him when I ended up attending a Catholic high school. My grandmother, on the other hand, is Buddhist — her red-based Buddha snow-globe always on her bedside table, her prayer beads around her wrist. Every spring, during Chinese New Year, she would take me to the temple to get a red thread bracelet blessed, something I was expected to wear throughout the year for good luck. Although Chinese temples are not churches as they do not have weekly services, and the Chinese do not attend their place of worship regularly, religion is still a deeply embedded part of daily life. Arguably, this is the single aspect of life that Chinese immigrants have not brought to Kenya. While there are no temples here, there are subtle traces of Chinese religion and superstition across Nairobi — including red paper strips bearing inscriptions on the doorframes of Chinese houses, altars to ancestors by the kitchens and burning of paper replicas ­ — including fancy houses, top-of-the-range cars and other things useful in the afterlife. This are part of funerals and death anniversaries. Despite years of friction, Beijing and the Vatican recently signed a provisional agreement allowing the Pope to have a say in appointments of Chinese bishops. The Chinese government has had conflicts with most world religions, kicking out the Dalai Lama and persecuting Muslims in Xinjiang. The party is not opposed to Christianity or Islam as religions or because they are spiritual. They are concerned because they try to quash any mass movement — the CPC wants to be only organisation honding the hearts and minds of the Chinese people. They fear mass influence, and the potential that any organisation might encourage its constituents to rise up against the party. Surprisingly, it is the consensus of academics that Christianity has significantly grown over three decades, and continues to grow, despite the government’s hard line. Christian values often align well with those of Chinese folk religions. Perhaps next Sunday you can invite your Chinese neighbour to Church, you may be surprised at what you have in common. Instagram @curiouszoo