MCAs allied to Governor Francis Kimemia have told off Health CS Sicily Kariuki and Nyandarua MPs, accusing them of being behind chaos  at the assembly for two months. They said the leadership wrangles that have hampered the assembly operations cannot be blamed on speaker Wahome Ndegwa alone as he has been acting for the MPs, who are the inciters. “We want these leaders to stop incitement. Ndegwa is not the problem. It is these external forces that have been ailing the assembly,” Kaimbaga MCA Gabriel Gathure said. The MCAs said the CS and MPs should leave them alone, as the national leaders cannot transact county assembly business. On Monday, the CS met all Nyandarua MPs, the governor, the deputy governor and the speaker in search of a lasting solution to the Nyandarua assembly wrangles. During the meeting, it was agreed the assembly leaders who were removed during a meeting at a Nakuru hotel in September, should retain their positions until the matter in court is settled. The meeting resolved that removed Majority leader Kamau Gathungu should not transact government business in the assembly. The role will be taken by deputy speaker Zachary Njeru. He is in Ndegwa’s political faction. Their decision was communicated to the MCAs during a meeting called by the governor and the speaker at Royal Gardens Hotel in Ol Kalou on Tuesday. A majority of MCAs were unhappy with the decision and they went to the assembly where they blocked the speaker from accessing it. Yesterday they said they took the drastic move after they realised the national leaders want to continue holding the assembly captive and prevent the governor from working. The MCAs said the solution will be for the speaker to recognise elected leaders. Kinangop North MCA Edinald Kingori, who was elected Majority leader, said, “We have no issues with them but let them confine themselves to the National Assembly. We were elected by Wanjiku and we are sober to work without them dictating to us.” King’ori said CS Kariuki should know Nyandarua residents expect a lot from her as the Health CS. He said Nyandarua health sector has many challenges, which she should be addressing before trying to intervene in the assembly problems. “At J M Hospital, for example, we need a CT scan and other equipment. Such are the things she should address,” he said The MCAs spoke to residents outside the assembly gates. Residents had joined the MCAs in forcing their way into the assembly after armed police officers locked the gate to bar the ward reps from accessing the assembly. Swift action by county assemblies women MCAs’ caucus chairperson Milka Wanjiru averted chaos. She pleaded with Nyandarua Central deputy police boss Ronald Ngao and DCI Stanselous Mwangi to urge the Nyandarua assembly orderlies to keep the gate open.