The assembly
and the executive are the two arms that form the devolved county governments. There are
many provisions in the 2010 constitution that give legal basis for their
existence, principally being to afford opportunity for residents to actively
participate in development, giving the minorities and the marginalised
communities an avenue of representation and integration in running of county
governments; having public participation in budget processes and development of
County Integrated Development Plans (CIDP). More importantly, however, are the
political decisions that local communities exercise through their elected
representatives. There are
1,450 wards in the 47 counties and a huge number of nominated MCAs to bridge
the two-thirds gender gap, cater for youth and people living with disabilities
in representation. County
assemblies have huge responsibilities in facilitating development through
debates and legislation. They have a pivotal role to enhance and entrench the
ethos and practice of public participation, where residents’ views are sought
and incorporated in legislations and policy initiatives. It is the passage of budget
estimates prepared by the executive that opens the implementation of
development priorities identified by residents. Assemblies
thus exercise huge leverage in resource allocation. It is, however, in the
accountability on allocated and generated revenues and oversight by the assembly
against the expenditures by the executive that all assemblies have fallen short
of. Reports by
the Auditor General since 2013-14 paint a very depressing scenario, where
assemblies went on a spending spree and joined the executives to pilfer,
misappropriate and misuse allocated resources. With over Sh1.5 trillion already
released to the counties since 2013, not much can be seen in the counties. Assemblies
have failed to tame the huge wage bills by adding more staff for themselves and
others going to bed with the executive and pushing for their relatives to be
employed. Failure to
tame the wage bill lies squarely on the Public Service Commission of Kenya, the
Council of Governors, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the National
Treasury. All these entities slept on the job and deliberately turned a blind
eye on nepotism and haphazard recruitment, which have kept the bills rising
with a cost to common mwananchi. Controller of Budget reports have consistently
shown that almost half of the counties do not spend up to the required 30 per
cent of their revenue allocations on development yet this is a cardinal
requirement in the Public Finance and Management Act of 2012 and the subsequent
regulations issues by the National Treasury. County
Assemblies are guided by the county Assembly Service Act of 2017, famously
referred to as the Wako Bill, and the County Government Act of 2012 in
discharge of its mandate. County assembly service boards are the executive
organs of the assembly which have the speaker as the chairman, two members
representing public interest, two members drawn from political parties
represented in the assembly and the assembly clerk acts as its secretary,
implementer of resolutions of the board, adviser and custodian of its records.
The board prepares the assembly budget and upon approval by the assembly, superintends
over its expenditures. The board establishes and abolishes offices, ensures
continuous capacity building of assembly members and assembly staff; creates a
conducive environment to facilitate members of the county assembly to undertake
their core roles of legislation, representation and oversight, and ensure the
parliamentary practice, democracy and tradition are enhanced. With such
a huge mandate and powers over budgets, staffing, trainings and administration
of members’ loans and mortgages, the County Assembly Service Board has become a
coveted institution for control by MCAs and the executive. This has contributed
to the instability currently being witnessed in most assemblies. Any county
executive who is not in good books with the assembly is finding easy political
breather in destabilising the assembly boards.  The scenario is compounded by MCAs,
particularly the Majority and Minority leaders and the respective chief whips
who fail to adhere to the procedures, Standing Orders and relevant laws. Ugly
incidences witnessed in Kakamega, Homa Bay, Nairobi, Kisumu and Embu are just
tips of the iceberg. Many assemblies are unstable to discharge their mandates
effectively and efficiently. The county
assembly boards are hamstrung, specifically in the fight against corruption.
Board members watch and go along whenever MCAs demand for allowances, trips,
committee sittings that are not budgeted for. This is the sorry state of
affairs that has consistently undermined service delivery by the assembly boards
and the county assembly itself. The county residents will hence continue to
feel cheated and frustrated for lacking service benchmarks and deliverables by
MCAs despite the revenue allocations through the service boards. The buck stops
at the Senate to ensure service boards are not only properly constituted, but
are functional, are conforming to public finance provisions plus all other
relevant laws in support of county assemblies in the discharge of their
respective mandates.  John Burugu is a devolution, policy and governance expert burugujn@gmail.com