Deputy President William Ruto will on Monday tour Homa Bay and Migori to commission national government projects. The DP is expected to commission works on the 45-km Kanyadhiang'-Kadel ring road. Works are already on. He is also set to launch electrification projects, under the Last Mile Connectivity, in Karachuonyo constituency before heading to Migori. In Homa Bay, the DP will be hosted by Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okuome and county officials. Ketraco chairman and former Karachuonyo MP James Rege will accompany the DP on the tour. In Migori, Ruto will commission Kehancha-Muhuru road, street lighting at Masara trading centre, and last mile at Muhuru market. Suna West MP Peter Masara and Governor Okoth Obado will host the deputy president in Migori. Okuome told journalists in Kendu Bay on Sunday that completion of works on the Kanyadhiang' ring road will spur economic development in the area. He said the road will make tourists to access Lake Simbi and hot springs in Homa hills. "The two are part of the Western Kenya tourist attractions. Tarmacking the road will revitalise them for tourism," Okuome said. He said the road will also ease transportation of fish from the land beaches in the area. "It will also be easy to transport sorghum produce to the EABL factory in Kisumu," he added. There is a high chance the DP Ruto will woo residents of the two counties to support his 2022 presidential bid. The region is perceived as a stronghold of ODM party leader Raila Odinga. Okuome said they take the opportunity presented by the tour to lobby for completion of the Kimira-Oluch irrigation scheme. Homa Bay Jubilee party coordinator Odhiambo Markowiti said: "Majority of residents are focusing on development." The county Bunge la Wananchi speaker Walter Opiyo said they want DP Ruto to frequently visit the area for discussions on matters development. "There is total peace and we appeal for DP to bring development in the region. Ruto is a leader for all Kenyans and he is free to tour anywhere." Click here for the latest political news 