Fifteen employees of a duty free shop at the Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport have challenged a move by the Kenya Airports Authority to evict them today from the airport. In a petition filed at the Milimani Law Courts, the
employees of Maya Duty Free Shop want the court to bar the KAA from evicting
them from the premises until their case is heard and determined. “Restrain any implementation of Clause V paragraph 4(b) of
Concession Agreement for Development and Management of Duty Free Retail Services
Under a single Master License at JKIA between KAA and Dufry International by
eviction or interfering with the duty free business of the Maya Duty Free Ltd.”
The petition reads. They argue that the concession Agreement dated January 22
2015 violates section 21 of the Competition act No.12 of 2010 because it
prevents distorts and lessens competition in trade in any duty free goods and
services at JKIA, Kenya. “The agreement also divides the markets by allocating
customers and areas for sell and purchase of duty free goods and services a
JKIA while all other duty free shops compete in Terminal 1B and 1C and the 3
res has no competition whatsoever and benefits from all customers exclusively passing
through Terminal 1A.” the court documents reads. Read: Duty free shops verdict overturned According to them, Terminal 1A at JKIA has only two duty
free retail shops which are Dufry and Maya Duty Free. “The Kenya Airports Authority now seeks to implement clauses
of the concession agreement by Ejecting Maya from the Terminal and conferring a
monopoly to Dufry.” The court documents. They also claimed that in an urgent quest to confer the monopoly
to Dufry, KAA has issued a 48 hour eviction notice against the interested party
to close down its duty free shop at Terminal 1A of JKIA. At its shops at Terminal 1A, Maya has employed the applicants,
but in light of the ejection notice aforesaid to implement the illegal
concession Agreement, we have written to them advising them that their employment
shall be terminated from November 20 through redundancy They also argue that they are fathers and mothers with
children who depend on them for livelihoods and terminating their employment on
account of the illegal concession Agreement shall subject them to joblessness. They also argue that at all the other terminals that serve
international clients it is permissive to have more than 1 duty free shop but
at Terminal 1 A which is the new Terminal with most of the passenger volume,
KAA has conferred monopoly to Dufry. Click here for
the latest political news