ODM leader Raila Odinga yesterday directed Kisumu MCAs to stop wrangles and focus on development. Raila, who met the MCAs in a closed door meeting at Sovereign Hotel, said wrangles in the assembly are unhealthy for growth. He told the ward representatives to remain committed to legislation, representation and oversight on the executive. Kisumu deputy governor Mathews Owili, MPs Aduma Owuor (Nyakach) and Jared Okello (Nyando) and EALA’s Oburu Oginga were present. County party leaders led by Ayiecho Olweny and members of council of elders were also present. Raila asked the MCAs to focus on constructive debate. “We don’t want to see members engage in physical fights. Parliament is about legislation and voting. If you want to impeach or be elected then whip members to support you and don’t make it a war,” Raila said. Speaker Onyango Oloo was largely blamed by MCAs for wrangles. See: [VIDEO] Gunshots at Kisumu assembly as MCAs, sergeant-at-arms fight One member said Oloo has been put on “probation” for one year after which he will face impeachment if he fails to make peace with the MCAs “All the fingers were pointing at him, including a report by party on chaos in the assembly. He was told to correct the mess by engaging MCAs in all assembly matters,” the member told the Star. The MCA said Raila told them to respect party decisions and that those who go against the party will be punished. Sources said chaos in Kisumu emanated from disagreements on renting office space at Mega Plaza at a cost of Sh5 million and the rejection of a proposal to build the speaker’s house at Sh300 million. MCAs said the renting of office was not done according to procedure. After yesterday’s meeting, Raila witnessed a handshake between Oloo and Majority leader Kenneth Onyango. MCAs have accused Oloo of mismanaging the assembly and making key decisions without consultation. Oloo dismissed the claims as baseless. Last month, there were gunshots in the assembly after MCAs engaged a serjeant-at-arms in a fight. The chaos was caused by adjournment of sittings, a move the members opposed. They said temporary speaker Eric Agola adjourned the sittings illegally. Onyango said no motion was moved for adjournment. George Amayo, an orderly, shot in the air to scare MCAs who wanted to attack him. He called police to restore order. More:[VIDEO] Kisumu MCAs in fist fight after rumours of plot to impeach Anyang' Nyong'o Click here for
the latest political news