A feasibility study for the multi-million Nambale and Busia towns sewerage systems has began. The project is funded by the African Development Bank. Busia deputy governor Moses Mulomi yesterday urged AfDB to include water in the sewerage project, which has a 25-year lifespan. “Water scarcity is the major challenge facing residents of Busia county, thus the need to include the water component. “With all these water components in place we shall acquire a comprehensive water system supply that will play a big role in the realisation of the Big Four Agenda,” he said. The deputy governor encouraged the use of gravity scheme system of pumping water to cut the prohibitive electricity costs. Teresa Mbogo, from the Kiri Consult Ltd, said the feasibility study will take one year. Eng. Philip Kimeli from Rift Valley Water Services Board said the projects are funded by the AfDB in partnership with the county and national governments, RVWSB, Lake Victoria North Water Services Board and Lake Victoria South Water Services Board. County executive for water and sanitation Isaac Alukwe said all efforts are geared towards improving water supply and sewerage systems in the county. “We have to make efforts to raise our coverage and match other major towns. This is in regard to the clear picture on the water component in the county,” he said. Alukwe said public participation is a key component for projects ownership and compensation of the families affected. He called on a right community entry strategy to be applied in the process to avoid any kind of resistance. Yesterday meeting in Busia was attended by MCAs from areas that will benefit from the project. They are Mwajuma Toloi (Nambale Township Ward), James Ongole (Ang’orom) and Moses Ochieng (Burumba). Early this year, Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong said Malaba Town in Teso North would have a Sh700 million sewage treatment plant as part of the project. He said 33 acres of land are needed to end the sewage challenges facing the border town. The governor told the area residents that those who will offer their land for sell to pave way for the modern plant will be properly compensated. “The benefits accrued from the project will be a secondary school, a health centre and dykes to check on constant flooding in the area,” he said, adding that a dam will be built on River Malaba.