Following the publication of my reflections on
the US midterm elections in this paper last weekend, I have followed lively
debates in the US media on the same subject, which have made me reflect on a
few issues that I touched on. One, should the midterm elections be taken as
a paradigm shift in the American voting pattern from the 2016 elections? Two, should Congress, now dominated by the
Democrats with a clear majority, strategise to impeach President Donald Trump? Three, in case Congress engages in the
impeachment process, will that be in the best interest of the Democratic Party? The answers to these three questions are
important because, both in the US and in the Third World, Trumpism has
increasingly become a menace to democratic governance. Yet, given the role that
the US plays in global politics, a paternalistic and authoritarian regime in
the White House is inconsistent with global democratic safeguards. In 2016, while Hillary Clinton won the popular
vote by three million, she ended up losing the presidential election by a few
votes in the Electoral College. There are 538 voters in the Electoral College.
A candidate needs to win at least 270 votes to win in the college. Every state
sends voters to the college in proportion to its population. Thus an industrial
and heavily populated state such as California has the largest number of voters,
while a rural state like Wyoming, with a population of less than two million,
will get very few Electoral College votes. But Wyoming has a demographic
feature that contrasts drastically from California. It is 90 per cent White,
while California is one of the most racially and ethnically heterogeneous states
in the US. What does this mean? This means that while the industrial and
heterogeneous states such as California and New York may have big Electoral College
votes, they are not as numerous as the rural states. The latter can, therefore,
easily make a difference in an election where a candidate wins the popular vote
in the industrial states but does poorly in the rural ones. In the case of Clinton
versus Trump, the latter used fear mongering tactics to sway the White votes to
his side in some industrial states like Michigan, which Clinton had taken
for granted as Democrats leaning. Trump's message was simple. He argued that the
President Barack Obama regime's economic policies of free trade and
globalisation had led to industries closing in the US and opening up business
abroad, where the labour was cheap. To add insult to injury, Obama had left
American borders open for Third World immigrants to come in and take jobs away
from deserving (White) Americans. His policy of "Make America Great
Again" would not only bring back industries and create jobs, but would
also protect White America from being polluted by immigrants from Latin America
— hence the building of the wall between the US and Mexico. In 2020, however, it is going to be difficult
for Trump to campaign in this manner because the paradigm has been shifting
right under his feet, and the Democrats know this. To begin with, he has not been able
to reverse the phenomenon of capital flight. The economy has been growing not
because of his policies but because of the policies that Obama had left behind.
And the democrats will capitalise on this. They have already done so in the
midterm elections. Further, the democratic nominee for the presidential elections
is unlikely to repeat Clinton’s 2016 mistake. He or she will have to campaign
strongly in Michigan, Indiana and Pennsylvania as well as in all other states,
whether red or blue. Let us now come to the issue of Congress, now
dominated by the Democrats, should the Democrats plan to impeach Trump? Last
week I argued that Congress should tactically shy off from this matter. My
reasoning was that it could help the Republicans to consolidate their base and
solidify Trump's coalition of the willing comprising largely conservative white
rural voters, the educated but conservative Whites, the insecure immigrants
with a passion to be accepted by the dominant white culture and the
conservative billionaires. After reading Tom Steyer's article in the New
York Times of November 10-11 entitled "Why Democrats must impeach the
president," I have changed my mind. I am now convinced that since the
Democrats won the House by promising to hold Trump accountable, they cannot
afford to renege on their promise to the people. Steyer makes very convincing points
to drive this argument home. First, the institution of the US presidency,
as envisaged under the US Constitution, is expected to defend and promote the
rule of law and not to propagate lawlessness in defence of self-interest,
particularly family business interest, as Trump has done. On that score alone,
the Democrats in the House "must initiate impeachment proceedings against
Trump as soon as it takes office in January." Second, as the list of Trump's impeachable
offences has grown, more than 6.2 million people across the country have signed
a petition (mobilised by the 'Need to Impeach' organisation) demanding that
Congress confronts Trump's lawlessness. This, argues Steyer, is the only stand
that will distinguish the Democratic Party from the Republicans as far as the
popular masses in the US are concerned. A centrist approach that simply
bargains for political trade offs in Washington will easily alienate voters
from the Democrats in 2020. Hence, to our third concern — regarding
whether impeaching Trump — would jeopardise the Democrats' strategy for winning
in 2020. I am now convinced that it would not.  Steyer, who is on the
ground in the US, has persuaded me to change my mind. But, as Lenin once said,
revolutions are not accomplished through the beautiful ideas that reside in the
heads of intellectuals. It is accomplished by what the people believe and what
can move them to action through the propagation of these ideas. Steyer has done
just that. The Need to Impeach Organisation is on the ground, enlisting and
mobilising people to impeach Trump and shift the political ground below his
feet. As his concluding punch, Steyer says the
following: "We cannot allow this to be an argument about what the
Republicans will permit — it's about demanding the truth and protecting the
foundations of our free society. Anything less would mean abandoning the
Constitution." I am completely sold to this school
of thought. Steyer's concluding punch sets up an agenda
for the House Democrats: How are they going to defend the US Constitution given
Trump's lawlessness? Specific cases of lawlessness must be brought
before the House to demonstrate the lawless behaviour of the President. For
example, while the President has the power to hire and fire his Attorney
General, he has to do so with reason. Corollary to this, while he has the power
to hire and fire an acting Attorney General, he cannot possibly hire one who
has questionable tendencies of abrogating the rule of law. Trump is on record dismissing his Attorney
General, Jeff Sessions, purely on the basis of self-interest, and hiring Mathew
Whitaker (a fellow with a criminal record), bypassing two other qualified
people within the justice system. To add insult to injury, confronted with the
fact that Whitaker was a bad choice, Trump tried to disown his choice by
arguing that he did not really know Whitaker that much; hence he might have
made a mistake unintentionally. Trump was, however, on record previously saying
he knew Whitaker very well. I am more than persuaded. The impeachment
process should commence in the House. Aluta Continua. 