Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya yesterday dismissed claims of trouble within the Lake Region Economic Bloc and blamed MPs from Western region allied to DP William Ruto for peddling falsehood to derail the bloc. There have been reports that Trans Nzoia is pulling out to join the North Rift Economic Bloc. Last week, reports emerged that the Nandi county assembly had declined to approve the Lake Region Bill that allows county government to contribute Sh200 million towards the bloc’s bank. Oparanya who chairs the bloc said it is intact. He said Jubilee MPs backing the DP had registered a bank, which they plan to unveil to rival the proposed regional. "Those activists who went to court to challenge the legality of the Kakamega Lake Region Economic Act, 2018, are sponsored by the group to try and delay establishment of the regional bank so they can launch theirs first to exploit our people economically,” the county chief said. National Assembly Majority chief whip Ben Washiali, a Ruto point man, denied they had registered a bank to compete with the bloc’s. But Oparanya said the Ruto camp was targeting Sh2.6 billion meant for sugarcane farmers. President Uhuru Kenyatta said the arrears should be paid through the regional bloc, as millers cannot be trusted to handle the cash. During Mashujaa Day celebrations in Kakamega, he ordered Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and his Treasury counterpart Henry Rotich to come up with a framework to pay the Sh2.6 billion owed to cane farmers contracted by public millers. The bloc brings together Kakamega, Bungoma, Vihiga, Busia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Nandi, Bomet, Kericho and Trans-Nzoia. They have about 14 million people. The regional bank is one of the bloc’s flagship projects. Each county is to contribute Sh200 million towards its establishment. Oparanya said governors of member counties will meet on December 7 to deliberate on the progress. He said all the governors support the bloc. He to said Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba who assured him that they are in LREB to stay. Click here for the latest political news