Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has formed a task force to look into permanent ways of tackling the challenges facing the sugar sector. The CS will co-chair the team with Kakamega governor Wycliff Oparanya. Other members are Governors Okoth Obado (Migori county governor), Anyang' Nyong'o (Kisumu). The team unveiled on Wednesday also includes Mrs Omondi, Bernard Otieno (Public millers), Patel Kobal (private millers), Ken Obao (private millers), and Carolyne (intergovernmental relations technical committee). Patrick Omtia (governmental budget and economic council), Zakao Maraga (Agriculture ministry),Solomon Odera (Agriculture and food authority) Solomon Gitungu (Treasury) will also be part of the team. Others are MP Emanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Francis Waswa (Kenya sugar federation), and Mrs Lamenya (representing Attorney General). The task force shall review the policy of the sugar industry, check on the emerging challenges facing the sugar industry, do research and review importation of sugar. They will also undertake comparative analysis of the sugar industry, undertake an analysis of roles of stakeholders and how they can collaborate to develop the sugar sub sector. The task force is also expected to review the pricing of the sugar, funding mechanism, address all the issues that may revitalize the sugar industry. "The task force shall work within 30 days with specific deliverables...we expect that this will come into force this Friday.. I have forwarded this to AG for them to gazette it," Kiunjuri added. Kiunjuri said the team should issue recommendations and issue report with implementation goals in 30 days. The team was formed following President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive at the Mashujaa Day celebrations in Kakamega. The Head of State urged Oparanya and Kiunjuri to form the team. Uhuru directed the Ministry of Agriculture and National Treasury to immediately put in place a framework to pay sugarcane farmers their Sh2.6 billion arrears owed by public millers after auditing the amount. See: Uhuru orders cane farmers to be paid Sh2.6bn arrears Read: Task force on sugar sector revival to be known today Click here for the latest political news 