The EACC has cleared 90 individuals who benefitted from the Sh2 billion maize payout from the National Cereals and Produce Board. A senior official from the Agriculture ministry said of the 152 individuals whose names were forwarded for investigation, only 62 were found to have some “issues” and they will be investigated further. In March, the ministry wrote to the EACC and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, inviting them to investigate payments for maize deliveries. On August 31, a number of senior officials were charged for the irregular purchase of maize worth Sh5.6 billion. They include Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe, former NCPB managing director Andrew Terer and NCPB finance manager Cornel Kiprotich. The three denied the charges before an anti-corruption court. They were released on Sh3 million bail each. Others also charged were Caroline Kipchoge, Renson Korir, Eric Talam, Virginia Njoroge, Peter Chirchir and David Barngetuny. They were released on Sh150,000 bail each. Stephen Maiyo and Paul Marus were released on Sh2.5 million bail each. On October 23, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri (pictured) said 152 people delivered maize and were paid about Sh2 billion between October last year and February this year. The individuals are claiming Sh1.4 billion. More on this: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam The ministry had identified 152 persons who delivered a combined two million, 50kg bags, of maize of the overall 6.52 million bags received at the NCPB. The CS said they were paid between 63-90 per cent of their delivered quantities by December 2017, amounting to Sh2.053 billion and are claiming an additional Sh1.47 billion. The ministry will be obligated to pay the 90 individuals who were cleared by the EACC in a letter sent last week. Kiunjuri had expressed frustrations with the way in which the matter has been handled by investigative agencies. “Investigations are still going on and we have been advised by the EACC not to pay any of the persons of interest. We have complied with this. I’m equally frustrated and disappointed by the pace of investigations,” he said. The ministry has received Sh9.4 billion, which includes the Sh7 billion that was paid between October last year and February this year. Another Sh1 billion was paid in May this year and Sh1.4 billion was paid last month. Click here for the latest political news