Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa has said he will not
support the Two-Thirds Gender Bill, terming it a move by 'slay queens'
who want join Parliament without hard work. The lawmaker, while
addressing journalists in Parliament on Tuesday, said he would rally his
counterparts not to support the Bill sponsored by Leader of Majority
Aden Duale. "Some women leaders have also said they will not
support a process where the only thing that a slay queen does is take a
shower three times in a day, wear a nice cologne, and get some
contracts from China to get these plastic sitting allowances so that she
can appear before the party leader and get the party nomination,"
Barasa said. He said it is unfortunate that while there are many
women working hard to contribute to the community, there are others who
are lazy and are seeking a free ticket. "We can't just fill
Parliament with people, but rather people who will add value. We only
want women of substance, those respected in this country, and above all,
the Wanjikus, Anyagos and Naliakas must be given an opportunity to
decide if they want to be represented by them," Barasa said. "We are going to interrogate this Bill and I want to tell the Majority leader that this Bill is dead on arrival." The Kimilili MP further said the Bill does not provide a formula on how the women are going to to be nominated. He
said the manner in which party nominations are conducted should be
changed because some were using their influence to get seats.  'BE A MAN' "This makes our women not work hard and it only seeks to serve a few individuals," he said. Barasa noted that increasing the number of parliamentarians will counter efforts to reduce the wage bill. "We cannot reduce the burden of Kenyans by creating more posts," he said. "I
also don't see the business of nominated male MPs. Whom do the
represent? For example, Wilson Sossion and Goddrefry Osotsi. Where
Osotsi comes from, they have their MP Ayub Savula. If you are a man, go
and campaign and win a seat." The lawmaker said the only seats that must be guarded are for people living with disabilities and the youth. He
said the number of women parliamentarians has been increasing in each
election - "a sign Kenyans are realising a woman is a better leader than
a man". The Two-Thirds Bill requires the support of 233 MPs to pass. President
Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, Raila Odinga (ODM) and
Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) have also rallied MPs to pass the Bill. The Bill also seeks to limit the nomination of a person to Parliament or county assembly to two terms. Read: Pass gender Bill, Nasa chiefs urge lawmakers Also read: KIBE MUNGAI: Five reasons Bill on two-thirds gender rule is a big mistake Click here for the latest Political news