The Rift Valley Council of Elders has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to convene a meeting of Jubilee Party members to discuss his succession in 2022. Council patron Gilbert Kabage on Monday said succession politics was quickly taking centre stage and could derail the government’s Big Four agenda. Talk of Uhuru’s succession has dominated the political scene in recent weeks even after Uhuru said in Nandi two weeks ago that his agreement to back Deputy President William Ruto remains intact. The two had agreed that Ruto will succeed Uhuru. But some groups from Mt Kenya wants Uhuru to stay in power beyond his constitutional two terms. ETHNIC GROUPINGS Uhuru told CNN two week ago that he is not interested in power after his term ends. In Nyeri last week, Uhuru told Central MPs that his pick for successor will shock many. That announcement sent shockwaves through the Ruto camp. Kabage said succession talks have led to the emergence of ethnic groupings of political leaders, something he said will erode the unity bid envisioned in the handshake. “We have the Big Four agenda but it looks like we have forgotten it. It is high time the President and his Deputy call for a national Jubilee Party meeting to sort out the tussle,” Kabage said. He asked governors and MCAs to take advantage of the handshake between Uhuru and Opposition chief Raila Odinga to unite Kenyans. “Our leaders at county levels have failed. They claim they want more resources yet they can’t account for the little they have been given,” Kabage said. Bahati MP Onesmus Ngujiri asked Mt Kenya MPs to shun divisive talk that may derail the working relationship between Uhuru, Ruto and Raila. “We should not accept anything that will divide us. Our focus should be on development,” Ngunjiri said. He spoke at his home in Bahati where he hosted more than 50 religious leaders from the Kenya Assemblies of God. Ngujiri said Rift Valley leaders will drum upu support for Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. "Leaders are known by their deeds and our Deputy President has shown that. He deserves support come 2022." The clergy who were led by reverend Peter Kabiru promised to continue praying for the nation. Click here for the latest political news