The long standing election wrangles have split Boxing Association of Kenya into two factions, threatening the future of the once vibrant Olympic sport. A faction led by interim secretary Isaac Mbote and another by interim president John Kameta are fighting for the control of the association activities. The stalemate has since culminated into unprecedented parallel leagues this weekend in Mwingi and Kakamega. The Kameta-led team will stage their league in Mwingi and has attracted three teams namely Defaba, Prisons and Kongowea while the Mbote camp has 10 teams including On Tuesday, the Registrar of Sports, Rose Wasike summoned the interim committee as part of the fact-finding mission but Kameta decided to give the meeting a wide berth. Attempts to reach Kameta proved futile but the parallel leagues are sure to take boxing politics to the next level. Mbote appealed for the disbandment of the BAK committee and a subsequent formation of a caretaker committee. “We understand the other faction has set their polls date on January 3. As an interim secretary, I’m not aware of the elections. The BAK mandate ended in May last year and as an interim committee, we wanted to seek advice on the way forward.” In the run up to the much-awaited boxing polls, Wasike has moved in to restore sanity in the discipline. In the meantime, the registrar is conducting an audit of the association, ostensibly to establish the root cause of the problem. On on November 6, Sports Dispute Tribunal and sports registrar stopped BAK elections earlier scheduled for November 16 in Nairobi. The Tribunal ordered BAK to immediately convene a Special General Meeting in order to plan for the elections that must be held within 60 days from November 6. While nullifying the elections, Wasike told BAK that Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa had demanded for a rigorous scrutiny of the association’s activities and a report submitted within two weeks from November 4. The chairmanship race to fill the void left by Kameta is a two horse race, pitting Anthony Otieno Ombok aka Jamal against Kennedy Otieno aka Kentrak. Kameta announced during the third leg of the league in his Mombasa hometown that he will not be seeking re-election. All has not been well at BAK in the run up to their long overdue election with vice president Albert Matito and deputy secretary general David Munuhe getting a 10-year ban each due misconduct.