Leadership wrangles in the Nyandarua assembly took a dramatic twist after MCAs allied to governor Francis Kimemia blocked speaker Wahome Ndegwa from accessing the chambers. They then went ahead to swear in Kaimbaga MCA Gabriel Gathure in acting capacity. Gathure (independent candidate) was sworn in by Mirangine MCA Mathu Wainaina (Jubilee) on Tuesday. This happened amid a push and shove as assembly orderlies struggled, in vain, to remove from the House an old mace which was sneaked in by Shamata MCA Reuben Gitau. This comes amid concerted efforts by the government, through Health CS Sicily Kariuki - who hails from the county - to solve the wrangles that have brought the county agenda to standstill for over two months. The standoff happened as the assembly had just resumed from two weeks adjournment which was informed by persistent chaos. On Monday, a group by the name Nyandarua 11, which constitutes Kariuki, Kimemia and his deputy Ceciliah Mbuthia, Senator Githiomi Mwangi, woman representative Faith Gitau, all the five Nyandarua MPs and Ndegwa  met at Kariuki’s office. Ndegwa said the 11 agreed assembly business should continue un interrupted “for the sake of Wanjiku”. They further agreed that upon resumption, the House would conduct business on Tuesday, yesterday and today. Another meeting is planned tomorrow and Saturday for the entire Nyandarua leadership, including MCAs and the Nyandarua 11, to seek a lasting solution to political differences. The 11 agreed the leaders sacked during a meeting a Nakuru hotel in September will retain their positions until the court cases are concluded. But it was also agreed sacked Majority leader Kamau Gathungu withdraws from tabling the county government business in the House and the duty be performed by deputy speaker Zachary Njeru. UNHAPPY MCAs On Tuesday, a meeting involving the speaker, the governor, his deputy and all 39 MCAs was held in Ol Kalou. The resolution of Nyandarua 11 was agreed as binding, as seats being fought for including that of majority leader, deputy majority leader, chief whip and deputy chief whip are of “no consequence as they do not build roads, provide water or add value to the county products”. The 22 MCAs who conducted the September ouster were not happy about this as they thought the meeting would come up with a lasting solution favouring their side. Two independent MCAs - Paul Ngeche of Kipipiri and Gabriel Gathure, who since the wrangles began joined Kimemia’s wing - were not happy either. Click here for the latest political news 