Safaricom has asked the National Treasury to reconsider the 15 per cent tax charged on mobile services saying it risks staging a drop in revenue. CEO Bob Collymore said the tax changes are worth considering since the telco remains the biggest contributor to the exchequer at 6.5 per cent of the country's GDP. He said the recently introduced taxes on services may negatively affect revenue collection 'as customers are likely to shun costly products.' "Despite the opportunities we see for sustained growth, we are concerned about the impact of greater taxation on already strained consumer budgets, which may negate efforts to increase revenue generation," Collymore said. The Finance Act 2018 increased excise duty on voice, SMS and data from 10 per cent to 15 per cent in addition to the prevailing 16 per cent VAT on mobile services. The Act also introduced 15 per cent excise duty on internet services. Safaricom in turn increased call services by 30 cents and SMS services by 10 cents on October 18. Collymore said the new taxes have forced the giant telco into a delicate balancing act of ensuring it continues to deliver relevant products and services at great value to customers, while on the other, ensure that shareholders’ wealth is protected. "So, it is our hope that the government will reconsider its position on the new taxes, and through engagement with all the relevant stakeholders come to a more sustainable means of generating revenue,” Collymore said. He spoke on Friday during the release of the half-year results at Safaricom Centre, Nairobi. Chairman Nicholas Ng'ang'a said that these are hard times for both the firm and customers who are already grappling with inflation. "We continue to engage the government in the hope that together, we can find a middle ground that will offer relief to Kenyans and at the same time support the government’s growth plans as envisioned by the Big Four Agenda," Ng'ang'a said. Collymore said Safaricom paid close to Sh48 billion in taxes as of September 2018 generated largely by customers who were able to enjoy access to affordable products and services. This includes Sh10.56 billion in VAT, Sh13 billion in duties, Sh18.8 billion in income tax and Sh5.6 billion in fees paid to the Communications Authority of Kenya. Collymore said the ability for Safaricom to pay such taxes lies in its business growth which in turn relies on Kenyans’ ability to afford their products and services. Read: Safaricom half-year net profit hits Sh31.5bn as SMS revenue dips Click here for the latest political news 