Tanzanian singer Ali Kiba has revealed that his Kenyan wife Amina Rikesh is pregnant. "We are expecting a baby early next year, God-willing," Ali Kiba told Massawe on Monday on Radio Jambo. "Katika dini yetu, we believe it is a blessing to get married and after a few months to get a baby. This will be my fourth child now." Kiba tied the knot with Amina Khalef, 23, after dating secretly for close to two years. "I met my wife in Nairobi, when she was a student at USIU, and we started dating. She was my fan and we got to know each other and finally, we ended up together," he said. "She is so understanding and I'm sure she has no fear and I love her so much. I have known her to be a respectful person and that is why we have not had drama for the eight months we have been married." Kiba has three other children from previous relationships and is in good terms with the mothers, despite their love hitting the rocks. "You cannot live with a person whom you don't understand each other, and that is exactly what happened. I take care of my children, though," he said. His lowest moment in life was when some of his friends complained to have not been invited for his wedding. "It was so hard. Nina marafiki wengi sana. Kuna watu nilitamani wawe kwa harusi lakini baada ya harusi nilipata lawama zaidi," he said. Besides music, Kiba has ventured into the energy drinks business with 'Mofaya', which he says the love of his supporters drove him to. “I have been singing for a long while, and I have been getting support from different people, not only in Tanzania, Africa and East Africa. This made me want to do something for the society,” he said. The company has been in progress for two years and is based in South Africa, and will be introduced in Kenya Kiba partnered because as an artiste and performer, he understands the energy one requires after a live performance. “Kenyans are my best supporters, and before launching it in Tanzania, I have to make plans for Kenya to receive it, too.”