Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli wants the government to hasten the probe into the maize and fertiliser scandals and prosecute those involved. Atwoli says those who looted from the National Cereals and Produce Board cash for maize farmers are economic saboteurs and should be jailed. The Cotu boss blamed a section of leaders from the Rift Valley region for the graft at the NCPB. “It’s embarrassing that the people who stole from maize farmers are the same ones from the region. It’s like children stealing from their parents and that is a shame,” said Atwoli. He said President Kenyatta must act tough on the maize scams and ensure those involved are jailed. The maize farmers woes deepened last week after a section of Rift Valley leaders have rejected the government’s Sh2,300 offer for a bag maize, vowing that farmers will not accept anything less than Sh3,600 for a 90kg bag. Four Rift Valley MPs on Friday described the government offer as far below the cost of production and an insult to millions of maize farmers in the country. MPs Joshua Kutuny (Cherangany), Silas Tiren (Moiben), Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills) and Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central) vowed to rally farmers to reject the approved new price. At the same time, Atwoli accused MPs of failing in their oversight role by not coming out strongly to speak about mega corruption scandals that have rocked key sectors of the country’s economy. “Our MPs are quiet as corruption rocks our economy. We elected them to do oversight among other issues but they have failed us,” said Atwoli. He was Speaking at Eldoret Baptist Church ground in Uasin Gishu county during the 7th Nehema institute graduation ceremony. “Our parliamentarians must be bold enough and talk about corruption, which is a now a major problem causing our youth to lack jobs,” said Atwoli. He was accompanied by the workers union first national vice chairman Rev Joel Chebii and the institution’s director Joseph Chepkwony among other dignitaries. The Cotu boss said legislators behaved as if they had been compromised. “Kenyans are going through difficult times due to rampant corruption yet the people we elected are nowhere to be seen or heard. It’s time Parliament stood out to fight for the rights of Kenyans,” said Atwoli. He advised the youth not to enter into marriages before conducting background checks of their partners. “As youth, you must know each other before engaging into marriage or friendship that can be risky,” said Atwoli. He decried increased incidents of domestic violence and murders within families. “I am talking about this subject to the young couples because I have also gone through such challenge before in my marriage life,” said Atwoli. He said the church and elders must also play their role of counseling and guiding youth especially those getting married.   