Coast Water Services Board chief executive Jacob Torrut has been suspended indefinitely over gross misconduct and insubordination. Chairperson Sureya Hersi cited absenteeism, neglect of duty, and use of abusive language. "The board has decided that you hand over to Martin Tsuma on November 13, 2018, and proceed on annual leave until further notice," Hersi said in a November 9 letter. "The board will meet to discuss your conduct and the outcome will be communicated to you." However, Torrut defied the directive and went about his duties. On Tuesday, he travelled to Kwale to meet with World Bank officials. He denied knowledge of the disciplinary action against him. "I cannot comment because I have not seen the letter. I'm in my office," he told the Star on the phone on Tuesday. Instead of handing over to Tsuma, Torrut appointed procurement officer Stanslus Jira to take charge while he is away. "This is to inform you that I will be away on official duty in Nairobi. Jira will be in charge of the office. Please accord him all the necessary support," Torrut said in a November 9 memo which was copied to Hersi. Last Friday, Hersi wrote to Torrut over the decision to punish him. The letter was copied to Water and Irrigation PS Joseph Irungu. Hersi accused Torrut of skipping a crucial meeting with the Parliamentary Committee on Water and Environment. They were to discuss the water crisis at the Coast. "To the disappointment of the honourable MPs, you chose to fly home without meeting them. You did not get permission from me yet it was at 3pm, which is working hours," Hersi said in the letter. "You have neglected or refused to implement board resolutions and only work for two days. You are always away without permission. You are not serving the interests of the board," Hersi said. On Tuesday, the Water Committee discussed Torrut's conduct in Parliament. Some MPs said he is arrogant. They want Water CS Simon Chelugui summoned over the matter. The board has given Torrut 14 days from November 9 to explain why he should not be disciplined. Click here for the latest political news 