Retired judge Philip Ransley is facing imminent extradition from the UK. According to a barrister visiting Kenya, Ransley was arrested by the UK authorities in July. He was granted bail by the City of Westminster Magistrates Court in July. His extradition hearing will take place on 12 and 13 December in the same court. Ransley is likely to argue that he should be spared extradition as he is 86 years old, has prostate cancer, and may be victimised in Kenya prisons as he is a former High Court judge. He fled to England via Dubai in June 2016 after he had been charged with stealing Sh102.7 million from Angela Scott and Sh152.7 million from Rowland Minns. On 21 January 2017 the High Court in Milimani issued an arrest warrant against him. The Director of Public Prosecutions sent a letter to the UK authorities requesting Ransley’s extradition in June this year. Ransley, 85 years old, embezzled money from client accounts at his law firm, Ransley McVicker Shaw Advocates, that he started in 2007 after retiring from the Kenyan bench. Ransley has been staying in a small flat in Richmond, London near his daughter Candice and her husband Marc Schneider, a former investor in Wananchi Communications. His main recreation is playing cards at the Richmond Bridge Club. Former estate agent Roland Minns sold his plot of land in Langata through Ransley’s law firm for Sh260 million in 2014. Ransley delayed remitting the funds to Minns but he eventually managed to get Sh105 million. Minns is taking legal action to recover the outstanding Sh155 million. Read:Papers detail Justice Phillip Ransley money washing scam Retired justice Jonathan Havelock, the lawyer for Minns, complained about the fraud to the Law Society of Kenya which has summoned Ransley to answer charges of professional misconduct. In 2014 Ransley also acted as lawyer for Jonathan Scott, presenter of the Big Cat Dairies on television, who sold two acres of his plot in Langata to fund medical treatment for his wife. The buyer paid Sh50 million into Ransley’s client account at Imperial Bank in December 2014 and a further Sh50 million in March 2015. Scott received no money at all from the sale. Ransley appears to have used money from the client account of his law firm to try and rescue his shaky finances. Instead he lost hundreds of millions buying copper from a Congolese conman. In 2015 he also paid Sh165 million to two men to acquire Euro banknotes that could be washed clean with a special chemical. Click here for the latest political news  