A former Nairobi executive was yesterday evicted from a county-owned house in Lavington and her belongings carted away. Anne Lokidor, who served as Education executive in former governor Evans Kidero’s administration, was living in former mayor’s residence at Isaac Gathanju Close in Lavington. The inspectorate officers accompanied by Muthangari police station deputy OCS Peterson Kunga stormed the home at about 8am. They ordered Lakidor and her family to get out of house before they started loading the household items into two lorries that were on standby. The items were taken to a holding yard in Dagoretti in two Canters. “My children had not taken breakfast. Actually, some of them were still sleeping. They ambushed us and ordered us out. This is quite unfair,” she lamented. Lokidor said the officers did not provide any documents warranting the eviction, but explained there is an active case in court regarding the matter. She sued the county on June 5 after she received a letter from county Housing director Marion Rono in May asking her to vacate the five-bedroom house. The case was first filed at Milimani commercial courts before chief magistrate PM Gesora. The case was referred to High Court judge Msagha Mbogoli, who in turn directed the case to be heard in the Environment and Land court for appropriate directions. It was mentioned last Thursday. “As far as I am concerned, the court said the status quo should remain until this matter is heard and determined. What these people are doing is illegal and against the court order,” she said. The former county executive said she spent Sh1.5 million renovating the house after she reclaimed it from former Ganze MP Noah Ngala. Ngala was removed from the house in 2016. “This house was basically in ruins. I spent a lot of money, which the county has not refunded me. Furthermore, I am a Kenyan and I have the right to stay in county houses. I have been paying Sh35,000 per month for rent,” she said. Lokidor said she has been receiving threats to vacate the house. In June, she said, some officers went to her home with drones and a GK vehicle. “I am going to sue the county for stealing my property and the OCS of Muthangari for overseeing the theft. I call it theft because they did not have any documents to warrant whatever they have done,” she said. The former mayor’s house was supposed to be handed over to Kidero after devolution took effect in 2013 but the former governor opted to stay in his Muthaiga home. Last year, Sonko also failed to occupy it and instead continued to live in his Runda and Mua Hills homes in Machakos. In August, county assembly said it was planning to write to the former county executive to return the house for speaker Beatrice Elachi’s use.