Did NASA chief Raila Odinga meet top officials of his ODM party and assured them that he will be in the ballot in 2022? Corridors is aware that the NASA chief held a closed-door meeting last week with some of his trusted allies and party officials where he assured them that his AU post was  "sabbatical leave" that will enable him polish his image ahead of the 2022 polls. We are told that  the opposition leader had been requested by the party top brass to explain to them what his appointment means in light of his 2022 ambitions. ***** A politician from Rift Valley known to be among the few beneficiaries of the maize scandal is a worried man. This is after an audit ordered by the NCPB unearthed his company-also linked to a top Jubilee leader from the region-as among those fronted by some faceless individuals with the aim of defrauding genuine farmers. Aware that his underhand dealings could soon be exposed, the politician has reportedly resorted to blackmail and sheer propaganda to besmirch the names of some genuine farmers and the NCPB. The taxman is also said to be tightening the noose around the vocal politician over some tax arrears amounting to millions of shillings in his other importation business. It is only a matter of time before the matter explodes. ***** A governor from Nyanza could soon land himself into trouble if the ongoing behind the scenes maneuvers by his aides to siphon county funds are not tamed. The shameless county staff have been drafting documents and bringing them to the governor for signing at his Nairobi home, but a close relative whom the county chief has trusted with proofreading them before signing lifted the lid on what has been happening. The accounting officers have been inflating cheques and in some cases altering tender documents to suit their interest while the governor is away. It is estimated that the county could have lost up to Sh300 million in the last six months through document tempering. ***** Many Kenyans are wondering how a Member of Parliament from Northeastern with obviously limited literacy levels managed to annihilate his closest competitors to win the coveted seat. In what has caught many Kenyans by storm, the MP was live on camera during a committee sitting reading drafted questions to a witness who was appearing before the departmental committee. Surprisingly, despite the questions having been written, his reading ability was undoubtedly largely compromised not only by his typical Somali intonation but also by his inability to pronounce words probably. It is not clear how the MP intends to execute his legislative work going forward given that parliamentary business involves a lot of reading. It is also worth noting that the MP has never made his maiden speech in the House since his inauguration. ***** Click here for
the latest political news