People living with disability are sidelined when seeking state-funded legal aid, a group of East African delegates has said. The delegates met in Nairobi yesterday to discuss the challenges and opportunities for vulnerable and special interest groups in accessing legal aid. They urged regional governments to ensure every citizen benefits from the initiative. The legal aid initiative for the poor and persons earning below Sh30,000 was launched  last year in Kenya by former Attorney General Githu Muigai. It seeks to offer affordable, accessible, credible and accountable judicial services to the target group. Advocate for persons with disability Saitoti Njenga said the group is most disadvantaged in getting justice compared to other citizens. “There is need to create more awareness on rights and justice for persons with disabilities so they can also benefit from legal aid because policy leadership is lacking in government,” Njenga said. Another advocate for persons with disabilities Kibaya Laibuta raised concerns over regional governments’ lack of commitment in funding the legal aid initiative to help curb the rising number of remandees in police cells. “For decades, legal aid has been left to nonstate actors because of the belief the marginalised, the poor and vulnerable groups do not own much to complain or claim,” Laibuta said. Senior advisor at the UNAIDS Bechir N’ Daw said increasing funding to allow wider access to the legal aid services will curb the ovepopulation of detention and remand centres in the region. This comes a day after the National Legal Aid Service chair Nazima Malik said there is need to recognise the contribution by informal justice systems resolving matters across the region. “Let us come up with resolutions and recommendations on how we can bridge the gap between the formal and informal justice systems to enhance access to justice to the vulnerable, marginalised and indigent persons in the region,”Malik said. She spoke during the opening of the ongoing  three-day East African Regional Legal Aid conference. “Historically, in Kenya, legal aid has been offered by both state and nonstate actors, with nonstate actors as the major providers, albeit with no clear legal, institutional and coordination framework,” Malik said. Fida deputy executive director Miriam Wachira said her office receives between 40 to 50 cases on legal aid by women seeking representation on various matters including marital, criminal and civil court cases. Click here for
the latest political news