The government will sell fertiliser directly to farmers’ cooperative societies and farmer groups from next season. It has dropped its decades-old practice of distributing the farm input through the National Cereals and Produce Board. The Agriculture ministry said this will weed out unscrupulous traders who have been benefitting from the subsidised fertiliser at the expense of genuine farmers. Chief administrative secretary Andrew Tuimur on Wednesday said that once the fertiliser has been loaded onto lorries at the Port of Mombasa, it will go directly to groups so growers access it easily. “This will ensure the fertiliser gets to the farmers in the shortest time possible. Right now, it is transported from the port to the NCPB stores. Farmers have to travel from far to access the commodity,” he said. The CAS said that even though the board will be involved in storing fertiliser for groups or societies that may require its services, it will not sell fertiliser to farmers directly. NCPB acting managing director Albin Sang said the plan will ease some of the pressure the board had faced in recent years. The ministry, the Attorney General’s office, the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority and the Export Trading Company are working on ways to ensure order. Tuimur said floriculture and horticulture farmers have been facing a shortage of fertiliser because of delays at the port. “Fertiliser imported for floriculture and cut flowers took some time to be cleared because the Kenya Bureau of Standards had to ensure it meets the required standards,” he said. He assured that Kebs is fixing the problem so the flower sector does not suffer. Last month, flower growers and exporters, including Oserian Development Company, protested against fertiliser shortage. They accused Kebs of causing delays through stringent inspection measures. Kebs certifies fertiliser quality in the country of origin before it is shipped. It has introduced new rules, which include re-inspection at the port of entry. This is meant to end influx of counterfeits. The lengthy clearance process takes up to two months. “Some commodities, including fertiliser, take long at the port, as Kebs has to test the samples to ensure they meet the required standards. The process is taking long and this is affecting some activities at the port,” Edward Opiyo, head of Container Operations at the Kenya Ports Authority, said. Mary Kinyua, the Oserian human resources and administration director, said fertiliser suppliers are incurring up to Sh2 million daily in charges, which they pass to them. “This further pushes the cost of producing flowers up. We predict a decline in yields and increase in flower prices. This will make flowers costlier at the competitive global market,” she said.