A top Jubilee honcho from Central Kenya was yesterday seen wheeling
a huge briefcase into a strategic parastatal located within Nairobi’s upper
hill area. The politician shocked many when he entered the building with the
huge bag which he refused to handover to security officials for a routine
security check. It is not clear why the politician was wheeling that huge bag
into the building in the mid-morning hours in what raised concerns that the former
lawmaker could have gone to cart away some documents or money. The offices of
the parastatals are usually a beehive of activities during Thursdays and Friday’s
as politicians squeeze their way in for handouts.   Was a key Deputy President William Ruto advisor taken aback
by the fury of Chama Cha Mashinani leaders during a meeting with former Bomet
Governor Isaac Ruto at his Chepalungu home on Thursday? Well, our mole who
attended the meeting said the DP’s aide remained anxious as he listened in awe to
the politicians dress down the DP for undermining the former governor. Unable
to believe what he heard, the aide often walked in and out of the meeting on
numerous occasions as if to speak to his master on the developments. Some of the
CCM delegates said they had not forgiven the DP and would not allow the
governor to work with the deputy president unless he offered a public apology
for the humiliation he caused.  A vocal ANC MP could soon find himself in a vicious marital
tussle if he doesn’t move fast to accept paternity of a child he allegedly
sired with a university student. The girl was a conspicuous figure during the
politician’s 2017 parliamentary campaigns ostensibly as a second wife. The corridors
of power is aware that the politician who rented a three-bedroom house for the
girl in Nairobi’s Eastlands area immediately after the last election is trying
to run away from taking responsibility for his child well aware that the ‘wife’
is in school and doesn’t have any source of income. It is now six months since
the MP stepped in his Eastlands home although he is said to be sending money. However,
the girl is getting concerned because the MP doesn’t pick calls and anytime she
rings him, he responds with an MPesa. The girl is said to be planning a legal
duel should the lawmaker remain doggy.   A furious President Uhuru Kenyatta is said to have thrown
his hand contemptuously at vocal female MP from central Kenya during a meeting
at the Central regional commissioner’s residence on Thursday. The head of state
who was pissed off by the politician’s latest onslaught against him refused to
shake her hand and was seen in some quite of soliloquy as he walked away during
the meeting. Is time up for politicians who have been taking on the president of
late? Well, in the fullness of time the truth will come out. Click here for the latest political news