Essential medicines save lives and improve health when they are of assured quality, available, affordable and promptly used. Quality is the key word here. Substandard and falsified medical products can lead to devastating consequences on families, health systems and the economy. When medicines do not work the way they should, they can prolong illness and in the worst case scenario people die. Substandard medicines are now a threat to global security and threaten to undermine progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. It is in this regard that Kenya has made a deliberate and pro-active decision to forge a solid defence mechanism to contain this threat. Since no country can fight this problem alone, our defence mechanism must act in unison at national, regional and global levels. Recognition of this interconnectedness is the foundation of Kenya’s three-pronged approach to contain substandard and falsified medical products. Kenya’s broad reform agenda has triggered structural realignment across all sectors, through policy, legal and institutional reforms. These reforms are anchored in the 2010 Constitution, which confers fundamental rights, including the right to the highest attainable standard of health, and the right of consumers to goods and services of acceptable standards. These rights cannot be attained without availability and access to safe, effective and quality medical devices. Therefore, fighting substandard and falsified medical products is a constitutional duty of the government. The government has prioritised universal health coverage in the Big Four plan and committed to progressively increase the health budgetary allocation at national and county levels. The restructuring of the medicines regulatory system to integrate standard-setting and enforcement for food, medicines, vaccines, devices, diagnostics and other health technologies has begun. This model is designed to enhance efficiency and collaboration in mitigating risks that include substandard and falsified medical products informed by sound science and evidence. Indeed, a multi-agency team involving the health and trade sectors, anti-counterfeit, customs as well as security agencies is conducting a crackdown on this menace and I am confident that we shall overcome this serious public health problem. Additionally, Kenya is committed to supporting the work of regional, international and multilateral organisations in finding lasting solutions for a free and secure world. Kenya has, therefore, reiterated its support and commitment to the establishment of the Africa Medicines Agency (AMA) by the African Union. Our hope is that AMA will provide a coordinated regional and Pan-African approach to containing substandard and falsified medical products, and promoting local pharmaceutical manufacturing to ensure access to quality assured essential medicines. My ministry has also focused on strengthening internal capacities for regulation, including the utilisation of digital technologies to improve efficiency and transparency, formal training of regulatory experts locally and abroad, and exposure to key learning platforms and networks. Mechanisms will be put in place to guarantee continuous compliance to acceptable quality standards. This requires that information on these standards is readily available to assist regulatory authorities in ensuring the data is available publicly. Capacity building of the health sector, including realigning the focus of our tertiary education and training programmes to support reforms of the regulatory systems to combat substandard and falsified medical products, will be required. Strengthening of the national supply chain of pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceuticals through Kemsa is our priority and very much part of our roadmap to attaining UHC while addressing the challenge of poor quality products. The international community on its part should consider making the needed resources available, to facilitate efforts in fostering technical and political convergence in the fight against substandard and falsified medical products in Africa. The write is Health Cabinet Secretary