Kiru Tea Factory in Murang’a has established a Sh100 million plant to process orthodox tea and fetch better pay for farmers. The tea will be sold to European and American markets, factory chairman Stephen Githiga said. Most tea factories produce tea commonly known as Cutting, Tearing and Curling (CTC) tea which sells at a much lower rate compared to orthodox tea. The CTC tea is, however, faster to produce as orthodox tea takes more time and has a more authentic flavor. Githiga while addressing an AGM in the factory on Thursday, said the factory will now ensure that 10 per cent of its processed tea is orthodox tea, which fetches a dollar higher than the normal tea. He said fluctuating global prices, that make farmers’ pay uncertain, necessitated the establishment of the plant. The chairman said that political conflict in countries considered the main buyers of local tea such as Pakistan and Iraq had a negative effect on the market.  “With our new product, we will be able to access a wider market in Europe, America, and other Far East countries,” he said. The factory will be the first Kenya Tea Development Authority-managed factory in Murang’a to sta rt producing specialised tea. A Russian delegation interested in the orthodox tea recently visited the factory which expects to roll out the new product early next year. Githiga pointed out that the civil works and installation of processing machinery have been completed and staff members have been trained. “We are planning to start producing green tea, purple tea and black tea as some of our specialised tea brands,” he said. The chairman said the factory will continue embracing technology and emerging trends to help it remain competitive and urged farmers to continue producing quality green leaf for use in the production of the orthodox tea. Githiga also said that farmers will have a further reprieve after a power plant, constructed by four tea factories from Murang’a including Kiru, is completed. “The power plant will reduce their cost of production by more than 20 percent,” he said.