An announcement by President Uhuru Kenyatta two weeks ago that his preferred successor will shock many has thrown central Kenya politicians into a spin. Some of those who had hitherto been falling over each other to grab Deputy President William Ruto’s attention have slammed breaks on their activities. The leaders are not sure what or who the President has in mind. They have for the last two weeks been asking each other what direction they should take. That fever seems to have extended to Kitui Senator Enock Wambua (above) if his remarks during yesterday’s burial of Stephen Kalonzo’s father are anything to go by.  That ODM chairman John Mbadi is in a tooth-and-nail fight with secretary general Edwin Sifuna for control of the party’s news is now known. What is not in the public domain is a previous attempt by some senior leaders of the party to remove Sifuna, whom they accuse of being arrogant. Corridors is informed that a few weeks ago, the elected leaders who also happen to have a big say in the party met Raila Odinga and unsuccessfully tried to get him to endorse their proposal to fire Sifuna. Raila reportedly flatly rejected the proposal and stood by Sifuna.   A former personal assistant of a renowned businessman of Asian origin is a man under siege. Reason? Corridors has been told that the man who is now stranded in Dubai claims that the wealthy businessman abandoned him after working for him for 20 years. Insiders say the businessman asked him to leave work for unknown reasons. His friends claim they have been calling the man but he doesn’t respond. Recently, the mogul said the man absconded from duty. However, the former PA says his boss never paid him anything when sending him away. The PA has been telling anyone who cares to listen to help him get reinstated.   Is it a case of preaching water and drinking wine? This is what many human rights and security observers are making of Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and the top command of the police. On one hand, they talk tough against officers who violate the policing code. On the other, they recoil in silence as some officers run amok, murdering young people in cold blood, especially in the slums. Security observers hope the launch of the Internal Affairs Unit office yesterday will help tame rampant extra-judicial killings by trigger-happy cops. Click here for the latest political news