Gor Mahia have received a whooping 53 applications for coaching job— both locally based and foreign—after the exit of Dylan Kerr early this months. Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier said it will be a challenge coming up with a short list consider the huge numbers. He, however, assured that they will have the head coach in place before the next SportPesa Premier League season. “We have formed a team of experts who will sieve through the submitted CV’s and at the end create a shortlist for further assessments. We have received applications from coaches as young as 34 years to the oldest at 65 years,” said Rachier. “We are looking out for two things; experience in managing an African team and most importantly, coherence in speaking a language that is fondly communicated by both the players and technical staff,” added Rachier. The coaching job fell vacant earlier this month as Kerr tendered his resignation in search of greener pastures. Kerr has since joined newly promoted South African Premier League side, Black Leopards. “I want to dispel rumours that Kerr was fired by the club. On November 15, he communicated to me his resignation via email and the club reluctantly accepted his resignation,” emphasised Rachier. In the meantime, last season’s assistant coach Zedekiah ‘Ziko’ Otieno will take charge of the club on interim basis as they face Malawi giants Nyasa Bullets in the Caf Champions League preliminary round 1st leg tie today at Mops Stadium, Kasarani. Meanwhile, Rachier confirmed the Algerian side, CS Constatine officially wrote to Francis Kahata requesting he attends trials for assessment in line for a transfer. “Kahata came to me with a letter written in French from the Algerian side and I told Kahata to write back to the club informing them to formally write to Gor Mahia in order for us to guarantee his travel.” The chairman also revealed that the club finally received some money from the summer transfer deal that saw Ugandan international Godfrey Walusimbi sign for Premier Soccer League (PSL) giants Kaizer Chiefs. “They have so far partly paid the transfer fee and have assured us that they will complete the full payment by January next year,” emphasised Rachier.