Harambee Starlets will have their preparations for this month’s Africa Women’s Cup of Nations put to test when they face Ghana this evening in an international friendly fixture at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Head coach David Ouma, who has been overseeing the team’s training ahead of November 17 to December 1 event at Utalii grounds, has dropped seven players from his initial squad of 32 players. Those axed are the Wiyeta Girls’ duo of Diana Tembesi, Jentrix Shikangwa, Wincate Kaari (Thika Queens), United States-based Marjolene Nekesa, Mary Amunyolete (Trans Nzoia Falcons), and Phelistus Kadari (Vihiga Queens). The former Sofapaka coach retained regulars and influential forwards including Mary Kinuthia who plies her trade in Sweden with Daldem IF, Mwanahalima Adam as well as midfield trio of Neddy Atieno Corazone Aquino and Christine Nafula, who will be making their second appearance at the continental showpiece. Israel-based Esse Akida also made it to the team’s line-up. Experienced defender and skipper Wendy Achieng was also retained and she will be looked upon to stop the Ghanaians as well lead her teammates to a successful outing in Ghana. Ouma is expected to further whittle down the squad to 21 before the team jets out to Ghana on November 14. Ouma has been working with Harambee Stars head coach Sebastien Migne in ensuring the fitness levels of the girls meet the demands of the continental showpiece. Kenhya face Mali on Friday and Sunday at Utalii and Moi Stadium, Kasarani rewspectively. According to Football Kenya Federation, the West African nation is seeking to gauge their readiness with two friendlies against Kenya in a bid to emerge top in Pool ‘A’ where they are placed alongside hosts Ghana, Algeria and Cameroon. Squad—Goalkeepers:Pauline Atieno, Monica Karambu, Maureen Shimuli, Annette Kundu; Defenders: Dorcas Shikobe, Elizabeth Ambogo, Wendy Achieng, Lilian Adera, Elizabeth Wambui, Vivian Nasaka, Maureen Kakhasa, Ruth Ingosi; Midfielders: Cynthia Shilwatso, Corazone Aquino, Sheryl Angachi, Neddy Atieno, Mary Kinuthia, Cheris Avilia, Christine Nafula, Mercy Achieng, Mwanalima Adams; Forwards: Terry Engesha, Phoebe Oketch, Janet Moraa and Esse Akida Click here for the latest political news