A Murang’a court has dismissed a petition to block the sacking of Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company chairman Peter Munga.Governor Mwangi wa Iria had appointed Joseph Kimura to replace Munga. But Mercy Kimwe, Anthony Mutiria and Jane Wanyoike said the “violent takeover” of the firm by Iria was unlawful. Kimura was appointed through a Gazette notice published on August 15. The petition sought an order suspending it until the application is concluded.Iria has had run-ins with water companies, demanding that they surrender their assets to his administration. The firms have refused. No side is ready to budge and the clash has resulted in a crisis in the sector.The petitioners said the firm had the exclusive mandate to supply water and sanitation services, citing the Water Act, 2016. The law says a water firm should be managed by a board of directors in accordance with the Companies Act, 2015. Munga was listed as an interested party. He told the court he was reelected on January 15, 2016. The application said he was the bona fide chairman. He had broadened the firm’s income base, enhanced efficiency and established a bottling plant, the court heard.The county chief contested the petition, saying the Constitution devolved county public works and services, including water and sanitation. He said Muwasco activities violated the supreme law.Justice Kanyi Kimondo said he sympathised with the petitioners, calling them the proverbial grass that suffers when elephants fight (Muwasco and Munga on one hand, and the county on the other). “It’s evident the petitioners largely sided with Muwasco and Munga, but, being residents, they have a right to present the petition,” he said.According to the Water Services Regulatory Board, water service providers were subsumed into the devolved governments as county entities to provide water services on their behalf, the judge said.Kimondo ruled that the petitioners had not made a strong case.“That’s not to say the county government can wake up one morning and violently take over water companies management,” he said.