Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and his Makueni counterpart Kivutha Kibwana have rejected the share of Thwake dam contracts reserved for locals. The leaders said they want half of the 30 per cent contracts reserved for Kenyans be awarded to Ukambani contractors. The proposal was floated during a meeting of Thwake inter-county consultative forum, which was formed to oversee the construction of Thwake dam, on Monday. The committee members said the recommended three per cent of the Kenyan contractors' share was too little. "We have agreed that of the 30 per cent contracts that should go to Kenyans, 50 percent should be awarded to contractors from Eastern," Kibwana said. He said that this will translate to about Sh5.5 billion of the Sh11 billion that is supposed to go to the Kenyan contractors. The government is to provide 65 per cent of the financing while the African Development Bank (AfDB) will cater for the rest. The dam will cost Sh64 billion. See: State gets Sh27.4bn AfDB loan for Thwake mega dam Kibwana said that they were also demanding that 60 per cent of the 80 per cent jobs that should go to Kenyans be sourced from the region (Ukambani). For his part, Mutua said that they will not allow brokerage in the awarding of the contracts. "We do not want these contracts to go to brokers whose interest is to sell them to non-locals. We will work very closely with our MPs, MCAs, and any other elected leader to ensure that those who get the contacts have the capacity to do the work." Mutua said that apart from getting water, they were also looking forward to ensuring that the dam is of economic benefit to the region. The two governors also asked the National Treasury to fast-track the release of compensation for 189 unpaid persons affected by the project. Kibwana said that they had information that the money is stuck at the Treasury yet the payment has been approved by all signatories. Also read: State ready to begin work on delayed Sh64bn Thwake Dam -Chelugui Click here for the latest political news