Jubilee MPs from Bungoma county have urged Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa to shelve his 2022 presidential ambitions and instead support DP William Ruto. They are Sirisia MP John Waluke, Kimilili’s Didmus Barasa and Bumula’s Mwambu Mabonga. They said Eugene would lose political relevance if he dared vie for the presidency. Wamalwa has expressed interest in running for the country’s top seat. But the Jubilee MPs said Eugene is not ready for the seat. They spoke on Saturday during the burial of former Busia deputy county commissioner Cornelius Wamalwa in Kimaeti village, Bumula constituency. Eugene and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka were present. Waluke said Eugene was advised to walk with Ruto to learn the ropes, but failed to follow through. “We handed you over to Ruto so you walk with him and he hands over the mantle to you in 2027, but it’s unfortunate you want to compete with him in 2022,” he said. Waluke questioned why the list of those vying for the presidency was growing every day with candidates from the Luhya community. “Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula, Amani’s Musalia Mudavadi and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya have all said they will run for the presidency. Now Wamalwa has declared. Are we really serious?” he said. Let the people decide Mabonga told Wamalwa to shelve his presidential ambitions because “we are not ready to be embarrassed in 2022”. The MP wondered why Luhya leaders had failed to unite. “We can’t cheat ourselves that we have Luhya unity when we can’t support one person and instead they are busy declaring they will run for the presidency,” Mabonga said. Barasa told Eugene he should not be cheated he will be the next President. The MP claimed Eugene was being cheated that ODM leader Raila Odinga would endorse him. “My brother stop being cheated; there is no way Raila will endorse you. Remember what he did to Wetang’ula before running there,” Barasa said. Eugene said he is focused on service delivery and that 2022 was far. “Who knows if I will be there in 2022? Let’s play politics when that time comes, but for now let’s concentrate on development,” he said. Eugene urged the MPs to stop choosing leaders for the electorate and let voters decide.