Towering Sofapaka forward Pistone Mutamba headlines a 57-man National U-23 football team Emerging Stars provisional squad called up for the upcoming Africa U-23 Cup of Nations Qualifiers. Mutamba, who serves as a member of the senior team, Harambee Stars, leads several young players who ply their trade in both the SportPesa Premier and National Super Leagues in contesting for the final 25 slots. The team is set to undergo two session to allow the coaches to sieve the 25 from the rest. The first session is slated for this weekend while the second session will be held next weekend to further assess the players, after which a squad of 25 will be named to start camp on November 8. Mutamba, who was part of the team which played Uzbekistan in March in a two-legged friendly, is joined by teammates Teddy Osok and Mohammed Kilume. Other notable players in the squad are the Kariobangi Sharks’ quintet of Brian Bwire, John Otieno, Shapan Oyugi, Sydney Lokale and Fidel Oringa. Mathare United centre half Johnstone Omurwa leads teammates David Owino, Job Ochieng, John Mwangi and Martin Ongori in making to the team. Former AFC Leopards’ defender Mike Kibwage who joined KCB will also make a second appearance in the team, where he will be joined by teammates—Baraka Badi, Brian Ochieng, Victor Ogendo and Chrispinus Onyango. Kenya will face off with Mauritius in the first round on November 16 in Kenya with the second leg set to be played three days later. The winner of the match on aggregate will face off with either of Seychelles or Sudan in the second round. The final tournament, set to be held in Egypt between November 8 and November 22 will act as Olympics qualifier. Provisional Squad— Goalkeepers: Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi), Job Ochieng (Mathare), Kelvin Omondi (Sony), Brian Bwire (Sharks), Richard Aimo (Chemelil); Defenders: Johnstone Omurwa (Mathare), Joseph Okumu (Real Monarchs, USA), Mike Kibwage (KCB), Lennox Ogutu (Mathare), Kelvin Omondi (Chemelil), Brian Ochieng (KCB), Martin Ongori (Mathare), Ian Eshikoko (Chemelil), Yussuf Mainge (Leopards), Baraka Badi (KCB), Shadrack Andale (Nairobi Stima), Moses Mudavadi (Bandari), Samuel Semo (KCB), Kevin Ouko (Chemelil), Haroun Mwale (Ulinzi), Ali Hassan (Bandari), David Owino (Mathare), Arnold Onyango (Laiser Hill), John Njuguna (Nakuru All Stars); Midfielders: Bernard Ouma (Our Lady of Fatuma), Teddy Osok (Sofapaka), Mohammed Kilume (Sofapaka), Tobias Otieno (Sony), Mahab Ogwel (Kibera Black Stars), Stephen Oyango (Sony), Shaphan Oyugi (Sharks), Keegan Ndemi (Bandari), Abdallah Ahmed (Mathare), Faraj Ominde (Tusker), Ibrahim Shambi (Ulinzi), Patrick Kwitonda (Nzoia), William Oricho (Chemelil), John Katua (Wazito), James Ogada (W. Stima), Emmanuel Mogaka (Talanta), James Mazembe (Sharks), Fidel Ochieng (Sharks), Michael Ochieng (Sharks), Jaffary Owiti (Leopards), Michael Mutinda (Thika), Robert Arot (Nakuru All Stars); Forwards: Boniface Mekhekhe (Nakumatt), Chrispinus Onyango (KCB), John Otieno (Sharks), John Mwangi (Mathare), Victor Ogendo (KCB), Vincent Oburu (Leopards), Eliud Lokuwam (Gor), Patrick Otieno (Nzoia), Felix Oluoch (Chemelil), Piston Mutamba (Sofapaka) and Sydney Lokale (Sharks).