Suna West MP Peter Masara has defended his move to accompany Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday, saying he wants development for his people. Masara, the only legislator elected on an independent ticket in Migori, Siaya, Homa Bay and Kisumu counties, has been under pressure over Ruto’s forays in South Nyanza. Masara defeated ODM candidate Joseph Ndiege after being bundled out in ODM primaries, but he has been working closely with the Orange party since he was elected. Last Monday, during Ruto’s visit in his constituency to launch a street lighting project at Masara centre, the Deputy President told residents to tell their legislator to look for him for a Sh100 million Technical Training Institute.Suna West residents led by Ndiege urged Masara to pick up the offer or they would take elders from the area to accept the offer, mounting pressure on the legislator to act. Earlier, Masara had joined other ODM legislators to give the meeting a wide berth after it was claimed it was Ruto’s plan to build his team in 2022. But on Saturday, Masara surprised the public when he showed up when Ruto was launching the Sh300 million Kendege Technical Training Institute. “Politics and development go together. While I was away last time I heard you told me to look for you for Sh100 million for a similar institute. I am here to pick it up,” Masara said. He added that all Kenyans should be united for development and peace and his gesture at the function “was for my people in Suna West to get the same institute.” Masara said the same way President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga shook hands, is how Raila and Ruto can work to together as they did while in ODM. “If Uhuru and Raila can work together, why not you too? So far, Ruto has not killed any of Raila’s children.So I know soon we will have white smoke like Catholics do,” Masara said. On Tuesday during a call-in programme at a local radio station, Ndiege said he was ready to send elders to Sugoi, Ruto’s home, to help bring the TTI to Suna West if Masara failed to bring it. “We don’t want to have Masara play with development and politics. I am ready to assemble elders from Suna West to go and bring the institute if he doesn’t want to,” Ndiege said. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro who spoke at the function, lauded Masara “for seeing the light and moving towards Ruto.”  