A Nairobi court has ordered the DCI to investigate medical documents presented by Anne Ngirita showing she was unwell. Yesterday, Ngirita made an application for an adjournment of the NYS case, claiming she was in pain and her back had a problem and she could not sit for long during the hearing. She said she had been referred to the Mater Hospital for further examination. Ngirita pleaded with the court to adjourn the case until she seeks further medical attention. She said she had a referral to visit the Mater Hospital yesterday but she was forced to appear in court, though in excruciating pain. But chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti dismissed her application for adjournment, saying the medical records did not show that she needs further treatment. Read:Ngirita matriarch leaves remand after 44 days The magistrate said the medical reports were different from what her lawyer had submitted to court when he asked for an adjournment. Ogoti ruled that it would be prejudicial to the other accused persons if the case is adjourned because of one person. He raised concern about the many times the issue of adjournment had been brought up in the case since the hearing started. Ogoti said some parties in the case have been making systematic and consistent applications for adjournment in a bid to scuttle the case. He disallowed the application and directed the DCI to investigate the reports produced by Ngirita to ascertain their authenticity. The prosecution had earlier opposed the application for an adjournment, arguing that the medical report did not have the doctor signatures or indicate whe referred her to the Mater hospital. Read: Ngirita setback as court rejects NYS case sureties They said the name on the medical reports was Ann Gichini, not Ngirita who was the person before court. The prosecution further said some reports show the institution is in Nairobi, but her health card reads Mediscope Clinic in Naivasha. In the case, former PS Lilian Omollo has been charged alongside 37 others with several counts of abuse of office and other charges. Ngirita is among the 37 accused persons. They are accused of conspiring to loot over Sh226 million by illegally giving tenders to companies that did not bid for the supply of goods at NYS. Click here for the latest political news 