Former Kenya Premier League champions Tusker have beefed their squad once again with the acquisition of three new players ahead of the new season kick off on December 8 The brewers captured the signatures of Rwandan goalkeeper Emery Mvuyekure from AS Kigali, Ushuru’s winger Bill Oporia and Nashon Alembi from Murang’a Seals FC. The Robert Matano coached club had initially brought in seven players. The veteran tactician was impressed with the trio, whom he handed three-year long contracts each Mvuyekure, formerly Rwandese giants APR, was shipped in as a direct replacement for Harambee Stars first choice goalkeeper Patrick Matasi who left earlier for Ethiopia-based St George’s FC. He will, however, face a tough task in winning the nod ahead of Robert Mboya and national U-23 Emerging Stars trialist Bryne Omondi and long serving Duncan Ochieng. The shot stopper was quoted on the club’s official online portal, saying he opted for Ruaraka-based club to win titles. He said: “I joined Tusker because I know it’s a team that wants to win and not just participate. I know them for winning titles and I love winning too so I want to help them achieve the same target.” Oporia, a former FC Talanta and Strathmore University product ditched the tax men for breweries and will also have to strive to dispense the trio of Kenyan international Boniface Muchiri, Ugandan Robert Achema and John Kamau. Oporia said: “First, I want to work together with the strikers who are here to continue succeeding in the department and the team at large. I have trained with the team for a week and I already feel welcomed. I am really hoping to gain lots of experience and score more goals too.” The unheralded Alembi, who had a stint with National Super League side, Kangemi All Stars will also compete for playing time in the defence which has skipper Lyod Wahome, Justin Omary, Collins Shivachi, Aloro Rodgers, Erick Ambunya, David Gateri, Marlon Tangauzi, Sammy Meja and Hillary Wandera. Earlier on Tusker had signed—Wandera from Nzoia Sugar, Amani Muzerwa (Police), Mike Madoya (Zoo), Meja (Thika United), Rodgers Aloro (Sofapaka) and Clyde Senaji (Vihiga United).