You may have read an
article in the current Nairobi Law
Monthly arguing for abolition of the Senate. No doubt many people would
agree — indeed would be happy to do away with all politicians. The National
Assembly would be delighted to abolish the Senate, whose powers they seem to
resent. The author of that
article compared our Senate with the American one, which does have significant
powers. He asks, “What stops MPs from performing the functions of
Senate when the constituencies they represent in parliament are part of the
same counties Senate oversees?” (By “MPs” he means only members of the National
Assembly, the common usage, if slightly illogical — because Senators are MPs
too. But other countries use the same terminology despite having two houses of
Parliament.) His may seem like a shrewd question, but actually contains
the seeds of its answer.  SECOND CHAMBERS AND DEVOLVED SYSTEMS The Senate is closely tied
to the system of county government. Many countries with a two — or more — tier
government system have one House of their parliament with responsibilities
particularly connected to that system. These include the United States, Canada,
Australia, Germany, India and South Africa. There is often some
tension between the national level of government and the lower level
governments. The constitutions of these countries set out which powers of
governments – both law making and other powers - can be exercised by which
government. No one likes to give up powers, particularly if they go with
resources. And when governments (including legislatures) are corrupt, the urge
to hang on to – or grab – powers is greater because personal benefit is
affected. This is why our National
Assembly members cannot represent the counties as such. They represent (or at
least are elected by) the people of the counties (in their constituencies) — but
only in connection with the matters that are the responsibility of the national
government. Neither the national
government nor the National Assembly really respects the county government
system. They find it hard to accept that counties are not just local authority
areas. But Justice Isaac Lenaola said, “Local authorities cannot be
equated to county governments as the structure and design of the Constitution
has given county governments an elevated position as one of the organs to which
sovereignty of the people of Kenya is delegated under Article 1 of the
Constitution”. There is always a bit of
a tussle over how much national revenue will be allocated to the counties. And
it took court action to push the National Assembly to limit the Constituency
Development Fund to matters that are the responsibility of the national
government. MPs were quite happy to carry out projects that were county
responsibilities (in fact, that case is not fully resolved yet). The counties
need a body that understands their issues and protects them.  POWERS OF THE SENATE That body is supposed to
be the Senate, which the Constitution says: “… represents the counties,
and serves to protect the interests of the counties and their governments”. The major ways the Senate is supposed to do that are: The County Governments Act adds to these a major
responsibility in the process of removing a county Governor. RESISTANCE TO THIS ROLE The National Assembly has been resistant to the role
of the Senate. They tried, for example, to exclude the Senate from involvement
in the passing of the law dividing national revenue between the national
government and the counties. The Supreme Court had to put it right. And in another
case the courts had to correct the National Assembly when it ignored the role
of the Senate when passing law relating to health functions of the counties One assumption lying behind the creation of the Senate
was that counties would be prepared to work together to protect the interests
of their level of government. A sort of bargaining would go on between counties
— “if you protect us on this issue, we shall protect you on others”. One important point about the Senate is that for most
purposes, it has just 47 voting members, and each county has one vote. But in
the National Assembly, the number of county representatives ranges from two for
Lamu to 87 for Nairobi. In the Senate, the counties are equal, which give more
power to smaller counties that could band together to challenge issues on which
perhaps bigger counties might differ from the smaller.  HOW WELL HAS THE SENATE PLAYED THIS ROLE? The Senate has consistently pushed for more money for
the counties. As recently as September this year, Senators of both main parties
were reported as resisting government budget cuts for the counties. However, they have often not behaved as though they
wish to work together with county governments. They seem to have resented the
higher profiles of governors (and perhaps their chances for corrupt benefits).
They have tried to trespass on their powers, as when they established boards on
which they would sit to develop county development policies (the courts put an
end to this – though now the Court of Appeal is set to hear the matter). And
the Senate is fond of trying to pass other laws telling the county governments
how to govern. Will things change now that senators are becoming governors? And
if governors become senators? (There is no term limit for Senators!)  CONSTITUTIONAL WEAKNESS? There is one particularly worrying constitutional
provision: The Senate “exercises oversight over national revenue
allocated to the county governments”. This was introduced by the Parliamentary
Select Committee during the constitution making process. It muddies the waters
over the role of the county assemblies (the primary body to oversee county
government work). Many projects are probably funded by nationally raised
revenue and county raised revenue, making a power to oversee just the former
problematic. It has perhaps encouraged the
Senate to summon county governors – further exacerbating poor relations. And now the Senate is
considering a Bill seeking a lot of resources to oversee the counties, giving
individual senators power to oversee their own county governments (highly
questionable) and again trying to direct counties what to do and how to do it. Earlier drafts of the
constitution would have made up the Senate in different ways. The first
Committee of Experts draft would have had senators elected by the county
assemblies. The very first draft (2002) would have also involved the chairs of
the lowest level of government. Under such arrangements, the Senate
would have been much more part of the county government system.  They are similar to those in Germany and
South Africa. The Committee of Experts’ second draft changed to the current
idea of direct election by the people of the county. This is not by any means
unusual (it is for example the American arrangement). But it has perhaps played
into the hands of Kenyan politicians who seem prone to view everything from
their own personal perspective. It was also perhaps an error to
give the Senate a role in passing laws only if they affect the counties.  CONCLUSION Now, Senators chafe under what they feel are
restrictions on their role, and are constantly trying to expand it. Nonetheless, the Senate does have a number of
important functions. To abolish it would be a case of throwing out the baby
with the bathwater. The bathwater we need to get rid of is the greed and
self-interest that bedevil our politics.