The former National Bank of Kenya managing director is seeking a Sh453 million payment for unlawful termination and malicious prosecution. Munir Sheikh Ahmed wants the court to declare that the bank breached his right to fair labor practices, the right to fair disciplinary and administrative process and denied him adequate time to respond to the allegation. He says that on March 29, 2016, he received a letter referenced “notification of a disciplinary hearing and show cause notice”. “The letter notified me that the bank was considering to terminate my contract of employment on grounds of gross misconduct for failure to take appropriate action to ensure that the bank’s financial results reflected the correct position,” the court documents read. He alleges that NBK did not honour the pledge to ensure an independent audit process and he was not invited to make submissions or participate in the audit. “I am seeking an order for reinstatement to the position of managing director and payment of the accrued salary and benefits since April 2016 until the date of reinstatement,” says Munir in his application. The former MD is also seeking an order for retraction of the damaging notice of the alleged misconduct and governance issues that the bank wrongly attributed to him, and a suitable apology which he will approve prior to publication. The embattled former MD also seeks an order to be compensated by the bank in the sum of Sh453,489,133.00 being the salary for remainder of the contract for the period of 76 months, pension, utilities, domestic servant allowance, entertainment allowance and medical allowance among other allowances. Munir wants compensation for general damages for degrading and inhuman treatment, mental anguish and damage to professional reputation. “I am also seeking for punitive and aggravated damages for malicious prosecution and lodging a false complaint with the Banking Fraud Investigation Department,” says Munir. Through lawyer Issa Mansur, Munir contends he was dismissed on unsubstantiated allegations and caused the humiliating arrest and embarrassment. He says the bank failed to give him any reasons for termination of employment or summary dismissal, thus acted in contravention of Article 41 and 47 of the Employment Act. He claims the bank granted him only a day notice to prepare a response to the notice to show cause letter dated March 29, 2016 and was denied the right to reasonable disciplinary process in contravention of the law.  