In the first quarter of this year I made plans to go to the United Kingdom. The two main reasons why I wanted to go were: A) To attend the MCM London Comic Convention, where I was going to parade my comic book, The Continent. And B) To stop by a few independent comic book stores in London to see if they could stock my book. I was fairly optimistic I would make an impression at the convention, and also get a few comic book stores to stock my book, because, well, The Continent is that good. So, once I got my London living arrangements sorted, I gathered and sorted the reams of paperwork required to apply for a UK visa, and sent the towering pile to the UK visa people. To say that I was confident that I was going to go to the United Kingdom is an understatement. I even went ahead and called those bookstores and made appointments. In the middle of April, I got my paperwork back and a letter from the UK visa people. ‘Visa denied’ the letter said in official language. Then I read the two reasons why I’d been refused a visa, and I was incensed. The first reason was an expression of utter disbelief that I made a living as a writer, and that I was not in the employ of anyone. This implied, to me at least, that I must then be getting my daily literal bread from the World Food Programme. The second reason was: considering how much I make (which contradicts the non-earning first reason), and how much the trip would cost, I would then not have enough money left to support my hapless family. In the application I did indicate I have a wife. Is it beyond the realm of possibility that this wife has a career that pays well, and that the household has (gasp!) two incomes? I’m not saying I have a right to a UK visa. I am saying don’t suggest that I am a liar and a fraud on a mission to permanently settle in rainy England. Just say, ‘We don’t want you here,’ and I’ll respect that. It is your house. After I’d calmed down two weeks later, reduced in size after exhaling all that enraged air I had taken in, everyone I know told me I was not alone. ‘Visa denied’ for the UK was the rule rather than the exception. This incident though made me think about places one can go without a visa. There are 43 countries worldwide a Kenyan passport holder can travel to without a visa, or you can easily get one even on arrival. Some of these countries are in the sunny Caribbean. Others are in beautiful Asia. In the Americas, you can visit Panama, and in Asia, The Philippines. And let’s not forget the Middle East, easy-peasy. But by far the most spectacular place you can go to without a visa is your mind. ‘Imagination will take you everywhere,’ said Albert Einstein. There are two ways you can get there. Through books you can go anywhere, to different times, and lead different lives through the characters. ‘A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies. The man who never reads lives only one.’ – George RR Martin. Then there’s self-reflection: ‘…As for travel, I have learned that the greatest journey a man can make is the journey inside his own head.’ – Bostar, Hannibal’s mapmaker, Hannibal.