Did members of the National Land Commission juggle a hot potato? They were supposed to be arbitrating how Deputy President William Ruto's Weston Hotel came to own the land where it stands. Did they dupe the public and dance to the gallery? Or were they avoiding a politically sensitive issue? Last week, after weeks of investigations and hearings, the commissioners declared they will rule in February next year. The ruling: whether the title deed should be revoked for the plot adjacent to Wilson Airport, which was meant to host the Kenya Civil Aviation Headquarters now under the Weston Hotel. Interestingly the commissioners are winding up their work at the commission, with their exit report already at the printers. They are expected to be out of office by January. How then will they issue this ruling in February when they are out of office? How will they draft the decision when they are not allowed to make binding decisions at the moment? ***** Just how badly do some MPs humiliate their personal assistants and bodyguards? A second- term MP stunned journalists yesterday when he arrived late for a committee meeting. Even before settling down, the MP called the bodyguard as if he wanted to hand over his phone — only to tell the aide to look for a toilet in the building and call him. Are some errands just too personal to involve a second party or this is how honourable lawmakers must behave to prove their importance? ***** A prominent hotel in Mombasa is in the eye of an international storm. A guest booked at the hotel last month during an international forum found their valuables, including laptops, stolen. The hotel associated with a former prominent banker promised to have the stolen items replaced. However, they have since gone silent. The guest is wondering why justice cannot be done as police officers have been unable to enter the facility. The guest is now wondering whether justice cannot be done because the hotel belongs to connected people? Maybe the Tourism Ministry should be involved. ***** Two commissioners of an independent commissions have baffled their aides and staff. The two,who are engaged in serious turf wars, have turned to black magic as a means to eliminate each other from contention for running the commission.They have gone to the extent of procuring the services of juju men from neighbouring countries. The men are believed to be highly qualified and powerful. Ironically, the two are known to their staff and aides as very religious and no meeting starts and ends without long prayers from them,. Whatever pushed them to consult black spirits has puzzled many. Or maybe their loudly professed faith is skin deep. Click here for
the latest political news