The Lapsset authority has rejected Lamu leaders’ request to enrol the remaining 600 youths in the Presidential Scholarship Program at once. Lapsset Corridor Development Authority CEO Silvestre Kasuku yesterday said it was impossible to recruit all the 600 at once due to logistical challenges. The scholarship programme was launched in 2012 by President Mwai Kibaki as an affirmative action to ensure at least 1,000 Lamu youth are empowered through education and skills in port related work. The skills would enable them secure jobs at the new port once it becomes operational. Only 400 youths have been enrolled into the program over the last four years out of which 350 are expected to graduate next month. The arrangement was to have the beneficiaries enrolled in five tranches of 200 youths each for five years. Lamu leaders asked the authority to enroll the remaining 600 at once to avoid further delays. Speaking at the port site in Kililana, Kasuku said the next tranche of 200 beneficiaries will be recruited between January and March next year. He said the idea of the program is to ensure youths from all generations benefit. He said it would be unfair to just train those in the youth bracket at the moment. “We want those who are currently in primary and secondary schools to also get a taste of this rare opportunity. It will be selfish for us to just focus on those who are in their youth at the moment,” Kasuku said. There have been claims that the programme has been plagued by financial difficulties forcing some students to drop their course choices and opt for cheaper ones. Kasuku however dismissed the claims as misleading. He said the government had allocated enough resources for the implementation of the programme. Lapsset corporate affairs officer Benson Thuita said about Sh120 million has been spent on the programme since it was started in March 2014. Early this year, the government disbursed Sh11 million for the programme. Thuita said the money is used for tuition fees and upkeep of the students who are undertaking their studies in various colleges across the country. The Lapsset Presidential Scholarship focuses mainly on trainings in port project components like Marine Engineering, Transport and Logistics, Nautical Engineering, Project Management, Port Management and Surveying. Students are also trained in auxiliary services and industries such as Human Resources, Medicine, Business Management, Economics and Information Technology.