Livestock
researchers to produce a vaccine against the East Coast Fever disease
at a cost of Sh15 million. Erick
Mugube, director, Kenya Agricultural Livestock and Research
Organisation-Veterinary Research Institute in Muguga said this is the
second batch of half a million doses of the ECF vaccines that are
being produced since 1995 against the disease that has a 100 percent
mortality rate in cattle. “The
vaccine that is currently being used was produced in 1995 and over
half a million doses have been sold. The institute is producing
another batch of half million doses again due to a high demand. This
will cost between Sh10 to Sh15 million,” said Mugabe. He
explained that ECF is caused by a single parasite, theileria parva,
and transmitted is transmitted by brown ear tick. The disease often
kills a cow every 30 seconds and it is a threat to more than 25
million cattle in Africa. The
disease is mainly found in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi,
South Sudan, Malawi, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC) and has had an adverse impact on Africa
economies with losses exceeded Sh30 billion annualy. “If
this disease is not controlled through treatment using drugs or
vaccination, death may
occur within
one month of being bitten by a tick and
dairy farmers are most affected by ECF in the country,” he said. Symptoms
of the disease include loss of appetite for the animals, swelling of
lymph nodes and for the dairy animals production cuts by huge margin. Moses
Alu, a research scientist at Kalro said they are producing another
120,000 to 150, 000 doses to help farmers fight the disease. “It
will take us about two years
to produce the vaccine which
is only
sustainable under cold conditions, stored in liquid nitrogen,” he
said. Alu
said that the dose
costs Sh200 and to
ensure the
vaccine is effective, the institute retrain service
providers who administer the vaccine. “The
occurrence of ticks in East Central and South Africa is one of the
major limiting factors of livestock productivity. The fatality rate
for untreated ECF which is a disease of cattle and buffalo can be as
high as 100 percent in cattle,” he said. Click here for
the latest political news