Police officers foiled an attempted kidnap of a 14-year-old girl who was sitting for her KCPE examinations at a mixed boarding primary school in Kajiado County. The incident occurred on Wednesday night as the pupils had gone to sleep when police manning the school found unknown people who were attempting to gain entry into the girls’ hostel. After investigations, the police found out that the mission of the people was to kidnap one of the KCPE candidates who a day before the start of the examinations, was married off by her parents. The unknown people took off after the officers ordered them to stop. “Police guarding the examination centre spotted some people who were walking towards the school’s hostel and when they ordered them to stop they escaped in to the dark,” Kajiado County Commissioner David Kipkemei told the Star on phone. The girl was later rescued on Monday night. “We have established that the same people who married off the minor are the same ones who wanted to kidnap the girl before she completes her final exam,” Kipkemei said. He said that the police were searching for girl’s parents and suitor who have since gone missing. “We are making arrangements to move the girl to a rescue centre and save her from her parents. It has clear that they are not keen for their daughter to complete her education career despite being warned of possible arrest for their actions,” the commissioner said. Meanwhile, a watchman who was arrested after being found sneaking fake KCSE examination papers to Bissil Boarding Primary in Kajiado Central Sub County, is being held in police custody. Kipkemei said the Directorate of Criminal Investigations had been called in to establish those behind the circulation of the papers. “Preliminary investigations reveal that those behind the distribution of the papers had beef with the administration and wanted to discredit the school’s name,” the commissioner said. Kipkemei revealed that the KCSE papers for Mathematics, Biology and History were fake. “We have leads and those likely to be arrested are a number of teachers from the same school, who colluded with an outsider to attempt to malign the name of the school,” claimed the commissioner. He assured Kajiado residents that there were no other cheating cases detected and thanked education officials for their good work during the exam period.