Somalia was conspicuously missing at
the unveiling ceremony of the world’s biggest airport by its closest ally Turkey
in Istanbul on October 31, raising many questions on whether its exclusion was a
sign of straining relations between the two friendly nations. Turkey is believed to have been irked
by Somalia for siding with Saudi Arabia over the murder of Saudi journalist
Jamal Khashoggi at its consulate in Istanbul, which sparked global outrage and
badly dented its image globally. Amid pouring world condemnation over
the killing, Somalia's foreign ministry on October 17 issued a statement
expressing full solidarity with Saudi Arabia against “all those who seek to
undermine its role,” Turkey seems to have been angered by
this comment as well as an earlier visit a week before to Saudi Arabia by
Somalia Prime Minister Hassan Ali Kheire to meet Saudi Crown Prince Mohamed Bin
Salman, who later after the incident was widely blamed by the for the murder of
Khashoggi who was a critic of the Saudi Royal family. Turkey’s decision not to invite Somalia
speaks volumes about their resentment about its stand at a time when Turkey
received world admiration on how it handled the ugly murder, a Washington Post
columnist.  HUGE PUBLIC SUPPORT Turkey enjoys massive public admiration
by ordinary Somalis ever since August 19, 2011, when President Recep Tayyip
ErdoÄŸan and First Lady Emine ErdoÄŸan made unannounced first visit by any
foreign leader to Somalia when he was Prime Minister. This was during a worst
famine that affected millions of Somalis. The visit opened up the country to
international support. Since then, Turkey has pumped millions
of dollars into the reconstruction of their war-torn country and went ahead to
open its biggest embassy and military base in Mogadishu. Many Somalis fear their country stands
to lose a lot by not being represented at the historic airport unveiling event,
which also coincided with theirs closest ally’s 95th anniversary celebrations since
Turkey’s establishment as a republic. The Somali government has remained mum
on this subject since it issued the Khashoggi killings statement that seemed to
exonerate the Saudi’s. Coincidentally in August, Somalia
remained neutral when Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States broke diplomatic ties
with Qatar over alleged Saudi accusations of what they termed as Qatar’s support
to terrorist organisations. Turkey has actually come out as the strongest
Muslim nation to come out in support of Qatar and has even sent it food
suppliers to show their support.  NEUTRALITY Somalia remained steadfast over its
neutrality on the matter, even defying Saudi's request of blockading Qatar by
urging it not to allow it to use its airspace. This decision forged much closer
ties between Somalia and Qatar. Turkey was also against Qatar's blockade. The latest diplomatic guff by Somalia
is also likely to strain its relations with Qatar, the first country to pledge over
$200 million worth of projects expected to support infrastructure and job
creation. After the Khashoggi killing, the
Saudi-led massacre in Yemen and of course the huge Turkish support in Somalia,
many Somalis wish their country would rather remain much closer to Turkey and
Qatar rather than Saudi Arabia, UAE, Egypt, Bahrain and other Gulf countries in
the Saudi camp. The other strong reason why Somalis prefer Turkey to the other
states is because of the bad treatment of Somalis in Saud Arabia compared to
those living in Turkey and Qatar.  Every other day, hundreds of Somali
refugees are flown back to Mogadishu by Saudi Arabia. Many of these economic
refugees do manual jobs in Saudi Arabia as a way of eking out a living but find
themselves back in Somalia after deportation whenever they are arrested by
Saudi officials. Saudi Arabia is home to Islam’s two
holiest cities of Makka and Madina, and generally Muslims worldwide have an affinity
and love for the country. However, the barbarism and the inhuman treatment of
the ruling elite and security agencies of foreigners, especially Africans and
in this case Somalis, is the reason Saudi’s are loathed and could explain why the
majority of Somalis prefer their country to have much more closer ties to
Turkey and Qatar than the oil rich country known to buy loyalism with its
petrodollars. However, given Somalia’s dire situation
as a country, struggling to come out of a long civil war that has destroyed
almost everything, the Somali leadership must balance their foreign policy in
order not to antagonise any foreign country because we need everyone to come
and help our people. This balancing of loyalism, I believe,
is the biggest headache for President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo and this will
need him to trade carefully. The only problem I foresee is when the leadership
starts to think of upcoming elections and the need for foreign support to
finance their reelection. Now, when you put your reelection as a top
priority at the expense of the country’s interests, that’s when you tend to make
mistakes. We need sober heads if we are to steer the country on the right
course.   