Title: I Artiste: Lucky Daye Genre: R&B/Soul Release: November 9  Lucky Daye cuts a niche of his own. He is different and has a great command of his well-done, distinctive R&B sound. It's in talent like Lucky's that greatness in the arts is exhibited. Well, the New Orleans-born, LA-based creative started his music in a church cult that his mother was actively involved in. At the age of eight, Lucky managed to liberate himself from a religious identity that denied him all the possibilities of associating with the secular world. Now signed to major labels, he presents to the music world a distinctive sound that continues to define the current R&B wave influenced by his contemporaries. He understands that to be noticed then remembered, you need to stay true to your individualism. For him, fitting in is not an option, hence his latest EP, 'I'. In September, he was among the many artistes featured in the 'Insecure: Music from the HBO Original Series' soundtrack, which also featured big names like Miguel, Cautious Clay, Anna Wise, Xavier Omar, Nao, SiR and Lion Babe. Now, the five-track EP 'I' is a reflection of his sensual to his present-day situation. The EP kicks off with the lead single "Roll Some Mo", which he describes as a proper life with his lover, where they simply smoke up and appreciate what they have together. "Late Night" and "Extra" are impressive love songs that offer the eclectic experience you need to hear in every new project. Lucky doesn't shy off from taking us back to his influences, and he does it so well it's awe-inspiring. On 'Concentrate,' Lucky's vocals grow stronger and dexterous as he stays true to the project's thematic concern. He then closes the effort with an interlude, "Ready for Love", which drives forward the artiste's expressive command when it comes to matters of the heart. From this compilation, it's clear to tell what kind of lover Lucky is. Now that we know what Lucky is capable of and the extent he is willing to go, we can't wait for a full-length LP. From making music from nursery rhyme books to recording major projects, Lucky has been making music all his life. Just like that, Lucky has quickly proven himself to be among the most gifted singer-songwriters of his generation.  Star rating: 4 out of 5