ODM leader Raila Odinga’s former aide Salim Lone has described Deputy President William Ruto as the country’s cleverest and most organized leader. He said the March 9th handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila made many to believe the DP was finished which to him was untrue. Lone was reacting to last week’s story by the Star where Luhya leaders formally declared support for Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid in Kakamega county. They cited the DP’s past performances in the Ministries of Higher Education and Agriculture as testimony enough that he can take Kenya to the next level. Read: Luhya leaders formally declare support for Ruto's 2022 bid "Ruto is just about Kenya's cleverest, most organized leader. Look at this (Western leaders) line-up and Coast recently. Mega corruption is not a handicap but an essential strength in our system," Lone tweeted. He said the country had many great leaders who were not able to ascend to the presidency adding that a win was possible even in Kenya’s current 'mess'. "Yes, Luhyas have had great leaders - like 42 of our other nations which have not provided a president. Nor did Kikuyu, Kalenjin leaders like Kaggia, JM, Seroney succeed. We must work harder, make progressive cross-national alliances," he said. Since the handshake, speculation has been rife over Ruto’s fate and the 2022 succession. The DP’s allies have been watching the developing close ties between Uhuru and Raila with deep suspicion. Read: What handshake means for Ruto Also read: Raila warns his MPs to keep off Ruto 2022 bid Earlier this week, MPs allied to Raila warned Ruto’s recent tour to Nyanza could ignite tension and undermine the handshake. The politicians led by Suba South MP John Mbadi and his Suna East counterpart Junet Mohamed said Ruto was exploiting the tranquility created by the handshake pact to further his political agenda. More on this: Raila allies alarmed by Ruto Nyanza tour Read: DP Ruto intensifies 2022 campaign in drives disguised as official duties Also read: House united against MP's bid to block Ruto in 2022 as Uhuru's succession debate erupts