Before devolution came into effect, government critics
from Northern Kenya always laid blame on the subsequent central governments for
the sorry state of affairs in their hometowns. In 2013, when we ushered in devolution, many of these critics
hoped that marginalisation would be a thing of the past.  Six years down the line, the same can’t be
said of the state of affairs in these counties. To a certain extent, the county
governments of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera have undertaken several development
projects. However, these activities do not match the expectations the people
had. The root causes of once intermittent clan conflicts in
the region are yet to be solved. In general, nothing much has changed.   On the contrary the North is ailing, and
there is need for the leaders from the region to seriously question their
motives. There is need for a paradigm shift in the way we manage our resources.
Unlike other parts in the country, there is lack of participatory approach in planning
development projects. In most cases, the leadership in the counties has
completely favoured their own clans, both in appointments of key office holders
and the geographical spread of developments projects.  It is very hard to see minorities considered for
jobs and my heart to be honest my heart goes out to the qualified graduates who
will not get a chance to serve their people. 
It is imperative that public service boards in these governments be run
in a professional manner.  At the moment,
one can argue there is no merit in the way appointments are done.  In the former North Eastern Province, the
governors of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera have each appointed more than 20 chief
officers. While the law doesn’t limit the number of chief officers, it would
have been better for the governors to stick to a lean executive rather than a
bloated one. I know it will take many years for the North to come
at par with other regions in the country but devolution presents a wonderful
opportunity, which risks being wasted if the leadership and the people of this
region do not come together to define a common purpose. This will be a missed opportunity and once again the
region will remain in the shackles of of what now will appear to be self-marginalisation. The accusations we made against the central government
before the new dispensation such as bias will not different when counties
allocate development projects based on clans. It will be premature for me to
give a scorecard on devolution progress but the indications paint a whole
different picture. It is time for the governors to wake and reverse the
many years of marginalization by central governments The people of this region
should also own the devolution system. The last thing we can do is to again lay
blame each other for failing to grab the opportunities devolution offers us. It
is time for the people of the region to take stock and ask the right questions.   The writer is a communication specialist abdilatif.maalim@gmail.com     