Parents of Luyekhe Primary School in Kanduyi, Bungoma South, have asked Education CS Amina Mohamed to shut down the institution for posting dismal results in this year’s KCPE exam. The parents yesterday held protests and demanded that the CS opens a polytechnic at the school to offer technical courses to students who will “not manage to join secondary school”. They said the school should offer courses like wiring, plumbing, masonry and tailoring so the students may be equipped with skills that will help them earn a living. Luyekhe acting head teacher Judith Walubengo yesterday said she was not aware that parents protested. Parent Charles Nyongesa said out of 87 candidates who sat the KCPE exam, only seven attained 250 marks and above. The top scorer in the school got 295 marks, while the lowest got 95 marks. The parents attributed the dismal performance to poor management of the school and has been posting poor results since 2014. “We as parents are in total shock. As other schools are celebrating, we are ashamed. How can a student get two per cent in Kiswahili?” Nyongesa asked. The parents said if the CS does not to shut down the school and open a tertiary institution, they will hold protests and chase away the management. Preston Mabere said teachers at the school only engage in “funny activities like plaiting each other’s hair in the afternoon instead of teaching”. He said the school has 10 female and one male teachers. “This is not the first time this school has ashamed us by performing poorly. Last year the candidates performed poorly and when we went to the school, we only got promises from teachers and the management that they will pull up the socks, but this has not happened,” Mabere said. Mabere said they are asked to pay a lot of money as fees but they don’t see the outcome. A neighbouring private school, Marrel Academy, has for the fifth year in a row produced the best student in Bungoma county. Jepherson Anyonje, 13, got 447 marks.A teacher said this year the school has greatly improved and 17 students scored over 400 marks.