The visit by Deputy President William Ruto to Nyanza starting today
has elicited excitement. Ruto is a fierce critic
of opposition leader Raila Odinga and opposition leaders always work
hard to Isolate him. They have packaged Ruto as the roadblock to cohesion. To many Ruto is opposed to the Building Bridges handshake. As DP, he is expected to symbolise national unity. He has cleverly
turned President Uhuru Kenyatta’s 'kutangatanga' jibe into praise for
his tours to assess Kenya's development needs and inform the President. There
is a very thin line between politics and development tours. This will
be seen by many as an affront to Raila. It is not lost on many that
Migori governor Okoth Obado is considered a Ruto ally. Obado is
also a thorn in Raila's fresh. The visit comes hot on the heels of the
recent Senate by-election in which ODM's candidate was given a hard time
— and voters publicly criticised Raila. It will be perceived that Ruto
is moving in for the kill. The DP will also have goodies and his storytelling tricks to attract voters. For the DP to achieve his objective — boosting his State House run — 
he must publicly support the handshake and avoid criticising Raila. He
will remind Nyanza that he hosted Raila and Uhuru for lunch. He must
stick to the pet topics of cohesion, fighting corruption and promoting
development. Raila is on record saying he is in politics to stay. This is his
response to Ruto supporters who have been urging him to retire and
focus on his AU job. It is safe to assume he will run in 022. A Ruto vs Raila contest will boil down to whether there will be a referendum to amend the Constitution.
Ruto is aware that Articles 255, 256 and 257 make it virtually impossible
to amend the constitution to reduce the number of counties, wards or
constituencies. It would be killed by Parliament or county
assemblies. Ruto will go flat out to oppose an initiative that seeks to
introduce new elective executive
positions at the national level. The political and governance expert spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news