Baringo senator Gideon Moi was on Saturday forced to travel on a boda boda after failing to get a vehicle to take him from his chopper to an event he was attending in Kiharu constituency. The chopper had landed at Gaitheri primary school to attend the burial of Kasarani MP Mercy Gakuya at the nearby Muringa village. It is said the pilot thought he would get an open field near the venue only to be forced to land at the primary school that is kilometres away. The senator hopped onto one of the many bodaboda's whose attention had been drawn by the landing chopper, much to the amusement of the locals. Moi was in the company of Tiaty MP William Kamtet. While addressing mourners, Moi challenged elected leaders to ensure they unite Kenyans regardless of their political affiliations. This, Moi said, is the only way the country will be able to realise meaningful development. "The political turbulence we have experienced for the last few years have negatively affected our development aa a country," he said. Moi noted that unity is a vital component or economic growth and called upon political leaders to preach peace and enhance a conducive environment for development. "We have a responsibility as political leaders to make every effort possible to improve the living standards of our people," Moi said. The senator told  mourners that he will crisscross the central region seeking their support in the 2022 politics but noted that his focus now is on serving the people who voted for him. Kamtet on his part echoed Moi's sentiments on the need for leaders to preserve peace. "It is only in a peaceful environment that we can improve our economic status as Kenyans," he said. He castigated a section of leaders that he accused of peddling lies as they look for votes. Kamtet asked Central region residents to take their time before making a conclusive decision over the 2022 elections and to ensure they place all candidates on a pedestal. “I am asking my brothers and sisters from central region to evaluate all candidates before making their decision," Kamtet said. The MP said Kanu is ready to take over the leadership of the country after the jubilee government completes its term. Gatundu MP Moses Kuria accused a section of Rift valley leaders of engineering conflict between the government and maize farmers. He said the leaders have been inciting farmers to reject the maize prices announced by the government and called for negotiations between the two parties. He urged the leaders to first find out the reasons behind the proposes prices before rejecting them and issuing threats to the government. Nairobi ACK Bishop Joel Waweru who presided the burial service, hit out at politicians saying some of their action are contrarily expectations to electorates. He cited numerous cases on confrontations witnessed in some county assemblies saying fighting among MCAs is a shame to the society. The politicians, Waweru said have failed to assist Kenyans improve their living standards as they are yet to resolve maize, sugar and petroleum scandals. MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Mary Waithera (Maragua), Ruth Mwaniki (Kigumo), and Murang’a county women representative Sabina Chege also attended the burial.