Kenya Simba open their Rugby World Cup repechage qualifiers campaign against Canada at Stade Delort in Marseille, their only remaining chance to next year’s World Cup in Japan. Four teams will be fighting for the remaining one slot to japan with Germany and Hong Kong also in the two-week repechage. The winner of the repechage qualifier will join world champions New Zealand, powerhouses South Africa, Italy and Namibia in Pool ‘B’. The Simbas have never met Canada in the longer version of the game and will start the match as underdogs based on Canada’s higher ranking of 23 against the Simbas’ 28 . The Simbas played a build up match against Romania ‘A’ last weekend in Bucharest where they lost 36-5. Head coach Ian Snook said despite being undercooked for the repechage, he was confident his side would rise to the occasion. “We probably needed two or three more warm-up games to be better prepared, but we must just go into the repechage without them,” said Snook. “The Romania game is the only warm-up we have had, so the preparation has been pretty minimal. But the boys are in good spirits so we will see how we go.” Snook termed tomorrow’s match against Canada as huge. “It will be a huge game for us. We’ve got a couple more days to turn up and put in a really good performance,” Snook said. “Whoever gets the jump in those first two games will stand a big chance of qualification .” Kenya face Hong Kong in their second game, on November 17, before a clash with Germany six days later to round off their campaign. Key players for the Simbas will be Joseph Odero, Patrick Ouko and Phillip Ikambili in the frontrow with Wilson K’Opondo and Oliver Mang’eni anchoring the second row with Kenya Sevens stars Andrew Amonde, Elkeans Musonye and skipper Davis Chenge in the backrow. Samson Onsomu and teammate Sammy Oliech will be the half back combination with Leo Seje and Peter Kilonzo in midfield. Darwin Mukidza, Collins Injera and Nelson Oyoo are the probable back three for the clash against the North Americans. The Canada team played two build up matches in the United Kingdom beating Coventry 35-12 and Oxford University 26-20 last week and will be full with confidence ahead of the showdown. Canada coach Kingsley Jones will bank on Tyler Adron, Ray Barkwill, Phil Nilsen and winger Kainoa Lloyd.