Saccos allowing defective matatus and noncompliant crew to operate, risk deregistration and prosecution as a multiagency team intensifies the traffic crackdown. National Transport and Safety Authority Director General Francis Meja yesterday said the focus will shift to saccos, whose vehicles are impounded, to ensure they become responsible and adhere to ‘Michuki rules’. He said the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the NTSA and Traffic police will jointly sustain the onslaught on disorder in the matatu sector to scale down road carnage. Meja spoke during World Remembrance Day for victims of road crashes at Sachan’wan in Molo. He called for concerted efforts to ensure order prevails. Sachan’wan is an accident blackspot. Road safety took prominence during the ceremony as those present called for compliance with ll traffic rules to save lives. Read: Be prepared, matatu crackdown here to stay, says Matiang'i Worrying statistics NTSA statistics paint a grim picture of the Kenyan roads. As of October 15, the authority recorded 2,453 deaths, 3,607 serious injuries and 4,155 slight injuries. The authority says the figures are unsettling compared to what it had recorded last year. Vice chairperson Bright Oywaywa said most of the recorded accidents involved the youth and have cost the country Sh310 billion — an equivalent of five per cent of the Kenya’s gross domestic product. Nakuru county commissioner Joshua Nkanatha directed security agencies to step up surveillance on seven blackspots on the Nakuru-Eldoret highway over the next three months. He expressed optimism that the entry of EACC officers will be significant in unearthing attempts by motorists to flout rules and ensure success of the crackdown. They will work as undercover agents. The Kenya National Highways and Bridges Authority is currently expanding a section of the Nakuru-Eldoret highway for Sh500 million to make it a dual carriageway. This is expected to reduce accidents on the 16-kilometre stretch. Nakuru deputy governor Eric Korir urged Kenha to expand elaborate road signage along the highway to enhance safety. Read: Stranded nation: Pain of losses and sweat in matatu crackdown Click here for
the latest political news