Despite Africa’s impressive growth in the past 25 years and its entry into the digital economy, youth unemployment continues to rise. Africa has the largest population of young people in the world, some 200 million aged between 15 and 24, accounting for 60 per cent of all of Africa’s jobless. What steps can we take to address this? Entrepreneurship may be key. It has the potential to create millions of jobs and bring about positive change. However, although more youths are looking to entrepreneurship, there are challenges such as lack of access to information, finance, networking and mentoring. These four are critical in modern-day entrepreneurship, as well as a virtual presence. Young entrepreneurs require mentoring and trust is a crucial element of this. In the past, this relationship would have been established over a period of time or through a structured process. But this is not how it works now. Mentoring happens in the virtual world, where it has become increasingly difficult to build trust without physical face-to-face interaction. Entrepreneurs are sceptical and are unlikely to share details or sensitive information with a mentor in the internet without being able to trust that person first. Networking is standard practice for business professionals who want to establish contacts and relationships. It helps foster the exchange of information and ideas. Virtual networking is a challenge because a growing number of business networks only want to support mature entrepreneurs rather than youths. This has resulted in minimal opportunities for young entrepreneurs. There are a few fellowships with a virtual presence in Africa, but they are not enough for the kind of networking that is needed. Financial transactions are rarely done on virtual platforms. They require physical presence and face-to-face interaction. However, some initiatives that do have online support provide potential capital providers. This is extremely crucial because funding makes entrepreneurship possible. Most youth entrepreneurship-focused initiatives aim to provide information and advisory services of some kind, while virtual platforms provide specific information. However, information tends to be outdated after a short period of time. The challenges facing youth entrepreneurs in Africa are broad and varied, and this is why the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) set up a virtual platform for entrepreneurs. The UNDP’s Regional Service Centre in Africa engaged Accenture, an innovative leader in digitalisation, to facilitate the implementation of a pan-African entrepreneurship portal called YAS (Youth for Africa and Sustainable Development Goals) to address the four pillars. The objective is to help young entrepreneurs move away from being jobseekers to becoming job creators. This is important because the UN estimates that by 2050, the world population will have grown by 2.2 billion people and half of them will be African. This population explosion will have far-reaching implications for Africa’s labour force. The youth are Africa’s greatest asset. Can you imagine an Africa where 90 per cent of our youth are employed? Can you imagine what this will do for economic growth? Can you imagine what Africa will look like if poverty did not exist?  UNDP Open Innovation Africa Lead  