There was once a joke in Meru that miraa farmers do not wash their clothes; they buy new ones and throw away the old ones. However, times have changed ever since two previously huge markets, the Netherlands and the UK,  banned miraa imports, citing health and social effects. The ban took a toll on many businesses in the country. Many miraa pick-ups that were sold to transporters by Toyota Kenya can rarely be seen on the roads any more. In July last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta formed a task force to look into miraa farmers' problems. Meanwhile, funds were allocated to cushion the farmers from the adverse effects of the two bans. The money came in two batches of Sh1 billion and Sh1.2 billion in the 2016-17 and 2017-18 financial years. However, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri dropped a bombshell in September, when he said there are plans to use Sh2.2 billion bailout to buy avocado and macadamia seedlings instead. The aim was diversification to increase income, a plan he said Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi was on board with. However, the idea incensed miraa farmers. Titus Kimechu, a miraa trader in Meru, said: "Miraa cannot be compared to avocados or macadamia. One bunch of miraa can fetch a good amount of money than sacks of avocado and macadamia. "A pick-up of miraa can fetch Sh500,000 comfortably, while a lorry of avocado or macadamia can barely fetch Sh100,000." BETTER DAYS The backlash adds to Kiunjuri's troubles after he was publicly rebuked by the President on Mashujaa Day last month over the Sh1.9 scandal at the NCPB. The National Assembly Agriculture Committee sought answers from the CS on Tuesday last week, but he skipped their summons for the fourth time running. Kiunjuri was expected to respond to among other things the crisis facing maize farmers, the status of maize at the National Cereals and Produce Board, delayed payment of farmers, audit report of the maize imported from Mexico and South Africa, and the threats by some millers to increase the prices of unga. In Meru, though, miraa is the bone of contention. A green plant with dark tan leaves and sometimes dark tan stems, it was not considered as a cash crop until 1947, when an Arab, perhaps having tasted the stem and identified it as a soft stimulant, started buying it. The returns from the stranger were so huge that many people began planting the crop, which at the time had no use and grew on its own in farms around Kangeta, Igembe South constituency. Khat, as it is commonly referred to, started being transported to Mombasa, Nairobi and even Kampala in Uganda. The plant earned many farmers millions of shillings in Nyambene, a miraa hub with about 70,000ha of the crop. In fact, in the 21st century, miraa was classified as one of the crops whose returns were high. Fortunes changed in 2013, when the Netherlands, one of the biggest markets for miraa, banned the commodity, prompting an outcry from traders and farmers in Kenya. Before the dust could even settle, the UK also banned it on June 24, 2014. One can be sentenced to up to 14 years in jail if found with khat in the UK. Before the two bans, farmers and traders had earned an estimated Sh7 billion in 2012 from exports of the commodity. There has been a lot of politics and research about whether miraa is a drug or not. In 1975, then Attorney General Charles Njonjo classified it as a drug. However, the motion failed after most MPs opposed it. GOVERNOR COMPLICIT? Kiunjuri dealt a fresh blow to farmers when he called for diversification on September 28, as he attended a Meru dairy farmers' field day at Gitoro showground. The CS said he had spoken with Kiraitu and agreed on the diversion of the Sh2 billion bailout. This saw Kiraitu threatened with being voted out in 2022. The governor, however, disowned the agreement. He said the county has not received or spent a coin from the national government's miraa funds. "I have met with CS Kiunjuri several times, but we have never agreed on how the cash will be used," Kiraitu said. "If the government wants to issue avocado and macadamia seedlings using miraa funds or any other kitty, they will then do it as the national government, not the Meru county government." He asked MPs from Meru to summon Kiunjuri in Parliament to shed light on whereabouts of the miraa cash. "I never told anyone to uproot miraa to plant macadamia or avocado. I encourage intercropping," Kiraitu said. However, farmers are not yet convinced that indeed he is not in agreement with Kiunjuri. More so after he gave out 200,000 macadamia and 200,000 avocado seedlings to farmers on October 5. The governor said the crops have a ready market in China and European countries. "The budget is Sh90 million. I want to distribute 1 million seedlings each for avocado and macadamia. No one is coerced to plant," Kiraitu said. LEADERS REACT Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea, his Igembe North counterpart Maoka Maore and East Africa Assembly MP Mpuru Aburi said it would be wrong to divert the miraa cash. Maore said the money was set aside to improve miraa, water provision, build sheds for miraa, seek markets for the crops and to boost research. "The county government has its own budget for agriculture, which can be used for avocado and macadamia seedlings. Let them keep off the miraa cash," he said. "CS Kiunjuri has been a stumbling block to the implementation of the task force's recommendations." Kabeabea said the funds should be used to develop miraa and do market research. Aburi said the cash is meant to cushion farmers from the adverse effects of the miraa ban in European markets. A Nyambene resident said: "We want to tell Kiraitu that let him do whatever he wants, but in 2022 we will teach him a political lesson he will never forget." Adding, "You cannot joke with miraa and get away with it. Let him know as Nyambene we are watching his steps closely." Nyambene MCAs urged CS Kiunjuri to come clean on the issue or they will convene a meeting with all elected leaders in Nyambene on miraa to chart the way forward. They accused the CS of not consulting them before coming up with the decision. However, some leaders and residents defended Kiraitu. Meru Senator Mithika Linturi said Kiunjuri should carry his own cross on the issue and not involve the governor. He said all MPs in Nyambene have representatives in the implementation committee, and hence Kiraitu cannot interfere with the committee's undertakings. Aburi said Kiunjuri should also avoid mud-slinging the governor and should entirely take blame for his remarks. There are also questions about the exact figure given to cushion miraa farmers. The Treasury slashed the allocation by Sh94 million due to the lack of absorption in the last financial year. Currently only Sh906 million is available, raising questions on where the other funds went to, as farmers say they are yet to see anything tangible on the ground. This comes amid a government directive that the money be shared with Embu and Tharaka Nithi. The latter counties are more famous for muguka, a crop that was not affected by the ban in Europe. Amwathi MCA John Ntongai said when Uhuru met Meru leaders in April 2016, he was clear that Sh1 billion was for miraa farmers. “The President should intervene on which county should get the money,” he said. Antubetwe Kikongo MCA George Kaliunga said miraa farmers will hold a rally to chart the way forward. “We want our MPs to stop being silent while money meant for miraa goes to other counties. We will not take this matter lightly,” he said. Click here for the latest political news