Kenyatta National Hospital incurred Sh6.5 billion losses in unpaid bills in two years, the Health Sector Working Group report indicates. The money was lost in 2015-16 and 2017-18 after patients were discharged. The report was signed by Health PS Peter Tum and released by the Treasury on Wednesday. The report says most patients were unable to settle their bills in full and their accounts are treated as unsecured credits. “The contact information these patients give is not reliable. Most of them are not working,” the report reads. This has hampered efforts to recover the money and the bills were categorised as “bad and doubtful debts”. The report indicates the hospital has an annual provision for such debtors but this raises the its operational cost. MPs have scaled up their push to make it illegal for hospitals to detain patients over unpaid bills in part or in full. The Health Laws (Amendment) Bill 2018 sponsored by Nyando MP Jared Okello seeks to have hospital officials who detain patients or refuse to release bodies over unpaid bills jailed for five years or fined Sh5 million. Okello said hospitals need to find ways of pursuing the debts in a civil manner instead of detaining patients or bodies. He said cases of hospitals and mortuaries detaining bodies are rife, making funeral costs unbearable. “Something must be done and it is urgent to help our people,” Okello said. He spoke at a meeting between MPs and Centre for Reproductive Rights, a global rights outfit that champions women’s reproductive rights. Efforts to get Okello to clarify whether the amendments would affect both public and private hospitals were unsuccessful as he was holed up in parliamentary meetings. Rights group senior regional director Evelyne Opondo said despite groundbreaking High Court rulings that have declared detaining patients violates their rights, some health facilities, including KNH, still detain patients. She said there is need to have the decision anchored in law. “The proposed amendment is timely to give the court decisions a force of laws and to have hospitals face consequences for detaining patients with impunity,” Opondo said. “It’s not the patients’ wish to remain in hospital longer than their treatment time.” She said hospitals need to devise ways and legal means of recovering their money from patients without violating their rights. MPs present included Anthony Oluoch, Jaqueline Oduol and Dennitah Ghati. Oluoch said they would explore means of enriching the proposed amendment and even formulate it into a bill. “In any case, it is us MPs who often bear the brunt of the skyrocketing hospital bills through multiple harambees,” he said.