Nine fishermen were arrested yesterday in Lamu for failing to wear protective gear. Police said the fishermen had ventured into the sea without life jackets and diving masks. The arrest is part of the enforcement of the ‘Michuki rules’ extended to ocean transport Lamu county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said those plying the Indian Ocean for travel or adventure must adhre to maritime safety rules, including wearing safety gear. Kanyiri said marine police and navy officials will arrest those violating the rules. The Lamu Archipelago consists of many islands and movement requires boats.“Much of the transport in Lamu happens at sea, so we are taking enforcement of safe travelling right into the ocean,” Kanyiri said. “If you are plying the ocean for whichever reason, be it fishing or travelling, and you fail to adhere to safety rules, you will be arrested for endangering either your life or those of others.” Residents and their leaders have criticised the arrest, saying enforcement of safety rules at sea was unwarranted.They called the arrests harassment. Governor Fahim Twaha and Lamu East MP Athman Shariff said fishermen should be exempted from the crackdown. “It’s outrageous. There are better ways to strengthen maritime safety than arresting fishermen. We want those arrested released immediately,” Twaha said. Shariff said police should concentrate on enforcing road safety. “We know there is need for safety but I don’t understand how ‘Michuki rules’ apply to lobster fishermen,” Shariff said. “To catch lobster, we have to dive underwater for several minutes. That’s how we have done it for decades,” Athman Shee said. He said lobster fishermen do not have the life jackets and diving masks that maritime authorities want them to wear. “They are too expensive for us to afford. We have trained ourselves and that is why no one has died in this business for the many decades we’ve been doing it,” he said. The government started enforcing the ‘Michuki rules’ on Monday as matatu owners withdrew their vehicles from the roads in protest. In Kilifi and Tana River counties, thousands of commuters were stranded for hours as police launched the crackdown from as early as 5am. Many residents said the crackdown had inconvenienced them. Terressia Mwangi, who was heading to Mpeketoni from Malindi, was stranded after a Probox she had boarded was impounded.