About six months ago it appeared as if UK Prime Minister Theresa May was in serious trouble in the Conservative Party regarding her options for Britain’s exit. Senior party leaders and members of her Cabinet either resigned or made it clear they would not go along on her journey to sink Britain into deep economic trouble with a fuzzy strategy going nowhere. But things seem to have gone quiet of late. Either fatigue has set in among the early advocates of Brexit such as Boris Johnson, or the new crusaders like Johnson’s brother just don’t seem to have substantial gravitas. May, on her part, seems to continue maintaining her stand and determination to keep on steering the Conservative ship no matter the turbulence. However far the coast seems to be, May hopes to get there as the captain. This kind of resolute stubbornness in the face of overwhelming odds reminds one of Margaret Thatcher, she of the heart of a lion and armour made of steel. May must have dusted up some old files left behind by Thatcher at Number 10 Downing Street on how to hold on to your anchor when storms engulf you in the seas of politics. Methinks Britain will neither quit nor stay in the EU. She will get what she wants from both sides of the political divide and be great again. This situation is curious and puzzling. It may even be confusing. It definitely confounds many. But who tells you it has always been easy to understand where the British stand on such tricky issues. The mind of a Briton is as perplexing to comprehend as the peace of God, which passeth all understanding. Pretty rotten weather ain’t it? And we Africans never knew the weather could be rotten anywhere in the tropics! So, to such a question you simply reply, “I believe so.” To get back at the Briton you tempt him with a very unlikely proposal. “I do believe elephants look exactly like lions.” To which the Briton would safely reply, “That could be the case depending on how you look at it.” An American would not let you get away with it. He will shoot straight: “Come off it man; that’s f****** balderdash!” And that may be the reason the debate on Brexit is going round in circles. But on a serious note, when all EU members were collapsing their national currencies and joining the Euro, the British decided to keep the Pound. That should have been a warning signal that the camel was not prepared to bring his hump into the tent. I am sure key architects of the union and the honchos at the headquarters in Brussels were not amused. But forewarned always leads to fore prepared. The discussions about Brexit in Brussels have been long, protracted, very often inconclusive and at times unpredictable. They have worn out May and her team. That is why there is such a high rate of change on who leads the Brexit argument in May’s team. In the House of Commons, both sides of the political divide may be losing their patience. And at times like that in politics anything can happen. A sudden insistence that going back to the people in a fresh referendum to decide which way Britain should go may very well be an attractive option to the most unlikely bedfellows. To May’s conservative supporters, this would be a pretty rotten situation. At the core of all this confusion is how national interests should be safeguarded in a world where globalisation has become so hegemonic. President Donald Trump does not seem to understand this; May does and seeks to move carefully between an economically integrated Europe faced with globalisation and an isolated UK faced by the same. European nations entered into a union and not just a community to avoid being hanged apart by forces of globalisation. Trump, on the other hand, thinks he can impose an isolationist policy on the US, despite the leadership of the US in a globalised world, and his own self-interest to benefit from global markets, where his business empire makes obscene profits. Maybe that is the direction May should look to see how utterly nonsensical Trump becomes when he goes isolationist and tries to wind back the clock of history. Most anti-Brexiters see May as being not so distant from Trump minus the latter’s bigotry, male chauvinism and ignorance about world affairs. But when it comes to economic isolationism the two may be birds of the same feather, who may have chosen not to flock together. The question the Brexiters are asking May to answer regarding her timetable for withdrawing from the EU may never be answered as long as the House of Commons itself is not ready to discuss honestly the global context in which Britain finds herself today. It is a context in which mainland Europe needs Britain in as much as Britain needs mainland Europe. So how does May come up with a timetable of withdrawal where even the strategy itself is difficult to come by? What would be the economic consequences to both Europe and Britain were May to be forced to prohibit millions of immigrant European cheap labor coming into Britain?