Former Youth and Gender PS Lillian Omollo was on Friday charged afresh in another NYS case relating to the loss of Sh 167.7 million at the youth service. Others who pleaded to the fresh charges were former NYS director general Richard Ndubai, three companies among other 30 accused persons. This is the second phase of the NYS2 prosecutions. The case on the loss of Sh226 million at NYS is underway before Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti. There is also another third case that Omollo and her co-accused are also being prosecuted, the only difference in the cases are the companies that were involved in the theft of public funds. They all denied 54 new charges before senior principal magistrate Lucas Onyina. The new charges include conspiracy to commit an economic crime, abuse of office, willful failure to comply with applicable procedures relating to the management of public funds, and fraudulent acquisition of public property. Others are neglect of official duty making a document without authority, uttering a false document, false accounting by a public officer, forgery, and breach of trust. Read: PS Lillian Omollo taken back to Langa'ta Women's Prison from KNH It is alleged that they conspired to commit an economic crime by allowing the payment of Sh167,715,700 to three companies including Firstling Limited, Kunjiwa Enterprises, and Ameritrade Limited. The offences were allegedly committed on diverse dates between April 6, 2016, and May 13, 2017, within the Republic of Kenya. Omollo was separately charged with six counts of abuse of office charges and willful failure to comply with procedures relating to management of public funds. The prosecution claims that Omollo abused her office by improperly conferring a benefit to Firstling supplies limited by unlawfully authorizing payment of Sh 115,534,000. She is further accused that to have abuse her office by improperly conferring a benefit to Ameritrade limited and Catherine Wanjiku Mwai trading as Kunjiwa enterprises by further authorising payments of Sh28,766,700 and Sh 23, 415,000 respectively. Onyina issued fresh warrants of arrests against four accused persons who are still on the run and are yet to be arrested by the police. They include Samuel Lanlin Otieno, James Katuluu and George Munji Wakukha and Ameritrade Limited. The directors of Firstling Ameritrade and Kunjiwa are accused of fraudulent acquisition of public funds. The case will be mentioned on February 1 for a pre-trial conference to ascertain if the defense has been supplied with all the copies of all witness statements and documentary exhibits that will be used during the hearing of the matter. Read: NYS suspects denied bail, to remain in remand until end of trial Related: Ann Ngirita's mother falls ill, court orders her escorted to KNH Click here for the latest political news 