Thika residents have threatened to sue Kiambu county government for sharp increases in taxes and introduction of new levies for small businesses. They want the county government to amend the proposed Kiambu County Finance Bill, 2018. The locals, who spoke during a public participation forum to discuss the bill on Wednesday, are angry that most rates have been increased by between 100 to 300 per cent. The meeting was organised by the county assembly’s Finance, Budget and Appropriation Committee. The county government is seeking to raise revenue to supplement its sh 15.62 billion for the 2018/2019 financial year. Residents said in a memorandum that existing rates should not be raised by no more than 10 per cent and that no new levies should be introduced. The newly-introduced taxes include a one-off payment of parking bays for tuktuk and boda boda saccos who will be required to part with Sh10,000 and Sh5,000 respectively. “We want all newly-introduced fees scrapped. The entire Bill as proposed by county government is oppressive and we won’t take anything more than 10 per cent,” said resident John Mwangi. Saloonists, barbers and green grocers have not been spared as they will be required to pay for licences, contrary to governor Ferdinard Waititu’s promise to them during his inaugural speech last year. The governor had promised that his administration won’t charge them and that they were free to operate within the county. “We are being taxed by the national government and now the county government is on our necks with outrageous rates and wants to mercilessly drain every coin from our pockets. We won’t take this low-lying,” said Maina Karobia, the chairman of Youth and Governance Kenya, a local community organisation. Under the proposals, motorists in Thika, Ruiru, Kiambu and Kikuyu towns will be required to part with Sh100 parking fee up from the current Sh50. Kiambu Finance CEC Mburu Kang’ethe said the county will raise Sh319 million from parking fees compared to Sh258 million raised in 2017/2018. Others who will be affected by the new proposals will be traders, who have been enjoying reduced charges for single business permits. When Waititu took over in September last year, he announced the reduction of single business permit charges and also waived charges by market traders that had been imposed by his predecessor William Kabogo, terming them as punitive.      