The just concluded Sustainable Blue Economy Conference 2018, co-hosted by Kenya, Canada and Japan resulted in thousands of participants the world over – from, inter alia, Presidents, Heads of State, Ministers, members of academia and researchers – descending on Kenya with a unified motive: The Blue Economy. The Conference – the first of its kind – sought to bring together like-minded stakeholders with the sole purpose of establishing potential opportunities – and addressing corresponding challenges – in the Blue Economy. While the concept of the Blue Economy is relatively new, and only vaguely defined, it is increasingly gaining traction at a global level. Illustratively, the World Bank estimates that the Blue Economy contributed USD 1.5 Trillion to the global economy in 2017 alone. This presents a major opportunity to emerging economies – particularly those rich in marine resources. The Blue Economy concept seeks to establish methods through which marine resources can be efficiently and sustainably tapped, in order to promote sustainable and inclusive growth. In simple terms, the Blue Economy concept refers to the utilization of ocean resources for human benefit in a manner that sustains the overall ocean resource base into perpetuity. In the context of the above, the Blue Economy can be broken down into two key elements: protecting existing maritime resources, and encouraging novel, innovative and sustainable maritime economic activities that can supplement existing maritime resources. In relation to the former, it is imperative that we take stock of the various maritime resources being utilized and ensure that said utilization is both efficient and sustainable. Conversely, in relation to the latter, this involves establishing innovative ways through which untapped and unconventional maritime resources can be harnessed in a sustainable and environmentally friendly manner. For instance, this may include harnessing wind and tidal energy, or ‘monetizing’ coastal carbon stocks such as mangroves and seagrasses. Given Africa’s vast maritime resources – 13 million square kilometers of territorial seas and 6.5 million square kilometers of continental shelf – it is indeed high time that the continent established methods through which it may sustainably tap into these resources, particularly in light of Sustainable Development Goal 14 – Life Below Water. Currently Africa’s Blue Economy consists of fisheries, aquaculture, tourism, transport, ports, coastal mining and energy. These sectors, however, more often than not, do not receive the required funding to thrive, save perhaps in the case of tourism. By actively participating in discussions around the Blue Economy, policy makers and investors have the opportunity to establish new ideas around these sectors, with a view to enabling the continent expand its presence in the same. This will in the long run feed into Africa’s growth trajectory from an exporter of unprocessed raw materials to a producer of value added products. Karen Kandie – MD IDB Capital