Unseeded Kenyan players once again failed to break the first round jinx of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) East Africa Junior circuit as 12 players were shown the door in the preliminary round of the second leg at Nairobi Club. Last week during the first leg, 11 players were dismissed in the opening round and yesterday, 12 players failed to advance to the second round after falling in the first hurdle. Derrick Ominde, who made it to last week’s quarter finals, was the biggest casualty as he bowed 6-2,6-4 to Oskar Irdoja of Ukraine. He was followed out by four home boys, who also lost their opening matches. Brandon Sagala lost to Damien Laporte of Seychelles in similar sets of 6-0 while Mwendwa Mutuku fell 6-0, 6-1 to Guiseppe Bonaitui of Italy. Raymond Oduor followed suit after succumbing to a 6-0,6-0 beating by Mate Haunolo of Hungary with Keen Shah also losing 7-6(3),7-6(5) to Denzel Seetso of Botswana. In the girls category, Esther Wahome succumbed 6-1, 6-2 to Joanna Poicia of Poland and was followed to the exit door by Esther Miheso, who lost 6-0, 6-0 to Italian Sofia Pizzoni. Kendi Kamunde was floored 6-2, 6-0 by Magda Wawrowska of Poland before Shania Kaur surrendered her one set lead to collapse 2-6, 7-5, 6-3 to Loya Indistrom of Sweden. Roselida Asumwa was whipped in sets of 6-3,6-0 by Onia Seke of Belgium while Gabriella Miheso was beaten 6-1,6-1 by Lisis Lafrontiere of Finland. Claire Muthoni lost 6-2,6-2 to Malika Ramasawmy of Bosnia. Kenya only recorded two wins through Cynthia Wanjala, who saw off Sara Kasahune of Ethiopia and Alicia Owegi, who beat Fya Razivic of Ukraine.The two will join the seeded players in today’s action for the second round matches. Elsewhere, Kenya’s Ismael Changawa and Gabon’s Celestine Avomo will be looking to defend their titles in the Karen Open Championship slated for December 8-16at Karen Country Club. Rentworks will this year sponsor the event to a tune of Sh2.45 million. The winner for both men and women singles will take home Sh 50,000 up from Sh25,000 last year. The tournament director Martha Tirop said defending champions Kenya’s Ismael Changawa and Celestine Avomo from Gabon, are expected to feature in the tournament. The event will also be used by Kenya Davis Cup players as warm up for their Group II debut in February. “We expect a high level of competition in this event,” he said. The tournament last year attracted 136 players from 17 nations thus— Kenya, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Gabon, Germany, Japan, Great Britain, Kenya, Rwanda, Madagascar, New Zealand, South Sudan, Uganda, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe. “We are looking to increase this number following the additional perks the tournament will provide,” he added.