As the 12th Parliament clamours for increased women representation, mixed
reactions have been drawn on whether there is even the need to retain the
current MPs and MCAs. Kenya’s high wage bill is blamed on, among other costs, the huge salaries
paid to nominated MCAs, members of the National Assembly, the Senate and their
aides, something critics claim is an unnecessary burden on taxpayers. Kenya has 770 nominated MCAs and 1,450 elected ones sitting in the 47 county
assemblies, with each having personal assistant paid by taxpayers. The National Assembly has 12 nominated members, 290 elected and 47 women
representatives bringing the total to 349 MPs. There are 20 nominated senators and
together with the 47 elected from each county, which brings the number to 67. In the Senate 16 women are nominated for gender balance while four slots are
shared between the youth and disabled. The figure is however likely to rise if MPs vote to approve the gender Bill sponsored
by Majority leader Aden Duale. It seeks to create additional top-up seats to
attain the constitutional two-thirds gender threshold. These huge numbers have led to questions of whether the country needs nominated
members, with a number of leaders and stakeholders saying Kenyans are over-represented
and the numbers should be reduced. All MPs earn a monthly salary of Sh710,000. They are entitled to a Sh5
million car grant, Sh5,000 committee allowance per sitting and a further
Sh5,000 every time they clock into the debating chambers. Each of the 2,220 MCAs – including the nominated ones – takes home Sh165,000
a month excluding allowances. The annual wage bill for the country’s 700,000 public employees, including
those elected, stands at Sh627 billion. However, a number of nominated MPs who talked to Siasa defended their
position, accusing their colleagues of witch-hunt and playing politics. “Nominations are here to stay unless we overhaul our Constitution. One of
the national values is inclusivity. Democracy and constitutional order is very
expensive. We passed a Constitution and we must abide by it,” nominated MP
Godffrey Osotsi said. “Even this thing people talk about misuse of nomination process, they don’t
know there are regulations to follow.” Several attempts have been made to reduce the number of elected
representatives to control the wage bill, which has been a national concern
since enactment of the Constitution. In September, Soy MP Caleb Kositany in a letter to Speaker Justine Muturi
proposed scrapping the positions of nominated MP and MCA. The close ally of Deputy President William Ruto also wanted the Senate
scrapped in his far-reaching proposals to the Speaker. If adopted, Caleb Kositany’s radical proposal would occasion a
constitutional amendment through a referendum ahead of the 2022 polls. The lawmaker argued that the extra positions cost the public over Sh3
billion annually, “which constitutes a heavy burden to the taxpayer.” “The other issue is nominated MCAs. They are so many. Like in my Uasin Gishu
county, we have 30 elected and 17 nominated. The quorum for the assembly to sit
is 15. This means that 15 unelected people can sit and pass something that
would be binding to the electorate who did not vote for them,” Kositany noted. But, despite the high costs that come with the new position, Parliament will
be dissolved if it fails to comply with constitutional provisions. Already, the Federation of Women Lawyers (Fida) is battling in court over
the constitutionality of the current Parliament. Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot last week wrote to the IEBC
requesting a referendum to reconstruct the Senate and National Assembly voting
processes by doing away with all constituencies as currently set. Should voters side with him, each county will become one constituency and
will vote in two MPs and two senators, each post having a male and a female member.
He also wants the number of nominated MPs cut down to six to represent
minorities. “You will have addressed the question of over-representation. You will have
brought down the wage bill and you will address the question of equality and
discrimination of women. In terms of cost, it costs us Sh32 billion per year to
run Parliament. We will reduce it to Sh5 billion,” Aukot says. According to Lucy Wanjiru, a Nairobi resident, increased representation in county
and national assemblies is a burden on the taxpayer. "We are over-represented and Kenyans are already feeling the heat. I
foresee tougher times after 2022 if this Bill is going to be passed. What we
need are resourceful individuals who are not going to cater for their affairs
but address the issues affecting the common mwananchi," Wanjiru told Siasa. Isaac Mwaura, who is serving his second term as nominated lawmaker, said they have over the years been undermined and discriminated against by their elected counterparts. Before being nominated to the Senate by Jubilee, Mwaura was a nominated to the National Assembly in the 11th Parliament by ODM. “Elected MPs have this unfounded fear of being dethroned by their nominated colleagues. They feel more superior than us. Basically, there is systematic discrimination of nominated MPs in Parliament," he said He refuted claims that the current Parliament is bloated with representatives. “If you want to kill a dog, give it a bad name. The justification is neither here or there because representation in Parliament is not a new endeavour. We are not funded but we do a lot of work,” he said. Former nominated senators Judith Sijeny and Beatrice Elachi shared with Siasa
their during their tenure in the last Parliament. Sijeny said their privileges as nominated senators were limited compared to
those accorded to their elected colleagues. “The work-load was the same but when it came to privileges, we were not equal
with the elected senators. We did not have the freedom to vote since we had to
do it at the mercy of the elected senators of our respective regions,” the
Wiper secretary general said. “When fighting for the oversight funds, we were at the mercy of the elected senators
who maintained that they would not give us the funds. We really had to fight
for our way yet we were the most active in the two Houses.” Elachi said as nominated MPs, they were bulldozed to adhere to the dictates
of their respective parties’ leadership in legislative processes. “Once you are nominated by a party, you must work for that party in the
House. Nominated MPs do not have jurisdiction like the elected ones and they
have to spread their wings wide,” the Nairobi county assembly Speaker said. Elachi called on Kenyans to vet the current nominated women MPs next year
and weed out “the lazy ones”. “Before we even think of who will fill those nomination slots in 2022,
Kenyans should evaluate the current nominated women MPs and verify the
programmes they have rolled out at the grassroots since last year’s General
Election,” she said. “These legislators receive their monthly salaries equal to those of elected
MPs. They even receive allowances in committees. Now, they should tell us what
they are doing to the groups they represent at the grassroots.” But Sijeny said she enjoyed the privilege of representing Kenyans. “The positive part of it is that we had the privilege of being MPs. Even
though the privileges were limited, at least the salaries were the same. We
were okay in committees because we could get allowances. But we had to work
extra-hard to survive,” Sijeny said. Nominated MP Jennifer Shamalla said they do not get funding to push the
agenda of the people they represent yet they address issues affecting the
entire nation. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have cast their net
wide to nab and whip MPs who are opposed to the Constitution of Kenya
(Amendment) Bill, 2018 that seeks to increase the number of women in
Parliament. On Wednesday afternoon next week, MPs will take a vote on the Bill sponsored
by Majority leader Aden Duale. If the two-thirds gender principle is not
achieved, any Kenyan might petition court to declare unconstitutional and its
subsequent dissolution by the President. Political parties have slated a series of parliamentary group meetings with
MPs next week, geared towards whipping them to attend Wednesday’s sitting and
approve the Bill. The Bill requires the support of 233 MPs (two thirds) to pass. If it sails
through and is assented to by the President, it will be effective after the
2022 General Election. If the Bill sails through as it is, Kenya will incur an additional Sh500
million every year for 20 years starting 2022 to cater for Parliament's
two-thirds gender requirement. Institute of Economic Affairs chief executive Kwame Owino said implementing
the law will cost less than one per cent of the total government expenditure.