Home players Albert Njogu and Sneha Kotecha prevailed to the semi-finals of the ongoing International Tennis Federation (ITF) East Africa Junior first leg circuit after winning their third round and quarter final matches respectively yesterday at Nairobi Club. Njogu opened the day with a 6-4, 6-4 win over Devin Badenhorst of South Africa in the third round—a win which guaranteed him a place in the quarter finals against Taras Parkharenko of Ukraine, who had dumped out Paul Wamba of Cameroon in sets of 3-6,6-1 and 6-2 in the third round. The fast-rising Njogu, who will be advancing to form four next year, showed no mercy to the burly left-handed Ukrainian in the quarters, capitalising on his poor return to win 6-3, 6-1. Njogu defied fatigue despite playing two competitive single matches in a day and promised to be more ruthless in the semis. “It feels great to win the two matches today against tough opponents. I was aggressive in both matches and pounced on opportunities that came my way. I was actually using the two matches as my build-up for the semis. I am looking forward to go past the semis this time round, having reached there twice this year.” Similarly, Sneha had superb exploits on court, winning her third round match 6-1,6-3 against Onia Seke of Belgium, which gave her the green-light to play Andjela Lopicic of Serbia in the quarter finals. The home girl despite playing with a bandaged left knee sailed to the semis, thanks to her 6-2, 6-3 win over the battling Serbian. In an interview, Sneha said: “It was tough today but I managed to get wins for I was mentally and physically ready. The knee setback did not affect my game and I hope I will be better before my next matches.” Meanwhile, the Kenyan duo of Ryan Randiek and Derrick Ominde were dumped out of the boys’ singles after losing their third round matches. Seeded fifth, Randiek lost 6-2, 6-4 to Damien Laporte of Seychelles while Ominde succumbed to Galfinger Rostilav of Kazakhstan in sets of 6-7(5) 6-2,6-3. A dejected Ominde accused his opponent of insincerity and vowed to redeem himself in the second leg slated for next week. “I could not have lost the match had my opponent been sincere. Whenever I would hit the ball close to the line, he shouted out and confused the umpire. I lost morale and many points as a result of his unsportsmanlike conduct but all is not lost, I will fight in the second leg.” 