Two people suffered gunshot wounds and 15 others were beaten during a clash between police and youths on Tuesday morning in Lamu town. At least 30 youth were also arrested. Police officers patrolling the town are said to have tried arresting the youths who had risen at 4am to prepare for work. The youth are said, however, to have resisted arrest, arguing that they had done nothing wrong. A confrontation ensued in front of the Lamu House hotel. The officers are said to have fired at least six shots into the air to disperse the enraged youth. County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri and Police commander Muchangi Kioi did not pick calls or reply to texts seeking comment on the violence. Musa Shukri, a boat operator who was among the youth, said trouble began when the officers began beating them even after they explained that they were just readying their boats for the day. The 30 were rounded up and taken to the station, prompting the protests for their release. There have been increased concerns over police brutality in the region. Subsequently, the officers are said to have stormed houses, beating up women and children as they searched for the rest of the youth. Lamu residents then stormed the Lamu Police station to demand the immediate and unconditional release of the 30 youth. Residents have complained of increased harassment especially when the officers patrol at night. Speaking when he led protesters outside the Lamu Police station on Tuesday afternoon, Mkomani ward MCA Yahya Shee urged the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to intervene. He police brutality against unarmed and innocent civilians must be investigated. Protesters accused the town OCS of directing his officers to mistreat people. “We want the IG to come to Lamu and look into this issue before it gets worse. We won’t have people harass us day in, day out as if we are foreigners. What happened today could have gotten people killed. We want the OCS removed and those arrested released because they committed no offence,” Shee said. The protesters asked for the transfer of all police bosses who had stayed a long time in the region, saying they were too comfortable and inefficient. Francis Auma, a human rights activist with Muslims for Human Rights (Muhur,), accused police of using unnecessary and excessive force and demanded justice for those injured by police. Auma also said Muhuri will sue the Lamu police for the latest violence and many other cases.