Girls raised in the village have their first sexual encounter by Form 2, a study supported by the Ministry of Health has shown. By comparison, those brought up in cities complete high school before their first sex. The study places the age of first sex in the village at 16.7 years when those in school are in Form 2 or Form 3. Majority do not use contraceptives until 22 years of age. Thus, village girls start giving birth early and also get married at 20 years on average, according to the study. Those in towns, often thought to be more hedonistic, break their virginity late at 18.4 years on average and begin using contraceptives at 21.9 years. Read: [VIDEO] Teenage pregnancy in Mombasa on the rise, experts warn The study was conducted by the Performance Monitoring and Accountability 2020 (PMA2020), an independent project that has been tracking tends in contraceptive use and family planning in Kenya since 2014. The programme is supported by MoH, Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, several non-governmental organisations and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The results were released at the just-ended second International Conference on Maternal, New-born and Child Health in Nairobi. “The gap between first sex and first contraceptive use among rural women is six years and 3.5 years for urban women,” said Prof Peter Gichangi, the principal investigator for PMA2020 in Kenya. Researchers sampled 151 enumeration areas drawn by the KNBS and interviewed 5,876 females between November and December 2017. The study calls for effective strategies to increase access to contraceptive services and information among girls aged 15 to 24 years. It shows that only 35 per cent of girls aged 15-24 years are beneficiaries of contraceptives in public health facilities. Although public health facilities are required to offer such services to adolescents, they are often denied the services on account of age. Also see: Teenage pregnancy hampers girls' education in Kajiado county “Unmarried users are less likely to have received counseling on contraceptive methods and side effects than married users,” the study says. Last year, the government increased the contraceptive budget to Sh700 million. But according to Josephine Kibaru-Mbae, head of the National Council for Population and Development, Kenya needs Sh2.3 billion to budget for contraceptives for all women in the country. Contraceptives are also not included in the National Hospital Insurance Fund cover. Click here for the latest political news    