An activist is seeking suspension of interviews of candidates shortlisted for appointment as members of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. In a petition filed yesterday at the Milimani law courts, Okiya Omtatah wants orders stopping the interviews until the case he has filed is heard and determined. The interviews are scheduled to start at 9am next week on Monday and end at 4:30 pm on Wednesday November 14. Omtatah says the interviews to be conducted by National Assembly are unconstitutional. He said the interviews should instead be done by the Public Service Commission and the Executive. “To the extent that the Legislature is recruiting persons for appointment as commissioners of the NCIC, a function which pursuant to Articles 1( 3 )(B)  and 234 of  the Constitution falls squarely under the Executive and the Public Service Commission, the principle of the separation of powers is violated,” states the petition. Read: Kaparo blames politicians for NCIC's failures, says Kenyans still divided It is alleged that the vacancies at the NCIC were announced through an advertisement placed by the National Assembly on October 5. Qualified and interested parties were asked to apply for consideration to the Clerk of the National Assembly by close of business on October 26. Omtatah says that the role of Parliament is limited to vetting candidates for the PSC or the Executive. The NCIC is not a constitutional commission and thus falls under the PSC, he argues. He also states that the decision by the National Assembly to usurp the powers of the PSC, by recruiting persons for appointment as commissioners of the NCIC, violates Article 234( 2 ) of the Constitution on the functions and powers of the commission. identity politics The process to replace the chairperson and commissioners of NCIC by Parliament has already began after the term of the current office led by Francis Ole Kaparo expired. In his farewell in August, Kaparo complained that politicians “hugely undermined” his efforts and those of his team to eliminate negative ethnicity. “It gives me a headache that we have not achieved much to bring Kenyans together - the main mandate of the commission. This is because of political interference. But even as I quit the position, I will dedicate my life to uniting Kenyans,” Kaparo said. He noted that unity is a matter of urgency. The outgoing chairman went on to say that politicians use Kenyans’ diverse cultures, “real or imagined”, to achieve their political dreams. “Politicians see divisions among our people as opportunities [to apply] their expedient strategies,” he said. He also faulted Kenyans who embrace identity politics, dividing themselves along ethnic lines and  viewing other groups as adversaries. “Kenyans like adversarial approaches hence they exploit available faults for factions and warring,” Kaparo said. He warned that efforts to develop the country will be in vain if this trend persists. “All we are doing will be in vain if we do not eradicate tribalism.” See also: Uhuru appoints selection panels for four commissions Click here for the latest political news