A Kisauni tout was admitted to hospital with a bullet lodged in his neck after he was reportedly shot by police. Ali Athman, 28, also sustained injuries on the chest and was rushed to Sayyida Fatimah Hospital in Kisauni. The incident occurred five days after Inspector General Joseph Boinnet ordered a crackdown on juvenile gangs. Athman's family said: "There was an operation. Youths were beaten. Athman was hit after police pursued the fleeing youths." His wife Marian Musa said that at least 10 cops, some in civilian, visited the family twice at the hospital. "Police said it was a stray bullet and that they had not intended to shoot my husband," Musa, who is demanding justice for her husband, said. Athman has been at home following the crackdown on matatus since he is yet to get his PSV licence. Two months ago, a Changamwe tout Caleb Espino died under similar circumstances, sparking concerns of no end to extrajudicial killings. On Sunday, Boinnet said Kisauni has serious security challenges that police officers were to deal with "according to the law". Read: Uniformed gang terrorises Kisauni with panga attacks However, Muslims for Human Rights (MUHURI) said the shooting was in reaction to Boinnet's statement. "The utterance from IG will worsen things. We ask the police to restrain from using live ammunition and excessive force. If they don't comply, MUHURI will take legal action," chairman Khelef Khalifa said. "The public is fearful of giving information to the police because of mistrust. They can instead inform us and we will pass it to the authority." Khalifa said police must end reckless shooting. When the Star visited the hospital at 5am, two cops were on guard. They had arrived at about 1:30am with other eight colleagues. They questioned Athman and took his details. "One of the cops who visited the hospital was involved in the shooting," the family said adding that their kin is not a criminal. Mombasa county commander Johnston Ipara said he will comment later. Click here for the latest political news