The last two
weeks has seen Kenyans suffer the indignity of trekking to town because of lack
of adequate transport services. The shortage of
regular transport was occasioned by the crackdown on unroadworthy matatus. Lost
to observers is the ignominious treatment Kenyans had been subjected to in the
hands of uncouth public service vehicle crew for years. Kenyans have come to
accept the unruly matatu culture. They scramble every morning and evening for
space in the rickety vehicle structures as the rush periods set in. They then
grumble as they persevere the torture of this service to their respective
destinations. Routes are irregular and prices are subject to variation at the
whims of the conductor. As a passenger, one can only ascertain the fare upon
payment, which are never receipted. Since early
1970s, there has been a raft of laws and institutions established to regulate
the public transport sector. However and curiously, the matatu industry has
always defied these measures. The barons have succeeded in setting up
themselves as the alpha lords of impunity by operating as per their rules. They
only know these rules yet they apply them on hapless wananchi with the
ruthlessness of Mafiosi creed. Once in a while in the course of our history,
the government makes efforts to rein in on the runaway public service industry.
These efforts at best are weak, meek and halfhearted, almost aimed at revenue
collection and removal of errant boys. When the statute
rules are applied with determination and the environment becomes hostile, the
operators respond in equal measure by punishing commuters. They arbitrarily and
exponentially increase fares and rough up passengers while at termini and in
the vehicles. Sometimes, as was on Monday last week, they unilaterally withdraw
their services. The matatu
sector started as nascent resistance to the racial transport system established
by the colonial government in mid 1930s. Africans, returning from the World War
II, joined the fray out of lack of formal employment. They also had the benefit
military organisation skills and knowledge of human weaknesses of the White man.
The public vehicle transport in Nairobi was organised in the model of the
London metropolis bus service. It was a monopoly and brought in with it the
discipline not associated with the chaotic life environment of the African
settlement areas of Eastlands. It, therefore, appeared alien in stature and
elitist in operations. What worsened
the situation was the philosophy behind the establishment of the Kenya
Railways. The railway system would have offered a better and cheaper mode of
transport to the local Africans but was incapable. It had been conceived
primarily as a goods transport network for the extractive colonial business
enterprise. Kenya Railways, therefore, offered limited passenger services,
almost restricted to the settler farmers. Remember early in 1921, Harry Thuku
and his protesters had been brutally dispersed as the seeds of resistance to
colonial were planted. Lord Delamere and his drinking buddies shot
demonstrating Africans from the terrace of the Norfolk as the train waited for him.
He had joined his settler colleagues for an evening sundowner on his way back home
in Soysambu farm. There was therefore resentment for the train service by the
Africans. After
independence, the Kenya Railways led by Dr EN Gakuo, father of First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, continued the colonial legacy of segregation and elitism. They
refused to see the economic sense of providing the services to high population
density areas of Eastlands. These acts of
omission by the government granted the matatu players the all-important carte
blanche to thrive. The industry bridged a critical gap in public transport
because there was demand and space. The public transport system was staring at
chaos in the face. The bus operators petitioned President Jomo Kenyatta in 1973
to intervene and abolish the matatu industry, which was crippling their hard
earned investments. The President listened but the response appeared to support
the emerging informal transport system. 
The national passenger transport service was literally thrown under the
bus as it were. With the apparent
presidential backing, the matatu operators became even bolder and cruder. It
now attracted investors from within the government institutions. Junior
government officials and political apparatchiks found the industry attractive
for their modest investment. They could not access big capital to invest in
organised transport. Also in this league were criminal gangs who needed to find
opportunities for sanitising their ill-gotten wealth. The industry provided the
early avenues for money laundering in the country. The unholy trinity of
renegade political players with gangland criminals in cahoots with corrupt
government operatives established the mafia style operations of the matatu
industry. The renegade
political players were the capitalists in the setup. They were the offspring
and remnants of Mau Mau movement, who felt left or cheated out of the Independence
boogie train. The gangs sprung from the emerging unemployed urban youth,
patronised by the criminally minded World War II veterans. They provided the
necessary security needed for such underworld operations. The corrupt
government mandarins, most of whom were in the security sector, provided
protection from the justice system. This relationship has blossomed over the
years in leaps and bounds. The political players who were previously outliers
and underdogs have since worked their way up the ladder and now sit in the
inner sanctums of power. The alliance between the gangs and corrupt government
officials has overtime become tighter that they exchange weapons and compare
notes. The political
leadership, therefore, must reevaluate its strategies in addressing the matatu
menace. Current efforts appear to target the legal framework to eliminate
lawlessness within the sector. However, the matatu crisis is a national public
transport challenge. The solution lies not only in the statutes but more in the
national philosophy and values of development. The matatu
industry operates as mafia, not because of inadequate legal regime but more
because of historical orientation. This historical heritage as illustrated
above is buttressed by the existing economic system and political culture. The
corruption networks have created an exploitative, predatory and savage economic
structure as well as tribal political bulwarks. Any programme aimed at
addressing the matatu madness must target to dismantle the entrenched networks
of corruption and bring down the tribal bigotry. As a Mafiosi, it
has established systems that reinforce each other. The political barons climb
up the ladder and recruit new and young cadres. They now occupy all strata of
national political leadership. They have brought with them the matatu culture
and etiquette into the social and leadership fabric. They throw their weight
around and peddle their influence with impunity. Their comrades in arms within
the bureaucracy have risen through ranks and continue to recruit pliant junior
officers. They sit in influential decision-making organs of government and
share critical policy information. Those who retire join the administrative and
operation agency of the system. They combine forces and work closely with the
violent criminal gangs to enforce compliance. Due to their
accumulated capital, huge revenue outlay and high cash flow, the matatu
industry has a controlling stake in the financial sector. It is, therefore, not
easy to cripple its operations with knee-jerk approaches. It cannot be reformed
because it was conceived to operate as it is. The government can only introduce
decency in the public passenger transport system by investing heavily but
strategically in its infrastructure. Roads must be decongested by modernising
and increasing the rail network and train service. This will allow
for decent world-class public bus passenger service to operate. Morocco has
done it and set the pace for Africa. Kenyans should have the courage to invest
in the best for their own sake and benefit. These measures would require bold,
pragmatic and visionary decisions to be taken at the highest levels of
government. The recent much publicised withdrawal of some matatu operators from
their many associations of welfare and ownership outfits is public relations
gimmick. It should be seen as a strategic retreat to reorganise and the
government should not be deluded that it is a demonstration of surrender. Is
the leadership willing to bite the bullet and rid itself of the matatu cartel
with its leadership culture?  Kanyadudi, Political and Public Policy Analyst