Debutants Kariobangi Sharks defied their inexperience to kick off their Caf Confederations Cup campaign with a convincing 6-1 win over a disoriented Arta Solar 7 from Djibouti yesterday at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The absence of skipper Erick Juma, Erick Kapaito and midfielder Sven Yidah counted for nothing as the rampant Sharks ran riot to announce their arrival on the continental stage in style in their first appearance. Duke Abuya put Sharks ahead barely two minutes into the game after burying a long pass from Patillah Omoto. Sydney Simale made it two in the seventh minute after weaving past two defenders and the shot stopper past Abdillahi Idriss to slot the ball past an empty net. Nixon Omondi opened his account with Sharks as he rose high to nod in James Mazembe’s corner in the 13th minute to extend the rout past the hapless opponents. Omondi, who was signed from National Super League outfit Kenya Police and came in as Bolton Omwenga’s replacement, seemed comfortable and overlapped at will and superbly combined with Mazembe giving their marker Mohammed Arab an afternoon to forget. Tom Teka was the first player to be cautioned in the clash after the former Nzoia Sugar rookie fouled Arta’s Konenan Konen in the 21st minute of the game. Arta grew in confidence and managed to seal the leaking defence until the 38th minute when Mazembe flew in a corner kick which was headed home by Kenyan international Omoto to give Sharks their fourth goal. With two minutes to the breather, Konen was scythed down in the box by Teka, prompting the referee to award a spot kick which the former converted. Enjoying a comfortable 4-1 lead, coach William Muluya rested Mazembe for Vincent Wasambo while Henry Juma was summoned for Simale. After missing several clear cut chances, Ugandan forward George Abege gave Sharks the fifth goal in the 68th minute after tapping in Abuya’s cross. Nine minutes later, Abege made way for the combative Fidel Origa as Muluya sought to hold on the big win. Substitute Origa helped himself to the score sheet, pouncing on a rebound to plunder the ball home in the additional minutes of the game.