Dairy farmers in Kisii have started reaping the benefits of a successful launch of a subsidy programme aimed at improving the breed of their cows. The county government has been offering artificial insemination services to the farmers in a bid to boost milk production through high quality breeds. A report prepared by the county’s Agriculture department shows the programme has been well received by farmers. The farmers however want the programme further subsidised to make it more affordable. “So far, we have served over 80,000 dairy cattle courtesy of the Kisii Artificial Insemination Programme,” Agriculture executive Esman Onsarigo said. Onsarigo said they expect to feel the real impact of the program after the first calves mature. Kisii has 172,977 herds of dairy cattle with an annual milk production of 222,498,274 litres. The milk is valued at Sh10.84 billion. This makes the county one of the dominant players in Kenya’s livestock sector. Governor James Ongwae said the farmers can benefit more if they fully adopt the artificial insemination programme. “Before we introduced the services which go for Sh500, farmers paid between Sh2,500 and Sh3,000 for artificial insemination services for each cow,” Ongwae said. The governor said the programme targets all farmers, especially those with low income. “My administration is committed to improving dairy breeds. I urge farmers to shun the practice of relying on bulls for breading because it spreads diseases and result in low milk production due to inbreeding inhibitions,” Ongwae said. The artificial insemination services are accessed through technicians stationed in each of the 45 wards. They are available on a 24-hour basis. Richard Okenagwa, a technician attached to Birongo ward, says he serves an average of 200 cows in a month. Tom Babu of Nyanko village in Nyaribari Chache constituency said he has used the county service and gotten four calves out of it. Peter Nyamwamu of Migosi village said he adopted artificial insemination before devolution. He said the county subsidy has helped his farming. “The huge cost is what pushed most farmers into natural insemination using bulls,” Nyamwamu said. 