British oil company Tullow Oil in August resumed its oil and gas development activities in Turkana county after weeks of standoff with the local community. The firm had for about a month not been able to undertake any operations at its Lokichar base following protests by residents demanding for among other things increased security in the area. The firm suffered losses running into millions. Oil is a principal agent of political problems and as of now, Kenya doesn’t have institutions  directly mandated to deal with such issues and if there are, they are weak to provide solutions, as we saw in the this case. Going further, there will be more emerging issues, some of which will involve multinationals dealing with this business. So, if it took almost a month to reach a deal with the community — negotiated by the Petroleum ministry — what will prevent collusion with other large oil companies, corruption and political under deals when Kenya goes commercial? Considering Kenya so far imports all its fuel, almost 80,000 barrels of oil a day at a daily cost of more than $8 million and relies on exports such as coffee and tea to support the balance of trade in a $37 billion economy, there is no doubt commercialisation of oil will be a game changer in how Kenya conducts is trade diplomacy. And given these wells are in Northern Kenya, where there is insecurity, it calls for political willingness, policy and administration capability to deal with the conflicts to first protect the wells, and for investors to have confidence in this process. Drilling itself will continue being done by multinationals from Europe. Exploration companies have also been pushing for a revision of the terms to give them a bigger share of income generated from their operations based on the argument that tapping gas reserves cost more than developing oil wells. Kenya like before will have to seek assistance from the developed states such as China in infrastructure development, which has to have a linked pipeline network in the region. There will also be continued regional bilateral and multilateral relations in development of infrastructure for cost-sharing purposes. Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni and his Kenyan and Rwandan counterparts, Uhuru Kenyatta and Paul Kagame, in June 2013 discussed plans for regional fuel and crude pipelines. Discovery of oil may either be a blessing or a curse to Kenya, but this depends on how this process is handled. In line with Kenya’s economic diplomacy, we have no option to but to promote fair trade, especially equitable bilateral, regional and multilateral trade agreements so that Kenya can derive maximum benefit from this oil. Kenya also needs to strengthen regional economic  blocs to serve as competitive spring boards to emerging and global markets, especially countries that are already exporting oil such as South Sudan.   Kibii comments on foreign and current affairs