Parents with children in secondary schools got a reprieve after the government issued a circular stopping schools from charging them for co-curricular activities. Education ministry sent new guidelines on management of co-curricular activities to schools on November 5, directing schools to budget for the activities based on the allocation they get from the government instead of charging parents. The funds are meant to facilitate travel, accommodation and subsistence of all students participating in activities. They also cater for facilitation of judges, referees, adjudicators and other officials involved in the activities. The ministry has directed the formation of co-curricular activities management committees at the sub county, county and regional levels to ensure there is accountability and transparency in management of the activities. The committees will have representatives from Kenya Primary schools heads association (Kepsha), Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association (Kessha), the education director at every level and Quality Assurance and standards officer. Teachers Service Commission county director, Kenya private schools association and special needs education will also be represented. The guidelines sent by Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang reiterated that parents should not be compelled to raise money for co-curricular activities at any level. He also ordered all levels to facilitate their own activities without asking for support from the lower levels. The Principal Secretary noted that co-curricular activities play a vital role in learners’ education progress and expressed the need for prudent utilization of the funds. “The new competency based curriculum has considered talent development as an important component that will enable learners to realise holistic education by developing skills, values and knowledge that will help them to become productive members of the society,” he said. The co-curricular activities funded by the government include primary, secondary and special needs schools games, sports, music and drama festivals, and science and engineering fairs. Murang’a county has 100,380 secondary school students with the government issuing Sh150 for each annually to run the activities at the subcounty level and Sh 100 for the county level and Sh50 for the regional activities. Early this year, when the government delayed the disbursements, schools at the subcounty level agreed to charge students to run the activities.     