Migori governor Okoth Obado cuts the figure of a humble man in public, but behind this demeanor is a man whose tenacity in getting what he wants is legendary. On Monday the governor arrived at his office for the first time after 34 days in police custody. He is charged with murdering his lover, former Rongo University student Sharon Otieno, and their unborn child. He denies wrongdoing. After addressing his staff, Obado called an executive committee meeting and read the riot act on improving services or getting sacked. His ferocity sent shock waves through his staff, already jittery about sackings and demotions. His supporters too were taken aback. Despite the murder charges and recent corruption allegations, the governor is talking tough and appears determined to leave a solid legacy in his second term and improve his image. Obado, a little-known teacher, quit as principal of Chung’e Secondary School in his Uriri constituency in 2007 to vie for MP. He dropped out after shambolic ODM primaries. He supported former Uriri MP Cyprian Ojwang’ who won the ticket. Then Obado entered sugarcane farmers’ union politics, focussing on the grassroots and demanding rights from the South Nyanza Sugar Company, the government-owned miller. He became chairman of the Kenya Sugar Board and helped establish private millers Sukari Industries in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay, and Trans Mara Sugar in Narok county. “You can never go wrong when you directly engage people to gain their support and start creating voices from the grassroots. No matter the obstacle, your aspirations are safe when you listen to those who represent you," Obado once told his writer. After his tenure at Kenya Sugar Board ended, the soft-spoken Obado entered county politics to become Migori's first governor. His grassroots campaigning led him to victory over ODM's Edward Oyugi and his deputy Anne Anyanga. In 2017 Obado won reelection against former Cabinet minister Ochillo Ayacko in campaigns marred by violence, deaths and claims of voter intimidation which ended at the Kisumu Court of Appeal. In July ODM leader Raila Odinga tried to make peace and encourage the two to shake hands in public. Obado refused, reinforcing his image as an unforgiving politician. He later refused to support Ayacko when he was handed the ODM senator ticket to replace Ben Oluoch, who died. Obado first chose to support former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, Ayacko's political nemesis, who dropped in favour of a Salaries and Remuneration Commission post. He later propped up Federal Party of Kenya candidate Eddy Oketch. Though he was behind bars, Obado's supporters voted against Ayacko and ODM. Then corruption claims emerged, involving Obado, his immediate family, associates and county staff. The EACC is probing a loss in excess of Sh2.5billion. Investigators are looking into his three-storey palatial home, nicknamed Rapogi Mall. Bank accounts linked to Obado's wife Hellen and two daughters are among those being investigated. His close business associates are also in the list. 1962: Born in North Kanyamkago ward, Uriri subcounty 1977: Finished Rapogi Mixed Primary School 1981: St Joseph’s Rapogi High School 1982: St Paul’s Amukura for A levels 1988: Bachelor of Education (Science), Kenyatta University 1991: Teacher at Tarang’anya High School, Kuria East subcounty 1998: Senior Manpower Development officer, Ministry of Labour and Manpower Development 2005: Certified Public Accountant 2005: Masters in Business Administration, University of Nairobi 2007: Principal Chunge Mixed Secondary School 2007: Vied for Uriri MP, left after chaotic ODM primaries 2013: Chairman/Director Kenya Sugar Board 2013: Elected Migori Governor on People's Democratic Party ticket after being locked out of ODM primaries 2016: Chairman Agriculture Committee CoG September 2018: Charged with murdering Sharon Otieno