An estimated 1.35 million or 90 per cent of property owners in Nairobi do not pay land rates leading to a massive loss of revenue for the government, according to President Uhuru Kenyatta This even as Kenya achieved a 71.67 per cent rate, placing it at position 92 out of 190 economies globally on the ease of paying taxes in the Doing Business Report 2020. The rating was on tax payments, time, total tax rate and post filing index where Kenya trailed Mauritius, Rwanda, Botswana and Namibia. “Only 150,000 out of the 1.5 million plus property owners in Nairobi are rate payers, a bulk of them do not pay the levies, it is not right to have the bulk of paying taxes carried by a few,” said Uhuru during an Ease of Doing Business stakeholders meeting at State House Nairobi yesterday. He instructed county governments to digitise land registry records to nab rate defaulters. Government will carry out a fresh mass registration before year end using the proposed National Integrated Identity Management System that will be the single source of personal information of all Kenyans and registered foreigners. Under the system, additional information such as land reference number, plot or house number of your location will be required for anyone for documents such as identity cards. Speaking on Wednesday at the Taxpayer’s Day, the President directed the KRA to leverage on its digitised system to detect tax leakages and reign in defaulters. He further challenged KRA to use digital maps to identify parcels of lands and the nature of developments therein to smoke out tax evaders. “The law must reflect the seriousness of tax collection and the consequences of default, there should be no room for tax evaders to thrive in Kenya, criminal cartels ought to be easily detected and contained in the shortest time possible,” said the President. According to Ease of Doing Business Report 2019, it takes up to 61 days to successfully register land in Nairobi compared to an average 59 days in sub-Saharan Africa. This is 39 days more than New Zealand, the best globally. In terms of cost, the process which has nine procedures will cost Sh438,801 for a property valued at Sh7.31 million, inclusive of lawyers’ fees. The fee is calculated based on a fixed scale published under the Advocates (Remuneration) Order depending on the value of the property.