Diamond Platnumz' famous producer Lizer Classic says he had a lot of pressure the first time he worked with the Bongo superstar. "The first song I produced for Diamond was Salome, but there was a lot of pressure," Lizer told Word Is.  Diamond and Lizer met in Burundi, where he was working back in the day, and the star liked his work.  When setting up his own studio, (Wasafi Classic Beiby), Diamond entitled him (Producer Lizer) with his studio, and since then, he has never disappointed Platnumz' fans.  "Diamond did not know I was from Tanzania at first because we met in Burundi, but after interacting, I told him I was from Tanzania. He loved the way I did a production then," Lizer said. "Then, he wanted to open a studio, and that is how he requested me to work for him. I was ready to work with him. I was a hustler for one year, although I had gotten two awards." Branded the Magic Fingers, Lizer Classic has been in the production room for more than 11 years. His career as a producer started in Tanzania, before crossing over to Burundi for greener pastures. "I started off as a rapper but later I decided to change to become a producer instead. I realised I loved production even more than I loved singing, although I was doing well in music. But in my village, I was not so famous," he said. "Someone advised me to try Burundi, and good luck, it was not hard for me to cross there. The only challenge I had was with my family, because they did not want me to do music. His advice to other producers is to keep checking on what is trending and relate to it in the kind of music you are doing. "To be a good producer, you have to check on what is trending at a particular time, so you can also know what to produce. Jitume kwa kile unachokitaka. Don't give up in all you want to do," he said. "For me, I work every day and I don't have an off day. I am always thinking of what I will do every day." Lizer will be among the artistes featured in Coke Studio Africa 2019, for a new learning experience and chance to share his skills with the world. Others include Naiboi, Khaligraph Jones and Rayvanny. "Expect great things because this is my first time in Kenya, and I am promising to work with Kenyans even after this season is over," Lizer said.  