The recent wave of violence and persistent noise that has rocked county assemblies must come to an end, ODM Leader Raila Odinga has said. Raila was reacting to the latest infighting within assemblies that have resulted in impeachment motions. "There is something going on in the counties that are so annoying. You hear that governors have been impeached, maces stolen. people are fighting everywhere," he said. "This is a bad sign for the country. Why cause such fracas? It is all about the money. Serve Kenyans instead and stop the fracas." Speaking during the funeral service of Peter Musyoka, father to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in Tseikuru, Kitui county, Raila said the government should tame how money is spent in the counties and cut on the budgets. See more: Paralysis at Garissa assembly amid staff row with speaker Raila thanked Ukambani residents for always voting for the Opposition wholeheartedly. "Nataka kutoa shukrani sana kwa watu wa Kitui na Ukambani kwa jumla maanake wanatupigia kura kwa fujo sana…hawa ni watu wa TIBIM," he said. .....I want to thanks the Kamba people for supporting the opposition. These are Tibin people. Raila said that the March 9 handshake is bearing fruits adding that it has brought unity in the country. "Let us stand together so that we eradicate ethnicity, corruption, insecurity among other things," he said. Raila eulogised the late Musyoka saying we ought to celebrate him for living for 94 years. "We have come to celebrate Peter Musyoka. We are celebrating a strong metal that is used to protect rust. To the family of Kalonzo, may peace be with you during this hard times," he said. On Thursday, leadership wrangles rocked Nyandarua county assembly after MCAs allied to governor Francis Kimemia blocked speaker Wahome Ndegwa from accessing the chambers. They then went ahead to swear in Kaimbaga MCA Gabriel Gathure in an acting capacity. Gathure (independent candidate) was sworn in by Mirangine MCA Mathu Wainaina (Jubilee) on Tuesday. Operations at the Garissa county assembly were also paralysed on Thursday following protests by members staff citing Speaker Ibrahim Abbas high-handedness. The incident comes in the wake of a plan by the MCAs to impeach the speaker on similar grounds. This happened amid a push and shove as assembly orderlies struggled, in vain, to remove from the House an old mace which was sneaked in by Shamata MCA Reuben Gitau. Read: Nyandarua MCAs swear in new speaker during assembly drama Last month, confusion persisted in Homa Bay as some MCAs held a session without the mace which was alleged to have been stolen. The mace, which is the symbol of authority in the county assembly, had been kept in Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo's office. Read: Homa Bay mace stolen from Speaker's office More on this: You’re biased! You’re biased! Furious Homa Bay MCAs rough up Speaker Click here for the latest political news