Complaints of bribery at City Hall have dropped significantly in the last year since Mike Sonko became governor, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission says. Ethics and leadership assistant director Erick Munyao said the agency recorded ‘few corruption’ complaints from the public regarding City Hall in the last 12 months compared to previous years. Munyao did not state the exact number of corruption cases involving county officers that the commission recorded over the period. He attributed the reduction of the complaints to stringent measures and constant exposures of corrupt officers by top county officials. Exposure of suspected corrupt officials has scared county officers, he said. “County leadership has shown commitment to eliminate corruption and this has helped reduce some corruption and unethical issues,” Munyao said. Governor Sonko has ‘exposed’ corrupt officers, suspended and sacked more than 300 county officers over corruption allegations since he took over from Evans Kidero in August last year. He has also ‘exposed’ business people attempting to bribe him to get approval for their projects. In August, EACC detectives arrested and charged businessman Prafur Kumar for allegedly attempting to bribe the governor with Sh1 million to approve the construction of his hotel. County officers had stopped Kumar from constructing the hotel situated in Gigiri near the United Nations. In April, Sonko sent 30 county procurement staff on forced leave for allegedly inflating prices and issuing local purchase orders without necessary approval. Last year, Sonko nabbed five county officers with Sh7 million cash after he made an impromptu visit to the cash office. Munyao said that adoption of the integrity instruments including the leadership and integrity code by the county government and strengthening of the internal systems have bolstered the war against graft among the county workers. “The county has strengthened systems and enhanced checks over management of public affairs. It has also strengthened partnerships with key stakeholders including EACC and other agencies,” he said. Munyao spoke during a workshop in Mombasa last Friday. He, however, challenged the county government to establish an ethics and integrity department that will develop and enforce integrity and anti-corruption strategies at City Hall. “The county should develop a mechanism for holding heads of units responsible for corruption and unethical conduct in their units,” Munyao said. The EACC officer urged the county to partner with the commission to regularly undertake integrity testing for officers services in corruption prone departments. “The county needs to include corruption prevention as a term of employment in all employment contracts for staff. It should also undertake corruption risk assessment and implement mitigation measures,” he said.