Kenyan civil servants will be compelled to declare their wealth regularly in line with a proposed continental obligation to be ratified by all African countries. The proponents say the move is to enhance effectiveness in the public sector by ending the culture of public servants looting from taxpayers’ coffers. The proposal was made during the African Union ministerial conference in Nairobi on Tuesday. The ministers in charge of Public Service unanimously endorsed the recommendation by the AU sub-committee on Public Service and Administration. Public Service CS Margret Kobia, who doubles as chairperson of the AU sub-committee, presided over the conference. The wealth declaration proposal is contained in the African Charter on the Values and Principles of Public and Administration. Kobia and AU Commissioner for Political Affairs Minata Samate led the ministers in adopting the proposals. They called on African heads of states to support the recommendations. "Having one Charter on public service is good for effective service delivery in Africa. It will allow uniform service delivery for the Public Service as measured by citizens," Kobia said. She told the delegates that numerous provisions in the Charter, including representation of women and persons with disabilities, are in line with the Kenyan Constitution. Wealth declaration and lifestyle audit remain an emotive issue especially among top politicians holding powerful government positions. A declaration by President Uhuru Kenyatta in June for all public servants starting with him and DP William Ruto caused an uproar among some Jubilee politicians. The opponents considered the move as a political witch hunt. Samate expressed optimism that the adoption of the recommendations to improve the Public Service in Africa would contribute to the delivery of quality services. "There is also need to put in place an information framework for the Public Service to be accountable to citizens," the AU’s Commissioner for Political Affairs said. The ministers held that all countries ratifying and implementing the Charter fully will allow 'us to walk together as Africa' in the war against graft and effectively delivering services to citizens. Click here for the latest political news