Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru wants to market the county as a tourist destination. Last year, the county earned Sh300 million from tourism. It will focus on culture, sports, the hospitality industry, scenery and wildlife to improve its revenues. Most of the opportunities are unexploited. “Would you like to learn about the origin of Kikuyu, Meru, Kamba or Embu, as well as experience a taste of their roots or cultural background. If the answer is ‘yes,’then Thingira cultural village is the place to visit,” she said. It’s here that the first missionary got off Mt Kenya and named it ‘Mt Kinya’, crossing from Riakanau in Eastern province to Kirinyaga for trade.” Those attracted to culture will have the Mwomboko dancers handy for their entertainment. Kirinyaga is also home to many wild animals, including elephants. During the rainy season, the elephants mate in a famous hideout near a forest near the Castle Lodge. Waiguru said plans were now on for the construction of a five-star hotel around the Sh19 billion Thiba Dam. The county government has identified potential investors who are ready to undertake the project. “The whole idea is to boost growth in the tourism industry, which has remained dormant despite the enormous potential,” she said. She said that with more 15,000 climbers visiting Mount Kenya daily, especially the peaks of Lenana and Batian, the county will soon become the destination of choice in the Central region. The county has developed strategic paper, Mountain Rising Blueprint 2032, to guide the campaign. It will market a shorter and friendlier climbing route to the Mt Kenya through Kamweti. This will be to the advantage of visitors, Waiguru said on Wednesday. “The new route to the iconic Mt Kenya, through Castle Lodge, will shorten the traditional climbing routes via Naro Moru by more than 10km,” she said. She said one can climb to the peak of the snow-capped mountain through the Kamweti route from the Castle Lodge. The lodge has a historic background. It hosted King George and Queen Elizabeth II of England during the colonial era. The route passes through a dense bamboo forest facing swamps and moorland. It joins other routes at the Mackinder camp, allowing for the final climb to the Lenana point. “The Kamweti route offers two different packages depending on time, one five days and the other seven days,” the county boss said during a country music extravaganza at Sagana. She said many Kenyans are not aware of the serene features and wonderful sites in the county. She said the county has embarked on a vigorous campaign to make known some the sites the unique to Kirinyaga. “We have remarkable places like the Ndaraca ya Ngai [God’s Bridge], a drive away from the Nairobi-Embu highway. Amidst the scenic view of Mt Kenya is the natural bridge, which was used as a hideaway by more than 50 Mau Mau men and women during the colonial times,” Waiguru said. The British were unaware of the scene so it was a safe haven for the freedom fighters. Other attractions include the Mwea Classic Marathon, which uses a  ‘smell rice’ theme and plays host to Olympic stars. The race is held annually at Mwea Secondary School. Last year, it attracted 1,800 runners. It is also associated with the Kenya’s largest rice scheme that spreads along Thiba and Nyamindi rivers. Runners get to know the beautiful paddy carpets that define Mwea. The marathon provides link sports to education and economic empowerment. The famous mud huts are also good descriptions as they represent the origin of the Bantu culture. In 2015, Havila Resort was declared the Olympic Site for Africa canoeing and kayaking. Waiguru said they will equip it to make the sport more attractive. The site was used for the Rio De Janeiro Olympic Games qualifiers by the African team. Rafting is being considered as the third water sport there. “I urge Kenyans to visit this Olympic site and see what is on offer, especially those who love the wonders of nature,” Waiguru said.