Gor Mahia hope to give as much as they receive when they confront English Premier League side, Everton today at the Goodison Park in Liverpool, United Kingdom. Gor coach Dylan Kerr assured their fans and Kenyans at large that they are in UK to compete and nothing less. "We are not here to embarrass ourselves” said Kerr ahead of their match this afternoon. Speaking after guiding the 17-time champions in yesterday’s training session at the Finch Farm field, the tactician said he has encouraged the players to posses the balls and be calm in front of the goal. "Yes Our top striker Jacques Tuyisenge is not here at the moment and as much as it’s a worry, Francis Mustapha has been impressive in our training sessions and we should be good," he said. He added: "Definitely the expectations are high back home and we intend to give a good account of ourselves. We have the character and confidence and we will give Everton a good test and a good representation." Tuyisenge, the goal scorer for Gor in the 2-1 loss to Everton during their first encounter, was yet to arrive in Liverpool by the time of going to press. Gor captain Haroun Shakava said: “We have talked amongst ourselves and we are good to go. We have no pressure and we know exactly what we are here. We just want to keep ball possession and create chances. The weather is conducive and hope for the best.” The Kenyan side were scheduled to have a feel of the Goodison Park last evening ahead of the clash today scheduled for 10pm. Gor will join Everton for Everton for Community projects after the match. Everton goal scorer in the 3-1 win against Brighton over the weekend, Seamus Coleman assured they will give the tie the seriousness it deserves. Coleman, who has been sidelined for almost two years and was not part of the squad that won 2-1 against Gor in Tanzania, asked the Kenyans to use the occasion to showcase their talent. "There are many African players currently playing in the English Premier League and who knows, maybe one of the Kenyan players might get the nod from the many scouts who will grace the clash," said Coleman. He added: "We (Everton) are in perfect form right now and we will not take the friendly seriously." Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga arrived in Liverpool yesterday for today’s clash. Click here for the latest political news