Former journalist Moses Dola will spend 10 years in prison for killing his wife and former NTV reporter Wambui Kabiru seven years ago at their home in Umoja. Dola was found guilty of manslaughter after the court reduced his murder charge to a lesser offense, ruling that the prosecution did not prove he had malice in the death of his wife. Justice Roselyne Korir ruled yesterday that, even though Dola was remorseful and asked for a non-custodial sentence to take care of their son, jail is the proper palce for him. Judge Korir noted that Dola regretted what happened that day according to the pre-sentence report filed in court. In the report, the probation officers said Dola was remorseful and he is still tormented by the events that led to the death of his wife. The report, however, says that Kabiru’s family is still in pain and anguish and has not come to terms with her death. The family said they are raising the nine-year-old boy who was left without a mother. They do not intend to give him to Dola as they described him as a violent drunkard who cannot take care of a child. Read: Court rules Dola guilty of manslaughter, not murder The family dismissed claims by Dola during his mitigation that they had forgiven him and faulted his family for saying that they never bothered to pay them a visit and initiate talks. According to the officers who interviewed the parties, both Kabiru and Dola lost their jobs at the same time, which made life unbearable for them. They relied on handouts from relatives and friends which were not forthcoming at times. “Their social status had gone down, they had lived as celebrities only for them to go under. This worsened their situation, a life that was not easily accepted by both of them. Their relationship became difficult,” the pre-sentence reads in part. The report said Dola was a humble and reliable person. His family said they were willing to help him integrate back into society. Also Read: Moses Dola sentencing pushed to November 6 Click here for the latest political news