At a dusty village in Meru county, a group of women gather around a solar-powered borehole. It is yet to be completed, but the glittering faces tell you they are very optimistic, even before Governor Kiraitu Murungi arrives to commission the borehole. The semi-arid Ngaremara village in Tigania East constituency is prone to banditry. The Meru government aims to drill 100 boreholes each year for five years. The Turkana community are the majority among residents. To access the area, one has to pass Isiolo town from Meru and, due to the isolation, most residents vote in Isiolo, although they are in Meru county. "During election time I did not campaign here. I thought Ngaremara was in Isiolo county, but I later realised it was in Meru and decided to do development goodies," Kiraitu said when he commissioned the borehole. Residents could not believe as water flowed from a solar-powered borehole. They cheered and came to quench their thirst. The livestock were not left out. Women even cheered as they washed their faces and drunk the water. On his arrival, the county boss was welcomed like a hero and dressed in traditional regalia. Esther Lomula from Epidim said they came to witness the historic moment. She said they had to trek for several kilometres for hours to get water at Lagani area. "We could get water-borne diseases and some have even succumbed, but things will now change," she said. Veronica Nasuru said they have been having problems with water for domestic use and for their livestock. "We have seen our livestock being stolen because we had to take our animals several kilometres to get water and pasture. But we will not engage is such conflicts as we now have water, a vital commodity to us," she said. Fransisca Nasieko said they will now venture into farming using the water. Kiraitu said they should use water prudently to transform the area to have food security and avoid reliance on relief food. "We will also address the problem of insecurity," he promised. He said Ngaremara is a special ward and will receive Sh10 million extra in the ward development fund, where each ward receives Sh20 million. Deputy Governor Titus Ntochiu, who was also present, said residents should use water well. BENCHMARK TERRITORY Earlier in September, Kakamega officials, led by Water executive Barasa Wangwe, visited Meru to benchmark on devolution success in the water sector. "Water plays a lot in the devolution scorecard. That is why we came to benchmark how Meru has developed a masterplan it is implementing," he said. He said despite having better drainage than Meru, Kakamega has low water coverage, far below the global desire of 60 and above percentage. He said Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya aims to have at least 85 per cent by the time he leaves office in 2022. His Meru counterpart Mishek Mutuma said they are drilling solar powered boreholes. “After sinking boreholes, we hand them to community to manage. We want to empower our community to own the project so they cater for maintenance themselves,” he said. Mutuma said they had pilot studies before the start of the project in one of the areas where there is a borehole serving over 300 families. Villagers in places like Ngaremara, which solely depended on livestock, have started to change their perceptions and take up farming. Click here for the latest political news