Four KCSE candidates have been deregistered by the examination council and discontinued from sitting the exam on charges of cheating. Education CS Amina Mohamed said the candidates were caught with "foreign material and documentation" in examination rooms ahead of Mathematics Paper 2. Three cases were reported in Garissa while the other was reported in Nairobi. "We took away the materials before the exam. We have deregistered the affected students. They will not be allowed to continue with the exams because we actually feel that they committed an omission," Amina said. She spoke in Naivasha Town on Monday where she opened the examination container and conducted impromptu visits in selected schools. In a tweet, the CS confirmed that 40 teachers will also face disciplinary action over examination irregularities. She did not disclose the identity of the candidates or their schools but said details will be released later. "There may be a few more, we are still scrutinising some of the equipment that we have confiscated from the students and if we feel that additional students need to be deregistered, we will do that," she said. "We will also take action against centre managers who do not do what they are expected to," Amina added. This year's exams have been touted as "militarised", going by the number of police officers that have been deployed to man them. Strict measures have also been put in place to guard against leakage by ensuring papers are locked up in secured containers at a central collection point. Read: KCSE starts with new orders to curb cheating School heads accompanied by armed police officers pick up the papers simultaneously at 6am before being escorted back to their respective centres. Amina reminded the centre managers to ensure candidates are thoroughly frisked to ensure illegal elements are not sneaked into exam rooms. "It doesn't matter how many times a candidate leaves the exam room. Every time the candidate comes back he needs to be fully frisked," she said. TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said centre managers who will be found culpable of abetting exposure of exam papers will be dealt with. She said many private schools have been found vulnerable to cheating as most school heads hired quacks as invigilators. "Quacks in the sense that these people do not have TSC numbers and they (centre managers) are using them, for example, to photocopy papers and even enter school premises which is not allowed," Macharia said. The TSC boss spoke in Nairobi after opening the exam container in Kariokor. She said the commission will recommend to the ministry of education the deregistration and closure of private schools that will be found to have used unregistered teachers as invigilators. Macharia said a centre manager is under investigation for reportedly allowing an imposter to sit an exam on behalf of his relative. Also read: No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned Click here for the latest political news