An MCA from Elgeyo Marakwet has died in Nairobi after ailing for nearly two months. Lelan Ward MCA Vincent Tanui "Kimakmak" passed away at Nairobi Hospital where he was undergoing treatment. "It is with shock and regret to that I have learned about the death of Lelan Ward MCA. On behalf of the county government and the people of Elgeyo Marakwet we send our sincere message of condolence to his family and the people of Lelan," Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos said. He described the deceased as a dedicated public servant and a leader who served his people with diligence. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Speaker Kiplagat Sabulei also mourned the MCA. Murkomen said "Kimakmak" was a father figure who was a stabiliser in the county assembly. "May God, by His own grace, comfort the family at this time of grief and may He rest our dear friend in eternal peace," the Senate Majority leader said. Speaker Sabulei said the assembly will remember the MCA for his hard work, sincerity, and commitment to service. "We part with our beloved brother in pain. May the Lord provide his grace and solace to the family during this most trying moment," he said. Elgeyo residents including lawyer George Kimaiyo also paid tribute to "Kimakmak". "I have nostalgic memories of Hon Vincent Tanui when he hosted me for a cup of tea in Lelan during the campaigns," Kimaiyo said. He said the MCA was fondly known as "Kimakmak" - loosely translated as the expeditious discharge of assignments in Kalenjin. Marakwet West MP William Kisang said he was saddened by the news of the MCA's death. He said the county assembly had lost an asset. Last week, MCAs visited their former colleague in hospital. “He appeared to be healing. He told us to unite and serve residents," MCA Neddy Kiptoo said. County Secretary Paul Chemutuut said, " Oh no! What a world mheshimiwa. You were healing but as things have turned out, we shall have no choice but to accept that you are no more, though with heavy hearts." Click here for the latest political news 