The High Court has declared the entire Contempt of Court Act invalid for lack of public participation. Justice Chacha Mwita said it is the constitutional duty of Parliament to ensure public participation is adhered to and that the sittings should be open to the public. The Act, which was assented to in December 2016, seeks to safeguard the rule of law and ensure that court orders and directives are complied with. Contempt of court is categorised into either civil contempt or criminal contempt. Contempt of court is punishable by a fine of not more than Sh200,000 or a jail term of a period not exceeding six months. Justice Mwita, in his ruling, said the fines imposed by the Act have crippled the court’s power and that some provisions of the Act were inconsistent with the Constitution. Power to punish for contempt, he said, is inherent and not granted by a statute. The Kenya Human Rights Commission filed the case last year arguing that the Act limits powers of courts and shields public officers from harsh punishment. It was their argument that the Contempt of Court Act 2016 will allow public officers to openly disregard court directives, such as summons to appear in court. “The law imposes only Sh200,000 penalty, which is an insignificant amount and will not have the force of penal sanction in punishing contempt. The law also waters down courts’ powers and renders them helpless and hapless in the face of defiance of orders,” said KHRC. It was the commissions argument that the law was put in place without public consultation, despite the fact that the Constitution puts a premium on public input. The commission said the law provides a fertile breeding ground for corruption and the genesis of a lawless society, where public servants will abuse power with impunity as they can afford to pay the meager fine. The KHRC contended that the law watered down courts’ powers and rendered them helpless and hapless in the face of defiance of orders. The Judiciary has complained several times about disobedience of court orders by politicians. The commission said if left to stand, the law will set a bad precedent. “The Act takes this country back to the age, when public officers could openly compete with courts for power and defiance in total violation to the Constitution,” the suit paper by KHRC read. The agency said the law was put in place without public consultation, despite the fact that the Constitution puts a premium on public input. The law was assented to in December 2017. According to the commission, it is retrogressive to the extent that it promotes impunity and arbitrariness in public governance and among public officers. It said the law violates Article 10 of the Constitution, which makes good governance a national value. The KHRC wanted the law declared inconsistent with the Constitution and nullified.  