IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and former CEO Ezra Chiloba will this week appear before MPs to answer to queries raised by the Auditor General on the expenditure of billions of shillings. Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi yesterday told the Star his team will also invite the three commissioners who resigned in April. The MPs want to establish more about their disagreement at the time of procuring the 45,000 KIEMS kits worth Sh4.19 billion. The commission also spent Sh2.5 billion for the repeat presidential election in October last year. IEBC’s minutes of March 31, 2017 plenary meeting shows a sharp split among the commissioners over the procurement of the kits. Four members voted to have OT-Morpho awarded the tender. The commission had seven members. Chebukati voted alongside Consolata Nkatha, Roselyne Akombe and Margaret Mwachanya to approve the tender award. Commissioners Boya Molu, Paul Kurgat and Abdi Guliye opposed the deal that was being pushed by the secretariat according to records tabled before PAC. Kurgat’s team said the deal did not offer value for money. Chebukati is esxpected to appear before the committee today. Earlier this month, the IEBC boss was grilled for two days over questionable transactions queried by Auditor General Edward Ouko. Read: PAC quizzes election chiefs over faulty devices in poll Chiloba who was adversely mentioned will have the chance to defend himself before the oversight committee on Thursday and Friday. IEBC acting CEO Hussein Maryan accused Chiloba of, among other things, unilaterally recommending direct procurement of the KIEMS kits. “The evidence we have so far require that Chiloba make some clarifications even as we continue interrogating Chebukati,” Wandayi told Star on phone yesterday. Ouko said the commission cannot account for Sh9.2 billion paid for various contracts which were awarded in 10 months last year. An internal IEBC audit report had indicted Chiloba for paying Sh249.3 million for the supply, installation and support of the IEBC primary and secondary data centre equipment. The initial budget was Sh130 million, meaning the contract amount shot up by 92 per cent. Click here for the latest political stories