Title: I Used To Know Her: Part 2 - EP Artiste: H.E.R. Genre: R&B/Soul Release: November 2  The spectacular 21-year-old singer Gabriella Wilson, better known as H.E.R., uses alt-R&B and soul on yet another project that documents her ongoing quest to discover who she is as she continues to express what her experiences have been like. She's back with a new project "I Used To Know Her: Part 2" — her second this year and a follow-up of the prelude, which was released exactly three months earlier. It's not the first time she's done something like this, as she has in the past released two projects in quick succession, with 'H.E.R. Vol. 1 & 2'. Her first release this year was promoted as a prelude to her upcoming album, and now she's gifted us with yet another compilation of tracks that are more revealing. This can also be seen in the EP's cover art, which doesn't really change, but instead, we see the instant film she holds start to form an image. This is an intentional approach that leaves her fanbase getting to experience more of who she is as an artist. She's never been the kind to reveal her identity fully, but her audience seems to love her even more even in her modest form. The eight-track EP kicks off with one of the essential tracks, "Carried Away", where H.E.R. is seeking clarity on the actual status of a possible relationship before she gets to invest her effort into it. The opener is then followed by a sombre tune, "Can't Help Me", which addresses her complicated relationship. This is also expressed on the third track, "I'm not okay", which expresses that she's holding onto a relationship that is not really working. "Take You There" shows us a different side of the artiste, as she highlights how much she adores and has missed her lover after taking a break from one another. "Going" brings out H.E.R.'s brilliance with interludes, as she once again cuts short the interlude as the tune is picking pace. The EP closes out with "Lord is Coming", a brilliant track that captures the political situation as well as other societal issues, such as depression and drug abuse, which have become rife in the society. H.E.R. is defining her destiny, and in this process, she confirms that she's super talented — a quality that's rare to find. It's not easy to keep your fanbase entertained and thoughtful at the same time with every release. She's mastered the craft and builds on her takes on romance and the world's injustices. She's a talented soul who understands her strengths best and knows how to impact effortlessly. She does it with inimitable grace; it's simply amazing.  Star rating: 4 out of 5  