A visit to former President Daniel arap Moi’s Kabarak home is perhaps the most coveted among the political class. Despite being accused by allies of Deputy President William Ruto of exploiting his father’s old-age, Baringo senator Gideon Moi has not relented in his selective exposure of his father. He dishes out invites in small doses like medicine on strict prescription. Friday’s visit by former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka may have been enhanced by his appointment as special envoy to South Sudan, but it seems like it as a reciprocal to the condolences sent by the former President when Kalonzo lost his father two weeks ago. Whatever the circumstances, it was loaded with political symbolism. The former VP can count himself among a few politically-correct politicians to access the old man. Some attempts to see Moi have aborted. **** A motorist caused a stir along the busy Thika Superhighway on Friday morning after deciding to give an unsolicited lecture to some traffic police officers who were harassing private vehicle drivers. Armed with the latest guidelines by Traffic Commandant Samuel Kimaru, the motorist who appeared well versed with the law decided to park his car and take the bull by its horns. While the officers had flagged him down insisting that he be booked for lacking a fire extinguisher, the motorist could not take the nonsense. He shouted that what the officers were asking for was not a requirement for private motorists. Many other motorists had been falsely arrested by the officers who had no option but release them without any charges following the ‘learned lawyer’s’ tongue lashing. **** Is petroleum Cabinet Secretary John Munyes using his ministerial position to position himself for the Turkana gubernatorial seat in 2022? Well. Turkana South MP James Lomenen wants to know who fuels the Kenya Pipeline chopper which he claims hovers over the Turkana skies almost every weekend. The Jubilee MP is seeking answers from the management of KPC as to who foots the fuel costs of the chopper. With his eyes also on the race to succeed Governor Josphat Nanok, Lomenen perhaps feels that the chopper is giving the minister an advantage in the battle for the seat. The matter came up in the Energy committee meeting this week in a session Munyes did not attend. **** Is Nyamira county a sleeping giant? The county has become the subject of discussion in several social media forums over allegations that senior officers are draining its coffers with Governor John Nyagarama appearing blindfolded. Some of the officers are said to have established parallel revenue collection channels, denying the county millions in own local revenue. The county has the capacity of generating up to Sh1 billion a year in local revenue but it has only been collecting less than Sh300 million. Now some residents want a lifestyle audit done on some senior officers. Click here for
the latest political news