The county Environment committee has called for removal of cancer-causing asbestos roofing from schools and hospitals. Environment committee chairman John Kamau said on Tuesday that asbestos waste is extremely harmful and it is being discharged into the environment daily. He said there has been careless disposal of asbestos, medical waste and harmful chemicals into the environment, particularly the Nairobi River. Asbestos is a known carcinogen and for decades has been used as building insulation, wiring insulation, roofing and in many building materials. “Asbestos contains hazardous materials, with extremely fine fibers that remain suspended in air for hours and if handled without caution, may cause serious chronic health problems such as asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma,” Kamau said. Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok said the assembly must protect the health of all Nairobians and visitors. “Nairobi controls at least 60 per cent of the country’s GDP and about 95 per cent of industries are in Nairobi. The colonial schools, hospitals and dispensaries were built with asbestos and scientific research has shown that it is one of the most hazardous materials invented,” he said. Kayole, Joseph Apulo and Kangemi primaries are some of the schools built with asbestos and the MCAs questioned the pupils’ safety. Imwatok said an implementation committee must ensure asbestos roofing is removed and international standards are followed. He did not say if other asbestos would be removed from public institutions and estates and many other buildings. Several industries accused of discharging harmful chemicals into the Nairoi River will be summoned by the Environment Committee at City Hall. “Let us summon them before the committee and if that fails, we will open a Pandora’s Box so the entire assembly can be part of the committee,” Imwatok said. He said the Nairobi government and water company must know why waste is being discarged. Nominated MCA Emily Waithaka said the Nairobi River is polluted and people who discharge harmful minerals like asbestos are worsening the situation. The MCAs said tabling a bill on waste management and environmental safety will be more effective than just passing a motion. “Governor Mike Sonko introduced the clean-up drive but I don’t see that spirit going down very well. Measures should be put in place or a bill should be passed in this assembly that sets a day in a month and makes it mandatory for a clean-up as is the case in Rwanda,” Nairobi West MCA Maurice Gari said. Gari said all businesses, schools and public institutions must be closed to participate in the clean-up. Five clean-up drives The Nairobi clean-up drive was launched by Sonko in July to restore the city to being “the green city under the sun”. “The cleanup will be constant. We want a city culture in which residents are conscious of the need for a clean environment. It’s their responsibility to keep the surroundings clean,” Sonko had said. The county has held five clean-up drives. They take place on the first Saturday of every month. In June, Sonko had flagged off at least 850 items of cleaning equipment, including wheelbarrows, rakes and spades that will be used to clean the 85 wards.  