Football Kenya Federation (FKF) is mulling over the cancellation of Harambee Starlets participation in the 2018 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations (AWCON) over finances should the government fail to intervene by Tuesday. The Kenyan girls have been in camp since Monday last week and are gearing towards their second appearance at the continental finals set to be staged in Ghana between November 17 and December 1. However, their preparations have been dogged by lack of funds to cater for air tickets, accommodation, kitting, players’ allowances and other logistics. The federation initially tabled a budget of Sh43 million to the government through the Ministry of Sports but the Rashid Echesa-led docket is yet to wire funds towards Starlets participation in the showpiece. Instead, the federation has been referred to the draw finances from the Sports Fund, which is yet to take effect—putting all national football teams participation in international assignments in limbo. FKF president, Nick Mwendwa yesterday revealed that should the government fail to release money for Starlets by Tuesday, they will be forced to resort to breaking camp and forfeiting their place in the finals which will attracts a ban and hefty fines from Confederation of African Football. "We submitted our budget to the ministry and It’s frustrating that they do not have money for the team. While we acknowledge their support in the past, this time we have been referred to the Sports Fund, which is yet to start operation—leaving us with no option other than pulling out." Despite getting assurances from the Deputy President William Ruto that the fund will swing into action soon, Mwendwa has called upon the ministry and the treasury to hasten its process of having it in operation. The Deputy President assured me that the fund will take effect soon and my understanding is that the Parliament had given it a clean bill of health, leaving the remaining bit to treasury and the Ministry of Sports. "I urge them to finalise on it and release money to the national team." Similarly, the senior men’s national team, Harambee Stars and the U-23 Emerging Stars are also staring at dishing out walkovers in their forthcoming 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers and the Olympics qualifiers respectively. Stars are set to hit camp on Monday in preparation for Sierra Leone while the U-23 are already in camp for their double fixtures against Mauritius. Click here for the latest political news