Genuine companies were overlooked in favour of firms associated with the Ngirita family in awarding NYS tenders, a court heard on Friday. Head of supplies at the Devolution department Sebastian Mokua produced invoices showing genuine companies were removed from the list of those to be awarded tenders. He said the bids were won in 2011. All companies went through the process of valuation before the tender to supply food and other items was awarded. Mokua took the court through the tendering process. He produced payment vouchers showing Beta Trading Company won tenders to supply tinned beans and pineapples, among other foods. Mokua said the company fairly won the tender. He produced a contract signed by PS John Lonyangapuo in 2011, when Beta won the tender. Lonyangapuo is now West Pokot governor. Read: DPP withdraws charges against eight NYS suspects for lack of evidence He signed the contract in the presence of witnesses, including the company’s representatives, on December 13, 2011. Mokua said most of the other companies that won tenders were fixed. He produced circulars showing the companies did not even place bids for tenders. The companies include JerryCathy Enterprises, Ngiwaco Enterprises and NJEWANGA Enterprises, among others. They are all associated with the Ngirita family. They received payment for supplying food, even though they did apply for the tenders. Mokua named Jeremy Ngirita, Lucy Ngirita and Phyllis Ngirita as those who received payments. He produced vouchers confirming the payments. Also see: Trial of Lilian Omollo, 36 others in NYS scandal kicks off Meanwhile, chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti has dismissed allegations by the defence lawyers that he is biased. In a ruling read on Friday before the hearings, Ogoti said the case has delayed since the accused took plea in May. He declined to rule on the matter of recusing himself, saying he had already dealt with the issue when he earlier dismissed an application on the same. On Thursday, defence lawyer accused the magistrate of bias and leaning on the side of prosecution when he denied them an adjournment. Former PS Lilian Omollo and ex-NYS director general Richard Ndubai are charged alongside 36 others with several counts of corruption, including abuse of office, neglect of official duties, breach of trust, fraudulently making payments, money laundering and dealing with suspect property. Hearings resume on November 12, when Mokua will continue with his testimony. Click here for the latest political news