Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny engaged in a heated debate about the problems facing maize farmers in the Rift Valley. During an interview on Citizen TV on Tuesday, Murkomen told off Kutuny over his continued attacks on Deputy President William Ruto by linking him to the maize scandal. "Kutuny, you need to respect the Deputy President; he picked you from your charcoal business when you were nothing and made you who you are today," Murkomen shouted at Kutuny. But in an equally rough response, Kutuny alleged that he supported Murkomen by sending him money every weekend and even bought him his first car - a Toyota Harrier - for campaigns. "Why are you forgetting that I'm the one who picked you from the streets. I used to send you money every weekend through my wife. I even bought you the first car," Kutuny told Murkomen. The interview turned ugly when Kutuny allegedly linked a company associated with the DP to the maize scandal. "The concerns are clear. The DP needs to come out on this matter of maize. One of the companies associated with him is being investigated," Kutuny said. Read: North Rift Governors reject Sh2,300 maize price set by government Related: Rift MPs now want Ruto probed over maize crisis He said the DP comes from the region where maize is grown and should not be part of the problem. Murkomen said the entire maize sector is ailing and there must be joint efforts to get a solution instead of trading blame. Kutuny and two other rebel Jubilee MPs - Alfred Keter of Nandi Hills and Silas Tiren of Moiben - have demanded that Ruto and his allies be investigated over the maize and fertiliser scandals. They have also be pushing for farmers to be paid Sh3,200 per 90kg bag as opposed to the Sh2,300 being offered by the government. Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo last week said farmers will not accept the government's proposed price. He said Sh3,600 is the least they expect from the government, payable within seven days after every delivery. Read: Maize farmers worry over low prices for new harvest Also read: Treasury disburses Sh1.4b for payment of maize farmers Click here for the latest political news