Kiss FM presenter Adelle Onyango will both host and perform a story at the next Moth showcase in Rwanda. Moth shows are renowned for the great range of human experience they showcase. Adelle got the chance after she went for a creative writing and story telling workshop earlier this year (The Moth) with 15 other participants. "I’ll be hosting The Moth’s showcase in Rwanda and also sharing one of my short stories, too! The showcase is under the theme of Family Planning and I know some of the performers and their stories are so powerful," she told Word Is. "They asked us to pick a particular event or phase in our lives that we would mould into a story we could tell in seven minutes. "I knew I wanted to write about mummy! I’ve always loved writing (poetry and prose), but I stopped writing after mummy died," Adelle posted on social media. "The first session was painful. I cried (ugly crying) in front of my instructor, who was so patient with me, God bless him." After two days of working on it, we all presented our stories and I was pretty proud of mine! It was poetic, colourful, raw and real! Some of the instructors cried. I was glad that the audience could emotionally connect with my story. I went home so happy, having made friends, but also I was writing again." What inspired her to get back to writing? "I really love writing! I’m a poet first before anything else, and writing has always helped me deal with my emotions. I wanted that safe space of mine back again," Adelle said, adding: "To host the showcase and share my story as well is so important to me. It’s validating my first love — writing! And to do it with a globally recognised organisation such as The Moth is truly humbling! I’m excited!" What will Adelle's performance focus on? "The theme is on Family Planning, but as the host, I’ll start things off with my story with The Moth, how they helped me write about my mum. I’ll share that particular story I worked on in a Moth workshop, a story about my mum," Adelle said.  