Trina Mungai, or Meka, as some of you might know her, was only 10 when she started singing in the church choir. By age 15, she was already providing background vocals for established artistes. She bolstered her musical journey by performing covers and even made a name for herself in the Nairobi Alternative. When she wasn’t getting inspiration from her mentors Atemi, Neema Ntalel (now going by the name Silayio) and Eric Wainaina, she was busy looking for opportunities to showcase her abilities. She managed to get herself on major projects like the Safaricom Live Tour and the Coke Studio, which to a great extent uplifted her presence in the music scene. Now signed to Taurus Musik alongside other artistes like Kagwe Mungai, Gin Ideal and Urban Hype, she’s joined the mainstream scene with a bang. If you’ve listened to her music, she wields enough magic to make her music a success. What’s even more awe-inspiring is that she writes her own music. Her debut track, “Tonight”, proved that Trina is more than capable of expanding from her contemporary sound to a reggae tune, one which was actually a sure-footed proclamation of the sensuality in her musicality. Her most recent project, “Twenty Four” with Kagwe Mungai, offers body-rolling beats and lyricism that embody her sexiness. This could be enough reason why P-Unit have featured her on their latest track, “Me I”. And can we talk about her looks? Well, Trina has always been about keeping it African. If you go through her Instagram feed, you’ll be sure to catch a couple of images of her rocking attire and jewellery that represent her own. However, she’s got moments when she wants to remain as edgy as her contemporaries. Trina Mungai is young and truly promising. Her decision to get signed might have been a brilliant move. She’s now starting to get the attention she most likely wished for decades ago, when she started doing music. And maybe we are just about to witness her showcase more than enough heart and talent in a quest to prove that she’s much more than just a good new artiste.