National Olympic Committee of Kenya have announced a broad restructuring plan revolving around expansion of the secretariat in a bid to professionalise the operations and provide improved services to the affiliates and all the stakeholders of the organisation. The changes will see the creation of four additional positions in the areas of finance, administration, projects and communications. This expansion will also see the creation of a management team which will run the affairs of Nock on a daily basis in line with the governing standards set out by International Olympic Committee. “The current and the past Nock was run by elected officials but in line with the current operations structure we want to bring on board, the executive committee will engage predominantly with board matters and leave the day to day activities to the team to be put together,” said Ag. secretary general, Francis Mutuku. Mutuku said this was among the resolutions agreed up during a governance and team building workshop over the weekend at the Sagana Resort in Muranga. He revealed that they will also engage a financial consultant to put in place policies and procedures involving all financial matters of the committee. Mutuku said they will further consult a human resource firm to create job descriptions required to fill the job positions and on completion the same, the firm will carry out the recruitment of the ideal candidates. This exercise is expected to be completed by mid January next year. “The seminar was mean to prepare the executive members and staff towards radical changes expected to be implemented . The changes, he said will ensure Nock turns around the management structure and prepare for the tight schedule of sports activities in 2019 and 2020, culminating in the Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan,” concluded Mutuku. These changes come only a week after Nock President Paul Tergat revealed that former secretary general Francis Paul had opted to step aside to allow for the completion of his case at the High Court.