The spirit of the handshake has spread to Meru, with a faction of the Njuri Ncheke elders extending an olive branch to rivals. Secretary general Washington Muthamia and chairman Paul M’Ithinkia held an executive committee meeting that resolved to reconcile with a rival group. The group is led by secretary general Josphat Murangiri and chairman Linus Kathera. The meeting was held at Meru ASK showground. “The executive council is appealing to the rebel faction to kindly return to the fold to share their vision and aspirations,” Muthamia said. Former Meru governor and incumbent Trade CS Peter Munya last month urged the elders to unite. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda is to unite the country through the Building Bridges Initiative and the elders had a crucial role to play. Muthamia and former secretary general Phares Ruteere - now the chairman of the National Council of Elders - said the wrangles had portrayed the council in a bad light. Muthamia said the council is an honourable institution with the responsibility of guarding the Ameru traditions and culture as well as working with the government to protect natural resources. “The Njuri executive council will continue to offer visionary leadership and have a clear leadership structure committed to uniting Njuri. I call upon the opposition factions to allow leaders to speak with each other,” the group said in a statement. The Njuri Ncheke council comprises of elders from Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties. Election row Muthamia called on leaders to play their role of reuniting the elders. Ruteere said unity is important ahead of the planned national conference bringing together all councils. “Though the government recognises Washington Muthamia and Paul M’Ithinkia as the officials of the Njuri Ncheke, we want all factions to join us so we can speak in one voice. It is our responsibility to support the counties and national government, but we can only do that when we are united,” he said. On September 22, the Registrar of Societies cancelled the CoE elections amid fights by splinter groups. Ruteere and M’thinkia were opposed to September 22 election, which was to be presided over by Registrar General of Societies at Nchiru shrine. Murangiri and Kathera had initiated the election. Murangiri said the cancelled election was part of Rutere’s agenda to cripple the council’s unity bid. The divisions in Njuri Ncheke arose after Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki was installed as an elder and the Ameru community spokesperson in 2015. Munya then spearheaded Murangiri’s faction to hold elections.