There was a surge in sexual violence by security forces and civilians after the repeat general election in October last year, a report released yesterday shows. The reported by the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNHCR) shows that the stand-off that ensued between supporters of President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga gave rise to violence among them sexual abuse. Based on interviews with victims, the human rights body report reveals involvement of security personnel and civilians in sexual violence, including rape, defilement, rape, sodomy and gang rape most going unreported. The ‘Silhouettes of brutality 2018 Report’ recorded 201 sexual based violence in nine counties, 54 per cent of the cases were perpetrated by security officials and 45 per cent by civilians. However, only 22 per cent of these cases were filed with the police. The counties covered by the report include Nairobi, Kisumu, Bungoma, Vihiga, Kakamega, Migori, Homabay, Machakos, Nandi, and Machakos where gang rape accounted for about 52 per cent of reported incidents. Read: Police reject KNCHR sexual abuse report, seek word from victims Nairobi leads having recorded 90 cases brought forward followed by Kisumu with 40. In Nairobi County Embakasi North constituency leads with 40 cases mainly in Dandora and Kariobangi filed. About 20 cases were reported in Bungoma and 18 in Vihiga placing them third and fourth respectively among counties with high sexual violence prevalence. In addition, the report shows that women were the most affected at 96.6 per cent and 3.4 per cent were men with a significant number coming from informal settlement. According to KNCHR chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori, fear of shame, repercussion or ignorance has led to under reporting of sexual violence. The most undocumented cases are those perpetrated against men as men hardly share their stories. “This is a pointer that we are yet to get to a civilised State where elections are conducted peacefully, ” Mbogori said. Human Rights Watch said some 900 women and girls were victims of sexual violence during the post-election period and many cases likely were unreported. Also Read: Cops main perpetrators of sexual violence during 2017 poll - KNCHR Click here for the latest political news