Marlon James’ fiction novel, The Book of Night Women, brilliantly recalls the lesser-known story of Jamaican slavery. Lilith, 14, is a green-eyed mixed race slave girl on the Montpelier sugar plantation in Jamaica in the late 18th century. Lilith’s 13-year-old mother was assaulted by a white plantation manager and died at childbirth. Soon Lilith will join the other slaves in dreaded field work. But when she kills a ‘johnny jumper’, a black overseer, who tries to rape her, Lilith’s fate looks sealed. But an older slave woman called Homer helps cover up the crime and connives to make Lilith a house slave. Instead of humility, headstrong Lilith sees herself special, better than other slaves. Being the narrator, you appreciate the constant wars raging inside Lilith as she battles guilt, hatred and a refusal to accept her lot in life, while being prone to flights of idealistic imagination. Before long, Lilith makes a terrible miscalculation that earns the wrath of the plantation owner, who punishes her terribly. She survives. But misfortune follows repeatedly as she is unable to rein in her passion and rebuffs all guidance from the unbreakable Homer. I found Lilith’s reckless naivety both endearing and frustrating. Nevertheless, Homer teaches Lilith to read and ropes her into a secret sisterhood of green-eyed slave women that meet after dark, worship an African deity and practise sorcery. Here Lilith realises the full might of the deep power she possesses. The night women are also at the heart of plotting a country-wide uprising to destroy slavery and their slave masters. Meantime, matters get complicated as a fondness develops between Lilith and one of the white masters. But the slave rebellion is unstoppable and the consequences will be shattering for slaves and freeman alike. The Book of Night Women is written in Jamaican Patois, an English-based dialect that can be difficult to follow at first but adds a satisfying authenticity to the chronicle. Another unique aspect is that the story is primarily driven by vibrant and varied female characters. As a secondary protagonist, the indomitable Homer makes for a fascinating person who is pivotal both to the backstory and broader narrative. Reader beware, the book is particularly gruesome, as James unflinchingly expounds the horrific punishments and torture inflicted on the slaves. Most of the story focuses on events at Montpelier and a neighbouring plantation, but excursions into Kingston town show us the multi-cultural heritage, maritime legacy and sleazy corners of colonial Jamaica. In-depth research by James means we are presented with a rich trove of Caribbean history. The slave uprising he describes is actually based on Haiti’s revolution of 1791. Through 400 pages of intrigue and horror, James keeps you completely hooked. As expected, the closing scenes are devastating. Yet the there is an inconclusive end to the story that I did not mind, as it allowed me to imagine what happens to Lilith and Homer.  Star Rating: 4.5/5