"Fake" doctor Mugo wa Wairimu on Friday denied charges of operating a clinic, laboratory, a pharmacy and practicing as a nurse without licences from relevant authorities. He will remain in custody until December 6, when the court will determine if he will be released on bond after the Directorate of Criminal Investigations applied to have him remanded. DCI's George Oyier filed an affidavit to oppose the release of the controversial medic, stating that he is likely to interfere with ongoing investigations and witnesses. Mugo denied charges of operating an unregistered pharmacy while not registered with the Kenya Pharmacy and Poison's Board, operating the pharmacy in premises not registered with the board before senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku. Charges against him read that on November 3, at Milan Health International Limited, he was involved in carrying out the business of a laboratory without a licence from the Kenya Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Board. Mugo was also charged with operating a clinic without a licence and engaging in private practice as a nurse while not licensed. Oyier sought to have him remanded on grounds that that he might jeorpadise the prosecution's case if released before the witnesses are placed under protection. He listed two cases pending in court where he claimed Mugo jumped bail. The state will file an application in the High Court on Friday to have the witnesses admitted under the witness protection agency. Oyier stated that he is yet to record statements of the witnesses but has established contacts with them. In addition, the detective stated that Mugo has been advancing his criminal acts after he was released on bond after he was charged in 2015 and is likely to continue if released again. But he did not specify the duration he wants Mugo to be remanded. But Mugo's lawyer Kepha Ojijo said Oyier's application was baseless and is not grounded on law. The lawyer said Mugo is not aware of the witnesses in the case against him because Oyier has neither served him with their statements or disclosed the identity of such witnesses. Ojijo said Mugo has attended court in the only case where he was charged with similar charges in 2015 and the DCI did not avail compelling reasons to have the medic denied bail and bonds. He said the application by Oyier to have Mugo remanded while two of his alleged workers were admitted to bond is prejudicial and suggests that he has already predetermined him a criminal. The two students - Victor Kamunya and Risper Auma - arrested at Mugo's clinic were released on bond on Tuesday. Ojijo said singling out his client and seeking to have him remanded is an indication that the prosecution has already condemned him. In 2015, Mugo was arrested and charged with various offences linked to operating an illegal clinic in Githurai 44, Nairobi and raping a woman he had allegedly sedated at Prestige Healthcare Clinic on November 1, 2014. The prosecution also accused Mugo of operating a pharmacy not registered with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. The case has been ongoing in court and resumes on Monday. Read: Flying Squad arrests Mugo Wairimu in Gachie for running illegal clinic Related: Students' lawyers in 'fake' doctor Mugo Wairimu case clash with DCI Click here for the latest political news