Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s new role as a special peace envoy for President Uhuru Kenyatta has caused division within the party. While party secretary general Judith Sijeny yesterday said there were consultations before Kalonzo was given the go-ahead to accept the role, chairman Kivutha Kibwana questioned Kalonzo’s seriousness with his political career. “When a leader of the people becomes an errand boy, what becomes of the followers who have elevated him to the negotiation table?” Kibwana asked in a WhatsApp group. Last Sunday, former Machakos senator Johnson Muthama raised concern about the mtu wa mkono (errand boy) role that Kalonzo landed and likened him to an athlete who fails to complete a race. Read: Has Kalonzo started Uhuru's 'errand boy' job? “As Kambas, we are pushing Kalonzo to become the next President and he is now running to the opposite direction with the relay baton,” Muthama said during a fundraiser at St John’s Catholic Church Lita, Kathiani constituency. Sijeny criticised the leaders, saying the former Vice President enjoys the democratic space within the party. “I don’t think those leaders said anything bad, only that they were addressing the wrong audience. They could have asked the individual who assumed the role to receive an answer,” Sijeny said. She said Kalonzo has the blessings of the party in his new role. “They are just jumping the gun. I don’t know why they are worried,” Sijeny said of Muthama and Kibwana. Organising secretary and Kathiani MP Robert Mbui called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to continue using Kalonzo to foster promote peace in the region. Read: Kalonzo roasted for ‘mtu wa mkono’ plea “To me, it didn’t make sense for Kalonzo to wait for 2022 to vie for President. It is better when he is engaged doing something constructive for the sake of this country because he is a former Vice President and a highly-talented peacemaker,” Mbui told the Star. He said Kalonzo will be helping Kenya because “we cannot have peace within our country when the region is in turmoil”. Wajir East MP Rashid Amin said Kalonzo was keen in helping Uhuru achieve the Big Four agenda. Kalonzo and Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma flew to Juba on Monday where they delivered President Uhuru’s congratulatory message to President Salva Kiir for implementing the South Sudan peace agreement. During his father’s burial last Friday, Kalonzo said he will not mind being Uhuru’s “mtu wa mkono”. He threatened those who will meddle in his relationship with the President of unspecified action. “From today, let no one separate me and my brother Uhuru. I have accepted to run his errands. Those who will attempt to interfere will see my other side,” Kalonzo said. Read: Kalonzo heads to Juba as special peace envoy Kalonzo’s elevation to a diplomatic role comes a month after ODM leader Raila Odinga was appointed African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa. Click here for the latest political news   