Kenya is working on a company registry that will make it possible to list actual owners and beneficiaries of companies. The initiative will promote transparency, especially in the public procurement sector, with reports the country is losing at least Sh100 billion through illicit financial flows involving shell companies whose beneficiaries cannot be traced. Recent cases includes the NYS and Kenya Power scandals. Employees collaborated with masked individuals operating Ponzi firms to violate procurement procedures, awarding tenders to themselves and close associates. The Beneficial Ownership Registry is under the Companies (Amendment) Act 2017. The registry will collect basic information of all key people with a possible stake in companies. According to the Companies Act, a beneficial owner is a natural person who ultimately owns or controls a legal person on whose behalf a transaction is conducted. Open contracting The companies registrar has circulated draft Registrar of Companies (Forms) Rules, 2017 currently at the public participation stage. It provides the forms to be used as notification to the registrar of the beneficial ownership. The form requires that a company indicate the name, postal address, ID or passport details, nationality, date of birth, telephone number and email address of the beneficial owner. It also commits companies to disclose the nature of control the beneficial owner has in the company. Hivos East Africa developer Stephanie Muchai described the registry as a good step towards transparency in public procurement. He spoke on Saturday during the Open Contracting workshop convened by Hivos East Africa and the Kenya Editors Guild. Fine “Companies owned through proxies and an opaque company registrar have made it hard for the government to firmly deal with the issues tax evasion, conflict of interest, and money laundering,” Muchai said. The penalty on conviction for failure of the company to comply with the section is a fine not exceeding Sh500,000 payable by the company and each officer of the company in default, and a further Sh50,000 for every day that the offence continues.