Director of Public Prosecutions has criticised the media on the manner it has reported the NYS II cases. In a word of caution on Wednesday, the ODPP accused the media of misrepresenting facts in certain proceedings. Assistant DPP Joseph Riungu challenged media houses to always seek clarification on the cases so that the public is not fed inaccurate information. "This will be so that the information doen't create perception that whatever is happening in court is not the actual position," Riungu said. He said the ODPP was particularly concerned about reports in sections of the media that charges were dropped against certain suspects due to lack of evidence. Riungu said all the suspects that were arraigned had charges preferred against them on the basis of evidence and the decision was arrived at after a review of the same. On October 29, the prosecution withdrew charges against eight suspects in the case on the loss of Sh231 million from the National Youth Service. Five of them will be state witnesses. Read: Five to be state witnesses in NYS trial, new evidence Riungu told the court then that after reviewing the files, they had decided to withdraw charges against them. Rodgers Nzioka, Sammy Michuki, Josephat Njoroge, Stephen Muchai, Clara Mbau, Christopher Malala and Simon Kanyi and Lucas Otieno were discharged from the cases. Nzioka, Kanyi, Otieno, Njoroge and Muchai were converted to prosecution witnesses under Section 87A of the CPC, which means if police find further evidence against them, they might be arrested. On Wednesday, Riungu said the prosecution exercised its powers to discharge the suspects in line with Article 157 of the Constitution. Clause 6 (c) of the article grants the prosecution powers to discontinue at any stage before judgment is delivered any criminal proceedings with the court’s permission. "If the discontinuance of any proceedings under clause (6) (c) takes place after the close of the prosecution’s case, the defendant shall be acquitted," states Article 157 (7). Riungu said: "Moving forward, we have heard a proposal that we should have a caucus with court reporters and the stakeholders in the justice system in court so that we can have a way forward on how this reporting can be done." He said despite part of the reporting being inaccurate, the ODPP cannot bar the media from reporting on the court proceedings. More: Trial of Lilian Omollo, 36 others in NYS scandal kicks off Click here for the latest political news