President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked the media to put Kenya's interests first and shun negative reporting on the country's affairs. The President said on Thursday that the press coverage has an effect on how the country is perceived by prospective investors. Uhuru, during a briefing on this year's World Bank's report on the ease of doing business, said journalists must seize of the fact they play a big role in shaping the country's image. "I find it very frightening when you hear and see some screaming headlines and stories and how people represent their country that 90 per cent of the time, you're forced to deal with issues that are most of the time not real," Uhuru said while gesturing at the media present at State House. He added: "Someone will call you and tell you, 'but I read this in your newspaper'... and you say... oh well, let me give you what the true facts are. Why don't you people just find out the truth and represent the true facts." The President said that the country was moving forward and it was prudent for Kenyans, including the media, to not only look at the challenges but also appreciate the achievements. "Sometimes, it is usually very frustrating when all you can do is hear complaints, especially from our fourth estate. And there is never anything good. Please, I want you to remember, there are a lot of people... well-meaning Kenyans who are doing a lot, spending sleepless nights to move this country forward," Uhuru said. Uhuru said that the government is not worried about being challenged as 'Kenya is not a perfect society but everyone should put the country first'. "You can say whatever you want about me but never forget that you are a Kenyan. If you ignite fire in Kenya, you are not doing it for Uhuru Kenyatta. You're burning it for yourself and 40 million others," he said. The president advised the press to positively criticise the government with a view to getting solutions for the issues being highlighted. Uhuru further cautioned lawyers and members of the judiciary to also put Kenya first in their work. He also bemoaned the challenges at the Lands ministry. He asked State officers at the Lands registries across the country to accord Kenyans services without straining the latter. Uhuru said it was regrettable that "lawyers have become front-liners in defeating reforms in lands registry." He accused the lot of crippling reforms at the ministry "by seeking their selfish interests." The Head of State, on the flip side, commended the Judiciary, investigative and prosecution agencies for the tremendous reforms which "are currently yielding fruits." "The judiciary must, however, step up and turn the cases before them into convictions," he said on the war on graft. A number of corruption cases, arising from scams in government agencies, are pending before the courts but most of them are yet to result into convictions. "Our seriousness to fighting graft cases will be based on the number of people that will be locked up and resources and proceeds of corruption recovered," Uhuru said. He maintained that his administration is committed to allocating more resources to the Judiciary to handle graft cases. The president hailed the EAC and Industrialisation ministries for the positive movement of Kenya's ranking on the ease of doing business. World Bank, in a report released on Wednesday, ranked Kenya at position 61 out of 190 countries, being 19 steps higher than the 2017 index. Kenya was ranked at position 7 out of 10 most improved countries on the subject. Read: Kenya makes gains on ease of doing business Also read: Kenya, Nigeria to lead Africa's economies in 20 years - CNN survey Click here for the latest political news