The majority of Nairobi residents want Governor Mike Sonko to stop operating from his Mua Hills home in Machakos and relocate to City Hall, a study indicates. The survey by Trends and Insights for Africa (Tifa) released yesterday by managing director Kweya Gerry, shows 77 per cent are opposed to his continued operation from Machakos. Only 16 per cent of residents surveyed said they want him to continue operating from Machakos. Fifty-eight per cent said he should be impeached if he fails to operate from City Hall. Thirty-six per cent said he should not be impeached. Five per cent said they were undecided. Sonko moved to his rural home in May after the government reduced the number of his bodyguards. In September, Sonko said City Hall was unsafe. The polls also shows that 67 per cent of Nairobians are unhappy with Sonko running the county without a deputy governor. Former Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe resigned in January. In May, Sonko surprised many after he appointed deported lawyer Miguna Miguna as his deputy. MCAs rejected Miguna on grounds he had a problem with dual citizenship. Miguna has been in Canada where he was deported twice when he failed to comply with government’s demands to settle his dispute over his citizenship. In terms of services, the Tifa poll ranked Sonko as the most improved city governor. It shows the governor scored 51 per cent an equivalent of C plain in service delivery. This is an improvement compared to 44 per cent or D plus he scored in May in a survey conducted by the firm. On street lighting projects, the polls shows 66 per cent of residents are satisfied with what is being done by Sonko’s administration. Fifty-seven per cent of the respondents say they are happy with reforms in Early Childhood Education. But most residents said he has not done much to improve the sewage system. Only 39 per cent of city dwellers said he has improved the sewerage system. Kisumu governor Anyang’ Nyong’o was ranked the best, with 59 per cent or C plus in services. He was followed by Kiambu’s Ferdinand Waititu at 53 per cent or C plain. Sonko and Mombasa’s Hassan Joho tied at 51 per cent or C plain. The survey was conducted between October 17 and November 5 in all the four counties. At least 500 people were sampled in every county. Face-to-face and telephone interviews were conducted. It has a margin of error of +/- 3.8 per cent. The poll also indicates that 65 per cent of Kisumu residents expressed satisfaction with Nyongo’s efforts to keep the county clean. Sixty-four per cent were happy with street lighting projects while another 62 per cent said he has performed well in Early Childhood Development Education. Nyong’o, however, needs to improve sewerage system. Only 47 per cent are satisfied with the system. Mombasa residents said Joho has done well in street lighting with an approval rate of 63 per cent. Some 56 per cent are happy with bursaries issued by Joho’s administration. He has, however, not done well in improving the sewerage system and ensuring accessibility of clean water. Most residents, 87 per cent, were happy with the Joho’s order to property owners to repaint all buildings. They say the ongoing painting has made the city more appealing. Waititu has done well on street lighting, said 59 per cent of residents. Another 59 per cent said he has ensued steady supply of clean water and 57 per cent say the county is cleaner. The polls also indicate 68 per cent of Kisumu residents, 64 per cent of Kisumu dwellers, 59 per cent of Nairobians and 58 per cent of those in Mombasa support a referendum to amend the Constitution. Most of those who support the referendum – 85 per cent in Kiambu, 63 per cent in Kisumu, 71 per cent in Mombasa and 79 per cent in Nairobi – want the Senate scrapped.