JUST what is ODM leader Raila Odinga  plotting with President Uhuru Kenyatta? We are told that the two leaders have been consulting very often on matters Constitution and 2022 succession. While Raila has said that he will not engage in Uhuru’s succession politics, those in the know have whispered to us that the two leaders are working on a deal that will shock the country. The plan is to announce it closer to the next election. JUST how did National Land Commission vice chairperson Abigael Mbagaya assume the roles of acting chair whereas it is not provided for in law? In accepting the role, did she seek any legal interpretation of Articles 250 and 251 on the process of appointment and removal of the chairperson, together with Sections 10, 11 and the First Schedule of the National Land Commission Act? Corridors has learnt that the commission is in a conundrum and all decisions made by the vice chair, since she took over as acting chair in August, have remained null and void. But just who will shoulder the costs of her decisions?Talk of leading yourself to the slaughterhouse. This is what one of the top prison bosses with 20 palatial homes in Nairobi and other properties across the country found himself in. The man approached five MPs whom he had handed ‘dead’ contracts. In exchange, they were to teach those standing in his way a lesson. On analysing the veracity of the issues, some MPs shied off, saying trying to help the officer would be like cutting a mugumo tree with a razor blade. But others said the risk involved was high and the man was asked to pay a higher premium. He promised to come back through a woman MP from his clan. But will this not expose his earnings that do not tally with his accumulation of wealth? A supremacy battle has ensued between a deputy governor and an executive in a Rift Valley county. The duo are eyeing a parliamentary seat in 2022 in their home constituency. The deputy governor was almost roughed up in a local hotel. After the story went viral on social media, the deputy governor deployed bloggers to counter it. He has since taken a low profile until things cool off. A group of goons on instructions of a politician raided business premises in South B. To the proprietors’ chagrin, the politician called the traders to tell them to vacate the premises even though the county government hasn’t issued them with an eviction notice. The proprietors want to know why they are being harassed by the politician with impunity even when they have all the permits. Click here for the latest political news