Deputy President William Ruto has asked leaders to discard politics of division and focus on issues that will transform Kenya. He said perpetual party politics had for a long time derailed the development of Kenya. The DP said divisive politics is now a thing of the past because the country is now united. "We have agreed with all leaders from Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi to Moses Wetang'ula that we want to change Kenya," the DP said. He said by virtue of Raila agreeing to work with the Jubilee government, other leaders should follow suit. The DP spoke at Kemera in Kitutu Masaba constituency in Nyamira on Saturday when he commissioned the Kemera-Motembe-Keumbu road. He also commissioned the Kendege Technical Training Institute in Migori. "There is a lot of politics in Kenya. But its right time will come. For now, let us get united and work together in making Kenya better," he said. The DP told leaders to put aside petty, old-school politics of hate. He was accompanied by Migori governor Okoth Obado, Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi, MPs Richard Onyonka, Sylvanus Osoro, Marwa Kitayama, Vincent Mogaka, Mathias Robi and Peter Masara. Others were Richard Tongi, Jerusha Momanyi, Shadrack Mose, Ndindi Nyoro and Infrastructure Principal Secretary Julius Korir. Ruto said the government is determined to put up and equip technical colleges in all constituencies. He said this will boost manpower to drive the development agenda as “we prepare for a major economic take-off”. He said students in technical colleges will get a Sh30,000 bursary every year and a Sh40,000 loan from the Higher Education Loans Board. Kendege Technical Training Institute is expected to open its doors to the public from January next year. Obado said the county will work with the government to build four more technical institutes in the region. Onyonka, Osoro and Masara said they will rally other leaders in Nyanza to back Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. Osoro said," The DP is thirsty for development and unity. He is the best presidential candidate for 2022." Nyoro said Mt Kenya region will back Ruto. Click here for the latest political news