High Court judges are protesting alleged interference with their independence from within the Judiciary. The judges who did not want to be named said they have received letters requiring them to explain delays of rulings and judgements of cases pending before them, which they believe amounts to micro-managing. A copy of the letter sent to a judge, seen by the Star, indicates that presiding judges in different court divisions communicate to the office of the Chief Justice on how many rulings and judgments are pending before individual judges. It is on the basis of this that the CJ then writes to an individual judge requesting confirmation of the cases pending within 14 days. The letter is on the letter-head of Judicial Service Commission and signed by Chief Justice David Maraga in his capacity as JSC chairman. The judges say they received such letters in June and another batch of similar letters last week. According to them, the leadership of Judiciary is concentrating on ‘micro-managing’ them rather than addressing their welfare, which seems to have been neglected. For example, they said, some specialised courts do not have enough judges, all judges still write court proceedings in long hand and in some instances when their official vehicles break down they are told to use their money for repairs a because the Judiciary does not have money. They are promised of a refund once they repair the cars. However, the judges noted that they don’t have money all the time and, just like everyone else, they too have personal responsibilities and needs on which they spend their cash. Read: Judiciary: Nobody wins turf wars They therefore cannot help the government to perform its duties. The judges perceive the letter asking them to explain delays in delivery of decisions as attempts to micro-manage them. They called upon their leaders (presiding judges) to stand up for their rights and help guard their constitutional independence. In April, the CJ and appeal judges reached an agreement to clear the backlog of cases whose rulings had been pending for more than a year after hearing was concluded. The deal was an initiative of the appeal judges. They cleared the 166 pending cases in two months. In their explanations, the judges listed bereavement, sickness and spending time in different committees within Judiciary as things some of the reasons leading to delays in delivery of their judgments. The Chief Justice has directed all courts that all cases that are five years old and above should be dispensed with by December. Read: Judiciary panic as DCJ Mwilu faces Sh12m graft charge Also Read: 'Watch your back', Mutahi Ngunyi tells Maraga in face of Judiciary graft purge Click here for the latest political news   