Police are investigating the alleged resurgence of the outlawed Mungiki sect in Murang'a county. In a tweet, the police said the individuals behind the revival of the criminal outfit - notorious for extortion, murders and violent robberies - are working with other people from several towns. "In this regard therefore, we wish to inform the public that we have launched investigations into their activities that are aimed at dealing with the said individuals in accordance with the law," the police said. The Mungiki sect was banned in 2002 after the group with alleged historic ties to Mau Mau was linked to violent crime. Then Internal Security minister John Michuki in 2006 give the infamous shoot-to-kill order against members of the sect after the group started spreading its tentacles across the country. The group became ruthless in dealing with its critics and it beheaded those opposed to its doctrines. “We shall deal with the sect ruthlessly,” the late Michuki said on January 13, 2006 while issuing the shoot-to-kill order. Read: Mungiki, Chinkororo, MRC will cause us more problems The Mungiki sect started off in Central Kenya, but had by 2007 spread to Nairobi and Rift Valley, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake. Its membership mainly comprised snuff-taking dreadlocked youths. By the end of 2007, civil rights groups claimed at least 500 Mungiki members had been killed by police in what they described as extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances. Other than murders and harassing women, Mungiki was infamous for extortion through illegal levies and taxes. "We therefore call on anyone who may have fallen victim to these extortionist rings to report to the nearest police officer or police station for action," the police said. "We finally wish to warn that we shall not condone any form of gangsterism and anyone attempting to revive such proscribed criminal groups will face the full force of the law." Read: 500 Mungiki were 'killed to assist Kibaki' Click here for the latest political news