A Makueni school has appealed for sponsorship for an orphan who scored 443 marks in KCPE whose results were released on Monday. Mary Mbinya, 14, was sponsored by the management of Emmanuel Springs Academy where she did the exam. School director Patrick Mutinda has asked well wishers to sponsor her secondary education. “We are very proud of the girl’s performance. We appeal for help so
that she can get scholarship,” Mutinda said on Monday. Speaking to the Star in Wote town, Mbinya said she wants to join Pangani Girls High School in Nairobi. She
said she would like to become a neurosurgeon. Mbinya was born in
Nthangu village but lives with her aunt who sells groceries in Wote town
after her parents died. She attributed her success to hard work and support by teachers. The school produced the third best student countrywide in Victor Mogusu who scored 452 marks. Rawlings Odhiambo of Kakamega Hills Academy and Olive Wachira of Riara Group of Schools in Nairobi were joint top. Emmanuel Springs had 77 candidates. They scored a mean of 409 marks up from 392 registered last year. The school started nine years ago had posted good results. The first cohort of 15 candidates registered a mean 417 marks. This year, 53 students scored 400 marks and above. The 14- year old from Nthangu village in Makueni sub-county who
stays with her aunt, a green grocer at Wote town said support from her teachers
and hard work was the reason for her success. Other schools from Makueni that have produced top candidates
in the country are Miangeni International academy and Malivani AIC boarding. In Malivani AIC boarding 17 candidates out of 123 scored
over 400 marks with a mean score of 366. Elsewhere, 68-year-old Veronica Kaleso said she was looking forward to joining Form 1 after scoring 143 marks at Unoa Primary School. Kaleso dropped out of Kyamuthei Primary School while in Standard 5 in 1968. “I'm happy and satisfied with the results. I'm ready to continue with my education up
to university level,” said the Ukia village mother of 10 from
Kaiti. The granny said she was eager to know how to read and write to
enable her communicate well with her employees and customers and for better
management of her farm.