 The
goat-gland doctor. This is how John Romulus Brinkley was known as, after he
achieved national fame, international notoriety and great wealth through the
xenotransplantation of goat testicles into humans. Brinkley convinced the
public that this procedure cured male impotence and a wide range of male
ailments. He operated from clinics and hospitals in several states in America
for nearly two decades, despite critics and detractors in the medical community
discrediting his methods. “Dr.” Brinkley had no legitimate medical education
and had bought his medical degree from a diploma mill. Despite his quack
status, Brinkley was beloved by many people and even vied on two occasions to
be the Governor of Kansas. He was a millionaire at the height of his career, but
died nearly penniless on account of suits for malpractice, wrongful deaths and
fraud brought against him. The
‘rape’ doctor. This is how some sources have described “Dr.” Mugo wa Wairimu.
His similarities with Brinkley are quite uncanny. Mugo has been practicing as a
medical doctor and operating from various clinics in Nairobi County. His
specialty has been conducting stomach scans and abortions. He has been disowned
by various medical boards and unions. The Kenya Medical Practitioners Board has
claimed that Mugo was not on the graduation list of the School of Medicine for
the year 2000, and have thus declared him a quack, not a qualified doctor. Despite
his ‘fake’ skills, he has attempted on two occasions to run for political
office as a Member of Parliament for Dagoretti and Roysambu constituencies.
Mugo has been sued for malpractice, rape, masquerading as a medical
practitioner and running a business without licenses from the Pharmacy and
Poisons Board, and the Laboratory and Technologists Board. Both
Mugo and Brinkley can be aptly described as charlatans. A charlatan is a person
who falsely claims to have special skills or knowledge with the intent to
obtain money, fame or other advantages. It
is curious to note the public’s castigation of Mugo and his victims. Questions
have been directed to law enforcement and the judiciary on why the fake doctor
is still walking free, and why the public continues to seek his services,
respectively, despite this being the second publicly televised expose of his
unethical practices. Public suggestions on the retributivist options have ranged
from shooting him on sight, jailing him for life, and cutting off his hands. And
justifiably so. In
this country, we have no shortage of charlatans ranging from politicians, to
the sanctuaries of worship and the professional services. However, what is
curious about Mugo’s public vexation is the effortless manner in which we have
conditioned ourselves to cherry pick which charlatans we will castigate, and
which ones we will treat with kids gloves. Every
five years, we have charlatans promising us through glossy printed manifestos,
state of the art stadia, a highway to Canaan and a Gross Domestic Product growth
rate of 10% p.a. They leave tons of carbon footprint as they traverse the
nation’s airspace, persuading us to believe in their false skills of magically transforming
our lives within their first one hundred days in office. Every week we troop to
sanctuaries of worship to listen to charlatans who falsely claim they have a
direct connection to heaven; so they promise us instant riches if we tithe,
instant healing if we support their religious causes, and instant babies whose four
months gestation period defies all laws of nature. Every day we contract
charlatans as public service drivers in the matatu sector to transport us
safely in return for our hard-earned income; only to get half-baked services
and lose our lives all together. Yet our public indignation in these instances
is as gentle as a lover’s sigh when compared to our outrage at Mugo. This
is because we have all become cafeteria citizens, choosing which brand of
politics suits our mtu wetu politics
and in-group preferences; cafeteria Christians, selecting to embrace only those
 biblical teachings that align to our
preferred lifestyles and world views; and cafeteria consumers, who as one
prominent media personality very appropriately articulated, select services
based on referrals from our acquaintances, without interrogating the service
provider for ourselves to make our own informed and judicious decisions. This
cafeteria syndrome is induced by a psychological phenomenon called groupthink
theory. It occurs within a group of people where the desire for conformity in
the group results in irrational or dysfunctional decisions and opinions. Groupthink
is prevalent in situations where there is a high degree of cohesiveness,
external threats and moral dilemmas. In groupthink, the individual strives to
avoid conflict in order to inertly reach a group consensus. They deliberately
evade critical evaluations of alternative viewpoints, or suppress dissenting
opinions. Often they set aside their personal convictions and where they are
opposed to the group’s overriding opinions or decisions, they opt to remain
quiet, preferring to keep the peace rather than disrupt the group’s harmony. Groupthink
requires individuals to be averse to raising controversial or unconventional
solutions because group acceptance is more important to them than the truth.
This sadly stifles individual creativity, uniqueness and independent thinking,
ultimately leading to poor decision-making and inefficient problem solving. No
doubt, one plausible name for the era in which we live is the Age of the
Charlatan. This is because of our insatiable desire for quick fixes, exacerbated
by the rapid rate of technological advances. Begs
the question, how can we avoid the snares of the charlatans and groupthinks? I
submit that we ought to subject them to a Triple Filter test by asking three
questions: One,
is it true? This will necessitate us to read, research and interrogate what we
hear as opposed to believing everything at face value simply because it
resonates with us. Two,
is it essential? This will require us to rationally and efficiently allocate
our scarce resources including money, time and our votes to those ends that we
rank highest in our order of needs. Three,
is it moral? This will behoove us to have an honest self-introspection by
juxtaposing what we hear and are being persuaded to do, against our ethical
values and beliefs. Finally,
my unsolicited advice is; if you want to know who rules over you, look at who
you are not allowed to criticize; and if you want to know who the subjugated
class is, look at who is not allowed to get angry. “A silver-tongued charlatan and a half-wit
society are made for each other! When these two come together, a great disaster
happens: Charlatans comes to power!” -  Mehmet
Murat ildan