Constitutions worldwide are meant to
provide a general framework to guide legislation for the welfare of
society. These arrangements work well in countries
where the ruling class ie politicians/legislators work selflessly in the
interest of their people, and uphold the rule of law. However, in countries such as Kenya, with
one of the most progressive constitutions — but with the majority of
legislators focussing on serving themselves and their financial sponsors — it becomes necessary
for the people to take charge and include in the Constitution details that
would otherwise ordinarily belong to Acts of Parliament, which unfortunately, parliamentarians have ignored
since independence. Indeed, and to a large extent,
it is such failure that gave rise to the bloody events leading to the
formation of the 2010 Constitution. Sadly for us, and, if you were to
observe the current leadership style, you would doubtlessly be left wondering
if any lessons were learnt. Fresh agitation such as we have been
witnessing up to the now famous handshake are as a result of such unfulfilled
constitutional promises. Take for instance Article 10 of our
Constitution, which covers National Values and principles of
governance and in particular 10 (2) (b), which, in my view, underlies the
awakened emotions demanding a referendum. While devolution has made some headway
in devolving power, and to some extent redistributed country resources
equitably, a lot more needs to be done considering equity of resources at
individual level. This is one area that legislators have not
been keen at reviewing in the last 55 years. There is no hope they will have
it in their minds in the foreseeable future. It is possible that the ruling
class fears empowering Wanjiku economically because that would allow her some
measure of independence. We, and especially Wanjikus, are all
concerned with the ever-escalating wage bill, which only benefits the ruling
class.  The recurrent expenditure leaves us with negligible amount for
development, forcing us to rely heavily on the worrisome borrowed money. Yet, as
is evident, a large proportion of this expenditure is greedily swallowed by a
very small percentage of our population. Austerity measures, as observed by what
goes on every day around us, are meaningless as far as the Executive and the
legislators are concerned. Yet, and sadly, it is the poor Wanjiku who always carries this
burden. It is in light of this that Wanjiku should
wake up to the reality that she is on her own, and further realise she has
the sovereign power to fight for her rightful share of the national cake. One
way of doing this is to demand an input in the Constitution, which will
allow for a fair distribution of resources to all. A formulae should be
introduced in the public service to tie the lowest  income wage to those
of the topmost earner. I suggest that the minimum wage for the
low income earners should be pegged on a percentage of what the
top public servant earns.  In my view, the lowest public servant should
not earn less than 10 per cent of the topmost earner. For example, if the
President's gross salary is Sh1 million, the minimum for the subordinate Wanjiku should be
Sh100,000. This will enable the lowest cadre in our public
service earn some worthwhile income reasonably spread all over the
country.  Note that among this lot will be teachers who form one very
large group of employees in the public service and whose income easily finds
its way to mama mboga, boda boda etc, thus allowing for wide distribution
of the country's resources. Second — and hopefully — this will tame
the greed of leaders restraining them from increasing their salaries/allowances
at will. The consequence of this formula is that any changes positive or
negative in salaries /allowances at any one level/cadre of the public
service will equitably affect all. I believe this will also attract result-focussed
public servants, well and equitably remunerated, having been selected
on merit and not tribal or political loyalty. The need to rout out
passengers/parasites in public service, who are earning huge salaries for
turning up in their offices every morning only to read newspapers, cannot be
over emphasised.  Ambassador JB Tumwa is a former ECK commissioner  