Uganda has denied media reports that it has dropped plans for the Standard Gauge Railway running from the border town of Malaba to its capital city Kampala. Works and Transport Minister Monica Azube said in Kisumu that the project is still on course contrary to reports in Uganda’s Daily Monitor Newspaper. The paper reported that Uganda had suspended the project and will instead focus on revamping the old meter-gauge railway network until unresolved issues with Kenya and China are concluded. She said the ‘‘abandonment issue’’ might have been brought about after the country started revamping the meter –gauge railway network. “We have heard the meter-gauge railway network running all this years even when the SGR started in Mombasa, we just got funding and started revamping it and this we will run together with the SGR,” she said. The minister said the European Union offered Uganda €21.5million for revival of the old metre gauge railway line from Tororo through the districts of Mbale, Kumi, Soroti, Lira to Gulu. “The SGR is an important project to the country that we can’t abandon because we have planned and budgeted for it, “she said. She said the project will help cut cargo transportation time apart from reduce traffic load on the Malaba-Kampala highway. The minister who spoke at the Lake Victoria Basin Commission Secretariat said Uganda spends a lot of money on road construction and maintenance. “Currently 90 per cent of our cargo comes to Uganda on road and when the SGR will be in place, we will shift this, while the same time reduce the traffic which will go a long way in improving the road network, “she said. Azube said a financial agreement for the SGR project is in place but this is yet to be signed with the Exim Bank and is awaiting Kenya to complete the second phase from Nairobi to Kisumu so that they start. “We have not started on the actual construction but we have done everything, have a contract in place, consultancy and financing mode to be ready to start the construction but we are waiting for Kenya,” she said. “This is a regional project that runs from Mombasa to Uganda; you cannot start on the Ugandan side while the other side (Kenyan) has not progressed, we don’t want to do a hanging line and finish it before it connects to Kenya and we are giving them more time to do so,”she said, adding they are in contact with Kenya’s Ministry of Works and Transport and attended a meeting in China on the same. A meeting is scheduled for Rwanda for the Northern Corridor Infrastructure Project under which SGR forms part of the cluster. 