Socialite Vera Sidika has opened up about her relationship woes and how she found herself recording her first single, Nalia. The socialite said the song was inspired by the break-ups she has had in previous relationships. "I did the writing of the song. It is just to reveal about my break-up story, and mostly explaining about how you build up a person and they end up not caring about you," Vera told Word Is. "You feel that they did not love you. I was down on that concept and I did not want to make it look like I was crying for love because the love is over. I invested time and emotion and I lost so much. I invested money in the love." Asked about the reception of the song by fans, Vera said: "I am so shocked that the song is trending number one on YouTube because I did not expect that. It is amazing and fans are doubting if I really did the song. They have not accepted that I can sing but I am gonna do another song so they can say, Vera can sing." She denied claims she is dating Calisa, whose pictures have frequently appeared on her Instagram page. "Every dude I post on my social media, people say it is my bae. But no, I am not dating Calisa. He was only a video vixen in my song. This was just because of work and not other things besides work. He is from Tanzania and I liked him because he fit the part I wanted him to describe," Vera said. "I am going to represent Kenya very well as a Kenyan artiste and international. I also want to first establish my brand first as a solo artiste, then later I could eye more collabos." Vera made it clear that both her break-ups with singer Otile Brown were very real, contrary to claims it was a publicity stunt. "It is unfortunate that my last relationship had so much drama, unlike what most people thought. If it was a publicity stunt then he would have paid me so much, because that is business. But that was real love. My intention was love but for him, he came with his own intentions. I mean, If it was for controversy that I hang out with him, I would have chosen to create controversy for the six months," she said. She also rubbished claims that she aborted Otile Brown's child.