The government has said it will set aside about Sh100 million
to educate the public on insurance in order to boost penetration. According to the Insurance Regulatory Authority, most
Kenyans view insurance as an unnecessary cost.This is compounded by the unwillingness of
insurance firms to invest in publicity. IRA chief manager in charge of policy research and
development Robert Kuloba said publicity is a heavy investment that
most insurance firms are unwilling to undertake, inhibiting growth of insurance. “We shall do the publicity for you. Then the
market will be ready for you to take it up,” said Kuloba. He said IRA has a dedicated budget for
consumer education. “We’ve not been as successful as we should in
persuading people that insurance is an essential service that has a huge
contribution to make in the society,” said Kiptum. “More often
than not as insurance players, whenever we give our value propositions to the
market, we are often seen as an unnecessary cost,” he said. He spoke during the opening of the 13th
Association of Insurance Brokers of Kenya regional conference at Sarova
Whitesands Hotel in Mombasa on Thursday. AIBK chair Nelson Omolo said the country’s
insurance penetration is at a paltry 3.5 per cent despite the many
opportunities that the industry has, especially in the Big Four Agenda. Last year, the industry failed to achieve its
projected revenue target of Sh20 billion in premiums from the marine insurance,
Omolo said. Kuloba said about 70 per cent of complaints
received at the IRA are due to misinformation. “Those who complain are people who are learned but
you realise if they understood the concept of insurance quite well, I’m sure
they would not have made the decisions they made,” said Kuloba. He said in most cases, the insurance firms are
usually right in the end as customers realise they are the one with the
mistakes. “It is because of those gaps that, as a government
agency, we have taken up that duty to undertake public education and awareness
as a public good,” Kuloba said.     