Subcounty and district schools in the country will take in the bulk of Form One admissions under the government’s plan to ensure 100 per cent student transition. The Education ministry intends to ensure all the 1,052,364 candidates who sat for this year’s KCPE exams progress to secondary schools across the country. According to the ministry, the government has already identified 1.1 million slots in secondary schools which will be allocated to the students based on merit, quota, equity, affirmative action and choice of schools. Currently, there are 331 extra-county schools in Kenya which are estimated to have a capacity of admitting 100,000 students. At least 700,000 slots have been identified in the subcounty and district schools that traditionally admit but not limited to students with marks between 101 and 300. However, data from this year’s KCPE results reveal more than the estimated number of slots qualify for admission in these institutions. Read: 100% transition to high school by 2021 The data shows that at least 809,500 students attained the cut off mark required for admission into these institutions. This means an extra 109,500 students who qualify for admission to these institutions will be pushed to other schools. Speaking to the Star on phone yesterday, Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said they were concerned over the absorption of students to schools despite the sluggish development of facilities to accommodate them. “Transition from primary to secondary schools is a ticking time bomb that needs to be addressed. Over the years the admission of students don’t match the construction of classes, labs, dormitories employment of teachers among others,” Sossion said. In an effort to address teacher shortage, the Teachers Service Commission this year employed 7,672 new staff who were posted to different secondary schools countrywide. Despite the increase of quality grades, all candidates who scored 400 marks and above will be admitted to national schools irrespective of whether they sat their exams in private or public schools. However, some from subcounties mapped to benefit from the affirmative action will get slots in the national schools based on the top students’ performance. There are about 15,000 slots up for grabs in the national schools. The 101 national schools have been grouped into four clusters. The first cluster contains 30 schools, second 25, third 18 and fourth 28. The criteria demand that the top student in each subcounty gets a slot in one of the 17 top institutions. Read: Merit must inform Form One selection Click here for
the latest political news 