Eleven Rift Valley MPs on Monday accused three of their colleagues of being brokers out to ruin DP William Ruto's presidential ambition in 2022. They said  Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Joshua Kuttuny (Cherangany) and Silas Tiren (Moiben) are cheap, hired mercenaries. The leaders who spoke to the media at Parliament Buildings said the three have never provided solutions for suffering maize farmers in the North Rift. "We know political distractors of the Deputy President have failed to contain him. Now they are resorting to cheap tactics. They are roaming about trying to slow him down to create an impression that he is having a problem. That is far from the truth,” Soy MP Caleb Kositany said. Kericho senator Aaron Cheruiyot and Endebess MP Robert Pukose (Endebess) lashed out at the three lawmakers for calling for investigations against Ruto over the maize crisis in the country. Also read: MPs: Ruto wants to bring Congo maize They said the crisis can only be solved if the problems are addressed with sobriety. "We know their masters and we will soon name them. They pretend to be messiahs for the farmers yet they don’t address their issues on the floor of the House," Cheruiyot said. The three MPs triggered a political storm after publicly claiming the DP has a 500,000-acre farm in the Democratic Republic of Congo. In a scathing attack on the DP, the rebel Jubilee lawmakers claimed Ruto was positioning himself to be the principal maize supplier to the scandal-ridden National Cereals and Produce Board by discouraging the region from maize farming. Kutuny, Keter and Tiren claimed Ruto has been encouraging farmers to substitute maize farming with avocado and macadamia. "You can’t be telling us to plant avocados, plant macadamia but you are not telling us what happened to maize…Now you have gone even to Congo. You are growing 500,000 acres of maize," said Keter without producing any evidence to back his claims. In an interview with the Star yesterday, Kutuny asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to come clean on the deals he claimed Ruto had signed with the Denis Nguesso government. Click here for the latest political news 