Various quarters within Central Kenya have reflected and made indications that they are not willing to have William Ruto succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. When you analyse the President's Thursday statement, it tells you a few things: That while they may have worked with William Ruto, it is not crystal clear that the baton will definitely be handed over to him. It is also not clear whether he is in the fine political books of President Kenyatta. Trust issues arise here. Let's go back to our history books. When the late George Saitoti served as Moi's deputy, when the time came for the exiting President to create room for his successor, he openly said: "Friendship and leadership are two different matters." So, is it possible that Ruto and Uhuru are very good friends such that when it comes to social matters, they trust each other so much? However, Uhuru may not be openly trustful of Ruto's ability to carry the political weight of his legacy? Given that Uhuru is not only a political scion of Moi, but also somebody who was anointed by Moi himself, is it possible that he has plucked a page from Moi's books of politics? Is it possible that Ruto could equally suffer Saitoti's political fate? If the answer is in the affirmative, then Ruto should be a worried man. He and his lieutenants should start using clearer lenses to know who is the possible project Uhuru. Then they can see how to work with, confront or work against that project. Is it possible that when Uhuru made that statement, he only wanted to confuse the political players, leave them guessing by stirring up the political waters while demonstrating that to some extent he is a political genius? We have got only two hypotheses. Either Uhuru made the statement in truth to also demonstrate that he will not be held back by political debts or he might have made that statement for political tact but will still support William Ruto as his successor. Either way, Uhuru has introduced a grain of doubt not only to Ruto but also to his supporters that the issue of inheriting his political estate is not a foregone matter. The political analyst and governance expert spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news