President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned form four leavers against acts of indiscipline and disrespect to elders. He cited the case of Ambira High School KCSE candidates who insulted Education CS Amina Mohamed and Interior's Fred Matiang'i. The students, in a widely shared video clip, shouted they had cheated the exam and even dare the CS to take action. The learners took turns to insult the two ministers in unprintable words. "Shule huisha,tumeiba (We are done with school...we cheated in exams)," they shouted. The President confirmed the student's arrest saying "the young boys are where they should be in order for them to be disciplined." However, Inspector General Joseph Boinnet said only three were arrested adding that police are hunting the others as well. "Police will go after the rest of the boys to ascertain if they cheated in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination as they claimed in the video." He said the learners were taken in, not because they insulted prominent persons, but because of suspected involvement in cheating. See: [VIDEO] Ambira form four leavers insult Amina, Matiang'i after KCSE Uhuru warned that the authorities will not entertain the negative activities that young people are engaging in and "having the sheer guts to publicise the same to all Kenyans." "We will not and we shall not entertain indiscipline and abuse from our young people...you must learn to respect our elders just like the elders must respect and nurture you." Uhuru said the government is committed to ensuring the country builds a society that is cohesive, disciplined, and that has respect. He also warned that students who will be found to have committed irregularities in the KCSE exam, which is ending next week, will be severely punished. "If indeed you are ready to brag about cheating, then we will show you what this nation does to cheats and those who disrespect elders," the President said. Uhuru spoke at State House gardens on Saturday during the Kenya Scouts Association awards to scouts, scouters, scout commissioners and none warranted persons for their great achievement in scouting. Hundreds of scouts attended the event which saw the president agitate for discipline among young people. "Young men and women, you are our future and we are proud of you. Let me send a warning to those young fellows who think they can insult elders that they will be dealt with," he said. "Discipline, selflessness and patriotism are important attributes that we should all aspire to have. I call upon all our youth to reflect on, and practice these values that will greatly contribute to a more productive and fulfilling life," Uhuru told the learners. During the meeting, the President directed the Teachers' Service Commission to allocate two teachers per county to coordinate scouting activities. "The contribution made by the Scouting fraternity in this country cannot be overemphasised," he said. He also asked the National Lands Commission to regularise and hand over all land that belong to the Kenya Scouts Association before close of the year. Click here for the latest political news 