The infighting among Nasa affiliate parties has moved to the Political Parties Tribunal with the coalition demanding that it continues to receive member MPs monthly deductions of Sh10,000. ODM chairman and National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi has written to Clerk Michael Sialai asking that the monthly deductions be channeled to individual parties that sponsored the MPs. Mbadi's directive means ODM stands to benefit because it has the majority of MPs allied to the coalition. The Raila Odinga-led party has 76 MPs followed by Wiper with 23. Musalia Mudavadi's Amani National Congress has 14 while Ford Kenya has 12. ODM also has the majority of the coalition's senators with 20 followed by Wiper and ANC both of which have three. Ford Kenya has one. Read: Power struggles, infighting in NASA cost Raila State House If the lawmakers' contributions are channeled to individual parties, then the coalition's secretariat will be starved off funds. The secretariat is run by the funds deducted from the lawmakers. Nasa wants the tribunal to direct the Registrar of Political Parties to continue channelling the funds to the secretariat. Through lawyer Arnold Odinga, Nasa said it is entitled to receive the deductions and use the funds in accordance with the coalition agreement entered by the parties. “The monies have always been remitted directly into the Nasa bank account for the operations and running of the coalition,” the affidavits say. Odinga said channelling the funds to individual parties will jeopardised and compromise operations of the coalition. Nasa wants the tribunal to suspend the implementation of Mbadi's directive pending inter-parties hearing. It also sought an order directing the Registrar of Political Parties to continue deducting Sh10,000 from all lawmakers and remit the funds to the secretariat. Read: Jubilee pressure, infighting deflate NASA's push for poll reforms Odinga said each affiliate party is responsible for making equal contributions for the management and operations of the coalition and its organs including the secretariat. “The effect of the letter (written by Mbadi) has therefore denied Nasa funds for its continued operations including running of the affairs of the coalition such payment of rent, salaries of staff and expenses incurred in the daily operations,” Odinga said. The coalition has sued ODM, Wiper, ANC and Ford Kenya. The Registrar of Political Parties and the Clerk of National Assembly have been listed as interested parties. Click here for the latest political news