Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has proposed formation of a Public Debt Management Commission to keep government borrowing in check. Speaking during the Institute of Certified Public Accountants (ICPAK) Public Finance and Taxation Conference in Mombasa yesterday, Mudavadi decried Kenya’s ballooning public debt and accused National Treasury of negligence. He said the Public Debt Management Commission should have representative membership from professional bodies that assure independence akin to the office of the Auditor General. “The mandate of this commission should include reviewing and making policy recommendations to best manage public debt; overseeing value for money audits at National Government, County Governments and Agency levels,” Mudavadi said. Other duties should include building capacity for monitoring and evaluation and; supporting government in ensuring that the principle of sovereignty guarantee is observed in debt obligations. Mudavadi’s proposal is coming just less than three month after Treasury advertised 20 positions for debt managers to help stem spiralling loans. “They will provide guidance in determining the borrowing ceiling for national and county governments,” Treasury PS Kamau Thugge said in the job advertisement posted in Kenya Gazette. He said poor debt management witnessed in the past decade alone is enough to put Kenya under receivership. Kenya’s debt has expanded six fold since 2008 when it was Sh873.5 billion to Sh5.1 trillion as at June 2018. "It is Kenyans who bear the consequences of a poorly managed public debt. The public can no longer afford to stand aloof as their country totters on the brink of receivership,’’ Mudavadi said. The public debt is made up of Sh2.5 trillion in domestic debt and Sh2.6 trillion external debt. He regretted that taxpayers and even Parliament have no say on government borrowing in absence of Public Finance Management Act 2015 which was scrapped. "The amendment took away Parliament powers to set debt ceilings and to query Treasury officials. This in effect gave treasury officials a leeway to make decisions and incur massive public debt with little or no input from the citizens,’’ ANC leader said. IMF last month raised the country’s debt vulnerability from low to moderate citing high debt obligation that has eaten heavily into its fiscal plan. “The higher level of debt, together with rising reliance on non-concessional borrowing, have raised fiscal vulnerabilities and increased interest payments on public debt to nearly one fifth of revenue, placing Kenya in the top quartile among its peers,” the IMF said. Mudavadi warned against increasing domestic bond issues, saying it will strangle local businesses out of credit, slowing businesses and making life unbearable for consumers. “Simply put, this public debt is increasingly making life very expensive for the ordinary citizen. The 'kadogo economy' is now transcending the middleclass. Households can no longer afford basic goods. Poverty is increasing." 