Homa Bay Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo on Thursday failed to get into her office after unknown people broke into and sprayed chemicals and broke chairs. The Speaker went the office to conduct her duties but found her office filled with a pungent smell of an unknown chemical. Her new plastic chairs and a table which she bought on Tuesday after the ones she had were broken. Those who got into the office had difficulties breathing, some shed tears while others were coughing. Police officers and detectives who went to the office for forensic analysis claimed the chemical was tiatrics, a chemical used for controlling pests on livestock. "The assembly premises is surrounded by guards and police officers. I do not know why they don’t report destruction cases within the house," Ayoo said. Tiatrics is a poisonous chemical and can kill within minutes after when consumed. Ayoo blamed security guards within the assembly who she accused of laxity. The Speaker sat at her secretary’s office as she talked on her cell phone most of the time. Corridors leading to her office had hawked eye private security guard dressed in coats. Kwabwai ward MCA Richard Ogindo and his Kanyamwa Kosewe counterpart Nicholas Owaka termed the incident as an "assassination attempt". Ogindo blamed a section of assembly staff who he accused of leading the attacks on the Speaker. Owaka said they risk losing their seats if the fight at the assembly is not resolved soon. "Our opponents will use this as a strategy to campaign against us. They will say we failed to do what took us to the assembly," he said. The two MCAs admitted that they have lost direction. "We still have time to change. We have only spent about one year in office after the election. We just need cooperation among ourselves," said Owaka. The assembly was adjourned indefinitely on Tuesday afternoon after some members said their lives were in danger. Read; Court reinstates impeached Homa Bay speaker Also read; Seven Homa Bay MCAs granted bail in Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo's assault case Click here for the latest political news