Are you a PSV driver or conductor operating without a licence? Beware because NTSA is coming for you starting next Monday. Director general Francis Meja said NTSA will also crack down on vehicles operating without proper licences. Statistics show 15 per cent of PSVs operate without licenses. Twenty-six per cent of drivers and 32 per cent of conductors operate without licences. “Beginning Monday, we will find all these people and deal with them according to the law,” Meja said. He spoke yesterday during a meeting between NTSA and PSV sacco officials. PSV drivers should have valid drivers licences and badges. PSV operators have until Monday to ensure they comply with traffic laws, popularly known as the ‘Michuki rules’. “If you shall have not complied with the rules by Monday, please do not put your vehicles on the road. We shall not allow it to operate,” Meja said. Read: Passengers not spared in State's renewed plan to enforce 'Michuki rules' The majority of road accidents are caused by drivers, Meja said. “The decision you take as a driver will determine how the journey will be and what happens to the lives of the passengers,” he said. “You would rather have a delay in the journey but have people reach their destination safely.” NTSA warned drivers against drink driving. Saccos urged NTSA to tell Kenha to mark roads clearly. Meja warned vehicles illegally operating as PSVs at night, popularly known as ‘Usiku sacco’. Proboxes and station wagons have been spotted ferrying passengers at night. The authority said drivers will be fined when found breaking the traffic rules. NTSA said all PSV operators should wear uniform with conductors dressed in blue and drivers in maroon. Vehicles must also be insured and not have tinted windows. In the last three days, Nairobi mechanics have had long working hours to serve the increasing number of customers to meet the traffic regulations. Mechanics and auto-electricians told the Star that since the crackdown began on Sunday, they have been receiving many vehicles in their garages. Moses Irungu, a mechanic at a Ngara garage, said since Sunday, he has fitted seatbelts on an average of 20 PSVs a day. More: Kenyans stranded as traffic cops enforce Michuki rules Click here for
the latest political news