Starehe
MP Charles Njagua alias Jaguar has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to help
traders access goods impounded at the port of Mombasa. Njagua
said there were legally imported goods, which have been detained at the port
making it difficult for small-scale traders to access them and go on with their
business. He
also asked Uhuru to crack the whip on rogue immigration officers who have
colluded with some state agencies to frustrate the businessmen. "We
had agreed with the President that small-scale traders would easily access
their imported goods and do their business. Counterfeits should be separated
from the rest while the rest should be released to the traders. Nothing has yet
to be done and the traders are suffering," he said. The
MP said that the traders should not be punished for the mistake of a few rogue
businessmen who imported fake goods. In
July this year, Nairobi traders staged street protests over alleged harassment
by government agencies and destruction of their goods. They
complained of harassment by Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), anti-counterfeit
agency and the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs). They
also cited cases where KRA and counter-feit officers destroyed their goods at
the port under the pretense of fighting importation of fake goods in the
country. The
Nairobi Importers and Traders Association chairman Ben Mutahi, said their goods
took long to be cleared at the port leading to massive losses. He
claimed that the agencies had formed a cartel which was extorting traders to
clear goods at the port. They
also protested the influx of foreign traders in the country. “We
would like the Ministry of Trade to give guidance of what they expect small-scale
people to do in this country. Why should the KPA hold thousands of containers
for months without clearing?  Is that
well for the country when containers are piling up at the Port of Mombasa for
months?” Mutai said. In
August, the traders petitioned Parliament against KRA’s decision to destroy all
goods in a container found with a few contraband items, saying that only the
illicit goods should be seized and destroyed.