Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot on Saturday rallied Homa Bay residents to back his referendum campaign targetting to abolish the position of deputy governor. The politician, in his Punguza Mzigo endeavours, also wants positions of nominated MCAs, Senators, and other invaluable posts scrapped. He said the only constitutional change that can be desired by Kenyans is one that results in a reduction of the wage bill, which has been touted as a reason for the country's expanded tax regimes. Aukot encouraged youths from the county to participate in the quest to amend the Constitution by signing the 'Punguza Mzigo' forms. See: Aukot takes Punguza Mzigo campaigns to Nyeri county The lawyer, who was among the drafters of the Constitution, said youths are the majority of Kenyans, hence, their proposals should be factored in the required amendments. "Take advantage of the initiative to avoid politicians from hijacking the process. Politicians will only bring talk of how they should share positions," Aukot said. During the meeting at Posta grounds in Homa Bay town, Aukot lashed out leaders who use tribe as a means to achieving political agenda. The Thirdway Alliance party leader told Kenyan youths to unite and live in harmony, giving the example of the truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. He said there is no better time to deal with the over-representation in the country than now adding that salaries for the president and legislators be slashed. "The country will have a debt of Sh7 trillion by 2022 and should we fail to address the matter Kenya will die economically," Aukot said. Aukot also addressed youths in Oyugis town and Kendu Bay town before heading to Migori county. In his proposal, he wants constitutional commissions to comprise of not more than five part-time members who will be sitting on 'as-need-basis'. He also wants the billions of shillings spent in voter registration done away with. "Any Kenyan aged above 18 with an ID card shall be deemed as a registered voter for purposes of elections and referenda. This will save Kenyans the billions IEBC spends on voter registration," Aukot said. Thirdway Alliance has collected more than 600,000 signatures in the push for a referendum, according to the party’s Secretary General Fredrick Okango. The party's officials have been to Baringo, Eldoret, Elgeyo Marakwet, Isiolo, Iten, Kiambu, Molo, Naivasha, Nakuru, Samburu, Thika, Turbo, and Uasin Gishu for the task. 'Punguza Mzigo' aims at collecting one million signatures to endorse a referendum. Read: Aukot launches campaign to reduce number of lawmakers to 194 Click here for the latest political news  