President Uhuru Kenyatta is in China for the inaugural China International Import Expo (CIIE) on invitation of President Xi Jingping. The expo is scheduled to run from November 5-10.  A number of China's trade partners are expected to attend. Uhuru met with Xi Jinping ahead of the meeting aimed at providing new channels for countries as well as regions to do business. The discussions shall aim at strengthening cooperation with China "to promote common prosperity of the world economies and trade." The president said the talks were centered on promoting economic and trade exchange and cooperation between the two countries. "I wish to express our appreciation to President Xi for initiating the process of opening up the Chinese markets to our exports, and for ensuring that Africa is a key facet of this mutually beneficial economic model," he tweeted on Sunday. He added that access to the Chinese market will have a positive impact on the lives of common people. "This will help counter any negative propaganda peddled by detractors of our strong Sino-African relations. As a nation, we look forward to an open Chinese market for Kenya’s exports," the President said. He was accompanied by Cabinet Secretaries Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs), Peter Munya (Trade), James Macharia (Transport), among other officials.  President Uhuru Kenyatta leads the Kenyan delegation to the China International Import Expo in a meeting with their host on Saturday, November 4, 2018. /PSCU Uhuru's latest trip come hot on the heels of his defence for the close ties between China and Kenya. The Head of State told CNN in a recent interview that Kenya has a lot to gain by working with the Chinese government. He dismissed claims that Kenya is over-borrowing from China adding that the State gets funds from other nations as well. Uhuru cited the US, African Development Bank, France's AfD, Japan, and the World Bank as some of the partners. "I am not worried about us borrowing, my only worry would be if that debt goes to interfere with our current expenditure," he said. See: I'll leave office in 2022, Uhuru tells CNN, defends Chinese loans The President was last in China in August for the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) which was held in Beijing. His visit saw Chinese private investors lining up for public-private partnership deals worth billions of shillings with Kenyan entities. From the PPP initiatives, two major roads will be constructed in in North Eastern. They are the Modogashe-Habaswein-Samatar and Elwak-Rhamu road. The roads will cost Sh15 billion and would be constructed under the Kenya government’s roads annuity program. Read: Uhuru leaves for China-Africa summit Also read: More Chinese private investors line up for public partnerships Click here for the latest political news   