Bungoma MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have criticised Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, saying the minister was campaigning against the DP's 2022 presidential bid. Eugene recently said he will either contest for president or support ODM leader Raila Odinga. MP Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) and Sirisia’s John Waluke have since held rallies to criticise Eugene, saying he was decamping after Ruto helped him to land a Cabinet job. “We helped our brother Eugene to get a cabinet position through Ruto. He is now running up and down campaigning against Ruto in the pretext of supporting Raila,” Waluke said at a rally in Kabula, Bumula constituency on Tuesday. He said Eugene has for a long time misused the Luhya community for selfish gains. Barasa said Eugene was a confused politicians who was unable to run even for an elective seat in last year's elections. “Eugene lost network long time ago. He can’t even vie for an MCA seat in his Trans Nzoia backyard and win,” Barasa said. Mabonga said Eugene was exploiting the advantage of being born in a political dynasty. “He keeps on riding on his late brothers’s name yet when given positions he never helps residents,” Mabonga said. He was referring to Eugene's brother and former Vice President Kijana Wamalwa who died in August 2002. On Saturday, the CS said the MPs were mediocre in their attack. “I am saying I wont engage in mediocrity. The MPs should play their role and stop bootlicking," Euge said. He was speaking at a funeral in Sirisia. The three MPs attended the funeral. Eugene said Luhyas should not rush to support Ruto. The MPs asked Eugene to account for 4,000 iron sheets he was given by Ruto to distribute to Bumula residents. They said only 2,000 iron sheets were given out. They asked the CS to apologise to them or they declare him an enemy of the people. Speaking to the star on phone on Tuesday, Eugene said he will make his political decision about 2022 when campaign time comes. He said it was premature to engage in politics when leaders ought to focus on development. "This is the time for leaders to serve the people and not engage in a public spat,” Eugene said. The CS said the MPs cannot compel him to "jump into political wagon." On Tuesday, Eugene accompanied Senator Cleophas Malala in Kakamega where they also bashed pro-Ruto crusaders. Malala said those campaigning for Ruto in Western should forget votes from the region because Luhyas will not support Ruto.      