Teachers Service Commission has commenced disciplinary action against 26 teachers for aiding or abetting cheating in this year’s KCPE exam, whose results were released yesterday. “They will be dealt with expeditiously and ruthlessly. We cannot allow a few people to destroy the future of our children,” TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said, while praising thousands of other teachers who ensured the exam was a success. She announced that TSC will soon award three teachers who went out their way to protect the integrity of the exam by reporting suspected cases of cheating to the authorities. Four out of the 1,052,364 pupils who sat the exam had their results cancelled after they were involved in impersonation. Speaking at Sea Primary School in Mombasa when she released the results, Education CS Amina Mohamed said the four were ‘would-be’ cases detected during exam monitoring by the multi-agency teams deployed to man the exams. “During monitoring, our vigilant teams discovered four candidates guilty of impersonation,” she said. Amina said deployment of multi-agency teams of security officers, teachers, headteachers and quality assurance officers ensured that planned cheating by unscrupulous teachers, parents and candidates weer foiled. Amina said cases of attempted cheating through early exposure of exams papers were detected and culprits dealt with. “The 2018 exam was conducted in one of the most level fields ever. We have completely wiped out cases where exams were leaked with much abandon. The results are therefore a pure reflection of hard work,” Amina said. “I am happy to announce that the ministry has now managed to stamp out cases in which some private schools operated multiple examination centres with the aim of engaging in unethical practices meant to enable them record favourable rankings in national examinations. “In this scheme, the schools registered students considered brighter in separate centres while leaving those viewed as weaker in another centre. This practice has been addressed and the affected schools listed for action.” Macharia asked managers of private schools to ensure they employ TSC registered to ensure education standards and code of regulations are adhered to. This, she said, will weed out errant teachers who engage in exam irregularities and other malpractices. “There will be no room for quacks in teaching, and that should be find any manager that has flouted these regulations then we shall write to the ministry to deregister these schools,” she said. Knec chairman George Maghoha said the test was largely credible and downplayed the four cases as a very per cent age compared the a million plus students who sat the exam. “A very small percentage of teachers, examination officers, TSC officials even Knec people are still in he habit of trying to expose the exams prematurely. You should be ashamed of yourself because we will not allow you,” he said. Maghoha urged education stakeholders to sustain the ‘exam integrity bar’ that has been set in the last three years to ensure the quality and credibility of education. Education PS Belio Kipsang urged parents to desist from pressuring their children for high marks. “Lets celebrate our children because what we shall receive are the best that our children could give us. Lets not look like we were waiting for something else more than what our parents gave us,” he said.