Dating older men has become the cool thing among many young
career women and college girls. Two of them shared their experience with the Star of
six years with male 'sponsors'. The phenomenon itself has long existed before this
generation, but the term 'sponsor' was introduced recently to refer to older men
who date young women and give them money. One does not necessarily have to
have an intimate relationship with a girl for him to be considered a sponsor, but one automatically becomes a sponsor once he gives money to a girl
for whatever reason, be it for rent, upkeep, hair, nails, rent, tuition or
even partying. In most cases, a sponsor is often someone’s husband, who
is bound to leave the beneficiary for his family when all is said and done. Those who have embraced the habit of having a sponsor get money and in return his dry bones get to creak under her caressing care, and he gets rejuvenated by her youthful warmth. He can pay her rent in a
decent apartment, buy her jewellery, take her places she only reads about in
magazines or use his position to get her a job. Fauzia, 23, and Wambui, 24, have openly
decided to share their life in the city of Nairobi, which is well taken care of
by having sponsors in their lives.  STARTING OUT How did it all begin for Fauzia? "My parents died and I had two siblings who were
still in school, whom I had to take care of as well as educate them as the big
sister," she said. "I am a Muslim and because of my religion, I was forced
into marriage before even completing my school. The marriage was not successful
because we did not know each other and we were just brought together by our
parents. The guy became abusive and I decided to leave his place together with
my children. Remember I also had my siblings and my aunts don't even recognise
us. "The only option I had due to the challenges I was facing
then was to look for a man in a dating site. That was my first sponsor I
would say in my life. "I have three sponsors, one whom I got from the dating site and the other two, I got from a bar. We exchanged phone numbers and the rest is history." Wambui, on the other hand, said she has come from far. "I came from a very humble background, and I was raised by
a single mother," she said. "Unlike long ago, when sponsors were said to be above 50
years, I have two sponsors; one who pays rent, and the other one pays school fees
for my kid. One is 32 years and the other one 38 years. "I have a deadbeat baby daddy who does not even know where
his child lives or what he feeds on. The reason I can't date young men is because he (baby
daddy) was a young man and ran away after three months; he abandoned us. "My life with a sponsor started with my neighbour's husband, who noticed I was having a problem and he started taking care of me and my baby
by even buying medicine for my child. who was diagnosed with leukemia. He
told me to let him know when I have a problem. That was how we started."  GROUND RULES Dating a sponsor is a full-time job, complete with
deliberate ground rules, like not calling at certain hours. He is the man a
woman would save as ‘Mzee wa Stima’ on her phone. "I don't fear anything because when you are dating a
married man, there are limitations he will put," Fauzia explains. First, you are not supposed to call him at night but just send him a message. You are also not supposed to expose yourself to his wife. "I am not supposed to call him when he says he is
home. If his wife learns about you, don't look for the wife to quarrel her
because he (sponsor) will go away," she says. As for selfie lovers, you are not supposed to take photos
with his phone. Wambui says, "If am videoing in his car, he should not be seen with me. I
can be seen in those big hotels but not him, his number plates should also not
be seen." Fauzia added: "I have been having sponsors for six years now and I
can't stay without them in my life, it is adventurous. I can't date a young man
because they will limit money for me. Right now I just call and I get what I
want. "It is fine for me because I am happy and living without
fear. I use PrEP (a pill taken by negative people to protect them from contracting HIV), although I also use protection just in case of condom burst."  DIVISION OF ROLES Regarding the potential of clashes, Fauzia said: "I make sure I schedule all my sponsors such that
they cannot met. I meet one and lie to the other that I have gone for a
business trip. "The life that I am living you cannot live without. It is fun
and adventure. I have three sponsors. One pays my Sh12,000 rent and does my
shopping monthly. The second one pays school feels for my sister and the third
is for travelling, and he is the most frequent one I meet. As a lady, I don't allow
them come to the house. They shop for me and drop the shopping then we go and
hang out outside Nairobi because they are all married and their wives are
within." The two women said they are content living with sponsors, and they don't regret, so long as they abide by the wishes of the sponsors. "We admire to have
our own husbands, but when the guy comes and tells me his wife is complaining that
she is not getting enough money, then I think sticking with sponsors is the
best," Wambui said. "For those who have parents, make sure you work hard, and for those who don't have parents and have sponsors, be safe, follow their
limits."  FATAL ATTRACTION Girls who have lost their lives while allegedly dating so-called sponsors include: Sharon Otieno The 26-year-old university student was killed on September 3 in Homa Bay county. Migori Governor Okoth Obado has been charged with her murder. He denies the charges.  Carol Ngumbi She was found murdered alongside the then IEBC ICT official Chris Msando in July last year. They had been reported missing on July 28.  Mercy Keino The 25-year-old university student died in June 2011. Her body was found dumped on Waiyaki Way, Nairobi. She had attended a party at Wasini Luxury Homes on Church Road, Westlands, about 100m from where her body was found. A governor has denied involvement in the case.