Promising forward Ezekiel Okare who joined Ulinzi Stars is gunning to swing straight to action after his confirmation at the team as he starts a new challenge in just his second top flight team. Signed from Sofapaka, Okare comes highly recommended and will be expected to take the mantle of leading the attack in head coach Dunstan Nyaudo’s side. While acknowledging it as a big move for him, he said he wants to repay the faith with as many goals as possible in the coming season. He has already linked up with the team for pre-season training in Mombasa and may feature in a friendly match against second tier side, Modern Coast Rangers. “I am happy to make this move. It is a new challenge for me and an opportunity to continue my growth both as a person and as a player. I am ready for it. So far, the support has been good and I am thankful to Ulinzi. My target is to score as many goals as possible, to repay that faith,” he said as he signed the deal. Okare, a graduate of Business Studies from Moi University, is expected to add depth in The Don’s forward line that has Oscar Wamalwa, Elijah Mwanzia, Masita Masuta and Mark Bikokwa. Ulinzi have since released Oscar Kasuti on mutual agreement as the team shapes up for the 2018-19 season of the Kenyan Premier League. The Kenya Under-23 international was scouted by the team’s former coach Robert Matano and signed up right from high school and grew to be an integral part of the team with his biggest asset being his pace and trickery on the flanks. He will be joining Sofapaka for his next adventure in the KPL to replace Okare. Nyaudo described him a loyal servant and great team player while wishing him the best in his future endeavours. “We will always cherish those moments we had with Kasuti. He was a loyal servant to the club and his quality was all clear for everyone to see. We wanted a centre forward to beef up the team and we had to make a replacement. “He is a great talent and leaves with our blessings. I just want to wish him the best in his next adventure as well as future endeavours,” The Don said. Kasuti scored twice for Ulinzi Stars in the 2018 season.