Residents of Narok will now have easy access to specialised medical care after the government unveiled a fully operational Intensive Care Unit and CT scan centre at the county referral hospital. While unveiling the Sh150 million facility yesterday, Deputy President William Ruto said this was part of attaining the universal health coverage, which was part of the Jubilee manifesto and the government’s Big Four agenda. “The residents of Narok will no longer have to go for CT scans in Nakuru or Nairobi counties. The services are now available here at the referral hospital,” the DP said. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta commissioned the facility in September of last year. The CT scan machines will provide a boost in the fight against various forms of cancer and other non-communicable diseases by enabling early detection and management. The centre has been fitted with a fully operational theatre, renal unit, an automatic generator for power backup, cloud imaging devices, laser and thermal printers and equipment to measure radiation levels. Ruto was accompanied by governors Samuel Tunai (Narok), Joyce Laboso (Bomet) and Joseph Lenku (Kajiado). Tunai said the high cost of medical care had impoverished families in the county. “The huge medical bills have made many people to be poor. The introduction of this facility will be a big relief to Narok residents as they will now seek medical attention without fear,” Tunai said. Laboso said that UHC is the best legacy the Jubilee government will leave to Kenyans. “Every weekend, we attend many harambees and most of them go towards people who have communicable and non-communicable diseases,” said Laboso. Lenku said this will save Kenyans from huge expenses they incur when seeking medical services abroad. Last week, Health CS Sicily Kariuki launched a CT scan center at King Fahad Referral Hospital in Lamu. This was the second hospital in the coast to get a CT scan after the one at Voi Referral Hospital in Taita Taveta launched by Ruto two months ago. Other fully functional CT centres are the Thika Level Five Hospital in Kiambu, Iten Referral Hospital in Elgeyo Marakwet and Kakamega Referral Hospital. Similar centers which have been completed and are waiting to be officially launched include Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Uasin Gishu, Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital, Isiolo county Referral Hospital, Migori Referral Hospital, Kerugoya Referral Hospital in Kirinyaga, Embu Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital and Hola Referral Hospital in Tana River county. Click here for the latest political news