Football Kenya Federation has launched another protest following the shock decision by CAF to reinstate Equatorial Guinea to the African Women’s Cup of Nations  scheduled to start in Ghana next weekend.
FKF chief executive officer, Robert Muthomi, in a letter addressed to Amr Fakhi, the Caf boss laid out reasons that had made their initial appeal successful and gave additional evidence to cry foul over the ruling that might bar Harambee Starlets form the tournament.
“Pursuant to our protest letter against Equatorial Guinea dated June 9, 2018 and your response dated August 14, 2018, we would like to provide further evidence which we believe is clear indicator that due process was not followed in allowing  this particular player to play for the Equatorial Guinea national women’s team.
As per the information we have, this player—Annette Jacky Messomo (PP No F0045258)— is of Cameroonian nationality and even played club football in Cameroon as herein stated among others—Minafe Yaounde (2008-2010),  Louvess Minproff (2011-2013) and Panthere Security (2014),” said Muthomi.
“The player has also played for the following clubs Karlsruher (Germany) in 2014, Sparta Praga (Czech Republic); 2014-2015; Spartak Subotika (Serbia) 2015-2016 and BIIK Kazygurt (Kazakhstan) 2016,” Muthomi listed.
“As per the above data, the player was born in Cameroon on March 1, 1993 and started playing club football at the age of 15 at Minafe Yaounde and at no time has she played club football in Equatorial Guinea or domiciled there,” he pointed out.
The federation in a further statement signed by the communication chief, Barry Otieno, said they were profoundly astonished by Caf Appeal Board’s decision to reinstate the Equatorial Guinea women football team to the 2018 Awcon, 10 days to the commencement of the tournament.
“As Football Kenya Federation, it is our position that the decision by the Caf Appeals Board is a great injustice not only to our national team, Harambee Starlets but also to the millions of Kenyan fans spread across the world, the Kenyan government and the federation, which has since dedicated enormous resources in preparations for the 2018 Awcon.”
Caf integrated Equitorial Guinea in the Awcon tourney after finding the appeal launched by the country admissable. This means that if the status quo does not change Kenya will have no choice but to sit out of the tourney.