Is a high profile cabinet secretary set to lose his job and in his place comes ex-Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto? Sources whispered to Corridors that the recent high profile delegation to the home of the Chama Cha Mashinani Party boss was to finalise the plans. Isaac, its said has been consulting closely with Deputy President William Ruto in Nairobi. The cabinet secretary whose job is on the line has been mentioned in various scandals. He is also said to have shifted his loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta rather than Ruto who gave him the job. The courting of Isaac, a known grassroots mobiliser is believed to be a strategy to cement Rift Valley behind the DP's 2022 bid. ***** Things are thick for a first time MP from the Rift Valley. The MP is said to be involved in human trafficking targeting young girls from South America, Asia, and Europe. The girls are then engaged in prostitution with high end clientèle who pay handsomely. Our mole in the police service told Corridors that the police have been struggling to piece up strong evidence against the MP who is never mentioned during the raids. Whereas the police have branded the girls hideouts area as brothels, our mole told us they are just homes for the girls to stay before they are connected with rich men. The MP is under siege after police successfully raided a number of his operation houses to deport the girls. The parliamentarian is concerned who has been leaking the information. ***** Is there a corruption case where investigating agencies were told to go slow? Some allies of a top Jubilee leader were heard using the example of the multi-billion shilling probe to justify their claim that the purge is political. According to the politicians, the file is being “sat on” even after investigations were concluded. Its believed the probe would have ended the career of a high flying civil servant. The politicians claim they would as well use the example to call the bluff of some investigating agencies that are relentlessly pursuing their people. ***** Still on corruption, some suppliers in one of the county governments at the Coast are feeling the heat. Sources whispered to Corridors that their accounts where million of suspicious cash was wired by the county government remains frozen. Its not clear if officials of the county government who made the dubious transactions are also on the radar of sleuths. One thing seems clear though, the suppliers who were apparently looking for shortcuts are regretting their move. Click here for
the latest political news