Long serving Telkom head coach Jos Openda is contemplating relinquishing his rank after leading the hockey queens to their 21st domestic league title over the weekend. Telkom successfully retained their crown after their closest challengers Strathmore University Scorpions failed in their bid to catch up with them following their barren draw with Chase Amira over the weekend. The result left Telkom with a five-point lead against Strathmore, who they face in the final match on December 9. Openda and a handful of Telkom players watched from the VIP section as Amira frustrated Scorpions to a barren draw which turned out to be a blessing for them—sealing  their 21st league title. The tactician tipped four members of his technical bench members to succeed him should they emerge victorious in the Africa Club Championships set for December 17-24 in Nigeria. “I am pleased with the team especially their goal scoring rate which has improved this season. We now turn focus on reclaiming the Club Championships where I am planning to relinquish the head coach role should we come out successful in Nigeria. I have been grooming my successor and I have potential ladies who will fill the position. However, this does not mean I am leaving the team. I will be on the technical bench as well as working with the youthful team to secure the future of the club.” The award winning coach said plans are underway for the continental tournament where they will be aiming to redeem themselves after finishing runners up in the last edition. Openda said Telkom had resorted to playing men’s Premier League title hopefuls Butali Warriors and Parkroad Badgers in friendly matches to boost their confidence. “We began preparations long ago for the club championships and recently we have decided to play men’s sides to boost our confidence. We have played and trained with Parkroad and Butali as well as USIU-A Spartans and I am looking forward to playing many more before we jet out. We have set sights on the crown which will open an opportunity for a female coach to take up my role.” 