Until early this year, there was considerable improvement in the state of security and human rights in Mombasa and the Coast. However, in the recent past, there has been a sharp increase in crime and violation of human rights. This is evidenced by the rise in criminal activities, extrajudicial killings as well as mob justice. Records show that in the past three months, at least 25 people have been killed in Mombasa alone either by police, criminal gangs or the public. At least 15 were felled by police bullets, six by gangs and the rest by lynch mobs. Haki Africa undertook a rapid assessment to establish the cause of the unrest. The assessment was done through focus group discussions and interviews with youths, community leaders as well as police and other security personnel. The preliminary findings reveal that there are six major causes of insecurity that need to be addressed. The first is acute unemployment and/or idleness. This is attributed to the closure of clearing and forwarding agencies as a result of the SGR direct transportation of cargo from the Port of Mombasa to Nairobi. Thousands have lost their jobs and are now idle. To make ends meet, they are turning to odd jobs, illegal dealings and trade-offs. Second is trigger-happy police officers who shoot and kill at will. As already mentioned, in the past three months more people have been killed by the police than those killed by lynch mobs and criminals put together. While the security authorities openly deny a shoot-to-kill strategy in Mombasa, the actions of junior officers point towards an elimination squad that targets known criminals and terror suspects for assassination. Senior officers need to do more to end police impunity and ensure junior officers operate within the confines of the law. The third reason is rampant drug abuse. Mombasa has been a hub of drugs, with well-connected individuals who are protected by unscrupulous security and judicial officers distributing illicit drugs all over the area. Once the drugs are consumed, they charge up the user, raising their testosterone and driving them to commit crimes. Further, when funds for drugs run out, the users engage in crime in order to raise money to buy the narcotics. Fourth, poor parenting and lack of role models have seen youth easily hoodwinked by criminals and terrorists to carry out illegal activities. Parents, professionals and religious leaders must do more to help the youth to become law-abiding citizens. Easy access to weapons and small arms, including pangas, is the fifth reason. Pangas, knives as well as guns for hire are readily available. This must be dealt with if crime levels are to go down. Finally, there’s social media and violent television entertainment that glorifies negative social behaviour and makes crime “fashionable”. In this age of smartphones and WiFi, youths have easy access to criminal information. The internet is awash with information on how to make a weapon, immobilise an opponent, etc. As an organisation, Haki Africa is calling on security and social actors to work together to address the above issues, protect human rights, and enhance peace and security. In the study, communities said if the national and county governments work together, then insecurity will decline. Indeed, if the above issues are to be addressed, concerted efforts are required to bring together security agencies such as police and chiefs as well as communities, including parents, youth and nyumba kumi actors. Haki Africa therefore calls on governors and county commissioners at the Coast to work together, in the spirit of the handshake, to ensure the right to security is enhanced. hkhalid2000@gmail.com