The Water ministry has revoked the Coast Water Service board's decision to suspend CEO Jacob Torrut. Joseph Keter, on behalf of Principal Secretary Joseph Irungu, said the attempt to remove the chief executive was illegal. Torrut was on November 9 suspended by chairperson Sureya Hersi. She cited absenteeism, neglect of duty, and insubordination. "The board has decided that you hand over to Martin Tsuma on November 13, 2018, and proceed on annual leave until further notice," Hersi said in the letter to Torut. "The board will meet to discuss your conduct and the outcome will be communicated to you," the 14-day showcause letter reads in part. However, the ministry came to the defence of Torrut, saying that Hersi has no powers to execute the official's suspension. Keter, in response to Hersi's letter to Torrut, further says that the Coast Water Service Board is not properly constituted. "In view of the above, the ministry will not sanction any more board meetings until a new board is constituted under the Water Works Development Agency,"  Keter said. Also read: Coast Water CEO Jacob Torrut suspended for gross misconduct He adds that the role of the board is to investigate the complaints levelled against the CEO. They are then to forward the resolution to the Cabinet Secretary for further action. "The Cabinet Secretary has not been formally informed of any complaint on the management of Coast Water Service board," Keter says. "There are no weighty matters to warrant a board meeting as the allegations levelled against the CEO have not been properly adjudicated." He adds: "The chief executive will continue discharging his duties as stipulated by the appointing authority." In Hersi's letter, she had accused Torrut of skipping a crucial meeting with the Parliamentary Committee on Water and Environment. "To the disappointment of the honourable MPs, you chose to fly home without meeting them. You did not get permission from me yet it was at 3pm, which is working hours," she said. "You have neglected or refused to implement board resolutions and only work for two days. You are always away without permission. You are not serving the interests of the board." Click here for the latest political news