As debates heighten on whether China-Africa relations represent enduring partnership or are reminiscent of European colonisation, experts have warned that Africa should watch out the kind of information they consume regarding relations with China. Experts are concerned about the propagandist narratives that may see Africa miss out on the excellent opportunity to grow alongside China through strategic partnership and drawing lessons from the Chinese journey to an industrial powerhouse. The Western world has argued that China is practising debt-trap diplomacy in its economic engagement with Africa. Thus, from a Western perspective, the relationship is an “evil symbiosis”, as coined by Prof Peter Kagwanja at an Experts’ Seminar in Nairobi called ‘Securing Development: China-Africa Cooperation in Governance, Peace and Security’. According to experts, China is committed to fostering a strategic partnership and equitable economic development in Africa. The circumstances of China-Africa relations have been received with intense bashing, leading to disinformation and obscure representation of both China and Africa. Both China and Africa are seen as corrupt, where China is exploiting and trapping Africa with its huge loans. The critics view Sino-Africa Relations along the lenses of the clash of civilisation and the Thucydides Trap where the western civilisation is being clashed by China and ignorantly trapping Africa with debt. Prof Peter Kagwanja the chief Executive of the Africa Policy Institute noted “the current China-Africa engagement is predicated on the lessons learnt down history lane, China-Africa relations did not have imperial nor colonial characteristics, for instance territory acquisition but trade, exchange of ideas and intellectuals.” He added that the idea of African Renaissance is going hand in hand with the rise of China, where the Chinese dream is enabling the African dream to flourish. SHAPING PARTNERSHIPS China-Africa relations have grown in part to inspire other development partners to change their strategies while dealing with Africa. It is true that China has shadowed the west to become Africa’s top financier. China-Africa partnerships have shaped the path for other development partners to follow. Today Africa’s thinking can now inform global development. For instance, the African common position on the Post-2015 Development Agenda. Chinese Charge d’Affaires in Nairobi Li Xuhang said China believes the root causes of instability and conflict in Africa lie in poverty and underdevelopment. Thus, equitable development is the key to solving all problems, including security issues. Thanks to China, relations between the West and Africa are focusing more on trade and investment rather than structural adjustment and socially engineering procedures. China has pledged to support African governments in the fight against corruption by setting up an Africa-China Law Enforcement and Security Forum. The forum will facilitate sharing of experience between Chinese and African police. It will also provide police equipment for African law enforcement officers. China presents what is essentially an ethical aid policy, based on principles of mutuality. This is a road of win-win for all on an equal and reciprocal basis. China has stepped up mutual trust with the developing countries, explored complementarities and realised common development. China goes to great lengths to avoid entanglement in the internal or domestic affairs of partner states like Kenya. China assumes that the responsibility for identifying, implementing or evaluating China-funded projects belongs to the host country. China showcases its soft power in its peace and security deliberations in Africa as important aspects of cooperation partnership and equitable economic development During the 2018 FOCAC Summit, Africa and China agreed to strengthen peace and security cooperation to provide a robust guarantee for Africa’s peaceful development and China-Africa pragmatic cooperation. As stated by Ambassador Li Xuhang, China has established the China-Africa Peace and Security Fund and is making commendable contributions to peace and security in Africa, which has enhanced cooperation between the two countries. China takes pro-active roles in the United Nations’ peacekeeping missions, and it has become the largest UN troop contributor in Africa. Beijing has also provided a total of Sh10 billion of military assistance to the African Union to support the establishment of the African Standby Force and the African Capacity for Immediate Response to Crisis. In summary, the experts took the position that Africa should create its own narrative on China-Africa relations, which are not influenced by Western or any other opinions. If the China-Africa partnership is of value to Africa, it is the responsibility of Africa to tell the world why that is so. Annah Kihiu is the Executive Assistant to the Chief Executive, Africa Policy Institute