The rains are finally here, bringing the prospect of well-manicured lawns. Beautiful gardens do not just happen. They are created by carefully tending the grass and trimming the hedges. Though mowing a lawn seems simple enough, it pays to invest in the right tools for the job. Car and General Stocks’ Briggs and Stratton range of ride-on mowers push lawn mowers and brush cutters for both domestic and commercial use. Sales manager Loise Wangui explains the different kinds of lawn mowers below, and gives guidelines on choosing the most appropriate one for individual needs.  WALK-BEHIND LAWNMOWERS These are the most commonly used lawn mowers, which are either push or self-propelled lawnmowers. In case of a push lawnmower, the operator stands behind and pushes the equipment, whereas the self-propelled operator’s job is simply to guide the machine. Walk-behind mowers come in a variety of sizes, depending on the acreage of your garden and how much money you wish to spend. For a typical townhouse backyard garden, the basic 3.5 horsepower is most appropriate. This is small, simple to operate, pocket-friendly and easy to maintain. For bigger gardens, it is wiser to invest in a 6 horsepower or more. Most mowers have inbuilt grass collectors, either in canvas or plastic, for people not wishing to rake the lawn after mowing. They also have height adjustors so you can cut grass to your desired height. The quality of a mower is determined by the deck on which the engine sits. These come in a choice of aluminum, alloy or cast iron decks, which last longer and do not rust from the wet grass. Some models have self-cleaning nozzles and higher rear wheels, making them easier to move on thick grass.  RIDE-ON MOWERS These are most suitable for big gardens, golf courses, school fields, playgrounds and ranches. As the name suggests, the rider sits on the mower so it is less tiring to the operator. It has the advantage of speed, so it can mow a large area in a short time. The mowers are available in several sizes with different specifications. With so much variety in the market, Briggs and Stratton have designed their units to ensure comfort and speed while mowing.  BRUSH CUTTERS These are powered garden tools used to trim hedges, small trees, long grass and foliage not accessible by a lawnmower. Various blades, or trimmer heads, can be attached to the machine for specific applications. The base range is the 2hp engine, which is adequate for domestic use, while the more powerful 3hp engine is ideal for commercial purposes. These are light to carry and operate, with the main advantage of ergonomic design, which makes them easy to manoeuvre.