Nyandarua stone miners have protested against introduction of new building materials, which hurts their livelihoods. The construction industry has adopted expanded polystyrene (EPS) panels to reduce production costs and improve structural quality, safety and energy efficiency. The panels are lightweight and rigid; they provide wall insulation and are water-resistant. The National Housing Corporation built a Sh700 million plant in Mavoko, Machakos, to produce the panels. It was commissioned in 2012. The factory relies on EPS materials used for packaging electronics. Despite the milestone, quarry workers view it as a ‘curse’ that could drive them out of business. Nyandarua stone workers say the ‘foreign technology’ is killing the industry and their livelihoods. The county government is currently building 51 ECDE classes using the new panels. Quarry workers are angry. Nyandarua is known for its quality building stones, which are transported to other parts of the country. They call it their ‘gold’. Hezron Gachara from an Ol Kalou quarry said they also have many customers from other counties, including Nairobi, Nakuru, Laikipia, Baringo, Eldoret and Nyeri. “But those from other counties are now asking why Nyandarua county has embraced plastics from China at the expense of locally available quality material,” he said. Gachara dismissed claims the EPS technology is cheap. He said a Sh800,000 classroom built using local materials would cost Sh1.2 million if EPS materials are used. He accused the county government of planning to kill the quarry industry, yet many people rely on it directly and indirectly. Huge investment Efforts to get comments from Transport, Energy and Public Works executive Stephen Mbugua were unsuccessful. He did not return calls. “We feel it is the governor who introduced the EPS technology here, as it was not used before. He has backtracked on the agenda he sold to quarry workers who voted overwhelmingly for him,” Gachara said. The Ol Kalou town quarry alone has directly employed more than 3,000 people. They include loaders, machine operators, truck drivers and welders. Other beneficiaries are dealers, petrol stations, hardware and masons. “The county generates the highest revenue from quarries. We must be protected,” Timothy Thiong’o said. He said some residents have invested heavily in machinery. Others took bank loans to buy excavators, generators and cutting machines, he said. He said more than Sh70 million has been invested in the Ol Kalou town quarry. “Many people won’t be able to service their bank loans if the EPS technology has been adopted in Kenya’s housing sector as a way of building quality houses at a low cost,” Thiong’o cautioned. China is famous for its EPS building materials that have been imported by many countries. EPS is used widely in the building and construction industry. it is inert, strong, durable and lightweight. Vermin do not eat it.    