Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati and Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni have discussed expanded partnership and attracting Ugandan investors. They discussed setting an industrial park in Webuye. The two leaders spoke on the sidelines of the Blue Economy Conference in Nairobi. Bungoma communications director Tim Machi yesterday told the Star the meeting was meant to cement partnership between the Ugandan government and the county on the industrial park. The county, through the Ministry of Trade, plans to set up the industrial park at Wananchi area during the current financial year. The two leaders also explored ways in which Bungoma can partner with Uganda to establish projects and attract Ugandan investors to Bungoma. The meeting is a follow-up onWangamati’s recent visit to Uganda where he went to benchmark the building of industrial parks. public participation Uganda is well-known for its industrial parks for ago-processing that have lifted the economy and provided jobs. Uganda is setting up 23 industrial parks, nine of which are already operating. The biggest is Kampala Industrial and Business Park that covers 2,200 acres and has 301 registered investors. However, some Bungoma leaders in the past have opposed the process involved in setting up the park. Maraka MCA Majani Mutoka faulted Wangamati, saying local leaders and stakeholders should be involved fully in the process of establishing the industrial park. The ODM ward representative said the process should be open to everyone and residents whose houses will be demolished for the park will be compensated. However, Wangamati has insisted that the project will proceed as scheduled. RELOCATE, COMPENSATE “We have funds approved in the budget by MCAs for putting up the industrial park in Webuye. No amount of noise will hinder the project from being implemented,” the governor said. He assured residents that a meeting of all Webuye stakeholders, including elected leaders, will be held to discuss relocation of families who stay on the land.   