Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos has suspended the head of procurement and transferred two county executives in extended measures to crackdown on lazy officers and improve services. Three days ago, Tolgos suspended all chief officers, accusing them of failing to deliver. Robert Chelagat, the director of procurement, has been asked to hand over to his deputy and proceed on leave.  “I will no longer entertain any kind of graft, laziness or laxity that is costly to residents of Elgeyo Marakwet,” Tolgos said. He said he was aware of malpractices in the procurement docket and other departments. “This informed my decision to send home all those heading the dockets where complaints emerged”, the governor said. In a the reshuffle, Anne Kibosia who has been the county executive for Tourism, Trade, Industrialisation and Wildlife was moved to Agriculture and Irrigation. Shadrach Yatich, in charge of Agriculture and Irrigation, swapped places with Kibosia. The two CECs are the most senior in Tolgos’s government as they are the only ones who were retained in the cabinet formed after Tolgos was reelected for a second term. The governor said the reshuffle was part of re-organising the government to enhance efficiency. “People should be committed to their work. The worst form of corruption is that of someone sitting in office, earning a salary at the end of the month but doesn’t work,” Tolgos said. He defended his decision to suspend nine chief officers saying their absence did not affect service delivery in any way because directors in the respective departments had taken over in acting roles. Three days ago, Tolgos ordered the chief officers to proceed on compulsory leave because they had underperformed. He said county operationshave been affected by the poor performance of the accounting officers. He said many of the officers were inefficient. The chief failed to pay contractors yet money had been allocated, Tolgos said. “We have money to pay the contractors yet the chief officers keep on delaying payments,” he said in his office in Iten.