Five judges in Mombasa have urged interested parties to seek leave to join a petition against the Kenya Ports Authority within 30 days. The petition by three Mombasa residents is challenging the decision by KPA to transfer some of its operations to Embakasi Inland Container Depot in Nairobi. William Ramogi, Asha Omar and Gerald Kithi are also challenging an agreement between KPA and Kenya Railways to transport the containers through SGR. They argue the move hurts Mombasa port, the trucking business and costs many jobs. For years, Coast politicians, especially from Mombasa, have said they should be given power to run the port as it is in their county. The judges, led by Justice Lydia Achode, said they want to tackle the dispute once and for all and no interested party should be left behind. The county government of Mombasa, Muhuri and activist Maina Kiai have been enjoined as interested parties. “We don’t want parties seeking leave to join when the hearing kicks off. We want everyone in so as not to delay the hearing,” the judges said. The petitioners are supposed to place an advert in a Kenyan newspaper with a nationwide circulation within seven days, informing the public of the petition and calling on anyone interested in joining to seek leave to do so. The judges gave the direction on Friday after ruling the matter should go for a full hearing. KPA had failed to have the petition dismissed. KPA and Kenya railways sought to have the petition dismissed, saying it concerns an intergovernmental dispute between the county and national governments. Achode dismissed this. The judges said there is no evidence that the petition belonged to the Mombasa county government. “We are satisfied it is not a dispute between the two levels of government and it is properly before this court,” the judges said. On whether the agreement between KPA and Kenya Railways was genuine, the judges said this needs to be interpreted. They said the constitutional court needs to determine if the agreement infringed on the rights of the petitioners and Mombasa residents. They said petitioners do not only represent their complaints, but also the plight of Mombasa residents. The judges said the matter had not been determined contrary to the respondent’s application. The respondent said the matter had been determined in the judgment between Mombasa county and Kenya Ferry Services. The judges said the grounds, prayers being sought as well as the parties, are different. The five-judge bench was constituted by Chief Justice David Maraga to end the push and pull on whether the county or national government has the right to manage operations at the Kilindini port. Click here for the latest political news