Kenya Pipeline women’s volleyball team manager, Bernard Kimani has stepped down just two weeks to the Kenya Volleyball Federation national league play-offs set for Moi International Sports Centre, Indoor Arena, Kasarani. The development comes just a day after it emerged that at least six Pipeline players are angling themselves to leave the national champions with KCB their probable destination. Kimani in a communication to the team said: “I’m stepping down as the team manager but there is nothing to worry about. All will be well.” Meanwhile, the future of Kenya Pipeline Company coach Japheth Munala remains uncertain with reports indicating that he could return to KCB come the New Year. Elsewhere, KCB will sponsor this year’s KVF play-offs to a tune of Sh1 million. Unlike the previous editions — where the play-offs were sponsored by the federation and with just the winners receiving Sh250,000 — the entry of KCB will see the top three teams in each category receive cash awards. KVF first vice chairman, Charles Nyaberi, said the partnership will go a long way in improving the level of competition at the December 1-3 event. “The winner will get Sh250,000, first runner’s up Sh100,000 and third place bag Sh50,000. We just hope KCB coming on board will open room for other companies to be part of the future events,” said Nyaberi. KCB head of corporate and regulatory affairs Judith Odhiambo said they are excited to sponsor the event. “We are excited to sponsor this year’s KVF play-offs, a testament of our commitment to sports development in the region. We wish all the teams the best of luck as they battle for the continental tickets,” said Odhiambo. Champions General Service Unit, Kenya Prisons, Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Defence Forces will battle for the men’s title while back-to back winners, Kenya Pipeline, Kenya Prisons, new comers Bungoma County and KCB will cross swords in the women’s category. The top teams in each category will represent the country at next year’s Africa Club Championships in Cairo, Egypt.