Migori county government operations came to a halt yesterday as EACC sleuths raided governor Okoth Obado’s offices. Staff from the two offices were told to leave after being frisked and a search for documents and computers ensued for hours. Other teams invaded Obado’s official residence rented from British America Tobacco in Migori town and his rural home in Rapogi, Uriri constituency. The governor was in Nairobi during the raid after leaving the county last Saturday when he hosted Deputy President William Ruto at Kendege in Kuria East. More: DPP Haji: Obado is not above the law “Staff were ordered outside the office by EACC officers. We don’t know what they are searching for, but we left them to do their work,” Obado’s press director Nicholas Anyuor said. Staff looked on as the team went about carting away documents and computers, while some senior officials afraid of being nabbed went away. Another team of sleuths invaded Obado’s multimillion-shilling rural home called Rapogi Mall. The press was not allowed to access the home and was warned against taking photos. “We are tired of Obado’s issues in the press. We don’t want you here; you can leave,” a relative said. Read: I didn’t kill Sharon, Obado tells police Frozen accounts The EACC team, armed with tape measures, made calculations of the compound. Meanwhile, Obado’s Nairobi home was also raided. Investigators arrived in two cars shortly after 9am. They left the house at around 11.30am in the two tinted vehicles. They were suspected to be searching for documents related to procurement in the Migori government. EACC spokesman Yassin Amaro said the investigators had recovered some documents relating to a Sh2.5 billion procurement case under investigation. Read: Obado’s proxies received Sh2.5bn in tender scams He, however, did not reveal what documents the investigators had obtained from the governor’s Lavington home. Obado is believed to have been present when the officers searched his house. Obado has not set foot in his Rapogi home since being released on Sh5 million bail in the murder of Sharon Otieno and her unborn baby. According to bail terms, Obado was to stay at least 20km away from Homa Bay county. His Rapogi home is within the distance. EACC and the Asset Recovery Agency havee frozen Obado’s bank accounts and those of his wife Hellen Adhiambo. The authorities have also frozen accounts of five businessmen and three companies believed to be proxies or associates of the county boss. Click here for the latest political news  