Besieged Migori governor Okoth Obado has denied knowing where the three unlicensed guns recovered by police in his Rapogi home came from. In an affidavit filed in court, he says it has been years since he has been in the guardhouse where the guns were found. The court heard that the guardhouse, which is close to the main gate, is exclusively manned, managed, operated and utilised by security officers. “These officers are in active service under the National Police Service. I have not been to the guardhouse for years,” Obado says. He says bodyguard Joshua Odhoch told him two Ceska pistols were found in a metal suitcase. They were found in a guardhouse within the homestead during the search. Another bodyguard Raphael Ogejo was present. Read: EACC raids Obado's Nairobi, Migori homes in Sh2.5bn graft probe Obado says it’s equally surprising that an unaccompanied EACC officer emerged from a room within the guardhouse waving a third gun. “I completely know nothing about the three illegal firearms purportedly recovered from the guardhouse in my homestead,” he says. In his defense, the governor said on November 13, the EACC raided his house in Lavington over alleged corruption and economic crimes and he voluntarily surrendered to his licensed gun. The officers later returned all the firearms to him and his security detail after they were satisfied the guns were held legally. Obado was arraigned in a Kibera court yesterday, where the prosecution asked the court to grant them 15 days to detain him to complete investigations. State counsel Catherine Mwaniki told chief magistrate Joyce Gandani they need more time to establish whether the three illegal guns were used to commit other crimes. Also read: EACC freezes Obado accounts over graft Mwaniki said if Obado is released on bond or bail, there is a likelihood he will interfere with investigations. Through his lawyers, Obado opposed the application to detain him, saying the 15 days being sought are unreasonable. Lawyer Rodgers Sagana said Obado will not interfere with witnesses in the case because he has not stepped foot in his Rapogi home since he was released on bail in the Sharon Otieno’s murder case. He said the bail conditions bar him from going to his home. Cliff Ombeta asked the court to release Obado on a free bond, arguing that he is out on a bond in the murder trial and has not breached any other terms issued by court. The case will be mentioned today when the court will deliver its ruling on whether the governor will be detained until investigations are complete. Click here for the latest political news