The Kenya Simbas face Romania A in a build-up match in Bucharest today. The match will be the only international friendly the Simbas will have ahead of the World Cup qualifiers repechage in Marseille, France next week. Ian Snook’s charges face Canada, Germany and Hong Kong with the winner of the repechage qualifying for the World Cup in Japan next year where world champions New Zealand, South Africa , Namibia and Italy await in Pool ‘B’. The team arrived in the Romanian capital on Thursday evening after a 12-hour lay-over in Paris. The team had an early morning workout to shake off the jet lag and fatigue and were expected to have another session last evening ahead of the match this afternoon. Team manager Simiyu Wangila said they expected a stern test from the hosts who have big forwards and are very experienced. “They are a quality team and we know what to expect from them especially in the set pieces. It will be a good game to test our systems and structure and see where we are,” said Simiyu. Skipper Davis Chenge said the side are relishing the challenge of facing Romania and the repechage next weekend. “Our preparations have been good and despite the financial challenges that we have faced, the boys know what’s at stake and they are going to give their all” said Chenge. Key players for the Simbas in today’s game will be Joseph Odero, Patrick Ouko and Coleman Mwere in front row with Wilson K’Opondo and Oliver Mangeni anchoring the second row. Kenya Sevens mainstay Andrew Amonde, George Nyambua and Chenge are the picks in the back row. Samson Onsomu and teammate Sammy Oliech will be the half back combination with Leo Seje and Peter Kilonzo in midfield. Darwin Mukidza, Collins Injera and Nelson Oyoo are the probable back three. Key players for the hosts include Alexandra Gordas, at hooker, lock Constastin Pristantis, Florian Bardasu at number 8, flyhalf Marian Drenceanu and fullback Vlad Neculau The Simbas other build up matches against Namibia, British Army and Loftus 200 scheduled for last month were called off. The Simbas leave for Marseille on Monday.