Former President Daniel Moi yesterday called for the country’s young leaders to embrace unity and honesty. He spoke at his Kabarak home in Nakuru county when he was paid a visit by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. “As young leaders, you should forge friendships rather than disintegration. Some of you will be presidents and ministers in charge of the country. Our future lies in your hands,” Moi said. He also urged the leaders to unite the country and instill the culture of honesty in their leadership. Kalonzo was accompanied by his son Kennedy Musyoka, senators Enock Wambua (Kitui), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) and MP Kanchory Memusi. Read: Atwoli, Wamalwa visits Mzee Moi in Kabarak See also: Was DP Ruto blocked from seeing Moi in Kabarak? The former vice president was received by Senator Gideon Moi, MPs William Kamket (Tiaty) and Silas Tiren (Moiben). Kalonzo thanked Mzee Moi for standing with him and his family when he lost his father Musyoka Mairu earlier this month. He also thanked Moi for giving him an opportunity to serve in his government, which developed his leadership skills. Kalonzo served in the ministries of Foreign affairs, Education and Tourism during Moi’s regime. Last week Moi, through his son Gideon, sent an official invitation to the Wiper leader at his Nairobi's Karen home, while mourning his late father. After reading his family’s condolence message, Gideon said: “Mzee has sent me to request you to come and visit him after you bury your father so that he can personally condole with you.” Kalonzo said he was humbled by the gesture from the former president and promised to pay him a visit. “I am humbled that you have come to be with us. Tell Mzee that I together with my family will come after we bury my father. This is an opportunity that is long overdue and we will honour it by visiting Mzee,” Kalonzo said. Kalonzo joins a list of a few selected leaders who have visited Moi since his retirement in 2002. Others in that list include President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Mombasa governor Ali Hassan Joho and COTU boss Francis Atwoli. In May, Deputy President William Ruto was unable to meet the former president when he made a 'casual' visit to Kabarak. Moi’s family later said the former president had an appointment with his personal doctor at the time. More: Visiting Moi won't help you in 2022, Duale tells 'excited' politicians Click here for
the latest political news 