The latest noises against the referendum push could be another veiled dress rehearsal to derail the Uhuru-Raila peace pact. Why the noise? Because Raila Odinga leads the crusade after shaking hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The March 9 handshake has elicited jealousy and praise in equal measure in a society thirsting for healing. Careers of political brokers and falsehood peddlers are in jeopardy. The economic fortunes of gluttonous political merchants and publicity seekers across the political divide are dwindling fast. But another sure source of livelihood has emerged for the near-redundant opportunists. An attack on Raila in public rallies and funerals boosts chances of lavish treats and retention in the payroll. Delegates trooping to State House for lacklustre handshakes and loyalty pledges are examples of attempts to play down the significance of the reconciliation efforts and propagate the 2022 Uhuru succession through ethnic blocs. The path to peaceful co-existence envisaged by Uhuru and Raila is bumpy, thanks largely to individuals who have rekindled hate and inflamed passions. Before the Building Bridges task force set up by Uhuru and Raila gets down to business, shortcomings of previous teams and authors of the Constitution should be reviewed. The team should deviate from the traditional approach, ignore views of subterranean gossipers and instead listen to Wanjiku, whose concerns have been consigned to the dustbin of history. We are where we are because consensus and consultations were shunted to the periphery. The precedence was set by post-Independence leaders who ignored public opinion and changed the constitution to suit circumstances and egos. If a political settlement conference preceded the convening of the National Constitutional Conference (NCC) at Bomas, the sessions would not have been noisy and characterised by name-calling and deep-seated suspicion. The same fate befell the Serena talks on the 2007-08 post-election violence and which led to Agenda Four component being embodied in the Peace and Reconciliation Accord. Even the colonialists consulted and reached a consensus with freedom fighters at Lancaster House before the Independence constitution was drawn. Who are we then to ignore divergence of opinions in a democracy, where persuasion is the norm rather the exception? Referendum advocates are entitled to their opinion, but deserve criticism and labels. For the Building Bridges task force to publish a document worth the paper it will be written on, it should strive to outlive the shortcomings of its predecessors. That can only be done by including dos and don’ts in its terms of engagement. The team should revisit the Independence constitution, visit other jurisdictions with a history of political progress, a vibrant democracy and peace before publishing a comprehensive report. The Lancaster House papers and constitution could provide an appropriate reference and guide. No amount of mediation efforts, with the exception of the Kofi Annan team of eminent persons, has ever toned down the political temperatures and tension. One of the two things is bound to happen after the task force releases its report. Either we have lasting peace or we plunge into more chaos. The time to save Kenya is now. Wanjiku has been let down by many political players and she hopes that this time round the task force will come through for her. Siaya governor, rasangaamoth@gmail.com