Uhuru Kenyatta doesn’t like newspapers. He once said they are only good for wrapping meat. Apparently, Uhuru would never dream of owning one — but he is associated with a certain media house. Last Thursday, Uhuru hit out at the media — again — accusing journalists of negative reporting of the country. “Someone will call you and tell you, ‘But I read this in your newspaper’... and you say... ‘Oh well, let me give you what the true facts are.’ ‘Why don’t you people just find out the truth and represent the true facts?” he told journalists at a State House briefing. Uhuru has previously chastised the media for misinforming the public about all sorts of things. His deputy William Ruto has levelled similar accusations. Since coming to power in 2013, Uhuru and Ruto have consistently expressed their contempt for the Fourth Estate. Yet the UhuRuto juggernaut invested heavily in traditional and new media in the election campaigns. One of Uhuru’s first tasks upon arrival at State House was to overhaul presidential communications. There is even a government newspaper, MyGov. But his regime remains inexplicably hostile to the media. The words of a president ought to be taken seriously. But what are citizens to think when he repeatedly disparages and tries to delegitimise such an important institution in a supposedly democratic nation? It is not just Uhuru and Ruto. None of Jubilee’s top guns seems to have anything good to say about the media. In February, Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju dismissed the media as “an extension of the Opposition propaganda”. He was attempting to justify the government’s tyrannical shutdown of TV and radio stations to prevent live coverage of Raila’s swearing-in as the ‘People’s President’ on January 30. Attacks on the media by powerful persons — whether verbal, physical or in any other form — are not about the media per se. They have been long recognised as attacks against what the media champions, namely, a free, just and open society. They are warning shots against speaking truth to power; attempts to silence dissent and drive the citizenry to sheepish acquiescence. Now, nearly everyone knows about Uhuru’s Big Four agenda: Food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and affordable healthcare. But, as the Good Book says, man (and woman) do not live on bread alone. Agenda Five would be about guaranteeing the freedom and dignity of citizens. Government’s talk about ‘development’ has almost nothing to day about fundamental rights and freedoms; zero connection between media freedom and development. Once the people have the Big Four, they won’t need anything else ­—not even freedom. But this is not just false. It is dangerous. The deepest human desire is for freedom. Weeks after Mwai Kibaki was voted overwhelmingly in 2002 to end Daniel arap Moi’s 24-year kleptocracy, a survey found Kenyans to be among the happiest people in the world. Kibaki had not yet done anything. Citizens were happy because they had hope. Today, Kenya is mired in the filth of corruption. Nobody seems to know how to clean up the mess. Even the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission says we need a miracle. The AG is working on a Bill to pay whistle-blowers who report corruption. Isn’t that a bit like paying citizens to love their country? Reporting corruption or anything unlawful ought to be the duty of every citizen. We live in a dysfunctional country that is deeply divided, ridden with all manner of scandals, plundered by greed, a country where millions of people (especially the youth) have lost hope. Uhuru doesn’t want the media pointing out any of this. Journalists should be reciting the Big Four from morning to night ­— even when it is obvious nothing much will be achieved. Restoring hope to Kenyans requires more than material ‘development’ — whose benefits most people don’t see anyway. Citizens build their country. But how will they do this when Kenya has been captured by a few and mortgaged to ‘investors’? Most people have given up and don’t care anymore. Agenda Five would be about reviving the dream of a free, just and open society owned by citizens, not elites. Media freedom is a major component of that revival. On this, Uhuru scores a D.