Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria
has replaced the chairmen of three
water companies.
In the November 1 gazette notice,
the governor replaced Gatanga Community
Water Trust chair Joseph
Kibe with Peter Mbugua; Gatamathi
Water and Sanitation Company chair
Washington Mwangi with Samuel
Macharia, and Kahuti Water and
Sanitation Company boss Frasiah
Kamau with Robinson Njoka. They will be employed on an interim
basis. The governor has said he took the
drastic measure after his numerous
engagements with the companies
failed to get them to conform to the
Constitution.
“After they openly defied me, I
decided to do away with them, as
the chief executive of the county,”
he said.
But in a press statement, the three
degazzetted chairmen said the county
government’s intention to operate
water companies directly is ill
informed. They said stakeholders, who include
the county government, are
the sole appointing authority of
water directors. “The purportedly appointed chairpersons are advised to note that they
are strangers to the water companies
and any intrusion into their aff airs
will not be allowed,” they said. The governor warned the boards
of the three companies that they
will be held liable if they carry out
any business with the degazzetted
chairpersons. “The managing directors, the directors
and any staff members who
participate in such an illegality will
take full responsibility,” Wa Iria said.
He said audit reports from the Water
Services Regulatory Board (Wasreb)
have implicated the boards and
managements of the companies in
serious malpractices.
He accused them of refusing to
alter their articles of association to
change their ownership from Tana
Water Services Board to the county
government. He said it was shocking that Muranga’
Water and Sanitation Company
(Muwasco) managing director
Daniel Ng’ang’a is being accused of
forging the Water Chief Executive
Committee member’s signature and
stamp to get services from Wasreb
while bypassing the county. “If they
can go to that extent, we need a forensic
audit to determine the extent
of the rot. How many loans have they
taken using forged documents?” he
asked. The governor told them to keep off
the premises.