 Everlyne Atieno was sobbing uncontrollably from her bed where she was seated on on Thursday evening when reporters visited Mathare North. The 20-year-old woman is mourning the death of her husband Evans Odhiambo whose body was found at City Mortuary on Saturday last week. She was yet to come to terms with the bizarre death of her husband of just five months. The 25-year-old mechanic was last Friday picked from a hospital by armed police officers hours before his lifeless body was found at City Mortuary with seven gunshot wounds the following day. Odhiambo had been rushed to Mathare North Hospital by boda boda riders after he was "accidentally" shot on the thigh by police officers who were chasing suspected robbers. Atieno say her husband was walking home from work at about 7.45pm when he was hit by a stray bullet. The shooting happened about 200 metres from their house. Robbers had reportedly broken into Mathare Home Choice supermarket and stole cash and goods. “I had prepared supper because I knew my husband was returning home tired after work. He normally arrives at about 7.30pm. On Friday, i thought he was taking too long to arrive," Atieno said. Read: IPOA opens probe into deaths of 18 in weekend police shootings The three-month pregnant woman did not know what had happened until someone knocked her door that evening. It was was Barack Omolo, the caretaker of their plot. Omolo asked if Odhiambo had returned home and if Atieno's mobile phone was functioning. “I told him Odhiambo had not arrived and that my phone had run out of charge," Atieno said. Omolo informed her that her husband had called saying he was at Mathare North Hospital receiving treatment. "He said Odhiambo he had been shot.” Atieno rushed her next neighbour and borrowed a phone via which she called her husband. "He talked normally as if nothing had happened to him," she said. Odhiambo asked her to rush to the hospital. She went with Omolo and a neighbour. They found Odhiambo with a nurse who was attending to him. He had been given first aid. Bleeding had stopped and a bandage was put on the wound. Odhiambo asked them to look for a vehicle to rush him to Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital. He asked the wife to call his mother upcountry and inform her of the injury. As Atieno prepared to make the call, about 20 armed people stormed the hospital. They were in civilian clothes. She said they were police officers. “They demanded to know who we were and who had brought Odhiambo to the facility. They harassed us and confiscated the phone I had and that of my neighbour and the caretaker. They did not give us a chance to talk or the nurse to explain to them,” she said amid sobs and tears. The officers roughed up her husband and bundled him inside the boot of a Probox before driving away. “We stood there confused for several minutes before I decided to come back to the house. I recharged my phone and started calling his workmates,” she said. Read: Agony as another Miritini police shooting victim dies at Coast General hospital She called Steve, a workmate at Grogon and informed him about what had happened to Odhiambo. Steve said they were with Odhiambo at work and returned to Mathare together before separating at the junction where Steve branched off to his house. At 5am, she called Steve and asked if he had heard any information. He said he was with another colleague at Mathare chief’s camp to reporting the incident. They were advised to look for Odhiambo in hospitals. “I became restless. I was calling Steve every minute. He told me they had left Guru Nanak Hospital and were heading to Kenyatta National Hospital," A few minutes later, Steve said "there was no hope” when Atieno called again. Atieno’s next incoming call was from her sister, Zena. She asked if Odhiambo had been found. "I said no," Atieno said. Zena then informed her that Odhiambo had been found at City Mortuary. He was dead. “I was shocked when we got to the mortuary with my brothers. He had six more bullet wounds,” she said as she broke down in tears again. Her two neighbours who were seated by her side tried to console her. The body had deep wounds on the head and chest, an indication that he was shot at close range. At city mortuary, it is recorded that Odhiambo’s body was taken there by police at 5am. Police said the body had been found lifeless in Huruma. Odhiambo lived only about 100 metres from where Moraa Nyarangi lived. The Standard 4 pupil at Mathare Primary School was killed by a stray bullet from anti-riot police during last year's post election violence. Odhiambo and Atieno had been dating for two years. In April, Odhiambo introduced her to his parents in Oyugis, Homa Bay county. They started living together on May 20. Omolo said Odhiambo had lived in the apartment for two years. He described him as jovial and outgoing man. “He was not a thief, I can say that because I have lived with him for two years and I knew him well,” Omolo said. Kennedy Chwindi, Mathare Justice Social Centre field coordinator said Odhiambo’s murder was another case of extrajudicial killing in the slum. Read: Mombasa residents accuse cop of killing one, injuring three during chase The case has already been reported to Independent Police Oversight Authority. Chwindi said that an officer identified as Abdi Rashid is behind the many executions in the area. He said Rashid's specific station is not known. Chwindi said he documented 70 cases of extrajudicial killings which were all linked to the officer. The officer reportedly uses a Probox car that has two number plates. “In front, it is KBT and at the back it is KBL. We have even gone to Pangani police station to enquire about this officer but we were told there is no officer by such name there,” Chwindi said. He said cases of extrajudicial executions often rise in December. About 30 cases were reported in December last year. Click here for the latest political news