Embu macadamia nut farmers and traders have accused unscrupulous dealers of using predatory schemes and violating the law to push them out of business. On Wednesday, they protested that market prices have significantly declined because some well-connected politicians use underhand tactics to export unprocessed macadamia. They did not name them. Exports of raw macadamia nuts were banned in 2015. Farmers expressed concern that the government has failed to enforce the ban. On October 25, Deputy President William Ruto said the ban was still in force. The farmers said they lose money and want better prices for their produce — at least Sh300 a kilogramme. They urged the government to put in place policies and programmes to boost returns. They want the illegal dealers, whom they did not name, arrested and prosecuted for violating the ban. They said the situation demonstrates that the government is discriminating against farmers and condemning them to poverty while favouring criminals. They spoke at Mutondori trading centre in Embu North subcounty. Kenya Nuts Association national chairman John Kihara, secretary Nahashon Mugi and John Njiru Kathangu, Dan Rugonji and Catherine Mwaniki were present. The farmers and traders said the exports go through Tanzania under the protection of government officers. They said prices have remained low, with the highest being only Sh150 a kilogramme, while in other African countries macadamia sells for more than Sh500 a kilo. They urged the government to repeal the ban so supply and demand can fairly dictate market prices. It will definitely be more than Sh300 a kilo if the law is done away with, a farmer said. They threatened to uproot their macadamia trees if the price does not increase to at least Sh300. They said they cannot pay their workers from the meagre proceeds they get from their crops. “A farmer is not interested in whether the macadamia is sold raw or processed. His or her main interest is the price — Sh300 and above,” Kihara said. They criticised Ruto for saying the ban was effective, yet the government has not reined in those violating it. The DP had spoken when he opened Privamnut Company in Embu. A resident, Patrick Mukundi, owns the firm. Ruto said the government would not relent in enforcing the ban to protect farmers’ interests and create jobs. He promised that they would firmly deal with brokers exporting raw macadamia nuts. The deputy president said they were keen to ensure macadamia produced in the country is processed locally before being exported. This would create jobs and protect farmers and the local market, Ruto told residents.