Safaricom plans to expand into
the home surveillance business, its
Chief Financial Officer said yesterday. CFO Sateesh Kamath said the mobile
service provider intends to bank
on its fast-rising fi bre optic network
segment, also known as fi xed data,
to provide the service. Fourth quarter
sector statistics from the Communication
Authority show that
Safaricom’s fixed data market share
stands at 21.2 per cent, up from 7.1
per cent in June 2013. The good showing comes as the
top three telcos on basis of market
share give internet providers a run
for their money as the battle to lead
the market shifts to data prices. Although
making its plan to exit market
public, Wananchi group is the the leading market leader with a 30
per cent share. The fibre connection will be used
to power the surveillance while access
to the surveillance feeds will be
made possible by Safaricom Cloud
services. “We intend to help families with
surveillance services and to provide
more content from Netfl ix, Ifl ix,
Kwese and Showmax on the readily
available internet,” Kamath said. Other services to be introduced
in the same line include the Internet
of ings and parental controls.
Currently, Safaricom has 5,469km
of fibre footprint passing through
141,700 homes and 7,117 enterprise
buildings since the service was
launched in 2015.
At least 30,000 homes were connected
in the half year ending September
30 ,as announced during the
fi rm’s H1 Financial results released
yesterday. The result revealed that
the fi xed data service, though a relatively new line of business, contributed
a 3.3 per cent to total service
revenue which stood at Sh118.2 billion.
e results also show that messaging
revenue declined by 1.2 per
cent to Sh8.81 billion. CEO Bob Collymore
said M-Pesa was the main
driver of the good performance,
posting a revenue growth of 18.2 per
cent to Sh35.52 billion. According
to Kamath, the fi rm invests at least
Sh3.5 to 5.7 billion or 10-15 per cent
of its CAPEX in the fi xed data segment,
at least going by the projected
2019 full year CAPEX of between
Sh35-Sh38 billion. To lay a foundation for the new
venture, the service provider announced
last month its partnership
with the Kenya Alliance of Residents
Association to launch the estate surveillance
system.
A pilot project is currently being
carried out in Ngei Estate Phase 2,
Langata.