Kenyans have been asked to leverage on high demand for food ahead of 2022 World Cup extravaganza in Qatar to bridge the trade imbalance between the two  states. In an exclusive interview with the Star, Qatar ambassador to Kenya Jabr Al Dosari demonstrated his country’s will to solidify economic ties with Kenya to improve the people's lives. The trade between the two countries has grown from $63 million (Sh6.3 billion) in 2015 to $88 million (Sh8.8 billion) last year. Even so, the trade balance is still in favor of Qatar, which exported goods worth $54.6 million (Sh5.4 billion) to Kenya in 2015 according to latest figures. "We continue to enjoy warm mutual ties with Kenya. The open trade policy between us has created a fertile environment for businesses to thrive. We invite Kenyans to supply fruits, vegetables and meat to benefit from prospects of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar," Dosari said. Kenya and Qatar established diplomatic ties on December 28, 2003.  BIG FOUR AGENDA The Qatari envoy described Kenya’s Big Four Agenda as ‘brilliant road map’ to lead Kenyans to prosperity, adding that investors from his country have already shown interest IN housing, food security and manufacturing Dosari's remarks about President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development legacy plan come just a month after Qatar's minister for Transport and Communication Jassim Bin Saif Al Sulati led a consortium of Qatari investors to assure Kenya of capital support for the develelopment agenda. The consortium told Uhuru tof its willingness to invest in 100,000 affordable housing units with funding from Qatar Development Bank (QDB) to Big 5 Construct East Africa. The bank was established in 1977 to reflect the far-sighted vision of  Sheikh Hamed Bin Khalifa Al-Thani. In 2008, Qatar asked Kenya to lease it 40,000 hectares to grow crops as part of a proposed package that could also see the Gulf state fund a new £2.4bn (Sh316.8 billion) port on the popular tourist island of Lamu in the Coast region. The deal, which was struck by former President Mwai Kibaki, was, however, received with mixed signals, with critics saying it would disadvantage local farmers.   BILATERAL AGREEMENTS President  Kenyatta signed seven cooperation agreements with Qatar in economy, trade, technical cooperation, the promotion and protection of investments, legal cooperation, and an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation as well as the prevention of financial evasion with respect to income taxes. The two sides also signed an MoU of understanding for cooperation in mining with Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Another MoU was on development of a power plant in Kenya. In April 2015, the two sides signed a pact for the development of the financial sector aimed at identifying future cooperation between them in this field. The MoU included the exchange of best practices relevant to the development of the financial sector. Although there have been allegations of torture meted on Kenyans working in Qatar in the past, the Doha envoy said labour relations between the two countries have greatly improved. "I want to assure Kenyans who are working or would like to work, do business or school in Qatar that we uphold human dignity and that Qataris are loving and caring people. We may not be perfect but we are trying,’’ Dosari said. He, however, cautioned those seeking to travel to the country to follow due process. In September, Fifa issued a statement requesting various nationals to apply for voluntary job vacancies and opportunities in Doha, a head of FIFA World Cup 2022. On Friday last week, in a letter seen by the Star, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs accepted the request but cautioned Qatar to ensure fraudsters do not take advantage of the intention to perpetuate human trafficking. "This is to request the Embassy to guard against misuse or abuse of the letter in question for instance by fraudulent agencies and individuals who could involve in human trafficking for purposes of obtaining visas or travel to Qatar,’’ the letter reads in part.  DIRECT FLIGHTS TO MOMBASA The Embassy on Wednesday announced that its national carrier — Qatar Airways — will start its maiden direct flight to Mombasa mid next month. "We expect to start daily a direct flight from Doha to Mombasa on December 9 with prospects of adding two cargo carriers in the near future. It is our hope that direct flights will ease and boost business interactions between brothers and sisters of these two countries and help the city exploit its potential as a key global tourist destination,’’ Dosari said. The Doha ambassador said his country has an open door policy, which provides fertile environment for exchange programmes for governments and people across the world. Qatar Airways announced the plan in October The four-time weekly flights will be Qatar Airways’ second Kenyan destination, in addition to existing flights to Nairobi. They will be operated with an Airbus A320, with 12 business class and 120 economy class seats, with a flight time of just over six hours. 