Title: On The Rvn Artiste: Young Thug Genre: Hip hop Release: September 24  Young Thug has been described as a rap nonconformist, a title he truly deserves. For those who are keen followers of his maverick ways, there's something simply awe-inspiring about how he has managed to turn this into his strengths. He is one of the dominant faces in the hip hop scene, as well as the fashion arena. From a connoisseur's standpoint, it is enough to equate him with the legendary Michael Jackson. His latest EP and masterwork is 'On the Rvn'. The six-track EP starts with the title track "On The Rvn", featuring Migos' very own Offset, whose verse was only added days after the album dropped. The track addresses just how the artiste's freedom might not be guaranteed, since he has been charged with eight felonies, including seven drug-related charges and a firearm charge. "Icey" addresses Thugger's expensive taste for jewellery and fashion, which he happens to extend to his girl. 6lack, who has had an impressive year, joins Thug on the essential track "Climax," which interpolates Shiloh Dynasty's “Losing Interest". The true qualities of this track have nothing to do with the rapping at all. Instead, it is all about how the artistes blend their vocals to deliver such a striking masterpiece. Jaden Smith remains really good at the physical act of rapping over a trap-drum beat on "Sin". Whenever he offers his best between verses, we find him dropping quotables like he always does. "Real in My Veins" is another case of a track that needed to be updated, after T-Shyne had been left out of the initial release. A collaboration between Elton John and Thugger had been anticipated since March 2016, and we finally got it in the closing track "High". The track is Young Thug’s official remix of Elton's 1972 track "Rocket Man". Young Thug has never been in a weird position. His style of music has been so unique to him, in many cases, any rappers who attempt to absorb traits of his never reach the extremes he has. This tape is an encouraging indication that despite being one of the artistes releasing numerous tracks whenever they deem fit, there's plenty of musical ingenuity left in him. He continues to reign.  Star rating: 3 out of 5 