On October 27,
Baringo senator Gideon Moi ended his two-day tour of Homa Bay county on a high
note: ODM leaders in Nyanza vowed to support his political plans geared towards
2022. He was given the green light to continue
seeking support for he had “passed the credibility and leadership test”. Gideon threw jibes and chided those dancing themselves
lame (sic) before the real dance starts. The Kanu chairman did not spare politicians opposed to
the proposed referendum. There is no doubt he was taking aim at
William Ruto and his brigade of newly won court dancers including former
Kakamega senator Bonny Khalwale, who has turned from a harsh critic of the
Deputy President to an astute praise singer. Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula who has
been a permanent fixture on Ruto’s side in as many months has been missing in
action for weeks.  Is he rethinking his support for the DP? If he does, it
will not be a big surprise because his only reason for joining forces with the
DP was to get back on ODM leader Raila Odinga after he was dramatically axed
from the enviable position of Senate Majority leader immediately after the March
9 handshake. If he withdraws his backing for Ruto,
Wetang’ula will confirm the long-held belief that he is a politician who can be
easily swayed. But he will not be alone on this platform. Many Kenyan
politicians have nothing to stand for, making them rudderless, messy and noisy
as they stand on wobbly knees atop a mass of shifting sand. Sorry for detouring. For years now, Gideon and Ruto have been
seizing each eyeball to eyeball in a long-running supremacy battle in the Rift
Valley. The duo rarely shares a podium just to drive home how hopeless their
relationship is. But their paths always criss cross when
they speak. Gideon’s veiled chides in Homa Bay went straight into Ruto’s heart. The DP and his allies are not comfortable with talks
of a referendum. Ruto’s high-octane early 2022 campaigns have not gone down
well with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his allies — high and mighty — inside
and outside Jubilee. Signs now show Uhuru is least interested
to the so-called an agreement in which he had promised to back Ruto for President
in 2022.   You
don’t have to be a political scientist to see this. In recent times, Ruto’s political moves
have been directed at clipping Gideon’s political wings in the region. Last
year, the DP pitched camp in Baringo county in his concerted efforts to dim
Gideon. He convinced his bosom buddy Samuel
Chelugui, who had prepared for years to vie for the governor’s seat, to stand
for the Senate seat. He thought Chelugui was more popular than Gideon. When these efforts went down the drain,
he had to make it up to Chelugui by appointing him the Water CS —a job he is
doing with distinction. Chelugui’s eyes are still fixed on Baringo
governorship, and 2022 is the time to capture it from Governor Stanley Kiptis,
whose leadership skills have not impressed many a resident. Ruto and Gideon battle for supremacy has
now shifted from regional to national. All signs show the two are eying the
presidency in 2022.  Unlike Rut,o who shoots from the hip, Gideon is not
known for sharp elbows but nevertheless his message gets home as he intends. In the first quarter of this year, the
DP visited retired President Moi in his Kabarak home but did not meet him.That was another of Gideon’s
soft-landing messages that reached home without drawing blood. The DP has not thrown jibes at Gideon
lately but that does not imply that all is well. The Senator’s visit to Homa
Bay exposed the duo’s corrosive relationship, if the jibes and chides Gideon
threw Ruto’s way is anything to go by.   Although the DP did not verbally react
to Gideon’s remarks, he acted on them by embarking on a successful whirlwind
tour of Nyanza to undo what his erstwhile political nemesis had done. And despite only one ODM MP showed
up for the DP’s tour, residents turned up in large numbers something that must
have jolted political power houses in the region. As approach 2022, we will indeed be
treated to more arrays of lethal fangs and claws as these two dig their way to
the top seat. C’mon, fetch some popcorn.