Police in Kisumu have launched a manhunt for a man who attacked and killed a farm manager of retired Judge Effie Owuor. The man who police identified as Malakwen attacked and killed George Benjo at Owour's home within Nyangore location, Muhoroni Sub-county in Kisumu County. The suspect who went into hiding after committing the crime on Saturday at around 1pm, also injured Owuor's son, Paul. "Paul managed to escape but with a machete inflicted cut and is currently admitted in hospital," the police said in a Facebook post. Paul was rushed to Aga Khan hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Kisumu County Commissioner Pauline Dola said they are working with officers from Nandi County to arrest the suspect. "Police are on the ground looking for the suspect and we are made to understand that he is well known within the area," she said. The commissioner said more officers have been deployed along the Kisumu-Nandi border to trace the suspect and his accomplices. "Meanwhile, we appeal to the area residents to remain calm as authorities look for the murderers." "We also appeal to anyone with information on the whereabouts of the wanted murderers to promptly inform the nearest police officer or report to the nearest police station," the police said. Witnesses said the suspect, accompanied by five other people, attacked the deceased who had visited the farm and cut him several times with a machete. A witness who sought anonymity stated that when the retired Judge 's son responded to the distress call, the group pounced on him as well but he managed to escape. Lady Justice Owuor was Kenya's first female state counsel, first female magistrate, first high court judge and judge of Court of Appeal. She currently chairs the Sexual Offences Taskforce following her retirement. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo condemned the attack and the murder and called on police to expedite investigations and arrest the perpetrators. "Nobody is above the law and therefore the culprits must face the full force of the law," he said. Koyoo called on the government to find lasting solutions to perennial attacks along the Muhoroni-Nandi border which has seen deaths and loss of property in the recent past. The MP appealed to Muhoroni constituents to remain calm as security teams investigate the matter. "Let us not engage in crime and allow police to probe the attacks and killings. This will prevent more deaths and destruction of property," Koyoo said. Perennial conflicts along the Nandi-Muhoroni border have largely been blamed on boundary disputes and cattle rustling. Politicians have also been accused of fuelling the chaos by funding the perpetrators. Read: Cops sent to Muhoroni after ethnic clashes leave man dead Also read: Intermarry to end conflict, Nyong'o, Chepkwong tell Luos and Kalenjins Click here for the latest political news