Demand for goods both in the local and foreign markets drove up private sector activity in October, a survey has shown. The monthly Stanbic Kenya Bank Purchasing Managers’ Index shows operations by private firms improved to 54 last month from 52.7 in September - the lowest recorded activity in 10 months. Stanbic economist Jibran Qureishi said increased activity recorded during the period was pegged on improvement in agricultural productivity with the short rains at hand. “The onset of the short rain season which so far seems quite positive for the agrarian sector, could help GDP growth recover in the fourth quarter of 2018,” he said. The monthly indicator is based on activity in the manufacturing and service sectors with readings above 50 signalling an improvement in business conditions, while any figure below this indicates poor performance. The survey shows that higher demand drove up employment rates with firms looking to meet demand for the new orders. This was the quickest rate of job creation since April. “According to panellists, payroll growth was driven by the hiring of temporary workers in order to meet existing demand and in anticipation of future expansion,” the report stated. Backlogs of work rose for the third successive month in October even as firms took on more staff in anticipation that production would grow in the coming months. Despite an increase in new business, firms still charged more for finished products due to higher production costs incurred during the review period. The study reveals that most firms experienced increased cost burdens as a result of the eight per cent tax on fuel as well as inflated food and raw material prices. “The decline in the PMI in the third quarter, which we largely believe was due to wanning business confidence and enhanced anxiety owing to the new fiscal year tax measures that were introduced, weighed on economic activity,” Qureishi said. He also noted that the latest increase in the PMI probably supported the decision to upgrade Stanbic’s 2018 GDP estimate to 5.8 per cent from 5.6 per cent previously. “We expect a notable recovery in agricultural productivity in the fourth quarter,” Qureishi said. Click here for the latest political news