Drinking three or four cups of coffee each day slashes your risk of developing type 2 diabetes, a scientific review suggests. Researchers trawled through 30 studies, which involved nearly 1.2million people, to make the conclusion. The trial was led by researchers at the Institute for Scientific Information on Coffee (ISIC), which was established in 1990. The group, whose members are major coffee firms including Lavazza and Nestlé, claim to be devoted to the science of coffee and health. Its new review, presented at the European Association for the Study of Diabetes meeting in Berlin, included a study conducted back in 1967. Dr Mattias Carlström, lead author, found the link existed for both men and women, but the effect was slightly greater in women. They found drinking three cups of caffeinated coffee was associated with a 27 per cent reduced risk. However, the report also found the protective effect applied to consuming the same amount of decaffeinated coffee. The risk of developing type 2 diabetes dropped by up to seven per cent with each extra additional cup of coffee consumed. Espressos, lattes and cappuccinos are all beneficial. However, adding sugar or syrup is not advised by experts. A combination of coffee's compounds, including trigonelline, cafestol, cafeic acid and chlorogenic acid, are thought to be important. It is unsure how they work, but the researchers suggested they may have an anti-oxidant or anti-inflammatory effect on the body. Research has suggested that administration of chlorogenic acid and trigonellin may significantly reduce early glucose and insulin responses. Two other theories, including that coffee can produce heat or boost the diversity of the microbiome of patients, were put forward. The team also discussed the role of compound cafestol, with research suggesting it may increase insulin and improve glucose uptake in muscles. However, all components taken individually don't seem to replicate the positive effects of drinking a cup - or three - of coffee. Type 2 diabetes is an increasing problem across Europe and the US, as waistlines across the continent continue to bulge. There are almost 3.7 million people who have been diagnosed with diabetes in the UK, with 90 per cent of cases being type 2 diabetes. While figures from the American Diabetes Association show there are around 29 million people living with the condition in the US. Type 2 diabetes is considered a preventable condition if lifestyle is managed to prevent weight gain through diet and exercise. A typical cup of coffee provides 75mg caffeine. European food officials state a daily intake should be no more than 400mg. The new trial is not the first to uncover a link between coffee consumption and a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes. Click here for latest political news