We are not going to carry anyone’s burden, this lawlessness must come to a stop, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has said. Speaking in Kabete on Friday, Matiang'i said the government will go after a chain of people to stamp out carelessness on the roads. "We have taken a longer route this time. We will institutionalise our response to address this insanity. We will focus on the whole chain of responsibility," he said. This was after DPP Noordin Haji asked Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to investigate the insurance company that covered the bus that killed 58 people at Fort Ternan on October 10. Read: DPP wants  probe on ill-fated Fort Ternan bus insurer, body builder "We will go after wayward insurance companies, even if it means taking away their licenses," Matiang'i said. The CS said the government is dealing with individuals who have decided to take the law into their hands. "Don't have mercy on these vehicles. Passengers who board overloaded vehicles should be arrested," he said. "I am very serious about this... let us go back to order... I'm asking my colleagues, especially senior officials...this is work that we have to do together." Orengo said the public transport has grown into a monster that has to be tamed before it gets too late. "..if we don't take decisions to take ourselves back to order, then we will lose our society. We must change. We can't live this way," he said. Matiang'i said it will not be a walk in the park, but the right thing must be done. "If we don't sort out this madness, people will come to live in your house and you will have to persuade them to leave your house by paying them... this is criminal and that we cannot accept it," he said. "This responsibility is for all of us...Kenya is better than this." Matiang'i said brokers who stand in bus stops to harass passengers and conductors should be arrested. "Matatu owners have been telling us they have challenges at bus stops... there are brokers who harass the drivers.. arrest them ...we have space at the remand..let us clean up this bus stops," he said. Last week, the government issued a directive to all PSVs to comply with all traffic laws by November 12. It said any PSVs, drivers, saccos and transport companies; passengers and relevant parties that fail to comply with the NTSA Act and the Traffic Act will be dealt with. In a joint statement, Cabinet secretaries James Macharia of Transport and Matiang'i attributed the rise of road accidents to failure by PSVs to observe traffic rules. More on this: Passengers not spared in State's renewed plan to enforce 'Michuki rules' 