An 11-member board with strong State representation will oversight the scandal-ridden National Youth Service, a Bill tabled in Parliament states. The proposed law is part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s strategy to seal loophole exploited by top NYS insiders to loot billions since Jubilee came to power in 2013. According to the National Youth Service Bill, 2018, the NYS will become a corporate agency, akin to State parastatals. It was tabled in the National Assembly by Majority Leader Aden Duale. The NYS Council will be led by a non-executive chairperson appointed by the President. Sitting on the council will be Principal secretaries for Youth, Treasury and Interior, or their representatives nominated in writing. The Attorney General and the Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces, or their nominees, would be part of the board. The Youth CS will also appoint five other council members — two shall be youths ­— one of either gender. Among the roles of the council will be to receive and consider the budget estimates of the NYS and advise the President and the CS on matters relating to the NYS. Read: NYS suspect Lillian Omollo sacked as PS, replaced by Francis Owino “The council shall be responsible for the formulation of policy, control, oversight and supervision of the service,” the mandate of the proposed team reads. The restructuring comes at a time the institution is smarting from theft of billions from its coffers by government officials and traders. Two previous NYS bosses were forced out of office and charged with theft at NYS. They include PSs Lillian Omolo, Peter Mangiti, Nelson Githinji and Richard Ndubai. Also read: Omollo: Waiguru, Mangiti to blame for NYS scandal For the first time, the Bill makes it clear that NYS service personnel may be deployed to support KDF soldiers in times of war, hostilities or public emergency. The Inspector General may, with the approval of the National Security Council, request the National Police Service Commission to appoint NYS servicemen to be special police officers for a given period. “An officer appointed under Subsection ( 6 ) shall, during the period of service as a special police officer, be deemed to be a police officer for the purposes of the National Police Service Act,” the Bill states. The Bill also gives staff who were serving under the previous law an option to continue serving at NYS or be redeployed in the public service within a period of one year.