Harambee Stars head coach Sebastien Migne wants to integrate a number of National U-23 Emerging Stars players into the senior Harambee Stars following their stellar performance against Mauritius on Wednesday. Migne watched from the dugout as the budding players annihilated their opponents 5-0 in the first leg of the Africa U-23 qualifier at Moi Stadium, Kasarani and later expressed his satisfaction with the talent and enthusiasm haboured in the team managed by Francis Kimanzi. The Frenchman lauded the collective effort of the team and tipped a few of the outstanding players to make appearances in the senior team in the forthcoming assignments including the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match away to Ghana next year. Already, the team’s skipper Joseph Okumu and speedy winger Ovella Ochieng boast of several appearances in the senior team and their contribution against Mauritius caught the eye of Migne, who heaped praises on them and a few others whom he did not disclose their identities. He said: “I am impressed with the performance of the entire team. It was pleasing to watch them play. I am equally impressed with a few individual performances whom I feel they can make it to the senior team. Okumu he has shown maturity and the qualities of a leader. Ovella played well and other a few players although I do not like praising individuals, several of them really impressed.” Meanwhile, the coach revealed of his plan of kicking off preparations for the 2019 Afcon finals should Fifa uphold their initial decision of barring Sierra Leone from participating in the qualifiers. Fifa banned the West African nation from taking part in the qualifiers due to government interference in running the affairs of their federation—a move which turned out to be a blessing in disguise for Kenya. This means that should status quo remain, Kenya will have sealed a place in the finals with a match to spare. Migne said: “I have already discussed with the president (Nick Mwendwa) on where we will camp in readiness for Afcon although we have to wait for the outcome. Even as we wait, we have to plan for it early to achieve our targets.” Emerging Stars are expected to leave today to Mauritius for the return leg set for Sunday. They only a draw to set a date with the winner between Sudan and Seychelles in the next round.