Stranded, running and struggling for 'over costly' matatus. This is what Kenyans countrywide went through after operators withdrew their services on Monday over the enforcement of Michuki rules. The crackdown left thousands of PSV commuters exposed to crews taking advantage of the crisis to hike fares.  Mombasa residents walk to work after matatus withdrew services on Monday, November 12, 2018. /CHARLES MGHENYI The situation across the country smacks of the extortion and impunity that is characteristic of the industry, a number of Kenyans noted. Many Kenyans woke up as early as 5am only to reach empty and deserted bus stations. Those who got matatus were forced to pay more. A number of travellers in Nairobi hitched a ride while several others had to walk several kilometres to get to their work places.  Mombasa residents walk to work after matatus withdrew services on Monday, November 12, 2018. /CHARLES MGHENYI 'FARES SHOOT' For instance, commuters from Donholm were forced to part with Sh150 to Sh200 from the normal range of Sh 70 to Sh100. In Rongai, the few matatus in operation were charging between Sh150 and Sh250 to the CBD. In Kabete, commuters parted with Sh100 in a place where the fares are always around Sh60-Sh70.  /CHARLES MGHENYI Travellers from Uthiru to Westlands were charged Sh200. The normal price ranges from Sh30 to Sh50. Kangemi to Westlands cost Sh100 in a place where the fares are always between Sh10 to Sh20. The stranded civilians took to social media platforms to complain about the fare hikes. A number called on the government to intervene. @stanoh10 said: "The matatu crackdown has caused a menace in our roads. Fare hikes like shooting rocket." "While at this, if this rule continues to be in play without seizing will the fare still be double and triple from the usual? If not, then matatu drivers and touts should start being realistic as early as now,"  @ShiiMbugua said. @CycloneKenya1 said: "No matatus from Githurai 45 to town. A few matatus are charging Sh200 as fare." @OBornvenzas said: "Wakenya wengi wanaumia sana kwa senye siko(matatu) wenyewe in traffic police officers. Fare imeenda 150%." "Fare is been hiked to much! The government should assist the common mwananchi from assist the the matatu owners from meeting the cost compliance. Stop mat and ask passengers how much they are charged, if you out to safe us," @GodfreyKBungei said. @retired_comrade said: "Crooks in matatu business must be tamed! Taking extreme advantage of situations is thievery. Fuel prices rise by few coins fare is exaggerated, fare are in the skies. What's the logic of charging Sh500 in a route of Sh50" "I woke up at 5am hoping to catch a matatu from Thika to Nairobi, the fare was Sh500 where I normally use Sh70. I waited and finally decided to go back to my house," @to_Clive said.  Police bosses inspect a car in Kisumu on Monday, November 12, 2018. /FAITH MATETE 'WHAT OFFICERS ARE LOOKING FOR' Drivers/riders should have a driving licence, uniform/helmet, PSV badge, Photo, they check for buses carrying excess passengers, under the influence of alcohol. The drivers will also be arrested for failing to obey traffic signs. Conductors must have uniforms, PSV badge, should not carry excess passengers, will be arrested if found under the influence of alcohol, riding in a dangerous position and touting Passengers who steal a ride or are in excess in a vehicle will be arrested, they should be able to fasten their seatbelts, should wear helmet and reflective jacket when on a boda boda. Motor vehicles without inspection certificates, speed governor, suspension, steering, continuous yellow line, safety belts, body world cognition, tinted, blinking lights, bull bars and extended rims, loud music systems, blaring horn, modified exhaust pipes and lack of insurance will be impounded.  /CHARLES MGHENYI Officers conducted checks to ensure passengers had buckled their seat belts. Those who ignored the directive were arrested. NTSA proposed a Sh500 instant fine for the offence. "Make sure the seat belt is buckled or you will get arrested," one of the officers was heard telling passengers. The situation was no different in Mombasa where people were also forced to walk several kilometres to their destinations. The operation was led by Coast regional coordinator Bernard Leparmarai and county police commander Johnstone Ipara. In Kisumu, travellers were stranded as vehicles kept off the roads save for w few that had complied with the 'Michuki rules'. More on this: Public transport paralysed as matatus keep off roads over Michuki rules Read: Michuki Rules: Kenya back to square one 'MATATU'S WILL BE BACK' Speaking to NTV on Monday, police spokesman Charles Owino said operators who do not want to comply with the set rules should sell their vehicles. "If you feel you don't want to comply with the rules, you can keep your matatu and sell it to someone. If the CS managed to stop cheating in examinations and ensured that you get the grade you deserve, then with his support we can do this," he said. "For how long will you keep your matatu at home? The auctioneers will come for them... if they keep the vehicles for more than four days... NTSA can always withdraw your licences." Owino said that he was hopeful, that the crisis was only going to last for a day. "By tomorrow morning the crisis will not be there...but I know that Kenyans listen and they like being pushed. When they realise that the law is tight, they will fully comply with the changes," he said. "We saw the same thing in 2006 but the then minister was very firm... the important thing is that this is important for their safety and comfort." The police boss said with time the country will be cleansed and the changes will make a positive impact on the economy. "If we get a complete order, what will happen is that more people will prefer the public service," he said. 'WE ARE READY' Some Kenyans on Twitter said they were ready to endure the Matatu strike as long as it brought the sanity required. @geojumah said: "Whether they strike to death,@CSMatiangi don't mind them. The matatu guys are murderers who openly disregard the law and only concerned with making as much money as possible." "We must return sanity to our roads." @alkaman97 said: "People, take this positively. The recent events in our country as a Godsend opportunity to reflect on our morals as a nation." Last week, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said they are not going to carry anyone’s burden. He said lawlessness on the roads must come to a stop.  Police bosses during crackdown in Kisumu/.Faith Matete Matiang'i said the government will go after a chain of people to stamp out carelessness on the roads. More on this: Matiang'i talks tough on unruly matatus, rogue drivers Read: Passengers not spared in State's renewed plan to enforce 'Michuki rules' Additional reporting by Faith Matete and Charles Mghenyi Click here for the latest political news