Ijara MP Sophia Abdi Noor has been awarded a prestigious African female leadership award. The Women Advancement for Economic and Leadership Empowerment foundation in Africa (Waele) presented Noor with the “Pride of Africa Women Award” at a colourful ceremony on Saturday in Windhoek, Namibia. Waele is an NGO based across 52 African countries, promoting women empowerment, peace and conflict resolution as well as creating an enabling environment towards achieving peace in the continent. The award recognised Noor’s influential role towards African women liberation. While presenting the award to Noor, Waele President Dr. Basirat Nahibi said the award would serve as motivation for other female leaders who contribute to women empowerment. Noor said she was humbled and joyful to be considered and for the prestigious award. “It is a great opportunity for me and my people to receive this continental award which recognises my efforts and contribution towards women empowerment,” she said. The MP said the recognition was not only for her but also for many African mothers and women who worked hard to improve their wellbeing. “To receive this award is a great motivation for all women who contributed to women empowerment, be it education, health, leadership or economically. On my own behalf and on behalf of the people of Ijara and Kenya at large I wish thank the committee for recognizing our efforts,” she said. Other recipients at the award ceremony included former Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete and five African women ministers. Noor become the first woman from North Eastern to be elected to Parliament in 2017. She was first nominated to parliament by the Orange Democratic Movement in 2007. Noor is a founder member of ‘Womankind Kenya’ a group that advocates for girls education and women issues. Through her work, the former teacher has dedicated her life to fighting for the rights of women in Kenya’s northern region of Kenya and has been at the forefront in fighting retrogressive cultural practices such as Female Genital Mutilation.