City residents have complained about the Sh3 billion stalled street lighting project, which has become a security threat in estates. Residents in Buruburu Phase One said they have gone for many months without lighting along Ol Pogoni Road and attempts to have City Hall address the problem have failed. “We have tried our best to have the leadership of the subcounty address the matter but they only came and put up lighting poles. Since then, we are yet to see them again and this is why we now want the governor himself to intervene,” one of the court’s chairman told the Star. The official said the dark streets have become a security threat and the estate has become a target of armed robbers. “Business people and others cannot go to work very early in the morning since they are scared of being mugged,” the official said. He said recently, a gang on a motorcycle attacked and robbed people on their way to work. Kariobangi-Uhuru MCA Robert Mbatia said yesterday that he was aware of the situation and was trying to have the estates lit. “Security is a priority and the county will take up the responsibility to ensure the streets have proper lighting,” he said. Nairobi assembly Transport committee vice chairman Mark Mugambi said the project has stalled for the past seven months and MCAs are facing a backlash from residents. Last month, Transport executive Mohamed Dagane told the committee the project had slowed down for lack of funds. “I will not say it has stopped but it has slowed down. Maybe I can relate that to the issue of financing. However, some substantial work has been done in terms of street lighting across all wards,” he said. Dagane said City Hall had not received a status report for more than three months from Kenya Power, which is the implementing agency. Kenya Power had earlier denied the project had stalled.More than 30,000 street lights and high mast floodlights were to be installed along major roads in the city and feeder roads in the estates and slums. The project aims to enhance security to enable residents do business 24 hours. A number of slums, including parts of Kibera, Kawangware, Korogocho and Mathare, are set to be lit under the project.