Champions Gor Mahia’s captain Haroun Shakava believes the much-anticipated clash against English Premier League side, Everton is a perfect chance for the players to market themselves to the European sides. K’Ogalo, who fly out of the country today, play the Toffees on November 6 at the Goodison Park in the United Kingdom after winning the last SportPesa Super Cup tournament in June at Nakuru’s Afraha Stadium. Shakava, who took over the armband from Musa Mohammed after he left to join KF Tirana of Albania early in the year, urged the players not to be carried away by notion of impressing scouts but instead showcase their talent and stage a good performance. “For sure, it’s a good opportunity for us players to show our capabilities and talent during the match and who knows, one or two players may catch the eyes of scouts,” he noted. But this, Shakava warned shouldn’t cloud the players minds and make them lose focus on why they are in UK. We are in UK to try and match the EPL side and stage a good match,” said the defender. He added: “At the same time, we don’t want the pressure of impressing scouts out there to weigh us down and lose our style of play. We want to carry our good form to Everton and see what happens from there.” The national team player was cautious about the weather conditions but was quick to note that their early departure to the host nation will give them time to adapt. “Everton also experienced harsh condition (summer) during last year’s match in Tanzania and won 2-1 against us. We are also going to play in winter and we are ready to give it our all. All in all, I am happy especially for our sponsors Sportpesa, who have made the trip possible and I would like to urge our fans and the whole country at large to pray and support us. We promise them a good match this time round,” he added. Asked about his journey as a captain since taking over the reigns from Mohammed, Shakava said a lot of positives have been recorded. “For instance, we won the league title with many games in hand and that is something. The team also featured in the Caf Confederation Cup group stage and that is something that has not happened for a while. I am proud of all these developments,” said the captain. He warned the new players who have joined the team to be aware of the pressure that comes with donning Gor colours. Besides, the new season comes with new challenges and we are all set to extend our good run in the league.”