The Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam starts today amid tight security and new directives to curb cheating. The 664,585 candidates will start with a mathematics paper in the morning before they tackle chemistry in the afternoon, two days after rehearsals on Friday. The test is being done across 10,077 centres. Education CS Amina Mohamed yesterday directed documentation of each process from collection of papers to when they are returned to the safety container at subcounty headquarters. The documentation will be filed as a report and forwarded to a ministry official stationed at the headquarters at the Kenya National Examinations Council. Center managers will be required to indicate the number of extra scripts issued during collection of the papers and the time papers are collected. "This will provide data that can be used to verify any issues of shortage or missing scripts," Amina's directive says. Read: No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned The CS is the only person authorised to give a go-ahead on duplication of any exam material. Invigilators, supervisors or principals are not allowed to photocopy the exam papers. Knec yesterday warned against purchase and circulation of fake exam papers Knec chairman George Magoha asked officials to pay special attention on early exposure of the exams and communication within and outside the centers that could lead to leakage. Directives to ensure early exposure is put to rest include strict timelines on opening of the exam papers and stoppage time. Supervisors will have to explain if the exams begin later or before the scheduled time. They will be answerable to delayed stoppage and return of the examination material to the safety containers. Centre managers will be escorted by police to collect the papers and return them in the evening. The containers will be under 24-hour guard during the exam period. Schools will also be required to leave the gates open during the exam hours to to allow impromptu inspection. Last year, the council canceled results for 1,205 candidates. There 10,078 centre managers and 10,460 supervisors. The exam will be invigilated by 37,978 teachers. A total of 20,156 officers have been deployed to provide security and 5,039 drivers tasked with delivery of exam materials. They will all be paid Sh705 million. Amina said the KNEC data show that the examinations are currently stored in 459 containers across the country. Click here for the latest political news