Five Meru MPs have protested alleged harassment of area taxi operators by traffic police. The legislators say police are taking advantage of the push for Michuki rules to extort money from transport operators in the county. They are East Africa Legislative Assembly (EALA) MP Mpuru Aburi, John Paul (Igembe South),Kubai Kiringo (Igembe central) Moses Kirima (Central Imenti) and Rahim Dawood (North Imenti). Aguri, Mwirigi, Kirima and Dawood accompanied several taxi operators to Meru police station and later met Meru police boss David Kirui and Upper Eastern NTSA regional Manager Joseph Gichahi. While Kiringo met taxi operators in his constituency. They have cautioned traffic officers and other state agencies tasked with implementing the Michuki rules against harassing matatu and bodaboda operators in the guise of conducting a crackdown. Speaking at the CID headquarters in Meru after meeting security officers and some of the operators, Aburi said he will not relent until the issue of harassment of the operators is brought to an end. “Some have taken loans and their vehicles risk being impounded. However we advise that the operators especially those using probox vehicles should not carry passengers in the boot,” Aburi said. He said he will lead demonstrations in Meru if harassment does not stop. He said taxi’s are not to go for inspection. “Only pick-ups, lorries, buses and matatus are supposed to go for inspection not taxi’s,” Aburi said. Rahim Dawood faulted the traffic officers for targeting probox vehicles and called for the immediate release of all the impounded vehicles. The police boss called on the motorists to follow the law adding that the crackdown was for the sake of all road users. Kirima said that no road blocks should be mounted to arrest taxis. Mwirigi said the taxi business has created a lot of employment and should not be wiped out. He said it is unfortunate for vehicles to be towed even in homes. Despite the pleas police on Saturday carried out a major crackdown.