Police in Nakuru are investigating the alleged murder-suicide of a policeman and his wife. Constable Cornelius Talaam, based in Piave police post in Njoro, is suspected to have shot his wife of three months, Eunice Wambui, 22, before turning the gun on himself. “There were six spent cartridges at the scene where the two bodies were lying in a pool of blood on Tuesday morning,” county commander Hassan Barua said. Talaam’s colleagues said they had spent the better part of the evening drinking and left at 3pm. “The shootout could have happened between the time we left and 8am, when we realised he had not reported to work. There was no response when we knocked on his door,” an officer at the post said. Read: Nakuru cop turns gun on self after shooting wife dead The officer said they peeped through the window and saw the two bodies lying on the floor. Barua said the two lived at the police quarters at Piave base. He said police got information of the murder through constable Hillary Chebkai, who peeped through the window after he failed to get a response when he knocked on the door. Constable Chebkai had been directed by Njoro OCS to remind his deceased colleague to prepare exhibits for a case before court. Neighbours said they heard shooting in the wee hours of the morning, but thought it was nothing to worry about. “In was early in the morning when we heard several gunshots. We didn’t think it was something serious because the place is occupied by police who use guns,” Mary Wairimu said. She said the couple did not have children. Wambui’s uncle, Stephen Maina, told reporters his niece sat her KCSE exam last year then moved to Piave. He said Wambui frequently visited him and would always tag her husband along. Maina said they seemed happy. Last year in September, another police constable based in Molo shot his wife and turned the gun on himself on Kanu street. The two were found with gunshot wounds in the head. Police recovered 11 bullets and nine spent cartridges. See also: [VIDEO] Nakuru cop shoots girlfriend, takes his own life Click here for
the latest political news