A Senate team yesterday warned MCAs to stop threatening county officials with removal from office, saying the trend is driven by greed. Senate Committee on Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations cautioned governors against compromising MCAs with goodies in exchange of kicking out some officials, who do not toe their line. The senators spoke to the press at Parliament Buildings.“It has been observed that the probable causes of these hostilities are greed for the control of power or misappropriation of money through uncalled-for and unnecessary travels so as to earn per diem allowances,” committee chairman John Kinyua said. He was accompanied by Boy Juma of Kwale, Samson Cherargei of Nandi and Boniface Kabaka of Machakos.Latest reports by Auditor General Edward Ouko have revealed massive plundering of public funds at the county assemblies.The 2016-17 audit report shows how MCAs and assembly staff have been pocketing millions in illegal mileage and sitting and travel allowances. Read: MBAKA: Why speakers are MCA's new targetsSome MCAs, the report shows, earn irregular allowances without attending plenary or committee sessions. Those on foreign trips do not provide required documents to justify their travel, it says.In the last one month, Homa Bay, Nairobi, Kakamega, Nyandarua and Kisumu assemblies have been rocked by chaos, as MCAs fight to remove their speakers.On Wednesday, Machakos MCAs passed a motion to remove deputy governor Francis Maliti from the position of Finance executive.Maliti was accused of incompetence and failing to provide crucial documents requested by the assembly regarding management of public finances.Kangundo West MCA Titus Kaloki, who spoke to the press soon after the motion was passed, termed the impeachment process an illegality and total wastage of time.“We have decided that we will not be party to the business going on in the assembly of selfish blackmail against the deputy governor. The public should know the debate in the assembly is about a group of MCAs who want money for personal allowances and trips but have refused to pass the County Integrated Development Plan and development budget,” Kaloki said. Kinyua said from next week, they will be inviting governors and MCAs from the affected counties. He said the Senate will crack the whip on wayward officials. “The committee has decided to rein in on this habit by summoning and interrogating the affected counties with the view of finding lasting solution,” he said.Kinyua said his committee will come up with legislation to make it mandatory for the Senate to have a final say on the removal of speakers, clerks and county executives. The legislation will also require the public to be involved. See: Homa Bay MCAs impeach speaker over incompetence, bias Click here for
the latest political news