More than 150 alumni of Moi University will meet tomorrow at the institution for the first time in three decades. The group is the cohort that enrolled in 1988 and members plan to create a ‘once in a lifetime’ event visiting the university 30 years on. The group calling itself MU’88 Welfare Organisation will converge at the main campus in Kesses, about 30km from Eldoret. They have planned a series of events to remember their special attachment to the institution. Activities at the main campus will include a memorial event for 29 deceased comrades and the inauguration of a botanical garden. The rest of the day will involve plenary meetings, lunch and an afternoon walk down memory lane. Organisers of the event said alumni will travel from as far as Canada, Australia, the US, South Korea, Malaysia and the UK. The alumni were among the last crop to go through pre-university paramilitary training at the National Youth Service. Their riot in Gilgil in October 1988 after being recalled to participate in Moi Day festivities, marked the end of the NYS programme for university students. Read: Moi alumni sue for law school They were also the first group to be “expelled” en masse prior to joining a university. They were required to report to chiefs weekly before joining the university and became the first students to report to a public university in Kenya with their parents on November 6, 1988. Many firsts for a university they hardly knew, a university many did not apply to join and for courses many did not select. “The remoteness of the campus and our experiences made us form a bond so strong that it has stood the test of time,” Dulo Nyaoro said. He is leading a seven-member committee that has been organising the event. The organising committee also includes Zipporah Toroitich, Jacob Otsyula, Catherine Adeya and Jill Ondigo. The alumni hold significant positions in both private and public sector. They include National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale, Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria, Eldas MP Adan Keynan, Turkana West MP Daniel Nanok, ambassador and former PS Richard Titus Ekai and former Vision 2030 director general and current chairman of Lake Turkana Wind Power Ltd Mugo Kibati. Others are Isuzu East Africa MD Rita Kavashe, Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu, I&M Bank Ltd CEO Kihara Maina, chairperson of the Board of Kenya Accreditation Service, former Konza founder CEO Catherine Adeya and Radio Africa and Star newspaper head of content David Makali. Others are Kiambu executive Juliet Kimemia. They also include first secretaries and counselors (current and former) in Kenyan missions in Canada, South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia. “It will be a first in Kenya, as it will comprise a specific year cohort brought together by experiences, as opposed to faculty-based alumni, and 30 years later,” Ondigo said. “It is hoped this will inspire others to do the same and see how to partner with their alma mater.” Click here for the latest political news   