Somewhere in a scarcely populated village tucked on the foot of the picturesque Tugen Hills, Baringo county, lives a middle-aged man with his two wives. Cheptikiit is his name. He lives by the biblical commandment: Go ye and fill the world. Consequently, he has a brood of 17 children ranging between two and 28 years old to show for his obedience to God. Cheptikiit lives on his own terms. He cares not what his children do or not do. But once in a while — when the truancy in his household threatens to burst the seams of his head, he lectures the children of dire consequences; no punishment. The children know that their father is incapable of turning their world upside down because of their waywardness. Juxtapose this scenario with our government: President Uhuru Kenyatta whom I duly compare with Cheptikiit has a knack of always warning and counter-warning his sleazy, lazy and rudderless senior officers. In his characteristic behaviour in the face of frustrations, Uhuru usually takes refuge in his warning cocoon, not that he is a coward but because he believes his warnings are enough to rein in the officials. During the official opening of the Nairobi International Show a few weeks ago, a visibly angry head of state wagged a finger at Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, warning him and others not present at the time of dire consequences. The bone of contention was the failure of Kiunjuri to navigate the Agriculture docket and ensure maize farmers are paid on time. What was the President doing issuing warnings to a CS who looked lost in a jungle of rocks? For allowing himself to be turned around and round like a belt, Kiunjuri should have earned a summary dismissal, not mere warnings. The CS was smiling sheepishly as the President harangued him. Kiunjuri knows that Uhuru only blows hot and cold because he is a gentleman. Uhuru hates to sow discord in his government. This does not bode well for the welfare of the people of this beautiful country. He cannot afford to run the country with sympathies and niceties. Kenya is going down the drain on his watch yet the best he can do is lecture and issue warnings. The President has Kenya’s best interests at heart but he should change his robe of helplessness and wear one of action. It is weeks since Uhuru ordered Kiunjuri to ensure farmers are paid but that was just that; mere hot air. Farmers are yet to be paid. Last year, the President shocked the nation when he lamented on national TV that he is frustrated by the corrupt in his government. “Sasa mnataka nifanye nini (Now what do you want me to do?)” This was another episode of helplessness digging in as the country goes to the dogs thanks to inept Cabinet secretaries and Chief Administrative Secretaries who spend the entire day staring at that purple hole in Saturn, wondering why it is there and not in Kenya. Who bewitched us? Uhuru wants to leave a legacy for generations to come. This is why he has come up with the Big Four agenda. If the President continues his business-as-usual leadership style, these Big Four will disappear into a sinkhole. We can never achieve these pillars of a strong economy when all those given the responsibility to ensure their success are busy stealing resources meant for these projects. The President is serious about leaving a legacy worth being printed in bold in the annals of history, but he must be ready to take the bull by the horns. There should be no more getting cosy with the usual suspects of ineptness. We have ministers who have displayed pure sloppiness since their appointment in 2013. Uhuru must show who is boss. Fire them! There are more than 44 million competent Kenyans ready to serve their country diligently.