Western Kenya farmers have the opportunity to end overreliance on maize and sugarcane by growing sorghum for Kenya Breweries Limited, the company has said. The Sh15 billion Kisumu plant targets 15,000 farmers from the Lake Region to grow white sorghum used as a raw material. Through the implementation of a ‘West for West’ strategy in the local sourcing of sorghum, the majority of raw materials will be sourced from the region. The bulk of the farmers will be from Kakamega, Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Homa Bay and Busia. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the plant in June last year. It will produce 100 million litres of Senator keg annually. It will establish 5,000 retail outlets. In recent years, maize farmers have faced many problems, including lack of market, exploitation by middlemen and delayed payments by the National Cereals and Produce Board. The sugar sector is on its knees, with farmers owed Sh2.6 billion. Most fi rms face collapse and have been relying on bailouts from the government. Western Kenya is home to most of the sugar millers in the country. The Privatisation Commission has approved most of public millers for sale. On Friday, KBL head of engagement and sustainability Jean Ngumo said they are committed to supporting smallholder farming in the region. “Our goal is to source 100 per cent of our raw materials locally by 2020. We are currently at 80 per cent. As the region gears up for launch of the Kisumu Brewery, we aim to have the bulk of our raw materials sourced from the Western and Lake Region,” she said during a one-day agriculture and business opportunities forum in Kakamega. The firms sponsored the event. Some 1, 000 farmers attended. Ngumo said are keen to empower residents. “This is in line with the company’s ‘growing value together strategy’ that seeks to ensure the business shares economic benefi ts with local communities and improves livelihoods,” she said. KBL has been a leading brewer in Kenya since it began operations in 1922. Its flagship brand is Tusker Lager. Other products are Tusker Malt Lager, Pilsner, White Cap, White Cap Light, Senator, Guinness, Allsopps and President Lager. Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala thanked the firm and said sorghum farming would “bring good tidings” to the county. “We are happy to partner with Kenya Breweries that gives the people of Kakamega an opportunity to improve their livelihoods through sorghum farming. We’ve witnessed the impact that sorghum farming has had in the surrounding counties. We want the same for our people,” he said. He said the county will work closely with the brewer to end sale of illicit brews. In July, KBL approved production of Senator Keg at brewery. The first Senator Keg pint was test-tasted by its top brass. This marked a milestone for the investment. By then, it had invested at least 900,000 man-hours. In April, the government projected that the firm will create 100,000 direct and indirect jobs. Then-Industrialisation CS Adan Mohamed said he was pleased with the progress. “This is an example of what Big Four can do in the manufacturing sector. I’m aware that approximately 85 per cent of the people working here today are locals,” he said. “We will also have a significant number of distribution points to sell this product across the country. More than 5,000 people are expected to benefit from this investment.” The CS thanked Kisumu governor Anyang’ Nyong’o for the support his county has given since the beginning of the construction. “The support from the community and the leadership in this county has been remarkable,” he said. Click here for the latest political news