A family in Kuria East is demanding justice for their son they claim was shot dead by a policeman after a disagreement. The said Alex Omari Kimati was killed at Kegonga market after a dispute with an officer during a game of billiards (Ajua). Kimati was buried on Friday. However, the police said the deceased was a notorious criminal with several pending assault cases. They said he was shot dead on October 29 by an officer at Kegonga market because he resisted arrest. But the family denies that Kimati was being hunted down by the police. "My husband was not a robber. If there are people who accused him of robbery and assault, why was he not arrested? Are police officers allowed to shot and kill suspects?” asked Kimati's wife Rael Gituti. She wants the officer arrested and charged. "The only mistake our son made was to quarrel with a police officer in a social place. It is wrong for a policeman to misuse his powers to settle a personal score with a civilian," said Kimati's father Jackson Ekerosi. In an earlier interview, Kuria East police boss Ahmed Abdikadir denied the claims of Kimati's innocence. He said the deceased was a known robber. "The man resisted arrest and confronted the police officer. He attempted to grab the officer's firearm. That is when he shot him," he said. "He is a notorious robber and police have been looking for him. He has a number of cases and he recently assaulted a police officer," he said. Abdikadir denied reports that the police officer had a quarrel with the deceased. "The officer did not have any disagreement with the deceased. That is not true," he said. Nyabasi East MCA Mwita Motangi said action should be taken against the AP officer. "We are wondering why the police had not arrested Kimati yet they claim he was a criminal. Why did they have to kill him? We ask for justice for this young man," Motangi said. "We want Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to transfer all the police officers in Kuria East as cases of extra-judicial killings have become common in the region," he said. On October 30, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority launched investigations into the incident and a series of others across the country. In a press release, IPOA head of communication Denis Oketch said the agency is also probing other fatal shootings. Click here for the latest political news  