The tuk tuk driver captured throwing stones at two police officers in a video that went viral on Sunday has come out to explain the incident. The Nakuru operator who went into hiding told KTN he acted in defence after one of the police officers smashed his side mirror and windshield. He said the police officers had stopped two other tuk tuk drivers and were collecting bribes when they signalled him to stop. "Huyo afande mweusi aliinua rungu yake juu akagonga kioo yangu na side mirror yangu ikaanguka. Askari mwenyewe amenikosea, mimi mwenyewe nikimwuliza hakuna kenye ananiambia," he said. (The dark police officer took his mace and smashed my windshield and side mirror. The police officer did me wrong, and when I ask him why, he could not give an explanation). The driver, who declined to give his name, sustained injuries on his neck during the 10-minute scuffle. He said he does not understand why the DCI and Flying Squad are looking for him, but not taking any action against the police officers. A witness said the driver stopped driving his tuk tuk upon being signalled to do so by the two officers. "Wakati alirudi (tuktuk driver) kuongea na askari, askari alirudi nyuma kung'oa insurance. Dereva wa tuktuk kuuliza ni nini inaendelea hapo ndio vita iliianza," the witness said. (When he went to talk to the police officers, one of them went to remove the insurance sticker. The driver questioned the police and that is when the fight began). IPOA head of communication Denis Oketch in a statement on Monday condemned the attack, saying it is unacceptable for anyone to take the law into their own hands. Oketch said the authority has been taking steps to ensure unprofessional police officers are prosecuted and urged the public to instead report such incidences to the agency. "It defeats the purpose of police reforms when the public turns and commits the same offences they complain about when the police commit them," he said. Read:[VIDEO] Tuk Tuk driver goes berserk, stones traffic cops Click here for the latest political story