Kenya will on November 26-28 host the Sustainable Blue Economy Conference in Nairobi. Foreign Affairs PS Ambassador Macharia Kamau speaks to the Star about the conference, as well as flooding of the Kenyan market with Chinese fish.  Blue economy is not new to Kenya as it was one of the areas highlighted in the Vision 2030. It is also in line with African Union Agenda 2063 Aspiration 1 and the sustainable development goal 14. But what incentivised Kenya to host this conference? This conference is the brainchild of the President who, in trying to find out how Kenya can bridge the gap between its current growth trajectory to where we need to be, which is 9-10 per cent growth per year, recognised we need to do something differently. The economy has been based on land because Kenyans have always been obsessed with land resources — agriculture, plots and buildings for sale. Then, the blue economy and the potential that is therein have been neglected. The vast majority, if not all, of the developed economies have grown to be the superpowers they are because of the blue economy. Creating the sea economy for themselves because the sea means markets, trade and wealth — fish, oil, gas and various minerals in the sea, which are the engines in making wealth in any economy. Kenyan government has come to realise this is a huge potential. If we can maximise the potential of our lakes, seas and the oceanfront, we can add easily between three and six per cent growth on the current trajectory.  Turkana, Lodwar, Baringo, Lamu and Kilifi, despite their proximity to water bodies, are the face of poverty. What can counties near these areas do to maximise their potential in the blue economy? The counties have to involve themselves. The days of waiting for some benefactor are long gone. The reason why we are in poverty in most of these places is because people have been waiting for a government or foreigner to come and help them. We have to take responsibility for the reality, which the counties have realised, including Kisumu, that they have to take charge and transform their own reality by coming up with ideas and projects as well as innovative financing to transform their own reality. If they are waiting for handouts from governments, or a government, or foreign donor, they will wait for another 55 years. The idea here is for Turkana to create capability among the people and train them. If there is capability to train their people to move and build the economy, the better. That’s what happens all over the world, for instance in the US, where currently there is flacking boom in the western part of the US. There is movement to work there because there are no enough people to work. In Kenya, people should be able to move around not remain in the same place because you are from the other county and can’t come here and exploit these opportunities. When you do that, you deny yourself resources and human resource that can transform your realities.  There are complaints by Kenyan fishermen and fish traders about flooding of Kenyan market with the Chinese and Chinese fish. Won’t  this undermine the objectives of the blue economy conference?  Why do we have Chinese fish in our economy? Because Kenyans want to eat it. It is not being forced down their throats. People are demanding that fish. If we are not able to satisfy our market, from Lake Victoria, which we are not, what is going to happen with a shortfall? Should we deny Kenyans food because we are not able to provide enough fish from Lake Victoria? There is a reason why that fish is coming to the country.  Traders say it’s killing their business, which is contrary to the objective of the conference — to improve the lives of the people.  The traders are saying that because they have been protected and are behaving in a monopolistic way. It’s like getting guys from matatus allowing a train system. Our people from the Coast, Lake Turkana and Lake Victoria have to add value to their fish. They are still using canoes in the 21st century. How are you going to feed a population of 50 million people based on canoe fishing? How far can you go fishing? We need industrial fishing, which requires huge investment and a mind shift in how we approach our fishing, which is what we want to achieve in this blue economy: Create the capability to turn Msambweni, Mombasa, Kilifi, Malindi and Lamu into huge launching pads of huge fishing industrial capability into the sea and the same time create jobs in processing that fish. Almost 80 per cent of the fish we eat is from the lakes. Yet the sea has a thousand more potential, but we haven’t bothered to exploit that potential.  What plans are in place to deal with threats such as piracy, climate change, plastic pollution, some of which fall under the SDGs?  We have insisted on predicating everything we are doing on two pillars: Conservation, pollution control, and sustainability on one side, and a production, poverty alleviation, and industrialisation on the other side. Kenya has been getting a lot of kudos in the world because we have been able to recognise and tell the world that we are hosting a conference to bring a better balance in economic development. If you don’t have balance in economic development, you have a city growing, with the half of it being slums. That’s not the development we want. People should not be destitute to a point where they live in a slum. Nairobi is now cleaner than it was four or five years ago because of the plastic ban. The pollutants such as plastics are taken into the rivers and end up in the sea.  This is what the conference is about: To protect our waters and the sources and at the same time build the economy side of it.  Does the maritime border dispute with Somalia and over the Migingo Island raise any concerns regarding our blue economy?  Once you realise that something is valuable, the human instinct is to find a solution because everyone needs to find that resource. If we suddenly all realise there is potential in the sea, then it will be foolhardy not to say let’s make a deal or let’s make this work for all of us. When there is nothing to gain, we get lost in politics.  Once we start to recognise the value of the blue economy, we will find a solution. But when we become too obsessed with the little island of Migingo, a little dot in the lake, and the media spends inks of headlines on it and the Somali dispute, that’s not what life is about.  But isn’t territorial integrity important?  Yes, but everything is about perception. You need to focus on where the real potential is. We can spend all the time fighting over Migingo but, you have to be stupid to do so. At the end of the day, even though it is our land, and we will do everything we can to protect our ownership of it, it isn’t what the major priority is for Lake Victoria or the blue economy. We don’t want the tail to wag the dog. The dog must wag the tail.  What are the potential opportunities that businesses should look forward to in this conference?  We have 325 projects from the counties and other ventures worth Sh1.4 trillion shillings and if this will work it would fundamentally change many of the things we are doing.    