Just when do government officials leave office after retirement? This is a question officers in the directorate of criminal investigations want Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to answer. Why, they ask, is a top officer who retired months ago still in office making decisions and issuing directives left and right to officers? The cop known for her erratic and unfriendly operations is throwing the system into disarray and teaching those who don't toe the line a lesson, confident that no one can hold her to account. According to the norms and standards of human resources management, the officer is supposed to have proceeded on leave three months to her retirement date but she has remained at her Kiambu Road office. So, who is protecting her? ***** Residents of a constituency in South Nyanza are up in arms against their first term MP. Reason? The MP is said to have bulldozed his way to have a small road leading to his rural home tarmacked instead of a larger road network serving thousands of constituents for which money had been prioritized and even allocated. The lawmaker is said to have used his powers to divert the allocation to his rural road ignoring cries from his constituents whose buttocks have been thinned by the bumpy roads. Is this a case of selfishness or living true to the Swahili saying that mwamba ngozi ngomani huivutia kwake (loosely translated, everyone who stretches a skin on a drum, pulls to his own side). But as he continues to pull everything to his home, residents have vowed to hold street protests to rein in the first shots of mischief from their lawmaker. They have vowed to wait for him at the ballot in 2022 if he doesn't listen. ***** Members of staff in one of the biggest state parastatals in Nairobi are silently wondering the rate at which male condoms disappear from the dispensers at the institution. A mole has whispered to Corridors that the contraceptives which are replenished every morning hardly reach 1 am before the dispensers are emptied. Could it be that members pick them up for fan or for their intended purposes? Many staff are asking themselves in hushed tones but others are making fun out of it terming those 'ghost' collectors as responsible individuals who care about their lives, work and families. “I will be worried if they were not picked, but because they are wiped out early morning it means I am sure I will still have my colleagues in the years to come. None will succumb to those STDs,” one staffer said. Click here for
the latest political news