Cherogony Ruto, 75, vividly recalls when he ventured into coffee farming in 1970 in his rural village of Sokom, Baringo North subcounty. Ruto, who is from the sleepy Ossen-Kabartonjo ward, said he was barely 27 when the idea struck to plant some 200 coffee bushes in his father’s five-acre farm, hoping to shape his future. “A few years later, my farm blossomed with green leaves and white flowers. I knew my dream had come true and I could supply coffee like my agemates,” he says. Ruto is among at least 2,000 pioneer farmers from Baringo North and Baringo Central subcounties who used to supply over 45,000kg of coffee berries annually to Tugen Hills Farmers’ Cooperative Society Limited, established in 1969. “Although old age no longer allows me to manage my coffee farm well, passion drives me to supply however little to the society, despite the mounting challenges, coupled with meagre market prices,” Ruto says. Nothing, including fluctuating market prices, has dimmed his love for his coffee farm. In the 1980s, discouraged by lack of markets, farmers in Eldama Ravine subcounty in one accord cut down their coffee bushes to plant subsistence crops such as maize, beans and fruits. Tugen cooperative is located in the thickest part of Katimok Forest. It is chaired by Mike Yatich, with Nicolas Chemelil as the manager. Yatich says the current leading coffee producers are Bartabwa, Bartolimo, Isaas, Kabarnet, Kabartonjo, Kapsoo, Kaptere, Kipsaraman, Kituro,  Ossen, Poi, Tenges and Tunoiwo. The chairman says 26 societies from these regions used to supply coffee berries amounting to an annual income of Sh7.3 million. “We are yet to receive a single coffee berry from Eldama Ravine and Mogotio subcounties,” he says, adding that plans are underway to groom farmers in Baringo South. CHANGE OF PLANS To reward farmers for their loyalty in April 2014 then Governor Benjamin Cheboi came up with a plan to build a Sh200 million coffee factory on the 2.5-acre Tugen Hills Society Farm, through a Korean World Best Friends investor. “After successful talks with the investor, we signed an agreement with the community that gave the Korean investor the go-ahead to establish the mill on the sizeable land,” Cheboi says. However, there was a sudden change of plans when Governor Stanley Kiptis took office in August last year. Kiptis, through his departmental officers, is pushing to have the factory relocated to Koibatek ATC, Eldama Ravine subcounty. On July 9, coffee farmers from 22 cooperative societies were called to a meeting at the Kerio Valley Development Authority hall in Kabarnet town. Present were Agriculture executive Richard Rotich, chief officer William Kurere and director Kibet Maina. “They wanted to convince the farmers to accept moving the factory to Eldama Ravine,” Yatich says. One of the main reasons given was the cold climate at Katimok Forest, which is unfavorable for sun-drying coffee berries. Farmers were also told that the designated land, owned by the Kenya Forest Service, had no title deed, “scaring away the Korean investor”. They were told that the 2.5 acres would not be enough for drying the berries, which need a lot of room for spacing. Other issues raised were accessibility to infrastructure, market and proximity to large coffee-growing counties such as Nakuru, Laikipia and Uasin Gishu. DEMONSTRATION However, agitated by their exclusion from the consultations, residents of Baringo North have threatened to stage demos to reclaim the factory. “We had thought the mill would be fast-tracked at Katimok so we could have over 3,000 of our jobless youth get opportunities, but what is this we hear happening?” Baringo North resident Eric Bett asks. He says Kiptis would be digging his own political grave if he moves the coffee factory to his Eldama Ravine home. Bett further accused Kiptis’s junior officers of convening illegal meetings with cartels as the governor buries his head in the sand. “We cannot accept this. It is either the factory remains in Katimok or we look for a more spacious place within Baringo North. We cannot allow it to be taken away just like that,” coffee farmer Benjamin Kipkorir says. Another elderly farmer, Walter Komen from Ossen, recalls the early 1980s, when farmers in Eldama Ravine decided to uproot their coffee bushes, citing lack of a ready market. “We the people of Baringo North and Central stayed loyal despite myriad challenges, until recently, we felt our efforts have been recognised with the installation of the coffee factory, only [for it] to be taken away,” Komen says. Farmer Benjamin Kipkorir says: “We applauded the idea but why is Governor Kiptis trying to bulldoze an already established project, instead of initiating his own?” The residents say they will hold protests against the county government if the relocation plan is not dropped. Kiptis, however, denies being part of the deal, adding that his administration is committed to expanding production of coffee to meet the local and foreign market needs. “Whichever place the factory is located, we are ready to produce enough coffee for the sustainable operation of this mill, to meet the needs of Korea and other markets, because as county we have the potential,” he says. Once complete, the project will have a coffee-processing and packaging plant, complete with a business information centre that will support marketing of coffee products in the global market. Cheboi says he placed the factory in Baringo North to balance resources equitably across all parts of the county. He says he located a milk cooling plant in Eldama Ravine, livestock hides and a skin factory in Baringo South, and a fruits factory in Kerio Valley, Baringo Central. KFS FALLOUT Another reason given by the county government for relocating the coffee factory is a disagreement with the Kenya Forest Service. “We recently wrote to the KFS but they refused to expand the Katimok forest land to 10 acres to accommodate the new demands by the investor to build on it,” Agriculture executive Rotich says. He says that they are left with no option but to build the mill at ATC in Eldama Ravine subcounty. Rotich says he wrote a letter to Monicah Kalenda, KFS senior deputy chief conservator of forests. However, she turned down the request citing the Forest Conservation and Management ACT of 2016, which indicates that indigenous forests must be protected and conserved.