Tea hawking is increasing theft in tea-growing areas of the Central region, the Kenya Tea Development Agency has warned. Chairman Peter Kanyago wants only farmers allowed in the tea business. He said on Saturday that theft has been rampant and trucks and farms are targeted. The stolen produce is sold to private processors. He urged the government to stop issuing processing licences to people who have no tea farms. The Agriculture ministry had pledged to ensure non-growers are barred. On Saturday, CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said that they will find out why hawking is taking place. Kanyago welcomed the plan and called for a crackdown on theft. “There are people who have been going to others’ farms at night to steal tea and hawk. Others steal from transporting trucks,” he said. Kanyago spoke during a meeting of Zone 4 directors at Gathuthi Tea Factory in Tetu, Nyeri. In a July meeting held in Murang’a town, sector players called for a hawking ban to restore order. It was attended by traders from Kiambu, Murang’a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Embu, Meru and Tharaka Nithi. They said hawking was encouraging theft, which had become rampant in Kiambu and Murang’a and was fast-spreading to Meru, Kirinyaga and Nyeri. KTDA said hawking was lowering its output. On Saturday, Kanyago said Murang’a is worst-hit and the problem is slowly taking root in Nyeri county. In Murang’a, produce increased only by three per cent. Nyeri had a 41 per cent increase. “They had less tea compared to Nyeri and the revenue will be less. That’s because of hawking. Kanyenya-ini lost 7.4 per cent of the crop mainly because of hawking,” he said. Kanyago warned those hawking tea hawking to stop. They are not benefitting much because they are paid peanuts, he said. They get cash once, while those selling through KTDA are paid twice, he said. KTDA focusses on smallholders. It is currently paying bonuses to farmers. It will pay Sh62 billion this year, a Sh5 billion increase from last year’s Sh57 billion. Farmers had a bigger harvest this year than last year. This hurt prices, marking about 18 per cent drop from what they got last year for a kilogramme. “This was caused by the fact that we had more tea during the year than the previous year. Tea depends on supply and demand. When you have more supply, the prices go down and that’s what happened,” Kanyago said. He told farmers that payment might not be as good as anticipated if the situation remains the same. He said he was optimistic the sector will improve. The meeting deliberated on election of centre officials. Committee members of buying centres will be held today while those of directors will be tomorrow.