 Africa,
according to multiple research based sources, has a population of approximately
1.25 billion people. The continent’s collective GDP currently stands $3.25
Trillion (2017). Germany, with a population of 82 million people, registered a
GDP of $3.77 trillion over the same period. While the GDP per capita of Germany
stands at $45,000, Africa stands at $1,800. Which economic point I am I driving
home here? It
is time African leaders accepted the continent has a very long way to go in
terms of economic excellence. We understand that every individual desires the
best in their lives regardless of African or German dimensions. As you pray to
have your child access education in Ivy league facilities, so is your friend,
neighbour, employee or relative. Yet the greatest responsibility of directing
the continent towards global affluence squarely lies with the leaders. We
may have a number of reasons to justify gloom and frustrations but we have more
than a million reasons to envision a better continent and country for all.
Kenya’s population currently stands at 48 million people. More than 60 per cent
of this number falls within the youth bracket. The immediate implication is
that we have an extremely large pool of energy without a tactic of deriving its
utility. Therein lays the problem, the question and even the opportunity. How
do we overturn our fortunes to make use of all our opportunities? At the
moment, Kenya is producing electric energy in quantities that surpass its
needs. Therefore, cottage industries within the informal sectors have a
reliable source of electric power. In agriculture, we produce more than we can
consume. Yet we have frustrated and unpaid farmers and underfed population.
These illustrations illustrate the gaps that continue to hold the country back. In
Mathira constituency, we have a rich farming culture, cutting across
cultivation of both cash and food crops. Honestly, most of us baby boomers have
grown up under the direct sponsorship from coffee and tea sales. Our fees,
source of livelihood and even capital for our parent’s businesses came from
coffee and tea. What happened then that we cannot now rely on coffee anymore?
Forgive my rant-kind of communication but these are the hard questions we must
ask for our people. We have to query, interrogate and reflect as leaders on what
we can do to write a better economic story. I
have watched many women and even men create a livelihood out of the former open-air
market in Karatina. Our new modern market will offer a platform to better the
fortunes of this enterprising and industrious cohort of business leaders. When
a mother can monetise food crops from her quarter acre land, she is in a
position to provide education opportunities for her children. I will continue
securing the business positions of hardworking entrepreneurs to the best of my
ability. There
are challenges in the process of seeking the best of the people. I can confirm
that political leaders experience all manner of hardships in the quest for
service delivery. Let us analyze from a two-dimension perspective. A legislator
in all assembly platforms has to conduct extensive lobbying for a bill to go
through. Party politics are a reality and genuine intentions may not see the
light of the day based various political dynamics. Yet we must overcome these
barriers for us to marshal Kenya toward prosperity. In this spirit, I urge my
fellow legislators to back the Amendment on the Public Procurement and Asset
Disposal Act, 2015 for the purposes of condensing our domestic business
capacity. The bill will realise a buoyant commercial environment that focuses
on empowering our tough grinding businessmen and women. On
the development front, installation of critical facilities has its share of
challenges. The Karatina Market experience left me with a number of
observations. One, a leader should excel in lobbying skills from all ends. It
is true that I camped in all relevant national offices seeking to have
practical solutions towards the completion of this all-important trading centre.
However, firm resolve, aggression and working with a high sense of urgency have
made possible a hitherto impossible task. The entire angle around this message
is to rally my fellow leaders into accepting that we have a lot to do for the
economic sake of the Kenyan people. Let us, therefore, work on overcoming all
the barriers that may rise against this noble cause. Rigathi
Gachagua is Mathira MP, Nyeri County