From my analysis and especially on the issue of operationalisation of the order in respect of the appellant, I am satisfied the trial court did not asses the practical impact of the orders it gave in respect of the appellant. I, therefore, find that section 362 CPC is applicable in the circumstances of this case. This is for the purpose of making it practical for the applicant to carry out his official duty and not earn full salary for doing nothing. I, therefore, set aside the order complained of and substitute it with an order directing the applicant to make an undertaking not to interact or/and interfere with witnesses at his workplace or any witness. He will also undertake not to interfere with records and/or documents relevant to the case. Failure to comply will lead to automatic cancellation of bond. It is a fact that the charges n ACC case number 33 of 2018 arise from his operations at the NLC. Some  witnesses are staff at the NLC and are obviously juniors. I understand the trial court to mean there could be fears of interference with the junior officers who are witnesses, hence, the need to secure credibility of the judicial process. I appreciate this concern by the trial court but add that securing this credibility must be done within the confines of the law and the Constitution. In the instant case the investigating agency is the EACC. The officers supposed to give the authorisation is the secretary or CEO of EACC. The order further states that the secretary/CEO shall give authorisation upon due consultation with the EACC. This in fact is where the problem is. What happens if any of these parties refuse to have the authorisation given? It would mean that the applicant doesn’t go to office. I find a big conflict of interest in the operation of the order by the learned trial magistrate. This is because the secretary/CEO EACC and the investigating agency could be seen to be controlling the affairs of the NLC, yet EACC and NLC are independent commissions. This is an excerpt from the judge's ruling Click here for the latest political news