President Uhuru Kenyatta led Kenyans at the memorial service for the late former Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson Jane Kiano. Speakers at the service held at St Francis ACK church in Karen described the late as a selfless and dedicated leader. Deputy President William Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga, and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta were present. Kiano died on October 25 at the Nairobi Hospital after a battle with lung cancer. She left behind two daughters. Her husband Dr Julius Kiano died 15 years ago. Uhuru condoled with the family describing the late Maendeleo ya Wanawake founder as a mother, a sister and a friend. "We could share and talk together on almost any issue," Uhuru said. He said Jane will be remembered for a lot of things that she did for women "selflessly without expecting anything in return." "She did it not because of glory or wealth but because it was the right thing to do," Uhuru said. The president said Kiano nurtured so many women who went ahead to be celebrated in their own right as great women leaders. Uhuru used the moment to challenge leaders to evaluate themselves on the basis of the contribution they are making to the country. The president said the government will enhance the trail-blazer programme to include the celebration of women who have made great contribution to the country. He echoed Raila's sentiments that the country needs to move away from recognizing and celebrating great achievers only after they pass on. "We need to celebrate them when they are still alive. We need to appreciate them when they are still alive." "Mum, we shall miss you and shall never forget the sacrifices that you made," Uhuru said. Raila described the renowned women leader as a true nationalist who selflessly contributed to advancing women rights in the country. "She is a great person, was very generous and very focused, simple and easy to work with," Raila said. Kiano, 74, was cremated on October 27 at the Kariokor crematorium. See: Uhuru, Ruto eulogise Jane Kiano as exceptional leader, gallant campaigner Click here for the latest political news 