Central
Kenya leaders last month claimed that the region contributes 60 per cent to Kenya’s
GDP and proposed that county allocation revenue be based on population and contribution
to national cake. They argued
that the current formula that factors in landmass and poverty levels has made
the national government to neglect the region in allocation of resources. Currently,
the Commission of Revenue Allocation gives counties money on the 45 per
cent pro rata basis in terms of the population of each county. Twenty
five per cent is shared equally, eight per cent by consideration of landmarks,  20 per cent based on the region's poverty
index and two per cent fiscal responsibility. "Allocation
of funds should not be based on size of the county but on population,’’ the
caucus said in a statement read by Mount Kenya Parliamentary chairperson and nominated MP Cecily
Mbarire. And this is not the first time that Central Kenya politicians are pushing this argument. In 2016, State House Chief of Staff Joseph Kinyua asked CRA to consider the allocation formula that would put into consideration the dense population of Central Kenya. This followed a meeting of Mt Kenya leaders with President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 12, 2016 at the Sagana State Lodge. At that time, Central leaders complained that the current formula was "skewed" as it did not consider how much revenue counties were contributing to the exchequer. In another meeting at State House, Nairobi, in 2015 the leaders told the President then formula allocated relatively more money to less populated areas that generate less revenue. CRA and the Senate then agreed on a formula whereby the five counties that would collect and declare the highest revenue would be given two per cent of what they collect as a reward. Although
there is no latest data showing how much each of 47 devolved units in Kenya
contributes to the national wealth, Mount Kenya leaders who met in Naivasha
last week seem to base their argument on a World
Bank report released in 2015. The international lender’s survey, which ranked Kiambu as richest county
in Kenya with a GDP per capita of $1,785 (Sh178,500), indicated that
Nairobi county contributed 12.7 per cent to Kenya’s total GDP, highest among the 47
counties. According to the survey, Kiambu was the second leading contributor to
Kenya’s GDP at 11.1 per cent, followed by Nakuru and Nyeri at 8.5 per cent and
3.9 per cent per cent respectively. Kilifi, Machakos, Kajiado were tied at position five with 3.8 per cent
each, while Meru, Kwale, Kisumu and Laikipia counties were at 3.7 per cent. But do Mount
Kenya counties really contribute 60 per cent to Kenya’s total GDP? The seven Mount
Kenya counties of Kiambu, Murang’a, Nyandarua, Meru, Embu, Nyeri and Kirinyaga need
to contribute an average of 8.57 per cent to national GDP to hit 60 per cent
claimed by leaders from the region. According to
World Bank figures, however, only Kiambu county meets this threshold at 11.1 per
cent, with remaining counties from the region contributing less than eight per
cent each. Even so, the
survey indicated that three of the seven counties in the region were among the top
five richest counties in Kenya led by Kiambu and Nyeri, which had a GDP per capita
of $1785 (Sh175,800) and $1503 (Sh150,300). Murang’a had $1090 (Sh109,000). The list of the bottom five counties in terms of wealth
per capita were Mandera, Bomet, Elgeyo Marakwet, Samburu and West Pokot with a GDP
per capita of less than $310 (Sh31,000) each. Kenya’s GDP
per capita has since grown from $1,107 (Sh110,700) in 2015 to $1,169 (Sh116,900)
by June 2018. This is not the first time leaders are challenging revenue
allocation to counties. After the World Bank’s survey, county heads led by
Siaya’s Cornel Rasanga demanded that 
the gross domestic product to be considered in the formula used by the
CRA to share cash to the 47 sub-governments. Rasanga said that CRA should stop factoring county’s contribution
to the national GDP and population and instead focus on growth. World Bank ranked
Siaya as the fastest growing county at 11 per cent per year. Former CRA chairperson Micah Cheserem echoed
Rasanga’s sentiments, saying that  the current revenue sharing formula is
flawed as it does not factor in sub-national GDP figures. Similar views
are shared by World Bank. The commission, as required by law, has invited proposals with a view to readjusting revenue allocations formula. The call was mooted during this year’s devolution conference in Kakamega County in April. Leaders from arid counties that receive an additional amount
for equalisation on the other hand want allocations to be based on poverty levels. Led by Kilifi  boss Amason Kingi, governors from 14 arid and semi-arid counties
want CRA to allocate more funds to hardship regions that have historically been
marginalised. In September,
Kingi opposed government's decision to increase marginalised counties from 14 to
34, saying the move will water down main purpose for the Equalisation Fund. The Parliamentary
Budget and Appropriations Committee last month questioned the move
to increase counties and the government’s decision to slash the Equalisation Fund
to counties from Sh8.6 billion to Sh4.7 billion. In September, Treasury slashed Sh55.1 billion from national and county governments' expenditure for the current financial
year, in a bold move to reduce spending in the face of dwindling revenue. The
supplementary budget saw the national government budget slashed from Sh3.026
trillion to Sh2.97 trillion while that of counties was chopped from Sh314
billion to Sh304.9 billion. CRA attributed the cut on fluctuations in
revenue collection projection by National Treasury which was initially set at
Sh1.7 trillion in June before being cut to Sh1.6 trillion in supplementary
budget. The Constitution provides a 15 per cent minimum equitable share of revenue for
counties from the national government. 