Gender equality and
equity is an issue that goes back to many decades ago. We know of the various
feminism theories that sought to advance fight for equal rights for men and
women, though the majority of them focussed on women rights, such as the push
for universal suffrage, resulting from the restriction from voting. Feminism
pushed for various women rights, including now the right to vie for political
positions. Globally, regionally and
nationally, we have conventions and protocols that seek to advance equal
rights. They include the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Convention on
Elimination of All forms of Discrimination against Women, and the Maputo
protocol. Kenya having ratified these instruments, they form part of the law as
provided under Article 2(6) of the Constitution. Due to its sensitivity,
the gender equality issue in Kenya was captured perfectly under the 2010
Constitution under the now famous two-thirds gender rule. This was to address
the long-standing gender disparities. Questions about these
disparities are blamed on various factors some of which are being faced out
with time. Such is the African patriarchal society system, which not only
discriminated against women in leadership but also property matters, especially
land ownership. Through women empowerment
efforts, some of these myths and misconceptions have largely been disposed, save
for some communities where the process has faced resistance. The dominance of
men remains a problem in political party representation. To date many parties
still don’t trust women as their flag bearers they instead go for them only for
nominations after the ballot. Looking at the corporate world, it is also
evident the number of women is leadership is very dismal. Positions reserved for
women are those of deputies. It is against this
backdrop that the Constitution sought to fix by through the two-thirds gender
rule. This rule states that not more than two-thirds of persons in appointive
and elective positions shall be of the same gender. The constitution does not,
however, envision the creation of extra seats to accommodate this rule but the
sharing the positions already provided. The State is, therefore, expected to
take legislative and other measures to implement this principle. It is, therefore, against
the Constitution to have a bill to create more positions to meet this provision
yet it has already illustrated how to achieve it. Such creations will interfere
with the character, structure and composition of Parliament as provided by the law. Various advisory opinions
sought by a number of parties  — notably
by former Attorney General Githu Muigai  — have had their rulings throwing the ball
back to the National Assembly for it to legislate. NONE of
these has insinuated that new positions should be created.  After the
Supreme Court decision, in February 2014, Muigai set up a working group on the
implementation of the Supreme Court ruling on the attainment of the two-thirds
gender principle to develop a framework for its realisation. Having received
several proposals and recommendations from different stakeholders, institutions
and individuals the the working group came up with a proposal which it
considered most viable — lifting the provisions of Article 177 (b) and (c) [membership
of county assemblies] to articles 97 and 98 [membership of Parliament]. For effective implementation
of the formula, the working group proposed the following amendments: Amendment
of the Political Parties Act , the Elections Act, the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission Act, the National, Gender and Equality Commission Act and
the County Governments Act It is on this basis that
the International Centre for Policy and Conflict declares illegal some of the
provisions in the gender bill sponsored by Majority leader in the National
Assembly Aden Duale, which seeks to have new positions in the name of
implementing the two third gender rule.  