With the 2018 Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) main class title already decided, five-time Safari Rally winner Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo will be chasing the bragging rights as he seeks to make a repeat back-to-back victories in the Multiple-Hauliers-sponsored Guru Nanak Rally this weekend. Flash, who savoured his most successful racing season after equaling legendary Shekhar Mehta’s long-standing record of five Safari wins, will renew his rivalry with multiple Guru Nanak winners Baldev Chager (Evo X) and old boy Ian Duncan in his crowd pulling “monster” pick up. Duncan is the most successful driver in the history of Guru Nanak whose first event was won by Vic Preston Jnr and Bill Parkinson in a Mercedes Benz 250 in 1973. Chager, one of the top two fastest drivers in the eight-leg series, will be out to outpace tenacious Tundo in season-closing round this weekend in Machakos County. Tundo racked up his fourth career KNRC title after beating Chager by a mere 3 second on the penultimate Kabras Eldoret Rally. “Flash had a very spirited drive in Eldoret and beat me by three seconds. The championship is done and dusted and we are going to Guru Nanak to have fun. I don’t think anyone can challenge me for second place,” said Chager. Flash said: “I am in high spirits going into Guru Nanak as the champion. It’s been a very hard fight and I’m overly excited that we have finished every event this season. We have proven that we have the pace and we look forward to a good event on Guru Nanak.” The 39th running of Guru Nanak Rally will, nevertheless, see the KNRC gurus face stiff off with youngsters such as Onkar Rai, the nephew of legendary Sarbi Rai, reigning African champion Manvir Baryan and fast-rising Farhaaz Khan. Manvir shocked established drivers during the ARC York Rally of South Africa (formerly Sasol Rally) in April, where he became the first non-South African winner of the event in his high flying Skoda R5. Former 2WD champion Eric Bengi, driving a Subaru Impreza N12, has the KNRC Division 1 title in the bag and will be going for a rare double as he seeks to beat Oilibya Racing’s Farhaaz ‘Fazzy’ Khan to the Group N diadem. Bengi has a 15-point advantage and will be crowned Group ‘N’ champion should finish ahead of Khan. Bengi will team up with lady navigator Tuta Mionki. The battle for the Formula 2 is down to the wire and pits Sarit Shah in an ex-Leo Varese championship winning Toyota Corolla RSI against Daren Miranda also in the championship winning ex Dennis Mwenda Toyota Sprinter GT. The event will be flagged off from Stoni Athi Resort at 07:15 after which crews will tackle three stages of which Stoni Athi (58km) and SGR (15km) will be repeated twice.