Gender
discrimination and inequality are bad and immoral, whether they apply to men or
women and they should be eradicated. Gender
inequality does not apply to women alone. It goes both ways. As a country claiming
fidelity to democracy, we must do everything to eliminate every kind of
discrimination and inequality, not just based on gender. Men
should support elimination of inequality against women and vice versa. Only
then can we end gender discrimination. Ultimately,
accommodation of discrimination and inequality against either gender is an
offence against humanity. The
struggle before us is not just to end discrimination against women but an
endeavour to end discrimination against all people. We
should, therefore, not just hear women and men fighting against their own
discrimination and inequality but for all. When
women or men only fight against their own discrimination and inequality, and
keep silent the same is suffered by other people, it means they are not against
all inequality and discrimination, and might embrace inequality and
discrimination against certain people. Those
who are not above all inequality and discrimination must be educated against
their own bias against others. Failure to advance such education will mean
inequality and discrimination may never be eradicated. While
we must support the principle of gender equality in general, we must admit that
all women or men are not discriminated against equally. Rural and poor women
are more discriminated against than women and men elites, and their liberation
and equality should be accorded priority above struggle of women elite against
male elite. Affirmative
action to liberate all poor men and women, putting them and their children at
par with well-to-do men and women should be prioritised against efforts by
female elites to catch up with male elites. After
all, elite women who are seeking affirmative action are way ahead of truly
marginalised and disadvantaged groups such as the poor and the disabled. It
must be accepted that liberation of marginalised communities should be given
priority above further elevation of women elite, who come from either more
developed or marginalised communities. While affirmative action will help a few
women from poor communities to join the elites, the creation of female elites
does not make poor communities richer or better fed. Elevation
of female gender must be questioned when it promotes women who are already well
off through party nomination of close relatives and cronies of powerful male
elites. It
is also hardly right when women candidates are given millions of campaign money
by donor countries deliberately to give them unfair advantage over men
candidates. It
is probably a desire not to mess things while seeking remedy to gender
discrimination that democracies such as America and Britain have not enforced
mandatory gender equality with their constitutions or legislation but have
embraced reforms that have allowed women to enjoy equal rights as men. While
there was a time when Black people and White women were not allowed to read and
write, today they
can. And while there was a time when young African women could not do formal
work, they now can. When
there was a time when women could not vote, they
now enjoy the universal suffrage. And although we
have more male presidents, time for women to be presidents through fair
competition has come. By
all means, let women enjoy equal rights to men but they must not be more equal
than men. It should be a balance. Women elites do not need affirmative action
as much as poor women and men do.  