Veteran boxer Conjestina Achieng' is having a time of her life at the Nairobi West Hospital where she is undergoing treatment. She was airlifted to Nairobi after someone anonymously shared a video of her plight at their rural home in Gem, Siaya county. A clip of an improving Conjestina was shared on Wednesday after a visit by Nairobi county sports management board led by former MCA Hashim Kamau. She was seen enjoying a pizza that the sports management board delivered to her at the hospital. "Conjestina had requested for pizza and a jacket. She also requested for tracksuits and Sonko branded t-shirts," a member of the sports board said. Read: Sonko airlifts Conjestina Achieng' to Nairobi for treatment The team says Conjestina also asked to be discharged so that she can go back to working out at the gym. They said that they are waiting for the doctor's report on her discharge before they arrange for her accommodation. Conjestina, in the clip from the hospital, says she was thankful to the governor for catering for her bills and taking care of her. She speaks of a plan to start a foundation that will help in training young girls. "It's my dream to ensure that I have a foundation that will see girls fight and help them to stay fit," she said. Hashim said they will let her use the City Stadium gym for the time being. "We are happy with the progress she has made so far and we are hoping to support her more," Hashim said further promising to equip her training centre. See: How Conjestina Achieng' played a major role in Zarika's boxing career "We are waiting for her discharge so we can take her to her new home. We will get her the original Kenya tracksuit too." Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has also come to the aid of another boxer former Olympian Suleiman Bilali. Bilali, who represented Kenya three times at the Summer Olympics, has been struggling with alcoholism since his dismissal from the Kenya Police Service in 2012 for deserting duty. He has been living in abject poverty in Muthurwa, Nairobi since then. Click here for the latest political news