The Meru Council of Elders wants the Isiolo International Airport renamed after a freedom fighter from the region. Njuri Ncheke secretary general Josphat Murangiri yesterday proposed that the facility be called Mwariama International Airport in honour of the late General Musa Mwariama who, together with Field Marshal Dedan Kimathi, was the core Mau Mau leadership. The proposal has reignited debate on the location of the airport. Meru and Isiolo counties stake claims. Murangiri said the biggest chunk of the airport is in Meru. “Three quarters of the airport is in Meru. We want the county government to rename it after Mwariama,” he said on Weru TV, adding they are protecting what is rightfully theirs. On November 1, Meru MCAs suggested that the airport be given a name that resonates with residents. They threatened to impeach Public Service and Labour executive Kiautha Arithi for failing to give a detailed response to their questions about the facility. Arithi said the airport is a national government property and does not belong to the county. The MCAs were angry. "Isiolo Airport land belongs to Meru. We should demand it be called Meru. I expect people working there to be from Meru, Embu, Tharaka Nithi and Machakos. But when we seek clarification, we get nonsense. It’s not the first time. We approve appointees, we should deal with them," Kimathi Ithibua (Kiegoi Antubochiu) said. The assembly Labour committee demanded a report on the number of residents employed at the airport. Majority leader Victor Karithi, also the MCA of Athwana which hosts part of the airport, dismissed Arithi’s response. He demanded that he be summoned and ordered to respond accordingly. "I knew it was under the national government, but the county needs to claim the facility as 85 per cent of the airport sits in Athwana. He [Arithi] never engaged the CS, the airport managers and other players." "I reject his report and request the assembly to summon the CEC and force him do a thorough job," he said. Kiguchwa’s Linus Atheinya urged Arithi to resign.