When President Uhuru Kenyatta told CNN’s Richard Quest
not interested in a third term, and is preparing to go home and serve Kenya as
a private citizen, was he telling the truth? Or was he merely easing people’s
nerves and stating a promise he will later break under pressure from
supporters? Recent history tells us a leader may prolong his stay
in power away from the Office of the President but in a different role of Prime
Minister, through a change of the Constitution. Constitution changes also
extend term limits. We need to ask, despite Uhuru’s assurance that he has
no intention to prolong his presidency, why are his supporters campaigning
against emergence of another leader in the Mt Kenya region, a move that would make
the region feel secure after Uhuru’s exit. The campaign not to allow another
leader in the Mt Kenya region can only make the people insist on the Uhuru’s
continuance in power. This is the same way President Paul Kagame supporters in
Rwanda demanded that he remains in power because no other leader was allowed to
emerge. Through crashing of opposition leadership, similar
circumstances have also prevailed in Uganda, where people are made to feel the
country can’t be secure without Museveni. If Uhuru is not interested in another term of
leadership, one wonders why he has fallen out with Deputy President William Ruto,
who has announced his interest in the presidency. Only a quarrel or scramble
for either leadership or money would make leaders’ disagree and fight the way
Uhuru and Ruto are. People justify Uhuru’s possible quest for another term
either as President or Prime Minister by arguing that as he is too young to
retire and would be entirely entitled if he were to seek a return to power in
either capacity. But no good leader ever qualified for power merely because of being
youthful. All young people are not presidents or leaders. One also wonders whether Uhuru is aligning himself with
Raila Odinga so as to endorse him for the presidency against Ruto, and create a
situation that would accommodate them in top leadership. This is most likely at
the exclusion of Ruto. Already, we have seen Ruto campaigning for President
by addressing public rallies all over the country, giving millions of shillings
in church harambees and launching projects, for which he takes credit and
political mileage against any possible competitors. Are Gema leaders feeling the heat and now want Uhuru
to come out and mobilise at least his base by taking to them the same
development money he is taking to other areas? Gema leaders say they will not allow themselves to be
excluded from the next government. Will they also demand that, through
referendum and the change of the Constitution, President Kenyatta also fights
for premiership by mobilising his base in Mt Kenya and national support elsewhere? In Kenya, leaders buy political leadership and power
with money and economic development. Sometimes political leadership and power
follow financial generosity and those who deliver it. I don’t see how Uhuru can
begin to take development out there and not find himself propelled to the top
again both by the benefits of handshake and economic mobilisation of his base
and country. Is demand by Gema leaders for more development in
their areas an attempt to sell leadership and power to Uhuru, as they claim
other leaders are doing for their areas or are they merely seeking development
that they feel they have been unfairly denied? But which region is most
developed in Kenya? Which elite is wealthiest in Kenya? Are Gema leaders
fighting for their poor or the increase of their own wealth? Why are they not fighting for everybody or for the
poor of the whole country? And if the Gema elite are not rich enough now – with
one of their own in power – how much richer must they be to be satisfied?  