Political nemeses Deputy President William Ruto and Mombasa governor Hassan Joho shared tense moments during a lunch at Tamarind on Saturday. The two had played host to Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi at two different functions earlier but neither attended each other’s function. Joho received Nyusi at the Mombasa International Airport but left the entourage as Nyusi went to the Mombasa port, where Ruto was waiting for him. Ruto took Nyusi on a tour of the port, which he said supports economic activities in the mainland, and the larger region as a conduit of goods, services and people. “It enhances cross-border trade,” Ruto said. Ruto then hosted Nyusi at State House, Mombasa, where they met with the Makonde community living in Kwale county. Joho was not at the function as the DP reiterated the important of integrating the Makonde community, originally from Mozambique, in Kenya. “Their integration into the Kenyan society is an indication that we can overcome barriers, including discrimination, bias, stereotype and racism to live and interact as one people,” said Ruto Ruto was then scheduled to accompany Nyusi to the Haller Park but didn’t. Instead, it was Joho who was at hand to receive the Mozambican President at the Haller Park, which is run by the La Farge Ecosystem, the environmental wing of the Bamburi Cement Company. La Farge officials said they were expecting Ruto to attend. Some of his security detail were seen at Haller Park. “I do not know why he did not show up. We were not informed,” one of La Farge officials said. Joho accompanied Nyusi on a tour of the park and shared light moments with Joho trying to convince Nyusi to come back for a visit as a tourist. They spoke in Swahili mostly. The Star learnt that the two then went to Tamarind Hotel for lunch. Tamarind is one of Joho’s favourite hotels, where he frequents for lunch and dinner. Details of the lunch are scanty but sources say the two, Ruto and Joho, shook hands and were almost jovial towards each other. Photos of the two shaking hands appeared on social media. Ruto and Joho also shook hands and conversed during the launch of the Kenya Coast Guard Service by President Uhuru at Liwatoni, Mombasa last Monday. These are the two most recent public meetings between two who usually do not see eye-eye because of teir political differences. The two have declared their interest in the presidency in 2022. Joho has also vowed to prevent Ruto from succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta. In July, the governor questioned whether Ruto was fit enough to lead the country and vowed to work with his opponents “at the right time” to stop the DP from becoming President.