On March 17, 2010, many Nairobi councillors were rushed to hospital with injuries after rowdy goons scuttled a meeting called to postpone protests to pressure then Mayor Geoffrey Majiwa to resign. Fast-forward to September 10, 2018 and Nairobi MCAs were looking for water to rinse their burning eyes after pepper spray was discharged in Speaker Beatrice Elachi’s office. Though eight years apart, the two incidents bear similarities that seem to have been borrowed from the same playbook. Under the old Constitution, the position of councillor was one of the most despised elective posts due to the behaviour of its holders. Fights were always breaking out in the county or municipal councils, even in the Nairobi City Council. Being a councillor became a disgrace and the position was reserved for the uncouth. The elevation of county assemblies under the 2010 Constitution as corporate bodies with key responsibilities was seen as a good way to enhance the role of ward representatives. But as things continue to change, the more they seem to remain the same. Scenes in 2018 at the county level now appear to be a replica of those witnessed one to two decades ago. Hardly a week passes by without reports of wrangles in one of the 47 county assemblies. Unlike the first lot of MCAs, who were pitted against governors, this second lot goes at each other. From Nyandarua to Homa Bay, Nairobi, Baringo, Kisumu, Nakuru, Taita Taveta and Kakamega, it appears like chaos is the new way of doing business in the county assemblies. Being an MCA is now seen as a job for people in love with chaos and who are not in any way focused on what they were elected to do. Despite the many duties that MCAs have, it is unfortunate that they are only focused on fights that only taint the image of the assemblies. Counties have become the theatre of the absurd. What most of these leaders fail to realise is that mwananchi is suffering and demanding service. Residents look to the MCAs for proper policies. Instead, the MCAs are busy fighting amongst themselves or fighting their speakers. As they do this, the governors and their executives are resting easy as no one is watching them. In fact, we are yet to hear of a county assembly that has passed a policy or a law that has won the praise of residents. Where are policies and laws on enhancing agriculture or giving farmers access to markets? Where are policies on enhancing healthcare, water supply, better early education or any of the other devolved functions? We are no longer sure that any of this is being done as MCAs seem preoccupied with fighting and the Auditor General flags unnecessary expenditures by the assemblies. Some MCAs do not check the executive at all. There is an old saying that warns that a river becomes quiet when its filling up, to serve as a warning. Could this be the case in the counties? Are governments quietly eating county resources? Are executives sponsoring the fights in the assemblies to keep MCAs busy and escape scrutiny? Whatever the case, county officials whether at the assembly or executive level must stop wrangling, focus on development, account for every penny and deliver projects that will transform lives. Otherwise they should prepare for a date with an angry and disillusioned voter in 2022. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda  