The health sector has received a major boost after a team of 30 radiographers and radiologists jetted back to the country on Friday. They received month-long training in China on the use of the modern tomography scan machine. On Friday, Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said the government is committed to improving health services to all Kenyans by installing 37 CT scan machines in 16 counties She commissioned a CT scan centre in Lamu as part of the government’s efforts to intensify the war on renal diseases. The machines will help hospitals deal with renal medical emergencies and reduce referrals. The government has partnered with other sector players to train specialists to handle the machines. At least 30 radiographers and radiologists were trained in basic operations, post-processing images, archiving and filming, and positioning patients. They underwent a mentorship course. Specialists from China and Europe were in charge of the programme. They partnered with Megascope Healthcare. See also: Kenya to import 100 doctors from Cuba, send 50 for special training Norman Tanui, a specialist radiographer at Megascope Healthcare, said the programme will save Kenyans the agony of pursuing costly medical treatment abroad. Data from the Health ministry show that about 10,000 Kenyans travel abroad annually for medical treatment and spend at least Sh10 billion over the same period. Last year, 116 patients suffering from noncommunicable diseases travelled to India between January and March. Cancer patients accounted for 57.8 per cent of the patients, while 16.8 per cent were those suffering from renal disease, 7.8 per cent had cardiovascular disease and 3.4 per cent had skeletal disorders. The ministry blamed this on inadequate specialists and specialised medical equipment, high cost of treatment and the long waiting period for cancer treatment and kidney transplants. Radiographer Tanui said the latest measures will ease the burden of sending images abroad and will help hospitals across the country to adopt telemedicine and expertise storage of Computed Tomography (CT) Scan and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan. Click here for
the latest political news