Fund boss Geoffrey Mwangi spent his fifth night in the cells on Tuesday as the DPP told the court he should only be released on paying a Sh50 million bond. Police are investigating the possible loss of Sh2 billion from the NHIF. Mwangi was arrested last Friday alongside his finance boss Wilbert Kurgat for refusing to handover documents to the police. State Counsel Alexander Muteti said DPP Noordin Haji instructed him to ask the court for stiff terms if bond was approved. However, he said the prosecution's position to oppose bail still stood. Read: NHIF boss arrested in Sh1.5b graft probe Earlier, the prosecution had asked the court to release the two on a Sh5 million bond each or an alternative Sh3 million bail and further block the two from entering their previous offices or posting details of the case on social media. However, when they came back from meeting with the defence and having consulted the DPP, they changed tune and asked the court to write a ruling on their application, notwithstanding the circumstances. The defence strongly opposed the new terms by the DPP, saying they were outrageous and cannot be applied. Lawyer Jotham Arwa said the charges the two are facing are "misdemeanors" and the highest bond terms that can be granted should be between Sh200,00 and Sh500,000. He also faulted the prosecution for changing tune, arguing that the court had directed them to agree on the best terms and not come up with new terms. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi asked the prosecution why it opted to use the words “in the event that you don’t agree with us and grant them bail”. He said it was as if the prosecution had already read his mind and concluded that he will grant the two bail, when in actual sense, no one knew of the outcome. He further faulted them saying they put him in an awkward position since they had already given him an alternative route and that is why he had asked them to consent on the best terms of release of the accused persons. Andayi then directed the two bosses to be remanded at the Industrial Area remand until Wednesday, when the court will rule on whether they will be denied bail or not. The two, who were assured of a release before the new directions by the DPP were issued, had been charged earlier in the day with conspiring to defeat justice and disobeying a court order. It was alleged that between September 26 and November 23 this year at the NHIF offices, they jointly conspired to defeat the court of justice by knowingly preventing the execution of a court order. They were also separately charged that on November 21, 2018 at the National Hospital Insurance Fund headquarters along Ragati Road, Upper Hill, being the CEO and director of finance, they disobeyed a lawful order issued by the court on September 25 that required production for scrutiny of any books of evidential value in connection with investigations being undertaken. Through their lawyers, they asked the court to grant them reasonable bail terms, saying they are law-abiding citizens and will comply with all conditions issued by the court. However, the prosecution opposed their release on bail, saying they cannot be trusted since "they have already interfered with investigations". State counsel Alexander Muteti told the court Mwangi wrote messages to Kurgat directing him not to give the documents to the officers. According to Muteti, the two officers have already actively interfered with the investigation by the evidence of the text messages produced in court. The two are accused of refusing to surrender payment vouchers and other books of evidential value in relation to payment of millions of shillings to Webtribe Company Limited. Muteti said that by disobeying the court orders, investigations into the loss of funds at the NHIF have stalled further, submitting that the accused should be denied bail to protect the integrity of the trial. The prosecution also claimed that it would be impossible to have the matters under investigations expeditiously investigated if the two are released on bail considering the key position they hold at the fund. Arwa said the allegations by the prosecution that the two interfered with witnesses are "baseless" and they should provide facts to back their claims. He said the alleged messages were not conclusive since they do not show who or what type of documents are being referred to in the messages. Earlier in the day, the court dismissed an application by the defence seeking to defer their plea taking ruling on grounds that the charge sheet was not drawn in line with the law. Related: NHIF boss fails to take plea, ready to cooperate in probe Click here for the latest political news          