Four of the 17,796 candidates sitting their KCSE exams in Kitui county are nursing newborn babies. Kitui county director of education Salesa Adano said two girls who delivered babies on the eve of the KCSE exam are writing their papers at the Mwingi Level 4 Hospital. He said another new mother is sitting her exam at the Kitui County Referral Hospital, she also delivered on Sunday night. Adano said another candidate gave birth last week through caesarean section but she developed complications on Sunday. She is at Mwingi Level 4 Hospital. He said the new mother was yesterday in great pain and was unable to finish writing the Mathematics paper. He said she was also unable to write the chemistry paper which she was supposed to sit from 11am. Two other male candidates are being held at Matinyani police station. They were escorted to sit their exams by police and taken back to the cells. Adano said the two candidates in police custody were last week charged in a Kitui court with trespassing into a neighbouring girls secondary school at night and destroying a fence. They pleaded guilty before Kitui principal magistrate Johnson Munguti. He said besides being drunk, the boys were found with rolls of bhang and condoms. He said they were spotted by a night guard who alerted police, leading to their arrest. Adano said the magistrate ordered the boys to write their exam while in police custody. The case will be mentioned on November 15. The county director said security has been stepped up in all the 384 exam centres. A total of 664,585 candidates are sitting their exam this year. The test is being done across 10,077 centres. The KCSE exams will run from November 5 (yesterday) to November 30. At the weekend, Knec warned against purchase and circulation of fake exam papers. Knec chairman George Magoha asked officials to pay attention to early exposure of the exams and communication within and outside the centres that could lead to leakage. Supervisors will have to explain if the exams begin later or before the scheduled time. They will be answerable to delayed stoppage and return of the examination material to the safety containers. Centre managers will be escorted by police to collect papers and return them in the evening. Schools are required to leave gates open during exam hours for impromptu inspections. Click here for the latest political news