Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo has said she does not support Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga’s 2022 gubernatorial ambitions. In a hard-hitting Facebook post on Monday, the MP said inasmuch as she supports women leadership, she won’t back “exploitative leadership” even from a fellow woman. “Gladys would be the worst mistake Homa Bay would make for choice of governor. She has not done well with the National Government Affirmative Action Fund and the ever money-consuming sacco,” Millie said. And as if to give credence to the popular belief that women are their own worst enemies, Millie said she detests Wanga’s leadership style which she described as “abrasive, divisive and manipulative”. “I, hereby, declare you do not have my support. You can unleash all the online warriors in heaven and on earth but it only makes my resolve firm. I do not support you, period,” she said. On June 6, Wanga hinted at running for the Homa Bay governor seat in 2022. She told her supporters, including MCAs who have been at the forefront urging her to go for the seat “to prepare their best clothes and get ready for the 2022 journey”. Read: Wanga hints at running for Homa Bay governor in 2022 If Wanga chooses to run for the seat, she will go up against other ODM heavyweights including national chairman John Mbadi, Homa Bay Town MP Opondo Kaluma, and businessman Enosh Bolo. Millie's curt remarks ironically come at a time Parliament is preparing to vote on the Two-Thirds Gender Bill that seeks to ensure more women take up leadership roles. The bill by National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale will be debated on Tuesday. The bill has the backing of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. They have made passionate pleas to MPs to pass the bill. Previous attempts to pass the gender-rule suffered a blow after MPs failed to raise the required number of 233 MPs. Uhuru and Ruto said the passage of the bill will pave the way for women to rise to top government positions as well as bring an end to the gender imbalance. NASA leader Raila Odinga made a similar appeal to the legislators. Uhuru, however, challenged women to stop waiting for nominations and instead compete for elective posts against their male counterparts. “The country is yours, step up and compete with men because you were born with leadership. It’s only that men have instilled fear in you. But this shouldn’t worry you anymore because you are actually more in numbers across the country,” Uhuru said on Sunday during a fundraiser at PCEA Berea in Gachororo, Juja town. However, if Millie's remarks are anything to go by, it could be that women instil fear in fellow women who dare to go for top leadership positions. “Let the men who fear you talk in parables. I will speak in English, Luo, Suba, Spanish and Kiswahili. No support from me!” Odhiambo said. Read: Uhuru urges MPs to pass the two-thirds gender Bill tomorrow More: Ruto rallies MPs to pass Gender Bill Click here for the latest political news