It’s no easy task to stage an election in
the Democratic Republic of Congo. Just ask the country’s electoral commission,
which started last year by publicly announcing that the general election, planned for December , might actually
only be held as late as April next year. But, come
early this year, it looked like there might be good news on the horizon for the
beleaguered nation: A 23 December poll was confirmed. The
independent electoral commission declared that it had registered enough voters for the election
to go ahead. This is a
crucial poll because it finally marks the end of Joseph Kabila’s rule in the
DRC. The constitutional court gave Kabila a caretaker mandate to ensure that
elections were held after the end of his two-term tenure. Many feared that this
caretaker role would eventually turn into a third term but it hasn’t. However,
the majority of ordinary people don’t view this as a chance for real change. This is
mostly because Kabila has announced Emmanuel Ramazani Shadary as the ruling party’s presidential candidate. Shadary
is a party loyalist, who was a vital ally of former President Laurent Kabila,
and is now a close confidant of his son Joseph. If he wins, he will probably
toe Kabila’s line and it’s unlikely much will change in the DRC. In
addition, some critics have raised serious reservations about the poll
logistics, particularly about the use of voting machines rather than the
traditional physical voting system. Whoever
wins on Election Day will inherit the leadership of a troubled nation wracked by violence and face the prospect
of an increasingly vicious Ebola outbreak. LOGISTICS CONCERN Traditionally,
elections in the DRC are decided by pen and paper ballots. This year
the electoral commission announced that machines would be brought in to “cut
costs and speed up the counting of votes.” However,
critics of the machines suggested they are easier to rig than the traditional
physical voting system. What is more, they said that the voting machines would
be rendered useless if the DRC’s famously unreliable power supplies failed
during the election. Vice
Prime Minister and Security Minister Henri Mova Sakanyi defended the machines
by stating that solar panels were being installed in polling stations to
minimise any the disruption caused by any power outages. So for the time being
at least, it seems certain that whatever the cost or the implications, voting
machines will be used. Holding
elections in eastern Congo and Kasai, which
are particularly violent at the moment, will also be extremely
difficult. When the restrictions imposed by the spread of the Ebola virus are
factored in, that will only add to the logistical difficulties involved in
rolling out the election. CANDIDATE QUESTION Aside
from the logistics of holding presidential and gubernatorial elections in
sub-Saharan Africa’s largest country, the question of who was going to stand
was always going to be paramount. Joseph
Kabila was constitutionally barred from running for a third term. But posters naming him as a presidential candidate appeared
on the streets of Kinshasa early in this year. In
August, though, Kabila named Shadary as his party’s candidate. He was an odd
choice, because he has been sanctioned by the European
Union for his role in cracking down on protesters seeking to
challenge Kabila’s regime. The
sanctions include a freeze on visas to prevent foreign travel. Shadary has
asked the EU to lift the sanctions, but it hasn’t done so yet. Nonetheless,
he is now the ruling party’s nominee, as well as the candidate for the Common
Front for the Congo, a political coalition that represents the president’s
allies. Soon after his nomination speculation turned to who would oppose him. OPPOSITION POLITICS At first,
businessman and erstwhile governor of the former Katanga province Moise Katumbi
was the hot favourite to replace Kabila, despite his conviction for fraud in 2016. But in
June, former Congolese vice-president Jean-Pierre Bemba was released by the
International Criminal Court in The Hague having had most of his convictions
for crimes against humanity overturned. Because
of Katumbi’s legal problems, which would eventually bar him from standing,
Bemba became the new favourite to take over from Kabila and to beat Shadary. In
a dramatic turn, however, the electoral commission banned Bemba from running
because he still had a conviction for witness tampering outstanding at the ICC. With
Bemba and Katumbi out of the running, Félix Tshisekedi took over as the most
popular opposition candidate. Tshisekedi
is one of the most high-profile sons of the late opposition leader Etienne
Tshisekedi who died in 2017. After the death of his father, he took over the
presidency of the Union for Democracy and Social Progress. But the
main opposition leaders still had to decide if they would unite behind a common
candidate and, if so, if that candidate would to be Tshisekedi. So, on 10
November, seven opposition figures, including Bemba, met in Geneva to thrash out the answers to these questions. BATTLE FOR THE TOP SPOT Initially,
all the delegates agreed to back the candidacy of former oil
executive and long-time anti-Kabila activist Martin Fayulu. But the accord fell apart less than twenty-four
hours after it was signed. Ultimately, Tshisekedi, and another opposition
candidate Vital Kamerhe pulled out of the coalition for a united candidate,
saying their supporters had opposed the plan. It’s now
clear that Tshisekedi and Kamerhe want to go it alone, despite the fact that
Bemba and Katumbi still favour Fayulu’s candidacy. The division among the most
important opposition figures means that Shadary’s position is now far stronger
than it was after the Geneva accord. Rather
than facing a unified and popular front, he now faces a fragmented political
opposition. The ruling coalition even went as far as saying that they are “not worried” about Fayulu’s candidacy. On the
political front, 2018 has certainly brought its share of political twists and
turns, which have come amid sustained violence in Ituri, Kasai and
the Kivus. Therefore, whoever takes over from Kabila, whether it is Shadary,
Fayulu, Tshisekedi or Kamhere, will face a huge task of bringing peace to this
troubled land next year.  This article was first published in the Conversation 