Land is a highly priced commodity
anywhere in the world and a very sensitive source of conflict in almost all
major cities and towns. In Somalia, the nomads never used to
value it so much but since the State collapsed in 1991, its value has sharply
risen and is slowly causing tensions and becoming a silent time bomb likely to
explode any moment. Somalia’s next big problem — after
insecurity — land or property disputes. It is already causing a silent
disharmony and mistrust among the Somalis. Some of the killings in
Mogadishu and elsewhere in the country are actually associated with this issue. Mogadishu, the capital city, is the
worst ostensibly because many current landlords illegally acquired
properties whose owners fled the 1991 civil war. Since 2013, thousands of
Somalis from Diaspora have returned home to reclaim their properties in vain.
Some of them ended up being killed in cold blood for simply reclaiming their
rightfully owned properties or land. IMPUNITY and CARTELS Government properties and land have
not been spared either. Thousands illegally occupy government houses,
including military bases. Many other public parcels have also illegally
exchanged hands and new commercial premises built. The level of impunity is
beyond imagination. Those who took over beautiful
deserted Italian-style villa houses left behind by owners who fled the civil
war have lived in them for the last 28 years without paying rent. Many of the first occupants have since
died, leaving behind their children, who continue to illegally occupy those
properties. In some cases, the houses are occupied by their third generation
who assume the property is theirs by right. Over the years, there are many cases
of unlawful sale of property by individuals who are not the original owners.
They somehow made fake titles and sold properties they don't own. Some
properties have even exchanged hands more than five times. Unfortunately, due to the weak
governance structures and high corruption within the judicial system, some
illegal property transfers have even been cleared and rubber-stamped to
legalise the sale. What has, however, surprised many
Somalis is how two individuals said to have been former staff of the Ministry of
Land managed to keep all titles and the original records of the Ministry and
are now charging people for verification of these documents. A friend of mine was
recently asked to pay $15,000 by the land cartel to verify his late father’s
property. Shouldn’t the government take over those
land files and titles from this cartel and pocket the huge sums of money extorted
from the public by these thugs? Surely, something must be done to save the poor
people of Somalia The high level of corruption and
impunity in the Judiciary has created a long list of complainants who have
genuine titles but whose properties are owned by criminals with fictitious
documents prepared by some really talented counterfeiters known locally as
‘Cabdala Shideeye’. INHERITANCE TUSSLES On the other hand, there are also
many complaints of brothers locking out and denying their own siblings of their
due shares of inherited properties. It’s not surprising to hear of such
sibling tussles. A classic example recently emerged within one prominent family
of the late Abdulkadir Mohamed Soobe, a former Minister who left behind many
properties, including houses and farms within and outside the country. One of his landmark properties is
located at the famous Soobe junction, which is named after him, and was the
scene of the worst terror attack in Somalia in October 14 last year. Over 500
people were killed and hundreds others injured. This particular two-storey
building is at the centre of the inheritance tussle between his five surviving
children. Two of his eldest sons, Mohamed and
Ali, who are themselves elderly, recently came out to publicly acknowledge that
their three younger siblings have locked them out of their late father’s vast
estates. They blamed corruption within Somalia’s High Court, saying the same
courts issued two contradicting judgements over their inheritance share. The civil
case has been dragging on since 2013. In May 17, 2014, the Mogadishu High
Court Department of Verifications chaired by Chief Justice Abdullahi Aideed
Ilkahanaf ruled that the disputed properties are a family inheritance to be
equally shared. These are buildings in Mogadishu, farms in Lower Shabele and
properties in Italy. However, a year later the same court
apparently issued another judgement after their sisters provided a fictitious
inheritance note claiming their late father gave them all his properties. In
accordance with Islamic Shariah law, which is practised in Somalia, all
surviving children have shares to their father’s properties. KANGAROO COURT The Soobe children case is one of
thousands of cases pending in court. Due to the high corruption in the justice
system, many complainants take their cases to an al Shabaab-run Kangaroo court
in Toratoorow, located in Lower Shabele region of Somalia. Victims of land and property theft
who have taken their complaints to this court claim that the militants’ justice
system is somehow less corrupt compared to the government’s. They say if you win a case in this
justice system, you will definitely get back your property because they threaten
the land grabber with death until he gives you peace. These service are not for
free: You are forced to pay some administrative fees to facilitate everything,
including the sitting allowance of their judges. The fees paid depend on the
value of your property. The Somalia government must put its
house in order and clean up its judiciary. Somalis need justice to end land
grabbing and property losses by genuine landlords. If this happens, then public
land and government buildings, which are being grabbed day after day, will also
stop and it will give the government an opportunity to refurbish its old dilapidated
buildings and start offering real services to its people.