I drive straight to Rob’s house. I’m going to go make love to him and work things out. We were meant to be together. I see it clearly now. Well, as clearly as you can see with two bottles of wine inside you and the reasoning power of a turkey. That animal can look up at falling rain with its mouth open and probably drown for its efforts. Because of this it’s known as one of the world’s dumbest animals. You’ve heard the phrase ‘jive turkey’ used in a derogatory manner to describe stupid people. Ok. Maybe you haven’t. It’s really old school slang. George Jefferson used it a lot in the best sitcom ever created – The Jefferson’s – in the 80s. Watch it and thank me later. George would use it to describe unreliable or detestable people he would encounter. Con men and the like. Well, it turns out that turkeys have been getting a bum rap all their existence. Turkeys you see have an inherited condition - tetanic torticollis spasms - characterized by the dorsomesial extension of the neck and head such that the head rests on the back, with the beak directed upwards. It sits like this for a while and the poor animal seemingly can’t help it, even when it’s raining. Also, they cannot focus both eyes on one image like humans do. So they have to tilt their heads to get the best view possible. When it rains they have to wait until their heads can inch back. Poor buggers. So making decisions in my intoxicated state may land me in some trouble. But I go anyway because like a turkey, I have a condition called horniness, characterized by the wetness around my pubic region at this point. I literally have to take my panties off and throw them in my handbag because they are soaked. Do men like that? To see how turned on we get by them? Or would he think I peed on myself or something? Not wanting to take a chance, I find it a better option to take them off. So as you see, I cannot help it – Heading to Rob’s house – Because even though it’s raining in our relationship… My head, like that darn turkey, is resting on my back, with my mouth wide open, as a heavy downpour takes place. I pull up to his house and somehow, in between turning off my car, getting out, pulling out my handbag, I lose my keys. I call him. “I can’t find my keys,” I slur. “Come help me!” He comes to the car. Half-heartedly looks for them, as I do too. I finally find them under a batch of documents. He doesn’t look overly impressed. We go to into his house and I plop down on the couch. “Head straight to the room,” he says. Oohhh. He is eager, this one! Straight to the room we go, I’m going to get me some good D today! I take my clothes off. He’s already in bed, watching me. I crawl in. He turns to switch the lights off … and doesn’t turn around again! Wait. What? Soon, he starts to snore. He has fallen asleep. Huh?????? I came for D dammit! What the hell is going on? I lean towards him and place my head on his exposed chest. He embraces me but doesn’t stir. I try and reach for what I think is his D and start to stroke it. Up and down. It’s pretty hard. Ya, I knew he wanted me, the bugger! Trying to front and shit. I go lower to fondle his balls and I encounter something hard. Four hard little balls on this niggers main balls. What the hell?  