Is Deputy president William Ruto being misled into launching development projects in his whirlwind tours across the country without due diligence? Well. Some former MPs who blame their loss on the DP's political schemes are concerned that some of the projects Ruto is commissioning had already been launched during their tenure. One such project is the tarmacking of a strategic road in Kitutu Masaba, Nyamira county. Some of the DP's handlers are said to have been unhappy with a function last Saturday in which he commissioned a road whose construction was due after successful efforts by the constituency's immediate former MP. Corridors is informed that to avoid such embarrassment, the DP's strategists are considering thorough background checks on any project before his appearance to protect the DP’s image from ridicule.   Still on matters DP, many are wondering if the Deputy President has dropped Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi from his side. During the lead-up to the last general election, Maangi was a key figure within Ruto's camp before he denounced him and joined forces with NASA in a bid to secure his county post. While the DG is considered a staunch Ruto ally, many from the region are wondering whether the DP is no longer interested in him. Speculation has been rife that the DP covertly funded flamboyant businessman Don Bosco who returned from prison in Tanzania and is eyeing the Kisii gubernatorial seat also coveted by Maangi. Could this be an indication of the changing political dynamics in the region.    A former senator in the last parliament is a man in deep trouble. The man who failed in defending his seat but was recently lucky to be appointed to a government position has returned to his previous ways as senator — drinking and womanizing. As a result, he has been chased from the Nairobi home by his wife and now resides in a city hotel. Convenient, perhaps?   Are police officers guarding the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi trained on media management when covering an event? Word has it that officers at KSG have turned the public institution into a no-go zone for journalists who despite being cleared at the entrance by same police officers are perpetually harassed. Corridors is alarmed by some officers who harassed a journalist at the institution attending a conference without involving the event organizers of a government ministry, demanding that the reporter leaves. The senior officer responsible reportedly told his juniors that he was not "comfortable" with the journalist being there. It is that bad. Click here for the latest political news