Three KPR officers were on Wednesday shot dead by bandits in Kalua, Igembe Central, during a mission to recover stolen cattle. They are Joseph Kailemia, Joel Kaindio and Moria. Two others sustained injuries and are receiving treatment at an Isiolo hospital. Kalua is between Igembe Central and Isiolo North. Acting OCPD Rashid Hulbale said herders were grazing their cattle along the border when they were attacked. “Criminals invaded, attacked and a shootout broke out,” he said. KPR officer Stanley Karithi said his colleagues were called from a meeting in Mbatalu to go recover stolen cattle, but when they went, they were surrounded by the attackers who started shooting. GPS to track cattle “They are bandits. They were so many. It seems they had information our officers were at a meeting and took advantage to steal. The animals are yet to be recovered. Our colleagues were cornered in a C like battle field and indiscriminately ambushed,” he said. “We ask for urgent deployment of more security officers to assist us fight the bandits. Around 30 cattle were stolen and are yet bo be recovered.” Former Tigania East and current EALA MP Mpuru Aburi condemned the attacks. He faulted MP Gichunge Kabeabea for promising to install GPS on cattle to aid tracking, saying it made herders “relax” thinking their animals were safe. “How can you tell people that their cattle can’t be stolen because they are fixed with GPS gadgets in their stomachs? This made them relax knowing their cattle are secure. My condolences to the families,” Aburi said. Igembe Central MP Kubai Kiringo urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to intervene. “Why did the RDU officers at Mbatalu and Anti-stock theft officers at Mariara fail to swiftly reinforce the KPR officers in the recovery mission. We won’t allow our people to continue dying,” he said. On Wednesday last week, Interior CAS Patrick Ntutu and National Assembly security committee chairman Paul Koinange were in the area and assured an improvement of security. “It is saddening for residents of Igembe Central, North and Tigania East to lose committed officers. Ntutu said he would follow up and bring back our stolen cattle,” Kiringo said.