Tourism got a major boost on Saturday after a Polish plane – Lot Polish Charter – made its maiden landing in Mombasa with 252 tourists on board. The plane was accorded a water salute as the government announced plans to review the charter incentives program to incorporate low-cost carriers and scheduled flights. This, the government hopes will further boost the surging tourist numbers into the country. Last week, 315 tourists jetted in aboard Tui charter. Lot Polish will be making two trips weekly, translating to about 500 visitors. Mombasa has a 33,000 hotel bed capacity and can comfortably accommodate the influx. Kenya Tourism Board Coast regional manager Jonathan Mbiyu said the proposed charter model only works in eastern Europe and Nordic countries. "This move will allow us to venture into joint marketing initiatives with the airline operator and the travel agents' consortia," Mbiyu said at Moi International Airport Mombasa. The Sh1.2 billion charter incentives program was launched in 2016 and end in March 2019. Mbiyu estimated 8,000 tourists would have arrived in Mombasa by then. Last year, 11,947 visitors came from Poland up from 9,572 recorded in 2016. This was a 24.8 per cent growth. "For the last eight months (January-August), arrivals from the market was 7,504 up from 6,782 visitors in the same period last year, translating to an increase of 10.6 per cent," Mbiyu said. The government also eyes at joint promotion with travel agents to increase demand for travel. "The number of charters has risen from one to 10, a major boost to tourism business in the region that had recorded a drop as a result of negative travel advisories," Mbiyu said. Kenya Tourism Federation chairman Mohamed Hersi said by April 2019, Mombasa will have received 4,500 visitors from Poland. "The fact that Tui upgraded to a Dreamliner and decided to fly to Mombasa, it is a clear indication they hold this county with esteem," Hersi said. Also read: HASNAIN NOORANI: Tourism potential can't be gainsaid Click here for the latest political news