A National Assembly team wants the state to compensate residents affected by the April-May floods in Garissa and Tana River counties. The National Assembly Committee on Energy says it will recommend compensation in its final report to the House, based on its findings on the ground. Committee vice chairperson Robert Pukose yesterday urged MPs to adopt the report, saying the suffering residents went through is evident and justifies a payout. He spoke in Garissa town when he toured affected farms. Pukose said the committee will request funds to buy equipment for farmers who had taken loans for pumps and have not serviced them. He urged Kengen to construct additional reservoirs along the river and raise the height of Masinga Dam to increase capacity and reduce the volumes that flow downstream during the rains. MP Abdikarim Osman said 3,000 families were affected in the constituency. Tana River woman representative Rehema Hassan said she will lobby colleagues in Parliament to compel Kengen to compensate affected families. She said it was likely that many KCPE and KCSE exam candidates will perform poorly as a result of constant disruptions by the floods. Most students had to relocate after their schools were submerged or washed away. In Tana River, schools were flooded for months. Residents of Garissa, especially farmers, incurred huge losses as crops were washed away. In May, Garissa leaders threatened to sue Kengen to compensate residents whose property was destroyed when its dams overflowed. Nothing has come of it. In June, Kenya Farmers Federation vice chairperson Dubat Amey said 600 farmers incurred huge losses because of the floods. In August, Garissa youth demanded compensation from Kengen for loss of lives and property in the April-May floods. They petitioned the county assembly, seeking to have Kengen compelled to pay damages. Kengen had said it was not to blame because “the act of nature was beyond its control.” It had urged residents living downstream to move to safer grounds. Many didn’t leave.