The Director of Public Prosecutions yesterday urged the High Court to suspend orders allowing National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri access to his office, pending an intended appeal. Senior prosecutor Alexander Muteti said they have an arguable appeal that raises important and substantial questions of law and it was important the court stays its decision until the appeal is concluded. He said they will require the Appeal Court to interpret Section 62( 6 ) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act (ACECA). Unlike other public officers who are suspended upon being charged with corruption and economic crimes-related offences, constitutional office holders such as Swazuri are exempted by virtue of Section 62 ( 6 ) of the Act. “This section does not apply with respect to an office if the Constitution limits or provides for the grounds upon which a holder of the office may be removed or the circumstances in which the office must be vacated,” it says. Read: Court allows Swazuri unconditional access to NLC offices Muteti said, however, that Parliament, by enacting Section 62( 6 ), applied it selectively and failed to consider its implications. “The law should not be applied selectively. Immunity to criminal prosecution is only extended to the President. He’s the only one who would not be required to get out of office,” he said. Muteti told the court that they were aggrieved by the orders setting aside the bond terms imposed on Swazuri by the trial court. On November 1, Justice Hedwig Ong’undi suspended the orders of the magistrate’s court and allowed Swazuri access to his office. “I direct Swazuri to make an undertaking not to interact or interfere with the witnesses at his workplace or any other witness. He will also undertake not to interfere with the records or documents relevant to the case at hand. Failure to comply will lead to automatic cancellation of his bond,” he said. In August, Swazuri, alongside Kenya Railways Corporation boss Atanas Maina and 10 others, was charged with irregular payments over SGR land. He was granted Sh3.5 million bail. Principal magistrate Lawrence Mugambi restrained them from visiting their offices, which meant they would be out of office until the criminal case is heard and determined, but Ong’undi reviewed the order. Muteti now wants the court to vary its order to stop Swazuri from visiting his office, pending conclusion of the case at the trial court. “If we don’t have a stay order, the question that will arise at the Appellate Court will be that it’s an academic exercise. We’re not asking you to sit on an appeal of your own matter. All we ask is a second opportunity to test its efficacy,” he said. Swazuri opposed the application, saying the court lacks jurisdiction to hear it. His lawyer said the legislation the DPP wants amended should be done through Parliament and not the Judiciary. Swazuri undertook not interfere with witnesses when the orders of the lower court were reviewed. “Part of the condition that this court imposed was that if I interfere with witnesses, my bond would be cancelled and, indeed, no application for cancellation of bail or bond has been brought before this court or the trial court,” he says. The court will rule on December 4. Swazuri’s NLC term ends next year, but the law allows removal of constitutional officer holder on grounds of gross misconduct, physical or mental incapacity to perform the functions of office, incompetence; or bankruptcy. Article 251 of the Constitution also states that a person desiring the removal of a member of a commission or the holder of an independent office may present a petition to the National Assembly, setting out the alleged facts constituting that ground. The National Assembly has to consider the petition and, if satisfied, send it to the President. More: Swazuri can only access office after seeking permission Click here for
the latest political news