The Liquor Licensing Board has intensified a crackdown on illicit brews and unlicensed joints in Embakasi West. Last week, two people died and two others lost their eyesight after consuming alcohol suspected to have been spiked with a poisonous substance. They were in a bar around Mutindwa market. Yesterday, Embakasi West board chairman Charles Ayiro said the onslaught will assist them to arrest the main supplier of the illicit brew. “We’ll be looking at the operating and liquor licences. We’re also working together with KRA and Kebs to intensify the operation,” he said. Most wines and spirits joints operate without licences. The crackdown will take place throughout the week in Umoja One and Two estates, Pewa Street, Jerusalem, Mowlem and Kariobangi South. Ayiro urged residents to cooperate and help them identify noncompliant pubs. Last Thursday night, Ayiro, Embakasi West MP George Theuri and Umoja One MCA Mark Mugambi led a raid on several shops. They nabbed seven suspects and recovered syringes and substances suspected to have been used to make the lethal liquor Residents called for awareness campaigns on the dangers of illegal alcohol. They want schoolchildren targeted so they do not misspend their holidays. Mutindwa area is a den of cheap liquor. Pubs operate round the clock against the ‘Mututho law’ that requires them to open at 5pm. It requires nightclubs to sell alcohol from 7pm to 3am from Monday to Friday. Clubs that want to sell from 5pm on weekdays and 2pm on weekends have to get a licence. Operating any minute past 3am violates the law. “We have a police post just about 300 metres away, but the police have always turned a blind eye on these dens. The sellers may be well connected with the security teams, and that’s why this has gone to this level,” Sam Kamau said. Some residents accused police of collecting bribes from pub owners in Pewa Street. “We’ll continue loosing our youth to these cheap liquor if action is not taken,” Ruth Owino said. Theuri and Mugambi assured residents that no culprit will be spared. “Despite the odds, we need to join hands to fight this menace. Circulation of illicit alcohol in Eastlands is endangering the lives of residents and we must stop it,” Theuri said.