Homa Bay MCAs yesterday impeached speaker Elizabeth Ayoo, saying her integrity had become questionable. Forty-seven MCAs voted in favour of the motion moved by Ruma Kaksingri MCA Eliphalet Osuri. He said the majority of MCAs were not ready to work with Ayoo. He accused Ayoo of orchestrating last month’s chaos in the assembly during which deputy sergeant-at-arm Idah Arodi was arrested and charged. “The position of speaker requires the highest level of integrity, impartiality and sensitivity in discharge of duty. Madam Ayoo has failed the integrity test,” Osuri said. The MCAs said Ayoo is incompetent. Osuri said the speaker allowed the suspension of staff without warning, show cause letters or appearing before a disciplinary committee. Senior staff members were also dismissed unprocedurally and without terminal benefits. The MCAs said Ayoo often took sides when handling legislative matters in the assembly. “Contrary to the demands of natural justice and provisions of the Constitution, madam speaker has perfected the practice of discrimination and partial treatment of members,” Osuri said. When contacted, Ayoo declined to comment. “I’m still consulting and can’t comment about the impeachment now,” Ayoo said. Ayoo’s impeachment was presided over by deputy speaker Evance Marieba (Gwassi North). MCAs dismissed claims they voted out Ayoo because she is a woman. “Total votes cast are 47 and all of them have supported the motion,” Marieba said. Nominated MCAs Judy Kamaria and Nereah Amondi said they supported the removal of Ayoo because “she has failed.” They urged residents to shun leaders who champion individual interests. “This county voted four women to the National Assembly and therefore we don’t want residents to be cheated that we’re removing Ayoo because she is a woman. Ayoo has failed to prove she can perform,” Kamaria said. Amondi said the speaker abused the trust members bestowed on her. “It’s high time we said the truth. Ayoo was voted into the speaker’s position by majority but it is unfortunate she has turned her back on members and misused the powers and privileges of her office,” Amondi said. George Okello (North Kabuoch) and his Karachuonyo Central counterpart Julius Gaya said Ayoo brought a bad image to the county assembly. “For us to improve, Ayoo must go. For us to stop corruption and embark on service delivery, Ayoo must go,” Okello said. The motion was passed without 13 MCAs, including assembly chief whip Richard Ogindo. The Kwabwai MCA was recently removed from his position as majority leader. Walter Muok (Kanyadoto) took the position after a power-sharing deal. Ogindo led the 13 MCAs in boycotting the impeachment session. Homa Bay has 60 MCAs - 40 elected and 20 nominated. Fifty-eight belong to the majority ODM party while the rest were elected on Wiper and Independent tickets.