There is a growing concern in Senate over a clique of senators who have become notorious in snubbing Senate events. Despite being given notice of such events, they neither communicate their availability or absence, as a consequence of which large amounts of taxpayer money is being lost in dishonoured bookings in expensive hotels out of town. Then there are air tickets which are booked, including business class, depending on one’s position in the House. This past weekend, Senate Speaker Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and KEPSA were holding a roundtable in Kwale county where only 23 senators showed up. The irony is, when it comes to international trips, hardly anyone misses. Why should taxpayers be urged daily to “tighten their belts” when their taxes are so wasted? And why, should such senators expect accountability from other public servants they summon? *** Residents along at Uthiru along Waiyaki Way bordering Kiambu and Nairobi counties want answers to many questions. The National Construction Authority headed by Eng. Maurice Akech had two weeks ago marked a new building under construction for demolition. However, residents are still wondering what happened behind the scenes for the mark to be removed paving way for the construction of one bed room and bedsitter rental flats to proceed. Word has it that the construction stopped for a week after NCA officers marked the flat being erected hastily for destruction. Residents are still waiting for an explanation from Akech on how the red marks were erased and construction allowed to continue with potential for disaster. Residents now want EACC to investigate what transpired with a view to taking action. *** A young male MCA in Nairobi is the talk of town. The MCA who was recently returned from a trip abroad was spotted with several women in his hotel room. Word has it that the MCA, who is also dating a female colleague, who is mad about his behavior. She has threatened to abandon him if he goes on with his behavior but the young was overheard saying even if she quits, he will still date more women. *** There is a rogue foreign contractor who seems to be getting huge contracts. It is reported that the contractor is connected to a powerful government official who ensures that the company is awarded tenders. The “powerful” contractor even had the guts to intimidate officials of a key state construction agency after it queried a shoddy job and forced him to re-do projects. Now he has reportedly been chasing the parastatal chief for months demanding lucrative contracts in North Rift. Click here for the latest political stories