A bid by three residents to block the removal of Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company chairman Peter Munga has been thwarted. Mercy Kimwe, Anthony Mutiria, and Jane Wanyoike moved to court to challenge Munga's sacking by Governor Mwangi wa Iria. They argued before Justice Kanyi Kimondo that the water company takeover by the governor was unlawful. However, Justice Kimondo said he sympathised with the petitioners but could not grant their prayers since water services were devolved. He held that the petitioners did not make a strong case for grant of the conservatory order as sought. "It is also evident that the petitioners largely side with Muwasco and Munga. But being residents of the county, they have a right to present the petition." Judge Kimondo described the three as "the proverbial grass caught between Muwasco and Munga on one hand, and the county government on the other." He said devolution saw water services taken up by county entities to provide water services on behalf of residents. "That is not to say that the county government can wake up one morning and violently take over water companies’ management," the judge said. The petitioners had prayed to the court to bar Wa Iria from replacing Munga until the case is heard and determined. The three said the governor’s appointment of Joseph Kimura to replace Munga was in breach of the company’s articles of association. They applied for a conservatory order to stay a gazette notice published on August 15, through which Kimura was appointed. Munga, who was listed as an interested party in the petition, supported it saying he is the bona fide chairman of Muwasco. He further told the court that he was re-elected as the chairman on January 15, 2016, and that he was the sole candidate for the position. The gazette notice, Munga said, violated the procedures of removal and appointment of directors of the firm. He further argued that his personal differences with the governor should not be used as a guise to disrupt water services in the county. But the governor, on his part, contested the petition saying the Constitution devolved county public works and services, including water and sanitation. Wa Iria said the activities of Muwasco usurp the powers of the county government, hence, violating the constitution. The governor told the court that the Transitional Authority approved the transfer of water services or water companies to the counties. Read: Bad blood between Wa Iria, Munga that caused Murang'a water crisis Also read: Solve Murang'a water crisis fast, MPs tell Wa Iria after supply cut Click here for the latest political news