A suspected thug was on Tuesday shot dead by police after he broke into a house in Thika and terrorised a family for more than two hours. Police killed Cornelius Musili, 26, after he broke into the house of Ephraim Muhoro in Thika’s section 2 estate. Musili was in the company of three other thugs who escaped after police arrived at the scene. Muhoro later recounted the terrifying ordeal of how he and his wife woke up to find the thug in their bedroom after he switched on the lights. “I thought it was a dream because I had locked all windows and doors before sleeping. I didn’t hear anyone trying to break into our house,” Muhoro said. He said that the thug sat on their bed and started touching his wife indecently, which prompted him to pull Musili to the sitting room. “He took off his shoes, trousers and shirt and told me to continue sleeping as he was doing ‘his job’. I was confused on how to react because I didn’t know if he was armed,” Muhoro said. Muhoro said that while he was struggling to calm the thug his wife who was still at the bedroom phoned a friend who in turn notified the police. “I tried to be nice to him because my kids had already woken up. They were crying and were terrified,” he said. Muhoro said the thug demanded to be given food and they even made him tea. “He was contacting some people and I could hear a commotion outside,” he said. The police soon arrived at the house and ordered everyone in the house to surrender. However, the thug refused to surrender and tried to attack the police who then shot him dead in the process. Confirming the incident, Kiambu Administration Police Commander Josephat Kinyua said that police on patrol responded to the distress call but on arriving at the scene, three men opened fire on them before escaping into the darkness. “From our preliminary investigations, the thugs were about to steal electronics and other valuables from the family. The one who was shot dead had attempted to rape the lady in the house,” Kinyua said. The police boss warned residents to be careful heading into the festive season as thugs were out to make a kill during the period. He urged residents to practice and uphold the ‘Nyumba Kumi’ model for safety in the neighbourhoods. Kinyua said police have laid down proper measures to beef up security in the region during the festive period. The thug’s body was taken to General Kago Funeral Home. Click here for the latest political news 