While hip hop heads discuss who the biggest rapper in Kenya is, Paul Baraka, known by his stage name Breeder LW, is gradually jumping into the scene with amazing tunes and verses. Probably a dedicated project-artiste, he seems really interested in churning out compilations that have been worthy of the listeners' attention. Probably he understands that these projects will always outlive viral singles and want to be known for conceptual masterworks. Not only does he want to leave his fans enthralled with his punchy delivery, he ensures he offers mind-blowing and thought-provoking verses that draw inspiration from his reality. He admits that every artiste, in one way or the other, influences his work, regardless of their preferred genre and sound. As much as he is a great supporter of the local hip hop scenes, he expresses great adoration for artistes like The Notorious B.I.G. and Vybz Kartel. Breeder LW's first major project, "Nairobi State Of Mind (NSOM)", was indeed a proper intro into the music scene. Before he dropped his recent full-length LP, "Kabla Kuosa", he managed to grab the interest of top rapper Kayvo Kforce, who expressed interest in working with Breeder on this album. The album, which explores the artiste's life before making it big in the industry, is his greatest attempt yet. Breeder LW acknowledges his parents for his decision to join music, as they played a lot of music while he was growing up. In high school, he started writing verses and dropping bars. Now, while still at the outset of his career he, exhibits maximum will to want to be ranked among the top names in the rap scene. He's definitely developed his skill for years and surely writes better bars now compared to when he started. Despite the presence of an entirely different camp that suggests that artistes ought to keep up with trends, his conscious rap style truly works for him. Whether or not he decides to switch up to something different is besides the point, then, because all we know is he is making gradual moves.