President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday appealed to media to at times try to profile the country in a positive way. Very well sir, but may be he needs to step back a bit and reflect on some things. One, he and Deputy President William Ruto started profiling media negatively by saying that newspapers had no more use than wrapping meat and they can write whatever they want.  After all, Mulu Mutisya said journalists are people born by the roadside. Two, his Cabinet ministers, among other heads of government departments, are almost all inaccessible. In fact, at times it is easier speak to the President on phone than some CSs and PSs.  How about you direct your Cabinet to be talking to media. Let information flow, Mr President… It is in the Constitution. *** Just why can’t the government assemble a team of university dons or even vice-chancellors to monitor and assess the conduct of national examinations? Top government officials invigilating KCPE examinations that were concluded yesterday was intimidating for some candidates who are not used to big people. Denials aside, the presence of senior state officials in examinations centres could either inspire or traumatize and confuse students thereby affect their performance. How about schools identifying role models and mentors to give morale-boosting pep talk to students instead? ** A county government in Luo Nyanza plans to hire bloggers and propagandists to counter fierce critics of the administration. A county Executive in a WhatsApp group claimed media have capitalized on the EACC and Auditor General reports to hit the county, which has affected the administration’s image. They want to change the narrative by "importing" bloggers because local ones and the media are "not friendly" to the system. The CEC for Communication and her team have been tasked with identifying the friendly bloggers to market the county even if it is just PR that will not impact the lives of locals. ** Three CECs of a county in the western region are on the spot over fictitious academic papers. A mole tells Corridors that the CECs who were appointed by a governor who has a fad for foreign trips do not understand their dockets well hence the poor service delivery. Now locals are wondering why the tough talking governor who is highly educated appointed executives with questionable academic papers. Residents fear the county might perform more dismally than the previous governor who only served one term. They say for the past one year nothing much has been realised apart from publicity gimmicks on social media. Those who campaigned and supported him in the elctions have resigned themselves to watching how the "know-it-all" county boss will perform in his five-year term. ** 