Commuters on several routes within the city were on Monday morning forced to trek to work as matatu operators withdrew their vehicles in protest of the enforcement of the Michuki rules. The few available matatus hiked their fares to cash in on the desperate commuters. Bodaboda operators also took advantage of the situation and doubled fares to ferry passengers to various destinations. For instance, commuters from Donholm were forced to part with between Sh70 and Sh100 from the normal range of Sh30-Sh50. In Rongai, the few matatus in operation were charging between Sh100 and Sh250 to the CBD. The ministry of transport gave the ultimatum for the enforcement of the tough rules two weeks ago. The rules are part of the measures the ministry intends to take to rein on road carnage that continues to take innocent lives. Read: Michuki Rules: Kenya back to square one Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and his transport counterpart James Macharia have remained steadfast that the rules must be enforced to the latter. “The high number of deaths and injuries on our roads is as a result of drivers not observing safety. We will make sure no criminal is left on our roads,” Macharia said on Saturday. Law enforcers have been blamed for laxity in the implementation of the traffic rules whence encouraging matatu owners and crew to flout rules. More than 2,620 Kenyans have so far lost their lives in road accidents since the start of the year. The Michuki rules, first introduced by the late Transport Minister John Michuki in 2003, require all public transport vehicles to have speed governors. The vehicles must also be registered with a Sacco, bear a continuous yellow line and must be fitted with safety belts. Drivers and conductors are also required to always wear uniforms and prominently display their badges with photos as prescribed by the law. Matatu operators, however, vowed to stay off the roads in protest of the enforcement of the rules. Among the punitive measures against violations of the rules include Sh1000 fine for one missing safety belt, Sh500 fine for failing to wear a safety belt and Sh10,000 fine for causing obstruction. PSVs that pick and drop passengers at undesignated areas will be charged Sh1,000, failure to fit speed governors Sh10,000, touting Sh5,000, unlicensed conductor or driver Sh5,000, failure to produce a driving licence Sh1,000 and driving while using a mobile phone Sh2,000. Motorcycle riders without protective gear will have to pay Sh1,000 in fines same as pillion passengers without protective gear. Motorists who exceed the 80Kph speed limit will be fined Sh500 for exceeding the limit by between 1-5kph, Sh3000 for exceeding by 6-10kph, Sh6000 for exceeding by 11-15kph and Sh10,000 for exceeding by between 16-20kph. Related:Nairobi PSV commuters stranded as traffic cops enforce Michuki rules Also read; Passengers not spared in State's renewed plan to enforce 'Michuki rules' Click here for the latest political news