You probably think garbage is disgusting and you do not want to see it anywhere around you. Well, for Micheal Kiwo, it is his passion to ensure he gets the garbage to a safe place, so you cannot get disgusted by it. The piling up of garbage in Mombasa and people complaining of garbage as an eyesore drove Kiwo into venturing into a business where he could make people happy and also make a living out of their happiness. Garbage pile-ups made Kiwo open a business that he called ‘Pollucare cleaners’, where he specialises in collecting garbage from households and ensuring he properly disposes it in the county tracks. He also does interior house cleaning around his area in Liwatoni and Ganjoni in Mombasa. With him being the boss, he has two other helpers for garbage collection, and for house cleaning, whenever he gets an order, he ensures he gets casual laborers to get the job done faster for efficiency. With over 6,000 houses at Liwatoni and Ganjoni, Kiwo has orders from 30 houses, and he ensures that he collects garbage from those houses three days a week. Per month, Kiwo pockets more than Sh18,000 in garbage collection only. He charges Sh4,000 for interior house cleaning in a three-bedroom house.  PROBLEMS FACED Every business has difficulties, and one of Kiwo’s major problems is stiff competition. This is a town and every person sees it as an opportunity, but Kiwo ensures he provides quality and that is what makes him believe his business is unique. Another problem he faces is getting more clients, as he is new in the business. “Many clients prefer experienced companies, but this does not pull me back since I provide quality,” he said. You might probably think it is a big business and he uses lorries to collect the garbage, but Kiwo uses a handcart to ensure his job is done in time. “The handcart is very efficient and effective because you are able to collect more garbage at a time without thinking of using fuel,” he says. However, he still has growing big in mind. He started last year so in the next five years, he dreams of being the boss as he sits back in an office, waiting for orders and sending his employees to get a job he once tarmacked for done. Kiwo believes that if people could identify a problem and search for solutions to solve it, then no one would be complaining of being jobless, and all Kenyans would prosper.