National Olympic Committee of Kenya are likely to rescue their commercial building from the auctioneers’ hammer by the end of the year following their efforts to manage inherited debts. While taking stock of the office’s milestone after a year in charge, Nock President Paul Tergat said they are on course in managing the inherited debts. During the September 2017 Nock elections, the General Assembly tasked the new office to undertake a forensic audit on affairs of the organisation during the preceding years. “Nock Plaza was facing auction but following efforts to get workable solution, we are back on course to offer a win-win outcome to all parties involved by the end of the year. “The auditors are in the final stages of preparing forensic report and once they hand it over to us, we will share it with member federations, and the public,” noted Tergat. Nock have an approximate debt of Sh875m as intimated by Tergat. The committee’s suppliers are owed an estimated Sh75m while the financial obligation attached to Nock Plaza is over Sh800m. However, Tergat reported that the audit process has not been smooth due to lack of records. “We are in the process of managing the inherited debts in a bid to get Nock back to sound financial position,” said the legendary athlete. On his part, acting secretary general Francis Mutuku, said they have had a relatively successful year in the office. “We look back with satisfaction on several milestones achieved and many lessons learnt which makes us very hopeful,” averred Mutuku. He said there is finally light at the end of the tunnel following the efforts they have put in place. “Kenya have entered team in four events including a female athlete in the 2018 Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongyang, Korea, Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia, Africa Youth Games in Algiers, Algeria and Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires, Argentina,” he noted. Elsewhere, Nock will unveil the road map to Tokyo 2020 in the first few weeks of 2019. Tergat said Nock will only provide technical support to teams preparing for 2020 and leave their infrastructural needs to the government.