ODM leader Raila Odinga on Sunday directed Kisumu MCAs to stop persistent wrangles in the assembly and focus on the county's development. He met the MCAs in a closed-door meeting at Sovereign hotel to discuss the fights in the assembly. Speaker Onyango Oloo, according to an MCA who spoke to the Star in confidence, was largely blamed for the persistent fights. The county lawmaker said the ODM leader was candid that the wrangles are unhealthy and risk stiffing the county’s economic development agenda. Raila reportedly told the ward representatives to remain committed to their legislative, representative, and oversight role. The MCA said Oloo has been put on "probation" for one year to restore sanity in the House or face impeachment. "All the fingers were pointing at him including the report by county ODM leaders on the chaos in the assembly. He was told to correct the mess by engaging all MCAs." According to the MCA, Raila told members that party decisions must be respected and those who go against such will be punished. The MCAs' differences arose from a plan to rent office spaces for Sh5 million in one of the malls in the town without proper procedure. The members, who accuse the former TNA secretary general of mismanaging the assembly, have also rejected a proposal for a Sh300 million speaker's residence. The differences have pit Oloo on one side and majority leader Kenneth Onyango on the other. Raila brought a truce between them at the meeting. Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, MPs Aduma Owuor (Nyakach), Jared Okello (Nyando) and Oburu Oginga (EALA) were present. Kisumu county ODM leaders led by former Muhoroni MP Ayiecho Olweny and members of the council of elders were also present. Raila asked the MCAs to focus on constructive debate in the assembly as envisaged in the law. "We don’t want to see members engage in physical fights. Parliament is about legislation and voting." "If you want to impeach or be elected, then whip members to support you and not resort to such wars," the source quoted Raila. See: [VIDEO] Gunshots at Kisumu assembly as MCAs, sergeant-at-arms fight More on this: [VIDEO] Kisumu MCAs in fist fight after rumours of plot to impeach Nyong'o Click here for the latest political news