Deputy President William Ruto has asked the Kalenjin community not to have any worries about the 2022 succession, assuring them that “it is well planned.” The DP said the Jubilee political gameplan was intact and there was no cause for worry. The DP said: “Hiyo maneno ingine ya hapo mbele tumepanga sawasawa...sasa msikuwe na wasiwasi.” [All our future plans are on course. Don’t worry.] He called on leaders to avoid divisive politics. Ruto also used the opportunity to thank former Bomet governor Isaac Rutto for accepting to work with the Jubilee. He said: “We have held talks with this man Isaac Rutto and you know he is my agemate...he has agreed to work with us on building unity of our people.” The DP expressed his happiness at what he said was cordial working relations among the leaders from Bomet county. While seemingly attacking the three Kalenjin MPs over their recent remarks with regard to maize prices, the DP told the residents to shun them as they were enemies of development and out to pursue self interests. Without not naming names Ruto said: “While we are planning on development and asking Kenyans to diversify on crops there are some trying hard misleading them again.” Ruto was speaking when he presided over a fundraiser in aid of Siongiroi Catholic Church at Holy family Girls’ School at Chepalungu in Bomet. On development, the DP stated that Sh15 billion had been set aside for tamarcking of 300 kilometres of new roads in Bomet, which will be completed in the next one year. Read: 'Political cons' impeding Ruto's 2022 bid doomed to fail - MPs He added that Sh1.8 billion was set aside for the last mile connectivity in the region under phase two, targeting 35,000 new customers. The Sh20 billion Bosto water project in Bomet, he pointed out, will launched in January. Bomet governor Joyce Laboso, former governor Isaac Rutto, senator Christopher Langat, nominated senator Alice Milgo and Petroleum chief administrative secretary John Mosonik were also present. Others were MPs Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central), Aisha Jumwa (Kilifi), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Mwangi Gichui (Tetu), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Brighton Yegon (Konoin) and woman representative Joyce Korir. Laboso appealed to MPs to pass the one third gender rule once it is tabled again this week for voting. Rutto said he will reach out to the independent Kalenjin MPs with a view to “having them speak common language.” The former Governor also said he supports unity talks in the country. He said there was need for all leaders to speak in one voice so that development can be realised. Click here for the latest political stories