A state corporation under the Ministry of Trade and Industry is on the spot over unfair labour practices. A mole in the corporation has told Corridors that last month the parastatal sacked 60 of its casuals while they were out on a lunch break. The mole intimated that most of those sacked went into depression given the inhumane manner they were dismissed by their employer. The randy employer has also been threatening the dismissed workers with withholding their dues if they ever report to any government agency or go to court. As of Wednesday night, the employees were working on a petition to Trade and Industry CS Peter Munya to intervene. ***** An MP from Rift Valley has run into deep financial problems. The second term legislator is said to have counted chickens before they hatched. The man relocated from his rented house in Nairobi’s Lavington area to a posh bungalow in Karen going for Sh470,000 per month. The deal he was chasing which could have seen him pocket millions hit a snag. Now the man has found it difficult to tell the painful truth to his family and is reported to be moving from one man to another asking for “soft loan”. However, due to his poor credit worthiness, no one is willing to lend him money. So what next for the man who has cut the image of a wealthy politician? ***** A foreign- owned betting company situated in the Kilimani area of Nairobi is in panic after a well-known public lobby group obtained information that they are involved in money laundering and mistreatment of their Kenyan employees. The employees who have been under threats and intimidation from the foreigners are said to have tipped the Directorate of Criminal Investigation to probe and close down the establishment. They also want the foreigners, most of whom don’t have work permits, deported. A source has said a huge demo against the arbitrary sacking of Kenyans is slated for Tuesday next week. ***** On Monday, Corridors of Power told you of a Jubilee Party official who is reported to be having an affair with a female MP. His wife has hired private investors to track his activities. Since word leaked out, the panicky man has been trying frantically to cover up his past escapades with the MP. But even as he does so, his wife has reportedly heightened investigations and is closing in on photos of the man and the legislator while on a tour of a foreign country. The wife could be on the way to sharing information with the media as soon as next week. Click here for
the latest political news 