The wrangles between county speakers and MCAs took a new twist after the County Assemblies Forum told the Senate to keep off their affairs. Speaking to Senate Devolution Committee yesterday, MCAs lashed out at the Upper House, saying it does not have a constitutional mandate to iron out their disputes. Last week, county assembly speakers appealed to the Senate to shield them from impeachment from “rogue” MCAs. The speakers tabled a proposal before the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, seeking an amendment to allow the Senate to handle their impeachment procedure just like those of governors. Nandi speaker Joshua Kiptoo, who is also the CAF secretary general, said MCAs have been blackmailing them to get lucrative foreign and benchmarking trips. Read: [VIDEO] Murang'a MCAs fight for the third time as leadership row deepens But MCAs yesterday told the Devolution committee chaired by Laikipia Senator John Kinyua that the Senate should stop meddling in the affairs of county assemblies, and instead focus on their constitutional roles. Kisii deputy speaker Davins Okindo said the assemblies should be allowed to handle their personal matters without the Senate’s intervention. “Most speakers serve interests of the governors because they are the ones who placed them in those positions. This issue of big brother overseeing the assemblies should not apply,” the Masige East ward MCA said. “We need a bigger spectrum to look into this issue. The role of the Senate is very clear. The Senate has its own Standing Orders and it is upon the assemblies to form theirs.” Nairobi Majority leader Abdi Guyo and the Minority whip Peter Imwatok also told Senate not to meddle in the recent impeachments. Imwatok appealed to the committee to visit the 47 Assemblies and address various issues pertaining budgets and development projects. Read: Kicks, blows as Murang'a MCAs attempt to evict county clerk “Senate has no role of supervising the assemblies. Don’t wait at the plenary on what is happening at the counties through the media. Go to the grassroots and establish the problems yourself,” he said. “The speakers, once elected, start equating themselves with governors. For instance, Nairobi senator Johnston Sakaja has not convened a roundtable meeting on the affairs of the county. He cannot claim to be big brother to the Nairobi county assembly.” Click here for the latest political news