Governor Mike Sonko has promised to fast track completion of World Bank funded projects under the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Projects (NaMSIP). Sonko on Wednesday said previous challenges including land grabbing, poor workmanship and slow progress have been addressed. Speaking during a meeting with World Bank officials at City Hall on Wednesday, Sonko said construction of Mwariro market in Starehe, Karandini market in Dagoreti South and Uhuru market in Makadara and the building of fire stations on Kangundo Road and in Waithaka are near completion. “We are on track as far as the implementation of the NaMSIP projects and other county government funded programmes is concerned,” Sonko said. The governor said the markets will address the hawkers menace once complete. “The new fire station will improve our response for emergencies,” he said. Sonko said his administration was determined to ensure construction of more markets for traders and drilling of boreholes in all fire stations to improve disaster response. “Nairobi is underserved with only 43 markets. We have developed a market Marshal Plan aimed at building one market in each of the 85 wards and expand and rehabilitate the existing ones,” Sonko said. World Bank senior urban specialist Gyongshim An who led the delegation said they will ensure all the NaMSIP projects are completed as planned. The World Bank officials praised Sonko’s efforts in fighting corruption and impunity saying the two vices were the biggest obstruction to development. “We are happy with the ongoing construction of well-designed roads with drainage systems by the county and we are looking forward to hearing good news,” An said. Transport executive Mohamed Dagane the county has prioritised drainage systems and flashing units because they are the main areas in the metropolitan improvement programme. The meeting was attended by acting county secretary Pauline Kahiga, deputy county secretary Leboo Morintat, NaMSIP liaison officer Thomas Karatai, and the project’s lead overseer Fredrick Karanja. NaMSIP was developed to make Kenya a middle-income country by improving the city as envisioned in Nairobi Metro 2030.