Yesterday, we told you how some officers at the State Department of Broadcasting and Telecommunications were unhappy with PS Fatuma Hirsi for introducing stringent accounting procedures that are reportedly slowing down processing of payments. Well, it turns out, the measures are a stitch in time to seal the loopholes that led to the accumulation of nearly Sh3 billion in pending bills - mostly owed to media - and other shenanigans that saw many of the department’s staff charged in court. A source in the ministry says it takes time for newly appointed accounting officials to be given the mandate to operate AIEs and other IFMIS protocols. In any case, as the accounting officer of the ministry, isn’t the PS duty-bound to take precautionary measures to secure public funds? So hold your horses, folks! A top Jubilee official, previously known for speaking his mind no matter how controversial the issue has gone mute. Mobile phone numbers he customarily used are nowadays switched off most of the time, raising concern about his standing with the ruling party’s hierarchy. The man used to claim to have the ear of President Uhuru Kenyatta any time. But things may have started changing after reports emerged that he was attempting to groom a self-anointed successor in Uhuru’s backyard. A senior officer at the Immigration department is messing the agency’s reputation despite efforts by boss Alexander Muteshi to institute far-reaching reforms. The official who is in charge of a key documents processing section has been sitting on some files by needy Kenyans seeking travel documents and in some cases demanding bribes. The official has been known to call people outside official working hours to demand money in order to speed up the processes. So, why would a well paid public servant resort to such corrupt practices to do his job? Well, how long will Kenyans be subjected to this tyranny and incompetence? Two MPs who over the weekend hired a chopper jointly to attend to some funeral in central Kenya ended up differing sharply over the amount each should contribute. One, a first time MP, who was accompanied by a member of a county assembly, was shocked when his colleague decided that the MCAs would contribute Sh80,000 as part of the flight cost. Angered by the presence of the MCA, the second term MP insisted that there was no way they would contribute the money with his colleague alone when they had carried another ‘burden’. It was indeed a hectic and long day for the MCA who was forced to call friends to raise the amount to avoid being embarrassed. He only managed Sh50,000 and pleaded to be spared because of his low salary. His host MP had to bridge the deficit. Lesson: learn to cut your cloth according to your size. Click here for the latest political news