Police sought 15 days to detain Migori governor Okoth Obado for further investigations into the illegal gun possession case. The governor was on Thursday arraigned at the Kibera law court before Chief Magistrate Joyce Gandani. This was a day after he was arrested for allegedly keeping eight guns, some unlicenced, in his house. There was tight security as Obado was ushered into an empty courtroom. The doors were shut. He was accompanied by his lawyer Cliff Ombeta even as journalists struggled to get pictures of him. Prosecutor Catherine Mwaniki said they need time to go through firearms data to find out the rightful owners of the firearms. "We need time to find out if there are probable suspects, to record statements of witnesses, to go through phone data of probable suspects," she said. Mwaniki cited public interest in the ODPP's bid to detain the county chief. "It is in public interest that we ask for ample time to rule out the possibility of the use of the firearms in any crime," she said. But in his affidavit on bail application, Obado asked the court to release him saying that he is not a flight risk. "I shall abide by all terms of the bond or bail if granted. That I have always cooperated and collaborated with security agencies before and will continue to do so," he said. Obado said that he has never breached any terms of bail or bond before and shall not interfere with witnesses in the matter. "I pray that this court releases me on bail pending the conclusion of this trial. There are no compelling reasons brought forth to deny my constitutional rights to bail pending charge or trial," he said. "That it is in the interest of the justice that this application is allowed." Obado was interrogated at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters for the better part of Wednesday. The said guns were reportedly found when EACC detectives raided the governor's Nairobi and Migori homes as well as offices on Tuesday. The DCI earlier said the weapons would be subjected to ballistic examination and verification. And in court, the DPP prayed for more days to allow the officers (including ballistics) travel to Obado's rural home to thoroughly investigate the matter. The probe is to establish whether the guns were licensed to be owned by the governor. More on this: Okoth Obado arrested over guns netted in EACC raid Obado is also facing a murder charge of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. He faces probe on accusations of embezzling Sh2.5 billion county funds through his proxies. Read: EACC raids Obado's Nairobi, Migori homes in Sh2.5bn graft probe Related: From graft accusations to murder charge: This man Okoth Obado Click here for the latest political news