Migori county elders involved in the Nyumba Kumi initiative have threatened to sue the government for upaid services. The elders want the government to consider giving them allowances or else they will go to court demanding their rights as part of the initiative to fight crime and resolve disputes. Led by Rose Akeyo, an elder from Rongo, they said they have also been pushing government policies in villages at no pay. “The entire Office of the President is devolved in service delivery through us. We always handle criminal cases. We solve land disputes and children matters,” Akeyo said. Albert Okeyo, an elder from Suna West, said they should be recognised because they play a vital role in maintaining security in expansive rural areas and arbitrating land and family disputes. “This message should reach President Uhuru Kenyatta. We have children who depend on us. We need something to boost our morale,” Okeyo said. Speaking to the press in Migori town on Friday, the elders said they will go to court to demand their right because everything starts with them.“The elders are the eye of the government. We assist in identifying criminal gangs, volunteering crucial security information to the police and resolving disputes, which can easily spark off violence but we are getting nothing,” Okeyo said. Suna East deputy county commissioner Danis Mutiso speaking in his office said elders have played a pivotal role in policy implementation. “We are aware that our elders form an important part in the administration of justice and pushing government policies by assisting chiefs and their assistants,” Mutiso said. He said similar concerns have been raised in the ministry awaiting approval for budget allocation. “It is Parliament which should debate the issue and help in formulating a policy for them,” he said. Since inception, the goverment has largely focused on capacity building but has never serously taken up demands for allowances. These concerns have been raised across counties. Kiambu elders have since 2015 been pushing for allowances for every meeting they hold.They want transport allowances and air time. “This is not selfish. Everybody needs pay after work. We need facilitation to work efficiently and give timely information ,” Nyumba Kumi elder in Kiambu Peter Kanja had said.  