From being “indulged in the foreplay that leads to being fired” — otherwise known as being put on a performance improvement plan — to sitting on a panel with the same manager at a national conference, Chris Mureithi is a good example of how far resilience can take you. But how did the once-struggling sales officer become a sought-after keynote speaker? The Star caught up with Mureithi, a personal development and training consultant who describes himself as an investor in happy endings. Mureithi, 30, was one of the students who took the ‘normal’ path and pursued a Bachelor’s degree in commerce at Masinde Muliro University of Science in Technology. His mouth got him a job before he finished his course. “Most people fear being the first to speak because they are worried what people might say, or that people will think they are overconfident. But I have never been afraid of being the first to speak, and that has worked to my advantage,” he said. Mureithi landed his first job during a career fair at his university in 2012. Staff from Safaricom were among the speakers. The telco had in the previous year raised calling rates by an average of Sh1, and Mureithi took advantage of the talking point. “I made reference to a term in marketing called ‘just noticeable difference’. A firm always wants to make changes in price below the just noticeable difference, and I said that instead of adding Sh1 to calling rates, they could have added Sh5 to M-Pesa and customers might not have noticed. I gave the example of the price of bread remaining the same over the years, but the grammes reducing from 500 to 400.” The Sh5 difference might not pass in 2018, especially with a strong base of vocal social media users, but he got the attention of the speakers during the fair. That is how he landed his first job in the commercial business section as a sales executive. He got off to a rocky start. “As much as I had always said I had wanted to work for Safaricom, I knew sales was not my strength,” he said. Mureithi struggled to get clients during the first three months, but kept at it until he became the best sales executive in his department.  DREADING MONDAYS However, sales was not where his heart was, and Mureithi found himself putting more effort into assignments that were not part of his job description. He would volunteer to emcee his employer’s events, and would derive fulfilment from it, despite it being unpaid. Two years down the line, a combination of dreading Mondays and being put on a performance improvement plan (what he describes as the foreplay before being fired) brought matters to a head. Mureithi knew he had to leave employment and focus on monetising his gift of speaking. “I didn’t have a plan when I left my job. All I knew is that if the company I was working for could hire someone for Sh300,000 to give a keynote speech, I, too, could earn from my gift.” Although Mureithi woke up with a sense of relief the day after resigning from his job, the reality of self-employment started to hit when he hadn’t bagged a client a year down the line. “After leaving my job, I registered my company — Premier Group — and set up a website with emails for an accountant, marketer, CEO and other roles I had envisioned, even though I was the only employee at the time.” The word ‘group’ was strategically added to the company name to make it appear bigger and more influential. Mureithi had grand plans for his company: to offer personal development training to companies, for him to be a keynote speaker, and the list went on. But as the Good Book says: Many are the plans in a man’s heart, but the Lord’s purpose prevails. After a year of sending countless proposals to companies, Mureithi wondered whether he had made the right choice leaving Safaricom. “I contemplated going back and begging for my job and saying it was the devil that had possessed me to resign.” However, that is not how his story played out. Instead, Mureithi got a chance to speak at a Safaricom event, and although it wasn’t paid, it began the process of building his portfolio. “When it comes to speaking, potential clients want to see who you’ve worked with before, and if you have a strong client in your portfolio, it makes things that much easier.” Being young had also proved to be a setback for Mureithi, so he grabbed as many opportunities given to him to speak. “When you go pitch and you are young, yet the potential client was expecting someone with grey hair, it can be challenging.”  CHANCE OF A LIFETIME Mureithi says his big break came when he got a chance to speak at Strathmore Business School for an event on millenials. There were several speakers and the time allocated was seven minutes each. Most of the others went above the time, but Mureithi kept time and says it was short, but impactful. So much so, that an attendee — Paul Kasimu, the then human resource director at EABL — approached him and gave him the chance of his lifetime. Kasimu was a past chairman of the Institute of Human Resource Management Council. He wrote to it, recommending that Mureithi be contracted to speak at the institute’s annual conference in Mombasa. “I received an email and I was being addressed as Sir and being asked when I could take time out of my ‘busy schedule’ to meet and discuss the speaking engagement.” Up until then, Mureithi had been sending himself emails to confirm whether indeed his company emails were working, after hundreds of proposals went unanswered. Now, here he was, having his air ticket paid to go and speak at the conference in Mombasa. “There had been times that if I had to speak at an event in Mombasa, I would have to travel by bus and pay for it,” he recalled. When Mureithi honoured the invite, he made it worth IHRM’s while. “I brought the house down, and I don’t say this in a proud or arrogant way. There is just something about putting your gift to use that makes you thrive.” Points from Mureithi’s speech became catchphrases by participants. “Even the speakers who came after me kept referring to what I had talked about — stretching yourself — and that became the theme of the institute’s conference the following year.”  MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING? But why should you and I listen to motivational or personal branding speakers? After all, aren’t they just purveyors of the feel-good gospel, which quickly fades away after a session, when people get back to the realities of life? Mureithi makes it clear that it is not his job to transform your life. His responsibility is to give you the knowledge you need and then it’s up to you to take action to see the change you want in your life. “We are always quick to look outwards and blame the people around us for our problems, yet we should look within. If you were to kick the behind of all the people who are responsible for your problems, you wouldn’t walk for a week because you’d kick yourself a lot of times.” Mureithi was in last year’s ‘Top 40 under 40 men’ list compiled by the Business Daily newspaper. The list highlights men making strides in their fields of work. Mureithi says potential clients have taken him even more seriously since then. Apart from speaking engagements and conducting trainings for staff, Mureithi is also a writer of three books: The Realities of the 21st Century, The Shallow End and What Makes You Special. If you’re thinking of hiring him, set aside anything between Sh80,000 for a two-hour presentation to upwards of Sh200,000 for a full-day event. The rates vary on a case-to-case basis. Mureithi is no longer a one-man show; he has hired five employees. For aspiring business owners, Mureithi urges them to be like Nike and ‘just do it’, adding that money follows impact. “If you give the best in all you do, money will follow.” Mureithi faults workers who take pride in having worked for the same company in the same capacity for a long time. “You will go to some government offices and someone will proudly say how they’ve been with the company for three decades in the same position. Someone has been a secretary from the time Mandela was released from prison and they’re happy about it?” As we close the interview, Mureithi urges the youth to pursue significance over success.  MUREITHI’S NUGGETS OF ADVICE 1. Your destiny is tied to your gifts 2. If you don’t use your gifts, you will lose them 3. You have to sometimes sacrifice for your gift — sacrifice your comfort and friends 4. Get comfortable being uncomfortable. There’s no growth in the comfort zone  MUREITHI’S FAVOURITE SPEAKERS 1. Les Brown 2. John Maxwell 3. Myles Munroe