Deputy President William Ruto has urged youths to enrol in local vocational centres to learn masonry and other courses to benefit from the Big Four agenda. Speaking at Ol Kalou in Nyandarua county on Monday, he said 2,000 units will be built in the area under the affordable housing plan. Ruto said there is enough space to build 3,000 more houses in the county. The programme will begin early next year. “We are targetting 10,000 local youths to benefit through providing various services, including masonry, carpentry and plumbing, among others,” he said. Ruto urged local MPs to ensure young people are prepared to undertake this task. He said youths should enrol in technical training institutes and pursue courses running from three months to one year to get the requisite skills. Ruto said the Jubilee government will invest heavily in various projects to develop Nyandarua. roads, electricity Other target areas are roads, water, power connection and agriculture. “...we agreed that Nyandarua must change. And it will be changed by the Jubilee government led by Uhuru Kenyatta. A promise is a debt, and the remedy of debt is payment,” the DP said. Ruto launched the upgrading to bitumen standards of Captain-Ndunyu Njeru road. The 55km road will pass through Ndemi, Wanjohi and Geta and connect with the road running from Flyover to Ol Kalou at Ndunyu Njeru. The project will cost Sh2.77 billion and will take 42 months. It is being undertaken by M/S SBI International Holdings. Ruto officially opened the new Ol Kalou CDF office and conducted a fundraiser to improve infrastructure in schools in Ol Kalou constituency. He said the tendering process for Machinery-Gilgil road has been completed and the contractor will be on site next month. More funds have been set aside to build a 70km road that runs from Kariamu, through Kaka, Shamata, Maili Kumi to Uruku in Ndaragwa. Ruto said the number of households connected to electricity in Nyandarua has risen to 50,000 up from 21,000 when Jubilee took over in 2013. He said Sh 1 billion has been set aside to connect 25,000 more households.