The government spent Sh14.6 billion in 2017 to buy military equipment from the US, data from the American government shows. This is the largest American military hardware acquisition in the past decade. It places Kenya second among African states that traded with the US government on military equipment in 2017. The report by Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), shows Egypt is leading, having spent Sh57 billion on military equipment last year. The report assessed 2016-17 financial year. Tunisia is third with Sh5.4 billion and Morocco Sh5.3 billion. The transaction translates to about 6.4 per cent of the Sh91 billion the Kenyan government allocated to the military. Another report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute of 2018, shows Kenya’s defence budget is the largest in East Africa. According to UK-based magazine Jane’s Defence Weekly, Kenya is among 10 countries and the only one in Africa to strike a deal with the US to purchase Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV) with a firing projectile fitted on the rear. In December 2015, the Kenyan government submitted the first in a series of request to acquire six aircrafts – Air Tractor AT-802. They are agriculture aircrafts that can also be used for air attacks. Read: KDF to acquire US equipment as Uhuru, Trump bolster war on terror The deal also included acquisition of two training aircrafts. The DSCA shows Kenya’s heavy military spending is informed by the need to defend its territory against al Shabaab, which has in the past targetted civilians and security personnel in major towns and on border towns. The cost estimate for the six aircrafts was approximately Sh24.3 billion. However, it was not until March 2017 that the US government agreed to the deal. This followed reviews by the DSCA, State Department of Defense and Congress. The offer was set to expire in June last year, but, according to the US Government Accountability Office report released in September last year, Kenyan government officials asked for more time to allow conclusion of the August 8, 2017 General Election. The US government requested the Air Force to authorise an extension. This gave the Kenyan government until September last year to make a determination. As of August 30 last year, the Kenyan government had not formally agreed to the offer. It is still unclear if the Kenyan government agreed to the deal. Also Read: UK, Kenya seal defence agreement for army training in Nanyuki Click here for the latest political news