Deputy President William Ruto returns to Western this Sunday with a flurry of activities lined up in his attempt to woo the region to back his 2022 bid. He will preside over a fundraiser for Malava churches at Malava Primary School and another for boda boda groups in Mumias East constituency. The visit is seen as part of the DP’s efforts to inherit the political support base of opposition leader Raila Odinga, who was named AU’s High Representative for Infrastructure Development. Ruto’s allies have been pressuring Raila to quit politics and focus on his new job. ODM legislators have dismissed them. Raila has not said whether he will exit the political stage. He has traditionally enjoyed considerable support in Western — getting most votes in 2007, 2013 and last year. Ruto has made frequent visits to the region on a vote-hunt mission as he seeks to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. His charm offensive before the last election did not yield much in terms of the presidential vote for Uhuru. Political analyst Martin Andati on Friday said the DP is setting the ground for his 2022 bid. “It doesn’t mean he is generous. Being a politician, he is busy trying to make inroads with focus on getting support,” he said. Ruto has bagged the support of former Kakamega senator and Ford Kenya deputy leader Boni Khalwale and Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyaco. Panyaco ran for Kakamega senator on the ODM ticket but lost to ANC’s Cleophas Malala — now perceived as an ally of ODM leader Raila. Read: Ruto to tour Western before Uhuru visit Earlier, the DP’s Personal Assistant Farouk Kibet indicated his boss would visit Kakamega in person to seek support. He spoke during a funds drive at Sulungai Girls’ Secondary School in Malava constituency. Ruto was in Western two weeks ago on a donation spree. He presided over a funds drive for Matungu women’s groups. He also presided over other fundraisers in Bungoma county. In July, he delivered a bus to Tande Secondary School in Kakamega. He donated Sh2 million to Mwangaza Primary School. In August, he pledged to buy a bus for Mwangaza Secondary School. On Monday, the Deputy President sent Panyaco to deliver Sh2 million to Daisy Special School and promised to donate a bus. Last Sunday, his aide Farouk presented Sh500,000 to St Stephen’s Catholic Church in Shinyalu subcounty, Kakamega, and another Sh300,000 for the Malava boda boda riders. Click here for the latest political news