Rob is the last person I want to see. I know how that will end. With me flat on my back and my head banging against a headboard. Damn that exercise bike, landlord and all the forces that have conspired to keep this man in my life. And now this magazine cover that I want to use his image for. Sigh. On one hand, I’m very focused with coming out with the best monthly issue possible, and Rob is one fine-looking specimen. If I can land him on the cover, I score big. He’s not even charging me! On the other hand, I feel like asking favours like this is sending him mixed signals. Am I letting go of him or not? As it turns out, the photo shoot didn’t go exactly as I had envisioned it. In my mind, we were probably going to end up shagging. Actually, most decidedly so. Because he could not resist me and vice versa. I could see it now, how it would start. With me directing his shots, wearing something skimpy to show off my legs. Him, wearing jeans with the top unbuttoned and nothing else. An extra hand with a hose spraying his naked chest with water... The drops going down his body and sneaking into his open jeans as the photographer clicked away. Yes, I could see it in my head, and it was making me horny as hell. The reality was a little different. First, the water was cold. Rob refused to be hosed down, saying he wasn’t trying to catch pneumonia. Secondly, he said he felt silly prancing around half naked and insisted on wearing a shirt. The result was some pretty ordinary looking pictures instead of the sizzling look I was going for. That’s the problem with freebies. You can’t put your foot down and go with your vision if the model is doing you a favour. Double sigh. By the time the photo shoot was over, it was late and everyone was looking fairly irritated and happy that it was over. I left without saying goodbye to Rob and headed for a nearby bar. I called up a girlfriend and she came over to hear me bitch and complain about him, as I got plastered. Girlfriends are the best. They take your side on everything against a guy and would happily put a hex on him if they could. But they are also the worst. It’s ok for ME to bitch about him, but once she starts getting negative about him and throwing in her two cents about how horrible he is, my defences came up. “He’s not that bad,” I say. That doesn’t stop her from ripping into him, and by the end of the night, I love him again. This skanky ass ho wants my man. Why is she talking all this shit about him? To get rid of me? This is human psychology. Do not diss someone else’s partner, unless you want the other party to rise up and defend them. “You don’t know him like I do,” I wail and stand up and walk out, leaving her behind with the bill. “Bitch.” I drive straight to Rob’s house. I’m going to go make love to him and work things out. We were meant to be together. I see it clearly now. As clearly as you can see with two bottles of wine inside you and the reasoning power of a turkey. That animal can look up at falling rain with its mouth open and probably drown for its efforts. So making decisions in my intoxicated state may land me in some trouble. But I go anyway.