It’s second weekend of November and as 2019 approaches fast en furious, it’s feels like there is a kind of rush for things to happen or pop before we the year officially shuts down. KCPE came and went,. In fact, all the candidates are now counting weeks before they get their results....Gone are the days when the results were announced days after the Christmas and just before the New Year....Times definitely have changed because results are expected at the end of this month....Technically, their some kids' Christmas will be ruined while other will have the best Christmas ever...it all depends on what marks one gets....When #TheRaverend sat for his KCPE exam back then before Twitter, all we cared about was getting good grades. We didn’t have  the issues the candidates are facing now...Cheating was not a big deal because we did cheat, but moderately, The culture of a ‘Mwakenya’ was the trend everyone had to write one en if you didn’t know how all you had to do was to get some ‘Mwakenya” expert to do it for you for a small fee.... But for this generation, cheating is a way of life, zero moderation. Teachers are even helping the candidates, and parents are financing the cheating by buying grades, if not exam papers....This generation has abused the cheating privilege, forcing the GoK to militarise the exams....Another trend that never happened is teenage pregnancies. It was unheard off. But fast forward to 2018, we have candidates giving birth in exam rooms, while others are actually breastfeeding their 2nd or 3rd borns as they sit their exams. Not to mention hundreds others doiung the exams while pregnant. How these candidates are managing to do this is still a mystery to me!!!! We have over 50 cases of candidates giving birth and one hour later sitting for a math or science paper....I don’t know if all this has been brought about by global warming or air pollution #TheRaverend is confused....The GoK, the school administration and parents need to explain to #TheRaverend how all this is possible because last I checked, one has to carry a baby for at least 9 months. Now, it is as if these kids get pregnant and give birth overnight. And these babies giving birth to babies are not getting PG through osmosis. We have perpetrators  and they need to be brought to justice. We need to stop these predators once and for all. Providing these candidates with a safe space in hospitals or schools to  do their the exam and ignoring the fact that their preggoz is unacceptable! Sitting the final exam is important but it’s equally important to protect our girls from men  taking advantage of them walking scot free....Being PG in Class 8 or Form 4 can’t be a trend or fashion! Yes Kenya is free country but not for predators who are targeting our young girls or candidates, who have balls of steel to steal from invigilators and cops, who are providing security for the KCSE exams.....as Kenyans, we need to do better if we expect the best from our children, who wagenge claim are the future of the country. Seeing the CS of Education and his team wearing caps written #KCSE2018 that’s just another form of BS that is making our kids turn out to be the way they are....Running the exams is already a very expensive affair. Why add more cost to that expensive affair with printing merchandise that has zero co-relation to exams???? We can’t make everything a hustle. I'm tayaaaad. I have left for Dar es Salaam to run away from all these issues.