Election violence in Kenya always follows existing fault lines between communities, and regions, before exploding into something bigger and deadlier. That was the case with the first large-scale election violence that gave post-independence Kenya the real taste of what it takes for a nation to fail. It began as an old dispute over land, boundaries, stolen cattle and politics between communities in Western Kenya and Rift Valley as December mood was setting in in 1991. Politicians who were believed to be speaking one thing by the day and a different one at night; talking peace in the national language and calling for war in their mother tongues, spiced the coming violence with calls to peace and unity. Their proxies however openly preached war. By the time a reluctant Kanu repealed Section 2(a) of the Constitution, making Kenya officially a multi-party state in December 1991, there was already fighting in large sections of Rift Valley, Western, and Nyanza border areas. Before end of December, the fighting had spread from Kisumu, Kericho and Nandi to Endebess in Trans Nzoia. By January 1992, what was supposed to have been a dispute between the Luo and the Nandi in Muhoroni and Miwani had roped in Kakamega. Soon it engulfed Molo and Njoro and was spreading. Somebody was manipulating old disputes for political gain. Leaders continued to talk peace. But nobody condemned those talking war. Then, as now, Kenya was approaching a do-or-die election. An era was coming to an end in 1992 and beneficiaries of the old order were resisting. The election of 2022 may be a whole four years away, but the signs are already very clear that it is a do-or-die for some and that it could be deadly and disruptive. There is already heavy spending and heavy mobilisation. There is some apocalyptic tone to the debate and some religious justification for the tone. We know from history that the best and most deadly way to manipulate people is to use religion as a cover. The political mobilisation is happening as traditional fault lines seem to be cracking early. That is why the sporadic but frequent violence cropping up along traditional fault lines: Luo-Nandi, Teso-Sabaot, Kipsigis-Ogiek-Maasai, and Kikuyu-Kipsigis ought to be taken seriously and addressed decisively now and not later. The State needs to learn from its past failures, which include misreading of the situation, and deliberate acts omission and take extremely seriously attacks like the one at Justice Effie Owuor’s farm in Muhoroni last Saturday. The attack and murder at the farm was not entirely an isolated incident. It followed an incident late last year when quick action by governors of Nandi, Kericho and Kisumu counties forestalled a potential clash between Kisumu and Nandi counties. The leaders were however averting a conflict some of them started. The peace bid came after Nandi county laid claim to seven towns in Kisumu, including Chemelil, Muhoroni, Miwani, Kibigori, Kibos, Koru and Kopere. In September this year, fighting between the Maasai and Kispigis communities claimed scores of lives in Narok over land and water. But politicians are always lurking in the shadows of these deadly conflicts and they are almost always talking peace that supporters ignore because they know the leaders are not sincere. Police have arrested Richard Kiprotich alias Malakwen alongside his brother Simon Kibet over the Muhoroni murder. Such operation was also witnessed in Njoro, Molo, Narok and Mt. Elgon, among other places these attacks routinely occur. It is possible these could be traditional and routine conflicts. But it is also possible that they could be test runs for violence as a tool for 2022 election. Kenya’s history shows that in such contests, politicians talking peace have used traditional fault lines to foment wars and distract the nation from critical electoral issues or simply to take power by force. What happened once can happen twice. There is need for investment in early detection and disruption of criminal networks that operate as sleeper cells for political violence and their accomplices within the security and other State organs. Our history has shown that such criminals enjoy protection of some security officers and administrators. There is equally need for surveillance on and disruption of networks of within security apparatus. The State needs to conduct regular and through review of the security and administration command structures in these places. In the past, it was found that where violence is meant to serve a political purpose, the security structures have been in the hands of members of the community that wields and wants to retain power. Kenya is a deeply divided land where suspicion between tribes is real. The spectre of members of one tribe being overly represented in the security and administration units of one part of the country raises alarm and doubts. It cannot be taken lightly particularly in known trouble spots. The State needs to act now, not so much for what the acts of violence are currently, important as that is, but for what we know they can be and have been in election year. Somebody may be compiling grudges and enmity between communities hoping to exploit them when elections come. dennisonyango@gmail.com