As the rest of the world enjoys
peace, Somalis in Mogadishu continue to live in fear and seem like a sitting
duck easily picked out by al Shabaab killers. Last week on Friday, al Shabaab
militants struck Mogadishu again. This time they killed over 40 people and
injured many others after blowing up two vehicles filled with improvised
suicide bombs in the heart of the city in one of busiest streets. Sadly, again,
most of the victims were civilians. The group that claimed
responsibility for the attack said it targeted the Sahafi Hotel. This is not
the first time they have attacked this hotel. In fact, in 3 their last attack three
years ago, they killed its owner, Abdirashid Mohamed Ilqeete, and former
Somalia deputy Army commander General Abdikarim Yusuf Abdi Dhagabadan, who was then
staying at the hotel. Most senior government officials in
Somalia tend to stay in hotels for fear of assassination by al Shabaab
militants, who have made it their mission to target them. The group has been
fighting in vain since 2006 to topple the internationally recognised Somalia
Federal Government. During the last attack on the hotel in
2005, Gen Dhagabadan is said to have engaged the militants in a fierce shootout
in the hotel premises before he was killed after running out of ammunition. He
is credited for leading the fight that dethroned al Shabaab from Mogadishu,
even though he never lived to see his dream after the militants were finally
chased out in 2009.  SUICIDE VEST Last Friday, the militants tried
again to attack the hotel located in Kilometre 4 area of southwest Mogadishu but
didn’t to break into the main building due to its heavy fortification and
thanks to the bravery of armed guards and Somali forces who gallantly fought to
defend the premise. Unfortunately, Abdifatah Abdirashid,
son of the slayed Sahafi Hotel owner, who was managing the family business, is
amongst the victims. Another young brilliant life ended. Among the heroes in this recent attack
is a young Somali soldier called Fuad Santoli, who happened to be inside the
building. Together with support from the hotel guards, they swiftly neutralised
several attackers before Fuad died in the ensuing gun battle. It is not clear whether he was shot
or died of injuries sustained from a suicide attack as one of the attackers who
entered the hotel wearing a suicide vest.  He detonated it after finding it hard to access
the hotel through the door. As we mourn loosing so many people
in yet another brazen attack, what baffles many Somalis is when and how the al Shabaab
menace will end. The problem is that you cannot
defeat an enemy you don’t see. The militants operate so secretly and seem to
have all the time they need to plan and execute their targets. Talk of impunity
of the highest order. So how do they do it? The group operates clandestinely.
They seem to have perfected the art of war, including how to disguise
themselves.  They have well-oiled machine run by men who even don’t know
each other. They have a team responsible for logistics, intelligence,
judiciary, a hit squad, bomb experts, IT experts and even administrators, who
oversee their operation. They operate like a government.  SLEEPER CELL They run sleeper cells in Mogadishu and
other major Somali cities composed of small units of two or three members up to
a maximum of five highly trained and heavily armed men. They get their orders on
the phone from a senior figure they don’t even know or get to meet. If the militants want to eliminate
someone, a different unit does the reconnaissance of the would be target,
noting down his or her day to day routine, including his home, the routes he/she
uses, precise times when she/he leaves his house to go to work. They even
pinpoint the most appropriate date, best location and exact time when to
execute the assassination, as well as best escape route for the gunmen who are
separately dispatched. Just to make sure the mission is
successful, a different unit is always in the vicinity watching to confirm the
kill. Should those tasked with the assassination falter, they are swiftly taken
out and the mission is executed. Sometimes you'd think their well
laid plans play out like a Hollywood thriller movie. There is no question the
minds behind their well-orchestrated military tactic is managed and run by
professional killers with very high military and intelligence training with
international exposure. These foreign legions are battle
hardened assassins with experience fighting in Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen and
other Islamic countries ripped apart by war. They plan and see through most
complex al Shabaab attacks to detail.  INFORMERS The group has informers everywhere.
It is even believed they have men and women planted inside the National
Intelligence Security Agency, Somalia Police Force and the Somalia National
Army. The informers relay crucial information and government plans. This
explains the unceasing countless complex al Shabaab attacks in Mogadishu and
assassinations of senior officials and politicians. The Somalia government has tried in
vain to tackle this menace. Somehow, whenever there is talk of a huge
government offensive to clear the militants, the plans are either delayed or
completely halted for one reason to another, mostly blamed for lack of
finances. Mysteriously, whenever any such offensive happens, it is never
consistent and to make matters worse, the covert government offensive plans
mysteriously leaks out resulting in the top al Shabaab echelons to escape and
hide to further escalate  the menace. This has forced the government to
resort to partial hit and run attacks on the militant’s bases across Somalia,
with the help of foreign support, especially from the US. This is mainly through
remote-controlled guided missile attacks or surprise ambush of terrorists’ convoys,
or even dawn or night attacks on specific al Shabaab bases.  LOW SELF-ESTEEM Inconsistencies in government-led
offensive attacks against this militant group give them ample time to regroup
and plot horrific attacks against innocent Somalis. Lack of consistent salary payments
to government forces grooms low morale among soldiers, resulting in a negative
ripple effect from negligence or don't care attitude from soldiers who feel neglected.
The current government has tried to resolve this problem but somehow soldiers
sometimes go unpaid. The militants take advantage of this situation. The fractious political rift between
the national government in Mogadishu and the five federal states also
exacerbates the problem. As leaders wrangle, they forget to prioritise security
due to lack of proper coordination or sharing of information. As long as the Somali public, their
leaders and those tasked to defend the nation do not forget their personal,
political or clan differences and unite, al Shabaab will continue to create
havoc and render Somalia insecure. This is the sad reality. As such, are
we really working to weaken or strengthen the al Shabaab menace?  