The process of appointing a substantive managing director of the Kenya Ports Authority has started, five months after the exit of Catherine Mturi-Wairi. The government called for applications on Friday in an advertisement in local dailies. The deadline is November 16. The KPA Board said it is looking for an individual with a high degree of integrity and professionalism. Acting MD Daniel Manduku is the front runner for the job after an impressive stint. He took over from Mturi-Wairi who left unceremoniously in a coerced resignation. The former MD was initially sent on compulsory leave over alleged inefficiency. She challenged her dismissal in court and obtained orders reinstating her. She then resigned. Manduku’s term was extended but the extension expires this month. While boardroom lobbying remains intense, Manduku has capitalised on his appointment to position himself as the favourite candidate. Cargo clearance and net revenue has steadily improved. For instance, the port was netting about Sh30 billion monthly in cargo clearance, but this has increased to Sh50 billion. Manduko has set KPA’s target for handling Twenty Foot Equipment Units (TEUs) from 1.2 million last year to two million by 2022. The increase in volume of cargo is expected to improve revenue from Sh50 billion netted last month to about Sh100 billion per month. These are some of the figures Manduku is likely to convey to the board when he appears before the interviewing panel. His strongest competitor is former general manager for engineering services, Joseph Atonga. POLITICAL MATRIX Atonga was sent on on leave pending retirement. He is widely expected to apply for the job. Sources said some insiders have been plotting his comeback. Atonga was poised for the job in 2016 when Mturi-Wairi was appointed MD in a surprise move. He lost the chance due to what analysts said was a political matrix. Atonga was overlooked because he is not a native of the Coast like Mturi-Wairi. Sources also said President Uhuru Kenyatta was keen to win local votes through the selection of a woman. The appointment came close to last year’s general election when Uhuru sought reelection. Both Manduku and Atonga were among those interviewed in 2016. Sources told the Star that Manduku, Atonga and Mturi-Wairi were the top three candidates. Atonga previously served as chief operations manager in charge of all operations at the Port of Mombasa. Operations revolved around container, conventional and marine work. He has served as technical services manager and chief ports engineer. In both capacities, he was in charge of equipment and infrastructure. He also served as chief terminals engineer and principal terminals engineer. Manduku has eased congestion at the port since his appointment. The port has recorded faster cargo evacuation.  PREVIOUS BOSSES SACKED KPA has seen its MDs either transferred, retired or demoted. Those supporting Manduku said he has a good relationship with staff whose trust he has earned. The advert said, “The appointment is on contractual terms for a period of three years ... It is renewable for a further three years based on the performance and business requirement,” the board said. Few MDs have previously served out their terms. Some call the position jinxed. Out of 13 MDs the port has had since 1979, seven were sacked, three resigned and only four finishing their terms. Jonathan Mturi (February 1980-September 1984 ), Phillip Okundi (September 1984-January 1993 ) and Brown Ondego (December 1999-January 2006 ) concluded their terms. John Gituma who was deputy director general before his appointment as the first KPA boss, served from November 1979 to February 1980 when he retired. Mturi-Wairi is the latest tp gp after she was forced to resign for alleged underperfomance. She had succeeded Gichiri Ndua who was sacked in 2016. Ndua took over from James Mulewa who was sacjked by Transport Minister Chirau Ali MWakwere in 2010. He was accused of corruption and economic crimes. Mulewa’s predecessor was Abdalla Mwaruwa who was sacked in 2008, two years after taking office. From December 1999 to January 2006, Ondego led the port as MD. Previously, Joseph Munene was in charge from September 1999, before resigning after just three months on the job. Lennyrod Mwangola was sacked as Port MD in May 1997 after serving for 28 months. Between February 1996 and April 1997, Robert Brenneisen was hired to serve as executive chairman. Brenneisen’s predecessor Simeon Mkalla served for two years from 1994 before he was dismissed. Albert Mumba was sacked after a year into his contract that began in January 1993. Okundi came before him and worked for nine years from 1984. Applications for the job are to be submitted by November 16. The board said interviews will begin immediately.     