Former African Rally Champion Jaspreet Singh Chatthe aka Jassi will return to the Kenya National Rally Championship during the season-closing 39th Guru Nanak Rally after one year absence. Jassi, who racked up an unprecedented ARC and KNRC double in 2015, will drive a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10 R4 in preparation for the 2019 season. His regular co-driver Gugu Panesar will partner the Kisumu speed merchant, who last tackled the KNRC on the ARC Safari Rally 2018 In an interview, Jassi said the feeling one gets in the rallysport is one of the most amazing feelings, adding: “My last rally was Safari this year. Guru Nanak to me is a special event as I started my serious rally career with the Evo 9 in 2011. I will be tackling the rally to enjoy the event and warm up for next year.” Gugu said: “The last event I did with Jassi was Pearl of Africa 2017 in June last year. I have been navigating for many years and I am very confident that this weekend we will have a good rally and the spirits are quite high. Guru Nanak Rally has always been a great event!” The Kabras Sugar Racing team of Baldev Chager and Ravi Soni heads into their fifth Guru Nanak Rally partnership brimming with confidence. Ravi has participated in nine Guru Nanak events while speedster Boldy is returning to the Sikh Union event for the umpteenth time. Guru Nanak, co-sponsored by KCB Bank, is the last round of the KNRC 2018 and will take place this weekend at Stoni Athi. The season ender will be flagged off from Stoni Athi Resort at 07:15 after which crews will tackle three stages of which Stoni Athi (58km) and SGR (15km) will be repeated twice. The designated 3km spectator stage is the shortest and will be repeated thrice. Last year’s Guru Nanak Rally winner Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo and his partner Tim Jessop have the KNRC drivers’ and navigators’ titles in the bag while Baldev Charger and his partner Ravi Soni are assured of second position. Eric Bengi will be fighting for the third position against former Divison Two Champion Onkar Rai, and reigning African Rally Champ Manvir Baryan. Baldev Chager said: “Flash had a very spirited drive in Eldoret and beat me by three seconds. The championship is done and dusted and we are going to the GN to have fun. I don’t think anyone can challenge me for second place.”