Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia have unveiled eight new players ahead of their first continental fixture against Malawi’s Nyasa Big Bullets tomorrow. The 17-time KPL champions are also keen to defend the title hence the latest move. Striker Erisa Ssekisambu, formerly of the current Uganda Premier League champions Vipers FC, is among the players unveiled having penned down a two-year deal. “It has always been my dream to play for the mighty Gor Mahia. I am ready to compete for a position in the squad even though I know I will face stiff competition from the likes of Tuyisenge,” said Ssekisambu. Kenneth Muguna, who was re-signed from Albanian side, KF Tirana hopes that he will be able to guide his new team, to not only defend the league title, but also reach great heights in continental football. “As you know at Kogalo, we have to win titles and it’s my hope that I will help the club win everything.” Former Kariobangi Sharks central defender Pascal Ogweno said he joined Gor Mahia because he believes the team will perform better on the continental platform than his former club. “Gor Mahia have established themselves as a big team in Kenya and East Africa. The team has ambitions to shine at the continental stage and so do I,” explained Ogweno. The other new players include striker Erick Ombija, who was promoted from the junior team, defensive midfielder Castro Ogendo, who is an upcoming player from Kenyatta University, former Western Stima defender Geoffrey Ochieng, former Zoo FC striker Nicholas Kipkirui and Ugandan international Shafik Batambuze, who also played for rivals Tusker FC, Western Stima, Sofapaka and Tanzanian side, Singida United. Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier welcomed the new contingent and exuded confidence that the new players will guide his team to a successful season. “Welcome once more and good to have you all at the Mighty K’Ogalo. My only wish is that you will work hard and ultimately guide us to greater heights this season,” said Rachier. Click here for the latest political news