Matatu owners have complained the current crackdown has been turned into a witch-hunt where police are harassing them. Matatu Welfare Association chairman Dickson Mbugua told the Star yesterday officers deployed on the roads do not understand the Traffic Act and end up harassing PSV operators. “These policemen do not understand what the law and traffic regulations say. They flag down matatus not knowing what exactly they are checking for. Normal traffic officers would know what they are doing but these officers are only out to harass people,” Mbugua said. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai agreed with Mbugua, saying most PSVs are compliant but police are looking for petty offences in order to extort money from them. “I believe they have gone overboard in harassing our operators. We understand the law had relaxed but the police should be honest when charging various offenses,” Kimutai said. They raised concern over the fines being charged once the matatus are impounded by police. The owners said the police have used the crackdown to enrich themselves. “When the matatus are caught with minor offences and impounded, the charges for the offences are increased, which is absolutely wrong. This industry is not a cash cow where the police can extort Kenyans whenever they want,” Kimutai said. They warned if corrupt practices are not dealt with, nothing will change in the sector. They urged the police to look at key factors during the crackdown such as speed governors, safety belts and licenses. Thousands of commuters on Monday walked long distances to work after most matatu operators withdrew their vehicles from the roads protesting against the enforcement of Michuki rules. The few PSV operators on the roads hiked fares forcing some commuters to cancel their trips, while others opted to use taxis and boda bodas, which also charged higher fees. Private cars made a killing as they became the last resort for stranded and desperate commuters. The matatu operators later on Monday called off the nationwide strike and apologised to commuters for the inconvenience.  