DP William Ruto has asked leaders from West Pokot to unite and help eradicate outdated cultural practices that have hindered development. Speaking on Saturday at Tamugh during a fund drive for Dini ya Roho ya Mafuta pole ya Africa church, Ruto said outdated cultural practices like cattle rustling and early forced marriages had affected development in the region. “We need to come up with strategies on how to end these vices as a team and by speaking one voice,” he said. Ruto said Jubilee government had pumped a lot of funds in the county to help open the county and attract investors. He said the roads will enhance easy movement of goods and services and make the region attractive to investors. The DP pointed out that they have set aside over Sh450 million for rural electrification in the county. He said the funds will enable over 15,000 people to be connected to electricity this financial year. The deputy president thanked the church for encouraging the community to enroll in school and help reduce the high illiteracy levels in the county. “I want to thank this church for embracing education and encouraging their children to go school. It's only through education that we shall be able to develop this county,” he said. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo said as leaders they have managed to end animosity among neighbouring counties. He asked the government to increase the number of police reservists in areas where cattle rustling is rampant. “We have tried as elected leaders to unite our communities and we are requesting for more national police reservists along the border to help restore calm,” he said. Other leaders present during the funds drive included MPs Mark Lomunokol (Kacheliba), Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria), David Pkossing (Pokot South), Peter Lochakapong (Sigor), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri), and West Pokot woman representative Lilian Tomitom. The leaders promised to support Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. “We as leaders from North Rift promise you our full support since you have helped us in changing the face of the region through development,” Lomunokol said. Click here for the latest political news