That Kenya Revenue Authority Boss John Njiraini has done fairly well is not in question. What makes some people at KRA unhappy is the manner in which he executes his roles. We are told that some managers fear the man so much that when he walks into meetings with them they say nothing. So timid are the managers they never challenge anything their boss says. Matters are made worse by Njiraini's blue-eyed boy who always supports his boss and also intimidates his colleagues. ***** A well-known Nairobi politician is the talk of the town. The lady has been on a sex spree with her colleagues in Parliament in the last few months. It is not clear why the lady, known for sexual escapades, has decided to sleep around with her colleagues. One of the beneficiaries of her generosity is worried that the woman may not be well especially because she does not like protection. ***** A vocal senator is involved in a vicious battle with the Kenya Railways. Corridors whispered to Corridors that top KR bosses have vowed to evict the lawmaker from what they insist is the parastatal's land. The man has reportedly erected some structures on the railway reserve. The structures are seen as a time bomb. Customers are also said to have largely refused to rent the premises aware that it's soon coming down. Matters are made worse by the recent corruption purge at KR. The current bosses at Railways believe they will go down like their predecessors should they fail to do their work perfectly. ***** A former senior manager in an energy sector parastatal is in panic after lifestyle audit investigations swung in his direction. The man who has accumulated a huge wealth portfolio, including millions of shillings in two local banks and several companies through proxies has been hiding in one of his posh residences in fear. It is believed that he has made overtures to individuals to help him out but nothing has so far stopped the probe. In time the chickens will come home to roost. ***** Is there a problem at the University of Nairobi's School of Journalism? Some of the students who are due to graduate next month are furious after learning that they still have units they are yet to cover. Consequently, they have petitioned Vice Chancellor Prof. Peter Mbithi asking him to take a look at the department and take relevant action on those who seam to be sleeping on the job. ***** Just what is happening at the Lang'ata police division? Corridors are informed that a certain senior officer has resorted to favouring his tribes mates by giving them responsibilities. Juniors officers are hoping that Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet will take action before the situation gets outs of hand and something tragic shoots out. Click here for
the latest political news