Relatives of the Fort Ternan crash victims say they have not received Sh2.5 million donated by the President during an impromptu harambee two weeks ago. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya announced at the harambee that the total money raised was Sh2.2 million, besides that given by Uhuru. Fifty-eight people were killed on October 10, when a Kakamega-bound bus veered off the road at Fort Ternan, Kericho, and rolled. The harambee was held during a joint funeral service for 34 of the victims in Amalemba grounds. The national and county governments have given conflicting accounts on how the Sh2.5 million was spent. On Wednesday, relatives of the victims said they had not been given the money as promised. “The whole thing has become a circus. We went to the commissioner and he told us that all the money was with the county but when you come to the county they say otherwise. Who is telling the truth hear?” Joshua Luseno asked. Luseno lost three family members. But on Thursday Oparanya said the total collection was Sh1.8 million. Kakamega county commissioner Abdirazzack Jaldesa denied receiving the President’s donation. “Let me make some clarifications here. I hear some MCAs are saying that some money is in the county commissioner’s office. The only money I handled was from the National Disaster Centre,” he said. Jaldesa said he only heard about the President’s donation at the service. “They raised the money and put in the basket and went away. I only facilitated security,” he said. Jaldesa said each family received Sh36,000 per body and a receipt for Sh14,000 for the mortuary and postmortem fees. But Oparanya said the county met the funeral costs, including transportation and preservation of the bodies, and gave each of the bereaved families Sh50,000 for the burial. He said the Kakamega and Kericho governments waived the hospital, mortuary and postmortem fees. “As a county we spent Sh45,000 on each body for transportation from Kericho to Kakamega, coffin and transport to their respective homes for funeral. We also paid each of the families Sh50,000 per body,” Oparanya said. He said the President’s donation was not part of the amount disbursed by the county funeral committee and it came through the county commissioner’s office. “We have closed the funeral account and even two of the survivors who passed on later will be on their own. If this is how the community wants to look at issues, we shall stand aside as a government in the event of a similar occurrence,” Oparanya said. During the harambee, Deputy President William Ruto gave Sh500,000, Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali Sh200, 000, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi Sh100, 000 and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula Sh100,000. Others were Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala Sh250, 000, former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale Sh200, 000, Kakamega deputy governor Sh100, 000, Kakamega woman representative Elsie Muhanda Sh100,000 and Kericho governor Paul Chepkwony Sh100,000. Oparanya promised to give Sh1 million.