The Director of Public Prosecution has filed conspiracy to defeat justice charges against NHIF CEO Geoffrey Mwangi and Finance director Wilbert Kurgat. Noordin Haji said the two will also be charged with disobedience of lawful orders after they failed to surrender payment vouchers which are subject of investigations at the insurer. He said in a statement on Saturday that the two officers also failed to provide DCI's Nephat Marubu with books of evidential value in relation to payments of millions of shillings to Webtribe Limited. Haji says the officers disobeyed court orders requiring them to provide for scrutiny, the said books and to allow an audit of the NHIF servers despite being served. The orders granted by Resident Magistrate Sinkiyan Tobiko also allowed the DCI to carry away any computer and electronic gadgets of relevant evidential value and to retrieve evidence from the same. "Investigations conducted by DCI have revealed that the two individuals have jointly conspired to obstruct the course of justice by denying the DCI officers access to the crucial documents," Haji said. He said a number of NHIF staff cooperated with the investigators after they were served the orders save for the two, hence, the charges of conspiracy to defeat justice. "During the course of the investigation, several statements have been recorded from NHIF staff and other entities in connection with the ongoing investigations." Mwangi and Kurgat were arrested on Friday amid investigations into the loss of millions of shillings at the insurer. The probe also roped in various senior NHIF officials. They are ICT boss Gilbert Kamau, Nicodemus Odongo (Planning), Dinah Kirwa (Corporate Services), Gibson Muhoho (Compliance), Johnstone Ouma (Procurement). Also probed were officers Hannah Waitherero, Grace Gathoni, Naomi Aluoch, Gilbert Osoro, and Kimulwon Bultut as well as Abdul Galgalo of Munishram International Business Systems. The CEO and Finance director are expected to answer to the charges when arraigned on Monday. Read: NHIF boss arrested in Sh1.5b graft probe Click here for the latest political news