The persistent wrangles among ODM MCAs over Nairobi county assembly leadership has split the party’s top brass. ODM chairman John Mbadi and executive director Oduor Ong’wen are sharply divided over the replacement of the assembly minority leader and chief whip. Mbadi maintains that ODM has replaced Kileleshwa MCA Elias Okumu with Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi as minority leader and Makongeni’s Peter Imwatok with Lower Savannah’s Nicholas Okumu as whip. However, Ong’wen has suspended the changes. Yesterday Mbadi and Ong’wen were in a meeting of ODM’s National Executive Committee called to sort out the problems in the Nairobi assembly and decide whom the party supports in the leadership. In a letter to acting speaker Mwaura Chege on Wednesday, Ong’wen said the matter was under discussion by the party,thus the status quo remains. “I am advised to advise you ... that pending the contemplated communication, the status quo ante shall be preserved,” Ong’wen wrote. Mbadi’s changes last Thursday were immediately rejected by the speaker saying Standing Orders and other procedures were not followed.  But the chairman reaffirmed his initial position in another letter to Mwaura on Tuesday. Yesterday, Mbadi said the letter he wrote to speaker Mwaura replacing Otieno and Imwatok still stands, calling it the party decision.  “Otieno was appointed with Imwatok but the party has since decided to replace them. The communication is from ODM not Mbadi. I just communicated the changes on behalf of the party,” Mbadi told the Star yesterday. Opposition MCAs have been wrangling for two months since speaker Beatrice Elachi was impeached. Two factions have emerged, one led by Otieno and Imwatok, the other by Okeyo and Imara Daima MCA Kennedy Obuya. Obuya’s faction said they petitioned party leader Raila Odinga to remove Otieno and Imwatok for high-handiness and intimidation. The two were accused of dewhipping members who defied their call to remove Elachi from committees and the speaker’s panel. But Otieno and Imwatok have called Obuya’s camp ‘a few renegades’ hell-bent on undermining party leadership in the assembly. Yesterday, the warring MCAs continued to trade accusations and counter-accusations. Those supporting Mbadi’s changes criticised Ong’wen for contradicting and defying the chairman. The other group accused Mbadi of being misled by the renegades to crack the whip without consultation. “The position and guidance on representation of ODM at the Nairobi assembly is a preserve of the party leadership, that is the party leader and the chairman. It is not a preserve of party director,” Obuya, flanked by six MCAs, told a press conference at City Hall. He said Ong’wen is part of the problems at the assembly and in the party after he nominated his close relatives, including his wife, as MCAs “He nominated his own wife, Emily Oduor ,replacing a serious party die-hard, Mama Chungwa who is known to have fought for the party,” Obuya said. He claimed t the ED nominated his niece, Jackline Apondi, to the assembly. He accused speaker Mwaura and the clerk of taking sides and being slow to act on Mbadi’s letter. But Imwatok faulted Mbadi for not summoning Otieno and himto listen to their side of the story.