The Access to Information Act can only work if the state sets aside enough money for its implementation, a group of lobbies has said. The Act allows Kenyans to freely access information from public institutions. The lobby groups propose the setting up of twin teams for at least five years to ensure all government institutions implement the Act. President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the Bill into law in 2016. The Commission of Administrative Justice, chaired by Florence Kajuju, has oversight and enforcement powers. The lobbies say the funds to implement the Act should either be given to the ICT or every ministry to push for its implementation within their departments. “In the absence of financial backup, implementation plans are highly unlikely to take off,” Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative executive director Sanjoy Hazarika. Hazarika, Katiba Institute executive director Yash Ghai and Article 19 Eastern Africa representative Sandra Waswa yesterday said every citizen has the right to get any information from the state, including details on matters affecting the country. They spoke in Nairobi during a two-day workshop on implementation of the Act which demands all public officers to provide information sought by citizens or be punished through fines or imprisonment. Democracy One of the proposed twin teams will comprise senior government officers to work closely with ICT CS and the Ombudsman to operationalise the Act, while the other will be an expanded team including private sector representatives. “They may be empowered to monitor the process of implementation and find solutions to challenges and bottlenecks that are likely to crop up during the initial phase of implementing the Act,” Hazarika said. The Ombudsman confirmed a task force chaired by Commissioner Lucy Ndung’u has been set up to develop regulations to guide implementation. “The task force has for the past several weeks made considerable progress and we are looking forward to having the regulations in place by early next year,” Kajuju said The task force is made up of representatives from the Office of the Attorney General and Department of Justice, ICT ministry and the Kenya Law Reform Commission. Kajuju said plans are underway to develop an access to information framework to guide the 47 county governments in making laws. “Access to information is one of the fundamental rights in a democracy. Its implementation bridges the gap between policy and implementation, and builds trust in the government by curbing corruption and maladministration that thrive in secrecy,” she said. Kajuju added that it empowers citizens to demand their rights from an informed position to enhance democracy through good governance. Click here for the latest political news          