The family of former Kakamega DC Paul Yatich has been given seven days to reach an out-of-court settlement over his wife’s burial. Loise Yatich was found murdered on October 16. She was to be buried last Saturday at her Baringo home, but her sister, Sophie Yegon, obtained court orders barring Yatich from taking her body from the mortuary. She said Yatich had kept his inlaws in the dark over burial plans. “The husband of my late sister has not informed us or involved us in burial arrangements,” Yegon told the Eldoret court. “As immediate relatives of the deceased, we’re not in a hurry to bury her. We want police to be given more time to complete investigations into how and why she was murdered.” Principal magistrate Naomi Wairimu ordered the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital to preserve the body until the case is concluded. “The respondents are restrained from removing, transporting or in any manner dealing with the body of Loise Yatich — now lying at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary — until the case is determined,” she said. The ceremony was postponed. Wairimu urged the family to agree, instead of engaging in a court battle that could take a long time to conclude. The warring factions are expected back in court on Tuesday. Loise was a TSC employee in Eldoret. Her body was found in her Kiplombe house, Eldoret town, where she lived with her homehelps. She was a curriculum development officer. “The body had serious cuts on the shoulder. We also suspect she was raped during the attack,” Eldoret West police division boss Zachary Bitok said. Laban Cheruiyot and Simon Lumile were found driving her car. They were arrested in Nandi Hills. Chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa directed police to release them after they said one Boniface Kiptoo had sought their help. Kiptoo was arrested from his hideout in Nakuru town. Cheruiyot and Lumile will be witnesses. The husband had reported that she was missing. The two had separated, but Yatich said they were still in touch. He lives in Pioneer estate, Eldoret. “I reported to the police after futile attempts to reach her on the phone,” he said the day the body was found.