 By the time Togo President Faure Gnassingbé serves out his
third term, he and his father — Togo’s fifth president Gnassingbé Eyadema—, who
he succeeded, will have run the country for 48 years. This will be 87 per cent of
the country’s 55-year history. Gabon has a similar experience with a father and son at
the helm of the country for over 86 per cent of its post-independence history —
47 years out of almost 55 years — and the son is still in power. The first question that come up is, can’t other mothers
produce sons who can hold the high office after all these years? Well, one could ask why not daughters?  In that case, the question would be why daughters
don’t have chance in Africa? That aside, as to the father-son successions, the
phenomenon is not confined to Africa. Political dynasties have been around across
the world for centuries. In the US, for example, George W Bush became the first
modern President whose father (president George HW Bush) had also been
president. (The sixth president, John Quincy Adams, served from 1825-­29 and
was the son of the second president, John Adams). In East and South Asia, there have been many daughters of
heads of state who have been elected to the same position. These include former
South Korean president Pak Geun­hye, former Philippines’s Corazon Aquino and
former Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. So, it would be wrong to assume political
dynasties are an African phenomenon. And so, will we continue to see father­-son presidential successions
and legacies in Africa? One Gideon Moi certainly hopes so and he has the winds of
history to back him. Three sons of a founding father are currently/ have been
in power in Botswana, Kenya, and Mauritius — President Ian Khama (stepped down
in April), President Uhuru Kenyatta, and Prime Minister Navin Ramgoolam,
respectively. In these three cases, the succession took place over a
decade after the father left office: In Botswana, Khama was elected 27 years
after his father left office, while in Kenya, Kenyatta was elected 34 years
after Jomo died.  In Mauritius, Ramgoolam
was elected 13 years after his father. Other sons of presidents other than sons of these
founding fathers have also years later succeeded their fathers. For example, Malawi’s
president Peter Mutharika was elected years after his brother’s death in
office. In the DRC, president Joseph Kabila came to power in 2001, after the
assassination of his father. Confining analysis to Kenya, if Jomo-Uhuru scenario holds
— which is unlikely —it would mean Gideon has a shot at becoming president in
2036, 18 years from now. What to do then for those 18 years? Prepare for the presidency by making sure Deputy
President William Ruto doesn’t become president because if he does, Gideon
won’t see the inside of State House because the DP will make sure he doesn’t,
and vice versa. There’s no middle ground here and thus the intrigue as to
how these two men go about in making sure the other doesn’t become president. For those who bet, the money has to be on Gideon having
the upper hand because he’s a Kalenjin who easily splits the vote against Ruto.
His octogenarian father will very likely be a factor in the 2022 succession of
his protégé. More importantly, the two will likely support Raila Odinga for President
because they each have something to give back to Baba — sympathy for two stolen
and for imprisonment and torture under President Moi. Meanwhile, in doing so, the professor of politics will
ensure, while serving under Raila, his son will be on his path to one day
become president, while Uhuru can rest assured, unlike Ruto, Baba won’t try to
make his people’s lives miserable after leaving office. Samuel Omwenga
is a legal analyst and political commentator in the US