Chief Justice David Maraga has defended the Judiciary over persistent attacks and claims that the institution is corrupt. Maraga faulted those unfairly criticising the Judiciary over corruption allegations without evidence. Speaking yesterday in Ahero when he opened the new Nyando Law courts funded by the World Bank, Maraga said the institution has been under constant attack over corruption, adding that he has also been labelled as the ‘high priest of corruption’. “I have never denied that there is corruption in the Judiciary. Corruption is everywhere and we are committed to tackling the problem,” he said. Maraga, while acknowledging the problems at the Judiciary, said he will defend his officers whenever they are unfairly criticised. The CJ pledged to firmly deal with cases of corruption and warned those involved in the vice to stop. He hit out at those posting false information on the Judiciary on blogs and asked Kenyans to be wary of such people. “We know those who are behind such blogs. They are unhappy with the rulings made against them. Judgments of their cases have not been in their favour,” he said. Maraga said he remained focused and committed to doing his best in serving Kenyans and will never be distracted by the criticism. “We accept genuine criticism which is fair and constructive in transforming the Judiciary instead of rumour mongering,” Maraga said. He called for support from Kenyans and leaders to help address challenges in the judiciary including corruption. Maraga told judiciary staff to focus on effective service delivery to the public. He assured that the institution was committed to clearing the backlog of cases and asked Kenyans to use mediation methods to handle cases which can easily be solved. He cited cases such as succession and land among others that can easily be solved without involving the courts. He announced that the Judiciary will build more courts across the country to bring service closer to the people. The CJ asked Parliament to address the  judiciary’s financial challenges.