Last week, four significant events took place, two of which were the talk of town and two that did not get as much attention as they deserved. The former was the launch of Kenya Airways direct flights to New York and the progress made by Kenya in investment destinations rankings; the latter were the opening of Karatina market and the launch of the construction of Terminal 1 at Nyaribo Airstrip, Nyeri. All these events were so significant that they were presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. The accolades to Kenya Airways as well as the rise in ranking in the World Bank Ease of Doing Business index are significant. They are at the very heart of our need to attract as much investment as possible. And for Kenya Airways, specifically, bring in as many tourists as possible. Being a preferred investor destination cannot be downplayed. We must rectify the weaknesses identified by the World Bank to rise even further. But while doing this, we must not forget the local traders who must also be able to have it easy when establishing and doing business. We are a country of 40 million plus people, majority of whom depend on local economies. The ease of doing business must trickle down to the local businessman and this is why the opening of Karatina market, once touted as the largest open-air market in East and Central Africa, is significant. Karatina town itself is a product of the market underscoring the need for enhancing local economies. The market is important to thousands of people in Nyeri county as a source of livelihood. Like all other places where residents rely heavily on agriculture, Nyeri residents need access to markets and the new one will do them good. But for this market and others to work, just like the national government has made it easy to establish businesses, county governments must rise to the occasion and do the same. There have been complaints of multiple permit charges and levies in the counties. It is time that we came up with a uniform structure where all counties give a single permit that covers everything. Levies should not be the same as each county’s economy is different. You should, for instance, not expect a businessman in the CBD and one in Kibera to get the same revenue and thus pay similar levies. And why is the Nyaribo Airstrip important in the grand scheme of things? The airstrip, while showing the potential of creating jobs and other opportunities, is good for Nyeri’s economy. It has the potential of opening up Nyeri further by enhancing transportation. Tourists who come through JKIA and wish to get to establishments in Mt Kenya or the Aberdares within the shortest time possible can also use this airstrip. We must put the same amount of attention we have put into ensuring that Kenya is more attractive for investors and direct flights to the US into the success of local economies. It should be equally as easy, if not easier, for local investors to set up and run businesses as we are making it for foreign investors. All government agencies must work together to make this happens. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda