Four people were killed by bandits on Thursday night in the latest attacks in Kerio Valley, Elgeyo Marakwet county. Police in the volatile region have been placed on high alert following fears of an upsurge in violence heading into the festive season. The first attack took place in Sewes, Marakwet East subcounty. Residents fear the attackers were out to kill and not to steal cattle. “No livestock was stolen. The first victim was waylaid and shot dead by bandits. The reservist was killed when he responded to the distress call,” a witness said. Those killed were Kenya Police Reservist Luka Suter, 30, and villager Joel Kirotich, 35. The bodies were taken to Iten County Referral Hospital mortuary. Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen flew to the area and appealled for calm. “Such attacks are acts we do not wish to witness again. Peace had returned to this region and we ask the police to ensure the bandits do not kill our people again,” he said. He told residents to remain peaceful and resist carrying out retaliatory attacks, which would further spread the violence. Many people have already fled their homes for fear of more attacks. Peace programmes In Baringo, two people including a Tugen herder were shot dead by suspected Pokot bandits in the other attack. Earlier this week, a herder was killed in the same area and hundreds of livestock stolen. Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Dr Ahmed Omar has directed chiefs and other security officers to ensure the attacks do not take place again. Governors John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Stanley Kiptis (Baringo) have been working on joint peace programmes between communities in the North Rift. “We have made a lot of progress in dealing with banditry and we will work to ensure the attacks are a thing of the past,” Lonyangapuo said. The Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) is also in the process of building two mega-dams at Arror and Kimwarer, which will help to improve the lives of residents in the North Rift.