Police have arrested Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu’s member of staff over false abduction claims. Cosmas Mutua was arrested on Saturday for allegedly lying to the police last year that he was abducted by unknown people who wanted to know DCJ Mwilu’s residence. Mutua who was held at the Kilimani police station will be arraigned in court today. According to the police OB report No 44/8/2017 filed on November 8, 2017, Mutua said three people approached him after he went shopping at a Nakumatt Junction along Ngong Road. He claimed the purported abductors seized him as he was walking along Makindu road and forced him to board a motorcycle. He told officers at the Kilimani police station that the three rode to Adams Arcade before they joined Elgeyo Marakwet Road. The incident happened during hearing of the 2017 Supreme Court poll petition. Mutua was questioned on Sunday over the police report he made and was detained at the station for two nights. However, after investigations, police said Mutua lied in the report. “We poked holes in this report and that is why we have to arrest him. Basically, he lied,” an officer at Kilimani Police Station said. On October 24 last year, DCJ Mwilu’s official driver was shot and seriously wounded by gunmen who grabbed his pistols and escaped with it in the attack. Police Constable Titus Musyoka had dropped the DCJ at her Karen home and drove in her official car to purchase flowers for her rural home when the incident happened according to police and witnesses. The police later conducted an investigation into the incident that happened outside Marsabit Plaza and recovered two guns stolen from Musyoka. The DCJ is currently challenging a prosecution case against her over abuse of office and corruption charges. Chief Justice David Maraga last week appointed a five-judge bench comprising Justices Chacha Mwita, Hellen Omondi, Francis Tuiyott, Mumbi Ngugi and William Musyoka to hear the case. The bench will also decide whether sitting judges should be charged for criminal acts outside their duties and determine if they are immune from prosecution while serving in court.