Failing to manage our water bodies could easily become the tragedy of the commons of the 21st century, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Speaking during the closing ceremony of the three-day blue economy conference on Wednesday, Uhuru said managing oceans, lakes and seas is complex and it requires collaboration. "I believe history will remember this as the conference that generated the momentum to harness the enormous economic potential of the blue economy, and at the same time sounded the alarm bells on its unsustainable exploitation," he said. The President said there is no problem that is too difficult to solve when people come together as a global community. "Future efforts such as the UN Ocean conference of 2020 that Kenya and Portugal will host, will build on this statement to advance the journey towards a sustainable Blue Economy," he said. The conference that took place at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre brought together 17,000 delegates from across the world. Uhuru said the conference has been a uniquely productive and transformative for the blue economy and for the future of our shared planet. He said the truly global representation, it's far-reaching and collectively beneficial outcomes, have reaffirmed the belief in the transformative power of multilateralism. "Let us all work together to realize this worthy," he said. Read: Uhuru gets special AU award for hosting blue economy conference During the conference, several actions and commitments were agreed upon. This includes putting in place solid environmental standards, strengthening programmes to support poorer countries manage and recover from climate-related catastrophes. Other actions made include ensuring more effective control of illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. "We have agreed to strengthen political leadership and international cooperation and have committed to work collaboratively on data analysis, information and intelligence sharing to curb the Illegal, Unregulated and Unreported threat and other threats to our marine resources," Uhuru said. He thanked those who extended support, financial, technical, logistical and through participation saying he is most grateful. "It is now left to all of us, in our different spheres of responsibility and work, to implement the many contracts, commitments, agreements, and partnerships, we have forged," he said. He said the people of Kenya have appreciated making new friends and learning from delegates. Also read; Security beefed up as Blue Economy Conference begins at KICC Click here for the latest political news