Kiambu county government’s proposal to raise business fees has come under fierce criticism from Members of Parliament and traders. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina and Kiambu Woman representative Gathoni Wamuchomba are unhappy with governor Ferdinand Waititu’s decision to increase trade permit charges for salons, barber shops and other small businesses after initially promising to scrap them. Kiambu county government last month tabled a bill at the assembly proposing to increase fees and levies by between 100 to 300 per cent as part of its 2018-2019 budget proposals, a move opposed by Kiambu residents who said it was injurious to the growth of businesses. Speaking during the launch of the Thika Barbers and Salons Association, Wamuchomba termed the proposed increase as irrational and detrimental to entrepreneurship and economic growth in the county. “Waititu has betrayed the people of Kiambu for reneging on the promises he made to them when he took the oath of office last year. This is a major threat to the future of small businesses in our county,’ Wamuchomba said. The legislator said Kiambu leaders will vehemently oppose the governor on the increment of the levies. Wamuchomba was accompanied by Elgeyo Marakwet woman rep Jane Jepkorir Chebaibai. She urged the county leadership to adopt economic reforms aimed at reducing wastage of resources and come up with proposals to prioritise and promote small businesses. Wainaina, through his personal assistant John Mwangi, expressed concern that proposals in the county finance bill will hurt businesses. “What the county government is proposing will have serious adverse effects on young businesses especially salonists, barbers and boda boda operators. The county should consider coming up with proposals that will make the business in Kiambu conducive,” Wainaina said in a speech read by Mwangi. “The people’s concerns have been ignored in the drafting of this bill. The 100%-300% fee increment by the county government will put a particular burden on small traders seeking to eke a living. Why bite the hand that feeds you?” he added. During the association’s launch at Mama Ngina Garden, the office of the Women Rep, through the National Government Affirmative Action Fund (NGAAF), presented salon and barber equipment worth Sh1.5 million.  