Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam results could be released before Christmas, Education CS Amina Mohamed said yesterday. Amina said releasing the results early would help parents to properly budget for end-year festivities. Speaking at Nairobi School, the CS said the exam was over and that teachers were retreating for marking. She saida national monitoring team comprising officials from Kenya National Examinations Council, the Teachers Service Commission and the ministry witnessed the sealing of Art and Design papers. “This signals successful completion of KCSE exam. We promise to work very hard to ensure we deliver the results before Christmas,” Amina said. She was with Knec chairman George Magoha. Amina said the exam was credible, thanks to robust monitoring. “We have already started receiving numerous requests for bench marking from other countries from the continent,” she said. Amina said more than 98 per cent of contracted professionals and teachers who oversaw the exam displayed unparalleled commitment to high integrity. She said the test was smoothly undertaken in the 22 schools put under high surveillance due to previous records of cheating. “Minimal malpractices were detected in two of the centres but that did not compromise on the quality of the exam,” Amina said. Ten officials managing exam centres were releaved for allowing transportation of exam materials in private vehicles contrary to regulations. The ministry had ordered that only government vehicles be used. Read: Focus shifts to marking as KCSE exams conclude Some centre managers were replaced for allowing unathorised persons access into the compounds. The CS said more than 110 people, including candidates who attempted to cheat, were arrested. Ten board of management teachers were also arrested over cheating attempts. They have been charged. “One hundred and one cell phones where confiscated from teachers, candidates and staff. The gadgets are with investigating agencies,” Amina said. She said the phones might have been used to relay information into exam rooms. Four students were deregistered for impersonation. She asked the Judiciary to expedite exam cheating cases. “We hope that suspects will face the full force of the law in a manner that will send a warning to criminal minds that their days are numbered,” Amina said. Magoha asked parents to help contain teenage pregnacies, saying cases of candidates delivering during exam was a pandemic. Click here for the latest political news