Kenya Pipeline women’s volleyball team are set to lose six key players ahead of the next Kenya Volleyball Federation league season. The six players includes assistant captain Noel Murambi, hard-hitting Leonida Kasaya and reigning KVF Most Valuable Player Violet Makuto. Others are promising setter Veronica Tanui, left attacker Truphosa Samoei and right-attacker Christine Njambi. The six are linked with a move to Kenya Commercial Bank women’s team. The new development comes barely two weeks before the KVF play-offs and it will be interesting to see how the players linked to KCB will perform. The play-offs are set for December 1-3 at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Kenya Pipeline, who are the current champions, are seeking to defend the title they have won back-to back since 2014. The six are said to have signed a three-year deal last week with the bankers ahead of next season. Ironically, five of the six are allegedly said to have double-signed by renewing their contracts with the Pipeline. Only Murambi declined to sign for her current employer, according to sources. Kenya Pipeline are said to have granted the current players a one-year contract as they plan to improve the deals next year. A source privy to the happening at Pipeline, noted that the one-year contract was meant to help the players earn their November and December salaries after their contracts ran out in October. The source said: "Yes, they were given a one-year contract and they signed, but basically the contract was to help them earn their salaries for November and December. The management has also promised to improve the contracts next year." One of the player, who signed up for the bankers ahead of the next season, said it was about that time. The player said broken promises of awarding them jobs have become routine hence the need for them to make the current move. She said there has been nothing to write home about at the end of every season yet they continue to win titles. "We have won titles year in, year out but they have not been able to keep their promise. But now that we have good offer at KCB, I saw it fit to sign for them. But should Pipeline make a turn around and make true their promises to grant us jobs, I might just consider," noted the player. Click here for the latest political news