 Henry VII was
the King of England and Lord of Ireland from his seizure of the crown on August
22, 1485 to his death on April 21, 1509. Henry attained
the throne when his forces defeated King Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth
Field, the culmination of the Wars of the Roses. After his death, a commission
revealed widespread abuses.  According to
one scholar, simple greed underscored the means by which royal control was
over-asserted in Henry's final years. After a reign
of nearly 24 years, (think Moi) Henry was succeeded by his son, Henry VIII. The
new taxes Henry enacted before his death were so unpopular and two days after
his coronation, Henry VIII arrested his father's two most unpopular ministers,
Sir Richard Empson and Edmund Dudley. They were
charged with high treason and were executed in 1510. Meanwhile, Henry's
principal problem was to restore royal authority in a realm recovering from the
Wars of the Roses. There were too many powerful noblemen and, as a consequence
of the system of so-called “bastard feudalism,” each had what amounted to
private armies, which were basically mercenaries masquerading as servants. Having figured
these forces were there to say, Henry was content in allowing the nobles to
exercise regional influence, if they were loyal to him. However, his principal
weapon was reviving an earlier practice of using a small, trusted group of henchmen
to help him nip opposition or rebellion. When a
country’s leader is term maxed out to vie again for top leadership in the country,
especially in Africa, they spend their last time trying to make sure they’re
succeeded by someone who’ll not have them beheaded upon assuming office. This fear is
real and, given all African leaders have their henchmen, it almost goes without
saying if the successor leader, like Henry VIII has a mission to rid the
country of rot from his predecessor administration, then the worse among them
would be fearing the most. It also goes without saying that were William Ruto
to succeed Uhuru Kenyatta as president, he wouldn’t have any reason or even
ability to touch Uhuru in his retirement. After all, it’s Uhuru who would have
made it possible for him (Ruto) to even have a shot at the high office. The other person,
who would have made it possible for Ruto to even have that shot to begin with, is
Raila. In fact, it can be argued, neither Uhuru nor Ruto would be national
figures as they are now without Raila’s hand. That’s no doubt
difficult for some to swallow, but it’s true. The two cleverly used Raila as a
lightening rod to fire up Kikuyus and a large segment of Rift Valley to rally
behind them in 2013. Fast forward
and fly right past another stolen election in 2017, we’re already in 2022 mode
with many in Uhuru’s inner camp wondering, well, we know if Ruto were to be
president, he wouldn’t touch Uhuru, but what about us? Does he like Henry VII
have a hangman in the wait to practice his trade on our necks? How they answer
this question is going to determine the outcome of 2022, and not the electorate
because they have the keys to the locker where vifaranga vya computer are
stored. Not even Uhuru can stop them for he never had the key to begin with. The only person
who can stop them is the Wanjiku coupled with the wit and skills of the African
statesman with one foot in Addis and another in Kenya while holding on to his
grip on the handshake.  That will most
certainly stop the henchmen from throwing the country into election chaos and
violence.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States 