Machakos MPs should declare their stand on proposed pay rise before they are allowed into any church within the county, former Senator Johnson Muthama has said. Muthama told the clergy to lead their congregation in rejecting legislators who are in support of their salaries increment. "If MPs come to church, Christians should force them to declare their stand on their proposed salaries increment. Send them away if they cannot explain their positions on the pay rise." He said 'men of the cloth' must not tolerate leaders who take 'stolen' money to church and instead "pray for them so that they get saved". Muthama addressed residents, local leaders and clergy at his rural home in Tala, Matungulu Sub-county on Wednesday. He spoke at a time MPs are pushing the Parliamentary Service Commission for more pay, hospital insurance cover for themselves, wives and children. Read: MPs plot to strip SRC of its powers, determine own pay Muthama said it is shameful for elected leaders to demand a pay rise instead of ensuring there is effective service delivery to their electorates. "The legislators should emulate me and my leadership style when I served both as an MP and Senator. When I was an MP, I was the first to push my colleagues to pay taxes," the former Senator said. He said MPs should not attempt to increase their own salaries adding that they should heed calls by President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is against the move. "Wabunge wasijaribu kujiongeza mshahara kwa sababu hata Rais Uhuru Kenyatta amekataa wasiongeze. Wakiongeza, mimi nitajipima nguvu ya kisiasa. Nitaunganisha wakenya tupige kura kwa umoja ya kuvunja hiyo bunge wabunge waende nyumbani," he added. (Let them not try increasing their pay. If they do, I will invite Kenyans so that we vote to have the House dissolved) Muthama questioned the MPs' ability to agitate for more fund allocations from the National Treasury for development in their respective constituencies. "Leaders should focus on the poor to enable less privileged children to go to school and prosper in life." Click here for the latest political news