Vikings bade farewell to the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) ladies Premier League after losing 3-0 to USIU-A Spartans at City Park in their final fixture of the season yesterday. Vikings failed to win in any of their fixtures and their exit was equally dramatic after their coach Clyde Mmbaha and the team manager Tony Raposa were send to the stands for protesting an alleged biased officiating. Playing without a goalkeeper, Vikings exposed their area and conceded their first goal in the 12th minute when Perez Akinyi drove home the ball from a poor clearance by Vikings defenders. Rachael Wangui would double the scores for Spartans at the a stroke of half an hour mark guiding the ball past the line from a short corner. Carrying a comfortable 2-0 goal lead in the final quaters of the match,Spartan’s goal hunger dwindled and appeared to be in a training session. However,Lizbeth Ogutu made it three in the 44th minute tapping the ball from a well taken short corner to stretch Spartans lead to three goals. With two minutes remaining, a heated exchange ensued between the Vikings and the Union’s technical benches with the latter protesting a decision by the umpires to overlook a number of fouls supposed to be awarded to their side in the second half. The aftermath of the exchange saw both Mmbaha and Raposo receive their marching orders even though their side did not conclude a goal in their absence. Spartans head coach Willis Okeyo despite the win noted that his midfield had alot to improve on ahead of the Africa Club Championships set for December Nigeria. “We have to work on out passing especially the midfield where I feel there is a lot to be done.We have to improve before the trip to Nigeria. And to achieve it we have planned friendlies with Telkom, Strathmore University Scorpions and Kenya Police.We are also grateful the Union has allowed us to train daily at City Park and I hope the girls will be sharp before we leave.” On the other hand Raposa expressed displeasure with the level of officiating. “I have been in the game for more than three decades and today was my first time to be sent off because of questioning the level of officiating. We were denied fouls which is unfair considering that we invest a lot to the team. All we ask is fair officiating,” he said.