A Rift Valley cleric has asked politicians to 'leave retired President Daniel Moi and his family alone'. Rev Joel Chebii told journalists on Tuesday that it was regrettable that politicians have been misusing Moi's name to gain political mileage. "Wenye wako uongozini na wanatafuta tafadhali muwache jina ya former president Moi. Wacha mzee apumzike maana alifanya kazi yake ambaye sisi tunashukuru," he said. (Those in leadership or those seeking posts please leave out the name of former President Moi. Let him rest because he already did his work which we appreciate). He spoke in Eldoret on Tuesday amid a widening rift in Rift Valley, largely occasioned by calls for Deputy President William Ruto to be probed over the maize scandal. Rift MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi), Joshua Kutuny (Cherangany) and Silas Tiren of Moiben initiated the call. Their colleagues, who are pro-Ruto, defended the DP. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi accused the three of being funded by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, who is the former President's son. He claimed the trio were funded by the Senator, whose family is said to be playing a critical factor in the President Uhuru Kenyatta succession politics. But Chebii dismissed the claims, saying the retired President had done his part in developing the country. "Politics should not go there as Mzee is not fighting for any seat. He did his part," Chebii said, citing church and school projects Moi oversaw. Chebii also asked leaders to refrain from mentioning Moi's name in the maize scandal. "They should instead give their respect and pray for his health." "Mambo ya mahindi kuhusisha mzee si haki. The truth of the matter is farmers have not been paid," he said. (Linking Moi to the maize scandal is not justifiable). "Don't provoke mzee to speak words which might not be good. Leave him alone. Politics will come and go. Please leave his family alone," he added. "When farmers are not been paid, it is a big problem for us as church leaders and business people, and especially the Kalenjin nation," Chebii said. He said since Kenyans are reeling under the high cost of living, leaders should discuss the high cost of electricity instead of playing politics. "Life has become unbearable for many Kenyans. We expect leaders to be concerned about the situation rather than discuss people and politics." Read: Rift MPs now want Ruto probed over maize crisis Also read: Uhuru succession widens rift between Kalenjin camps Click here for the latest political stories