Embattled Nyandarua speaker Wahome Ndegwa has dismissed his removal as a ploy to silence him in his fight against corruption.He said it is aimed at forcing him to allow the assembly to be used as the executive’s rubber stamp. On Tuesday, MCAs allied to governor Francis Kimemia blocked Ndegwa from accessing the assembly and went ahead to swear in Kaimbaga MCA Gabriel Gathure as acting speaker.Ndegwa has said this is a desperate act by leaders who are blind to obvious realities of life and ignorant of legal provisions on such a move.He said his purported removal was done without a motion being tabled in the assembly and outside assembly’s sitting time. “I have been told there is talk that the speaker has been impeached. You don’t impeach the speaker without a motion,” Ndegwa said. Read: Journalists attacked as Nyandarua MCAs block speaker from chambersHe said as the speaker, he will continue to lead the Nyandarua assembly to ensure it undertakes its duties. Ndwegwa said he has been against corrupt executives who wants to destroy institutions of checks and balances so they can continue doing what they wish without anyone asking any question.Nyandarua assembly has 39 MCAs. Twenty-nine would be required to remove the speaker. Twenty-four MCAs are against Ndegwa, while 14 are backing him.Ndaragwa Central MCA Mwangi Maitai has been neutral on the chaos.Prior to Tuesday, Kipipiri MCA Paul Ngeche had been collecting MCAs’ signatures in readiness to file a motion to remove Ndegwa. He said 24 MCAs have signed and they need to have five Ndegwa diehards to shift for their agenda to be achieved.“That is why you are seeing this kind of desperation. That you can even purport to impeach the speaker when the assembly has not started its sitting at 2.30pm,” Ndegwa said yesterdayHe said he will stand firm because he knows Wanjiku, who abhors corruption, is supporting him. Gathure yesterday morning told the Star only a court can determine whether the process under which he was elected the acting speaker is legitimate. More: Nyandarua MCAs swear in new speaker during assembly drama Click here for
the latest political news