Lawyers want the Judicial Service Commission fully constituted to facilitate recruitment of more judges at the High Court and the Court of Appeal. Law Society of Kenya president Allen Gichuhi said the majority of judges have retired, leaving an acute shortage of workforce to clear the backlog of cases in courts. He told the Star on the phone that only a fully constituted Judicial Service Commission would facilitate speedy recruitment of the judges. There have been supremacy battles among the three arms of government — Legislature, Executive and the Judiciary — over appointment of the three commissioners, leading to a crisis in the commission due to a weak quorum. LSK representative Tom Ojienda, chief magistrate Emily Ominde, Mercy Deche, Maraga, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and Justice Aggrey Muchelule have been running the Commission. Read: Cases backlog to be cleared, says CJ Attorney General Paul Kihara is also a member of the Commission, but is waiting to be sworn in. In December last year, the JSC recruited 42 magistrates to reduce the backlog. “There is quite a number of judges at the Court of Appeal who have retired and others are retiring next year. For example, the Employment Court has only 12 judges serving 45 million Kenyans. We need to increase that capacity, especially in the Lands Court,” Gichuhi said. He said the LSK is advocating establishment of the Judiciary Fund to facilitate infrastructural expansion of courts and employment of more officers. “According to the Fifth Schedule, that Judiciary Fund ought to have been set up two years after the enactment of the Constitution. By August 2012, the Fund should have been up and running. Eight years later, nothing has been done,” Gichuhi said. For seven months, the JSC has been operating with minimum quorum. Only six of the 11 commissioners were present in meetings. On Friday last week, the Court of Appeal authorised Chief Justice David Maraga to swear in new members to the commission. Appeal Court judges Gatembu Kairu, Otieno Odek and Daniel Musinga tasked Maraga to swear in Felix Koskei, Patrick Gichohi and Olive Mugenda. Read: Maraga hails reduced case backlog over six years, decries low funding Click here for
the latest political news