Nyama Choma Ranch at the Safari Park Hotel is still serving its famous selection of barbequed meats. From the main hotel entrance you walk through the well-tended gardens to reach this large, partly outdoor restaurant. Big chunks of meat were roasting over a charcoal fire in a big circular barbeque pit when we arrived. Nyama Choma Ranch has a lively ambience and friendly friendly atmosphere. It is popular with both resident and walk-in guests, and the place filled up as the evening proceeded. We started off the dinner with a choice of spicy chicken soup or cream of vegetable soup, with a basket of fresh bread rolls. Afterwards there are several selections from the salad table to choose from with different dressings. As a live band played different melodies, chefs in white uniforms come around with the cuts of meat on long roasting spikes, which they carved at the table. The beef was my favourite, tender and moist. I ate camel meat for the first time and it was quite good, as was the ostrich steak. Other options are chicken drumsticks, crocodile meat, leg of lamb, goat meat and sausages. The roasted meat is brought to the tables repeatedly until you can eat no more. The main course served along with side dishes of ugali, arrowroot, irio and creamed spinach. With each meat item the chef would recommend the best sauces to accompany them, such as garlic sauce, pili pili sauce and mint sauce. The fresh fruit juices of watermelon or orange are highly recommended. However, a glass of wine or beer is also nice to wash down all that meat. The desert table consisted of an assortment of cakes, puddings and slices of freshly cut fruits. Coffee and tea rounded off our meal. From 9pm onwards, we were entertained by the Safari Cats, a dance troupe dressed in amazing costumes. The male and female dancers presented a well-choreographed selection of contemporary and cultural dance routines, together with stunning acrobatic moves. Nyama Choma Ranch is open daily from 7pm-11pm.  LOCATION:Safari Park Hotel, Thika Road CONTACTS: 0725 224 450 / 0734 333 174  Star Rating: 4/5