To push President Uhuru Kenyatta over the
cliff with the question of whether or not he will relinquish power after 2022
is the hypocrisy of the highest order. Article 142 (1) of the Constitution
clearly stipulates that the President shall hold office for a term beginning on
the date on which he or she was sworn in, and ending when the person next
elected President. It is a no brainer that after serving for 10 years, a President
will retire peacefully without subjecting the country to a debate of how old or
young he is after retirement. Without making too much of a fuss of the
Kenyan presidential landscape pre-1992 and the famous removal of Section 2A of
the old constitution, the clamour for change culminated in the promulgation of
the 2010 Constitution, whose dispensation is more than eight years old now. It
is not only a constitutional requirement but also a norm that after serving for
10 years, a president retires without much hubris whether aged 45 or 70 year. A
precedent has already been set when President Mwai Kibaki peacefully retired
after doing his bit. Or is it an African phenomenon that a sitting head of
State, who’s yet to be a senior citizen, is allowed to be a career president? There is this adage, that leadership and
alcohol have the same effect: The more it is consumed, the more it makes our
neurons wallow. The mark of true democracy is when any leader, be it the
president, governor et al. serves their required term as provided under the law
and then they venture into other roles as statesmen and women. Without belabouring this point, the
Founding Father of the United States, George Washington, served for two terms
of four years each and thereafter let his Vice President, John Adams, to take
over. This indeed set the bar for other presidents in the US. Notwithstanding
the fact that President George Washington served from 1789–1797, way before the
22nd Amendment was passed by Congress in 1947 and ratified in 1951, setting
limits for an elected president to two terms in office, a total of eight years. Therefore, to ask Uhuru this question is unfair
to him. Time without number, the president has demonstrated his tremendous
respect for the rule of law and due process. To those who might be new in this
nation might have missed a few poignant historical happenings associated with
the son of Ichaweri. In 2002, when he lost to Kibaki, he led Kanu, the
Independence party, to concede defeat, even before the now-defunct ECK
officially announced the results. Many expected Kanu to rig this election.
Post-Kanu era, several events have tested the President and in all these events,
his respect for the rule of law has always remained unmatched. Such instance is
when he accepted to relinquish power and travel to the ICC as a private
citizen. The question is how many of his peers in
the region would have done the same thing: President Omar Bashir is still
playing hide and seek with the ICC, while Uhuru went there conquered the case
and came back with a better international appeal. He did this because he has
been consistent in operating within the four corners of the law, no matter how
uncomfortable this might be to him. Recently, the President was forced back to
the election, despite the resounding victory he had garnered and his
parliamentary strength. His strength to go back to the poll reinforces his
credentials as a champion of the rule of law. Having achieved all these accolades in the
rule of law, President Kenyatta should not allow those who have become cosy and
delusional around power to misadvise him. History records that power corrupts
and absolute power corrupts absolutely so those around the hallowed halls of
power can’t think beyond state power. Therefore, the President should not allow
people who want to attain personal goals to drag him along. He has achieved
various things so far and being President for 10 years is an abundant gift. Therefore, your Excellency, you have a
choice to make between joining Africa’s greatest sons and daughters — Nelson
Mandela, Julius Nyerere, Thomas Sankara and Johnson Sirleaf — or the despotic
sewer of Teodoro Obiang Mbasogo, Robert Mugabe, Mobutu Sese Seko, and Jean-Bedel
Bokassa et al.  The writer is an advocate okipchumba@gmail.com 