It’s no great surprise that the new standard gauge railways (SGR) is not quite the attractive investment that the current administration sold it as, and just the first stretch, from Mombasa to Nairobi, cost the tax payer $3.8 billion, the bulk of which was loan financed and therefore needs to be repaid with interest (that’s part of what contributed to the eight per cent fuel VAT and mobile money payments now being silly expensive). And now the financing for the second stretch looks shaky. Kenya’s public finances are stretched, and China apparently isn’t so enthusiastic about making such a sum available as a grant. That of course also puts Uganda’s SGR plans on hold and government officials have said that they would now look at rehabilitating the old railway again. Rwanda had already been looking at building a connection to Tanzania’s SGR which, in contrast to Kenya, was built by a Turkish firm. And remember the back and forth over the crude pipeline, with Uganda reversing its decision to team up with Kenya, and going through Tanzania instead? Pipelines are not exactly small investments, so you would have thought that joining forces between two oil sites would make sense. I’ve also been keeping half an eye on electricity in the region: All major countries are pushing large electricity investments, and are only slowly waking up to the fact that they have hit excess capacity, which might become problematic since consumers would be paying for electricity generated that nobody can use, and this drives up prices. And since everyone has done this, neighbouring countries are not major destinations for electricity exports anymore either. That a good chunk of this infrastructure is going to cost taxpayers a lot more than it should because of single sourcing and massive corruption is nothing new. But I have also been wondering about the EAC’s role in this. We know that regional integration is a slow and difficult process, and we see this in many other areas as well (and it’s worth keeping a close eye on the EU’s past and current challenges). Especially such large investments as pipelines, railways and power plants, I would imagine that much closer coordination for a regional approach to infrastructure development would be more productive and save a couple of hundred million or even a billion here and there that could be put to good use elsewhere (or just simply keep your internet and mobile money costs down). But then again, keeping it local (and big) also ensures that there are larger budgets to be fleeced. Business as usual.  