Ministry of Sports has accused the national amputee team of being insincere after claiming that the government had failed to facilitate their trip to Amputee Football World Cup in Mexico. Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa and his Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia told MPs yesterday that the ministry availed air tickets worth Sh7.5 million to the entire team. Kaberia told the National Assembly Committee on Sports, Culture and Tourism that before jetting out of the country, the Kenya Amputee Football Federation had affirmed to the ministry that the international body would sponsor them during the competition. “They presented to us a letter showing that everything would be provided for, except air tickets.The amputees came to us the last minute even after we had asked all the federations to provide us with their needs at the beginning of the year,” Kaberia said. Moments after arriving from Guadalajara, Mexico City, the team was spotted stranded at the Ministry of Sports headquarters situated on second floor at Kencom House building in Nairobi. The team comprising of 15 players and four officials was demanding allowances payment of Sh2 million from the ministry. They claimed not to have eaten anything since arriving in the country. Kaberia said: “The part of the team coming and spending the night at the Ministry’s boardroom is regrettable because I don’t think it was fully sincere. They came and moved the goal posts and this is an issue that we are trying to deal with.”“We will develop rules of engagement so that rules are followed in future events. Let us follow the due procedure so that we do not embarrass the government and the country, especially in a matter like this.” But Committee chairman Victor Munyaka accused the ministry of not properly organising the international competition. “This was shameful for this country. This shows some level of ignorance on how we prepare for international events,” the Machakos Town MP said. Echesa assured the team that they will get their allowances by today. Angola won the championship after trouncing Turkey 5-4 on postmatch penalties to lift the title. Kenya finished in 12th position out of the 24 participating countries and second in Africa.