 Imagine
being a student and taking a test. The grade you will get will most likely
depend on how well the concept was taught, how attentive you were and how well
you prepared. Typically, the distribution of scores will show many students
scoring close to the mean, and fewer scoring much higher or much lower than the
mean. Now
envisage a situation where, your lecturer announces everyone will get the same
grade, regardless of how well or not they perform. He explains that he will add
up all the test scores, then divide it by the number of students so that
everyone gets the same grade. If you were one of the clever students, how would
you react? Undoubtedly, you will slack off and not invest as much in preparing
for the test. The
Kenya Certificate of Primary Education results were announced on Monday. And as
has become the tradition, the media sought out the top students and beamed them
lifted shoulder high and feted with song and dance by their teachers and
relatives. On
his part, President Uhuru Kenyatta made a rather curious announcement that the
government will ensure all KCPE candidates will join a secondary school. This
translates to a total of 1,052,364 students. Of these, 22 per cent (234,573)
scored between 101 and 200 marks, and 0.2 per cent (2,177) scored between 0 and
100 marks. Their scores notwithstanding, they will each get Sh22,000 and all
the necessary books. And
without skipping a heartbeat, the nation applauded. Because the President had
yet again demonstrated the State’s commitment to ensuring everyone has a fair
chance in life, regardless of their score. In his wisdom, he advanced the
theory that by granting all students access to secondary school, it will reduce
their incentive to cheat in the exams. The jury is still out on whether his
theory will hold true or not. At
face value, this appears to be a very noble, kind and stately gesture. After
all, they all tried their best, and it could also be argued, that the
inequality of school facilities is a major contributor to their performance. That
notwithstanding, the elephant in the room is this: Should we reward competence
or participation? Should we focus on equality of opportunity or equality of
outcome? There
has been a steadily growing but worrying trend that children are being cultured
into. That regardless of individual effort or superior skills, they are all
awarded medals or certificates for participation during their school’s sports
days; and are not ranked in class based on their test grades. The message they
are receiving is that everyone is a winner simply because they showed up. Sadly,
they are not. This is not how life works. In the real world, there are winners
and losers and all are not rewarded equally. We
are a nation of athletic champions, ardent football fans and fanatical
political supporters. The common denominator in all three is competition. None
of the contenders are awarded equal medals, equal trophies or equal positions
of power. There are winners, and the losers live to fight it out another day. In
economic-speak, competition is known as creative disruption. This is a
necessary process of mutation that incessantly destroys the old, ceaselessly
creates the new, and constantly revolutionises the world. Competition
inevitably frees up resources to be redeployed elsewhere, thus allowing the efficient
allocation of scarce resources. In a market economy that is free from cronyism
and government interventions, failure to spells a sure death to one’s
enterprise. Take for instance Telkom that had dominated the telecommunications
industry until the advent of mobile service providers. Telkom blew its
opportunity to lead in this industry and is only now trying to — unsuccessfully
— play catch up. As
painful as it is, failure is incredibly motivational. It teaches us that if we
want to ace that interview, be the first to cross the finish line, or be the
valedictorian, then we have to drive ourselves to be faster, smarter, and
stronger than our competitors. It makes us push ourselves beyond our boundaries
of possibility. It trains us to be gracious losers because winning is a
transient state. And that while we may fail at one thing, we may have the
ability to win at something else. Every
student who sat for their KCPE exam got equality of opportunity to take the
test. But the variances in their grades means their outcomes were unequal. By
enrolling all of them in secondary school, the government is trying to ensure they
all get an equal outcome. This is an impossible and injudicious decision
because it is likely to have a counterproductive effect, where there is
lessened incentive to exert oneself, since everybody proceeds to the next level
of education, regardless. What
we need to do is reward an impartial hierarchy of competence. When seeking
treatment, you want to select the best neurosurgeon; when constructing your
house, you want to hire the best plumber; and when cheering your team, you want
the best striker to be fielded. We should reward the best, not only so that
they can continue being the best at what they do, but also so that we can
efficiently allocate scarce resources in a variety of areas where people’s
abilities enable them to excel best. For
instance, a recent study by Construction Kenya found that daily wages for
certified artisans had increased to Sh3,000 up from Sh500 in 2012, resulting in
an aggregate labour compensation of Sh16.87 billion in 2016 up from Sh8.84
billion in 2012. This upsurge has been necessitated by a chronic shortage of
skilled artisans and has subsequently significantly increased the cost of
construction in the country. Therefore,
given such realities, I submit that encouraging all students to pursue an
academic path is impolitic. And
finally, my unsolicited advice to the President is, once you have known
something, you cannot unknow it. And now you know, that losing can be a winning
proposition. Please do not rob our children this vital lesson.  The worst form of inequality is to try to make unequal
things equal - Aristotle