Equities market shed off Sh21.64 billion during the third quarter of the year as investors disposed their shares, a new report shows. The Capital Market Soundness Report for the three months ending September shows total equity turnover stood at Sh31.93 billion compared to Sh53.57 billion during the same period last year. “As a consequence of the high level of outflow, foreign investors on the sell side have dominated the domestic market accounting for 64.84 per cent of the total equity turnover in September 2018,” Capital Markets Authority chief executive Paul Muthaura said. During the period, total foreign investor outflow stood at Sh6.71 billion compared to an outflow of Sh8.18 billion in the previous quarter. Costs related to cash transfers, both mobile money and bank transfers following the enactment of the Finance Act 2018, drove investors to sell their shares at the NSE. Under the new law, excise duty charged on mobile money transfers increased to 12 per cent from 10 per cent while tax on money transfer agencies and other financial service providers increased to 20 per cent from 10 per cent. “The new provision has now doubled the tax applicable on money transfers and other fees charged by financial institutions and increased the tax on telephone and internet services by 50 per cent,” Muthaura said. He added that the new doubled tax has a direct impact on the cost of executing capital market transactions and ultimately, the level of participation in capital markets. The report shows the volume of shares traded at the bourse nearly halved in the July-September period to 1.04 billion shares compared to 2.02 billion shares traded the same period last year. “There is cause for concern on the direction of the markets, especially for the equities market, given recent performance indicators,” the report stated. Another factor driving down investor sentiment was the requirement for investors to open different Central Security Depository accounts to trade different securities, a great inconvenience.  