The Embu Water and Sanitation Company has promised a Sh5,000 award to anyone who reports thefts. Company’s CEO Hamilton Karugendo on Saturday said illegal disconnections and hookups, leakages, vandalism of pipes and destruction of pipes by road contractors have contributed to loss of water. He said a lot of water was illegally being tapped by thieves. As a result, the company is losing huge amounts of money though the overall financial situation is good, the CEO said. Karugendo said water theft happens in the villages and estates and that residents should report it. He said it was unpatriotic for people to show lack of concern for the use of public utilities. He said the cash reward is meant to encourage residents to report thefts.“We’re appealing to our people to report water theft to improve revenues so we can expand coverage,” CEO Karugendo said. He was speaking at Panesic Hotel during a meeting on the status of the firm. Company chairman Joel Ngatiari and other top officials were present. Karugendo said reports on theft will be kept confidential to avoid victimisation. “Upon confirmation, the whistle-blower will get the reward immediately,” Karugendo said. He said the company is in a good financial position and prepared to continue providing clean water to Embu residents. The company is digitising its services including payment of bills which will be made electronically. Karugendo said they were are creating offices in the subcounties to devolve services. “We want consumers to get assistance without having to come to Embu town,” he said. ABORTED AGM He said they will expand the sewerage network in Embu town to 70 per cent. The coverage is currently 30 per cent. Landlords are often forced to build toilets or use septic tanks. Last month, the company’s AGM ended in disarray after stakeholder representatives walked out in protest against what they called secret hiring of new directors. They accused water executive Patrick Waganagwa of illegally hiring the new directors. Subcounty stakeholders’ representatives said Waganagwa unilaterally appointed five directors. They said some of those appointed had forged academic papers and were not in the list of nominees submitted by the selection committee. “We reject the inclusion of people who were disqualified by the selection committee,” Manyatta rep Grace Njagi said.