President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said he will have strong influence on the 2022 polls. He told off those thinking his influence will fade, saying they will be in for a “rude shock”. “People think I’m silent just because I’m going home. But when that time comes, I will definitely have a word to say,” Uhuru said. The President spoke at a time when Mount Kenya leaders have been emphasising the need to have an area spokesman, who will take over from Uhuru after he retires. “If you don’t work and continue yapping, you’ll just go home. I beat the Opposition in the last polls and that is why I invited them to work with me. They had no option,” Uhuru said. Area leaders had claimed Uhuru was inaccessible and the region was hurt by unfair distribution of resources despite voting for his reelection overwhelmingly. The President spoke at the Nyeri Railway grounds after hosting Mount Kenya leaders at the county commissioner’s office to deliberate on their grievances. Read: Renewed unease in Mt Kenya over Uhuru's 2022 exit Uhuru also opened the Sh250 million Karatina Market. Most leaders, who attended the meeting, boycotted the tour. Deputy President William Ruto’s close allies were not present during the tour after the meeting, which was scheduled at 11am. “I’m happy to work with leaders from this area and, in fact, we had discussions in the morning. I believe they have good plans and we will together focus on delivering to Kenyans,” he said. The President urged Mount Kenya politicians to keep off politics and focus on development. He said they should stop politics of engaging each other in the media and serve Kenyans. Growth plan Uhuru told residents development cannot be realised in any region when leaders are engaged in endless politics. Read: I'll leave office in 2022, Uhuru tells CNN, defends Chinese loans He told Mt Kenya leaders to come up with plans of reviving sectors which are doing poorly instead of complaining. “Sit down and come with a plan on how you want our coffee farmers to benefit. Let’s focus on what will improve our people’s lives,” Uhuru said. Uhuru asked leaders traversing the country seeking support of certain leaders to work first before assuming they have a huge support. He asked leaders across the nation to unite and work with him since he is committed to serving Kenyans. “Kenya conducted two elections in one year and people are tired of politics. What they want are services,” the Head of State said. Uhuru said the realisation the country cannot move forward while leaders continue politicking made him have a truce with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on March 9.“I ask leaders to come together and come up with development plans. They should come up with plans and support government projects,” he said. Read: Mt Kenya politicians back Raila's push for lifestyle audits Political direction Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga said residents will wait for Uhuru’s political direction. “We know him as our leader and when the time comes, he will give us direction. Let us continue with service delivery,” he said. Senator Ephraim Maina urged politicians to stop the debate on Uhuru’s succession as Mt Kenya region spokesman. Those present were Kahiga and deputy governor Caroline Karugu, senator Maina, woman rep Rahab Mukami, MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), James Gichuhi (Tetu), Wambugu Ngunjiri (Nyeri town), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Anthony Kiai (Mukurwe-ini) and MCAs. Click here for the latest political news