The late former powerful Coast Provincial Commissioner Samuel Limo was on Saturday laid to rest at his home in Kaplumbei village, Baringo North Sub-County. Limo,68, died on October 16 at a Nairobi hospital where he was admitted for serious hypertension and renal failure. “His health condition deteriorated from June 2018 as he battled diabetes since 1994, in September he underwent eight sessions of dialysis consecutively but unfortunately but he braved all through” read the eulogy in part. Limo is survived by his widow Sarah Kipchumba, four children - John Kandie, Katherine Jebet, Rerimoi Kandie and Brian Kibor and four grandchildren. The funeral was attended by elected and appointed leaders including Water CS Simon Chelugui, Irrigation CS Fred Segor, Governor Stanley Kiptis, Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Commissioner Henry Wafula and several MCAs. Education Limo undertook his O’level studies at Kabarnet High school between 1966 and 1969 before proceeding for his A levels at Kakamega Boys High school. He later joined the University of Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania where he graduated with bachelors’ degree in Statistics and Administration. Career Limo served diligently in public service as Coast Provincial Commissioner from 1997 until he retired in April 2003. After retirement, he led a secretive life until his death. The late ex-PC was among the eight powerful provincial commissioners during the regime of former president Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi. His peers include former Rift Valley PC Yussuf Haji (current Garissa Senator) Joseph Kaguthi (Nairobi), late Francis Lekolol, Peter Raburu (central), Nicolas Mberia, David Musila, Timothy Sirma and Francis Sigei. prior to this, he worked as a statistical officer based at Herufi House in Nairobi between 1972 and 1982 before he became a District Officer at Kwanza division in Trans-Nzoia district in 1984. He held the post for a year before he was promoted to become DO1 where he served in Bahati district in Nakuru, Kisumu and Baringo. In 1988 he rose through ranks to become District Commissioner and was moved to Trans-Nzoia district. In 1989, Limo was transferred to the Ministry of Information as undersecretary before being promoted to senior position of under secretary at Office of the President in charge of Provincial Administration. Limo also served briefly under Kenya's founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and Mwai Kibaki. During his time as Coast PC, Limo succeeded to quell the tribal clashes at Likoni that sparked after the 1997 general election. Previously, he served as director at the Administration Police Training College (APTC) from 1995 to 1998 before he was succeeded by Francis Kinuthia. Click here for the latest political news