Robson Ndiema, North Rift AP officer in charge of peace and reconciliation, is dead. His wife, upon returning from the market on Monday, found he had collapsed at their Trans Nzoia home. West Pokot county commissioner Apollo Okello said the commissioner of police was pronounced dead on arrival at Cherengani Hospital in Kitale. Ndiema had been in charge of peace initiatives in the North Rift region. The area is troubled by cattle rustling sparking conflicts between communities. He was in charge of the peace initiative in Uasin Gishu, Turkana, West Pokot, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet counties and was based in West Pokot county. "We will miss his contribution to peace initiatives. He was a humble officer and had a positive attitude, even when issues appeared to be difficult," Okello said. "He used to give us hope in situations that seemed difficult to security personnel. May his soul rest in peace and may God give the family strength to withstand the loss." Officers who worked with Ndiema described him as a down to earth man who was always ready to listen and help. "The commissioner will be remembered for fighting for peace to prevail along the volatile Turkwel belt region," Sikom peace network project coordinator Joseph Akaule said. He said the officer was the link between residents and security personnel. "Many warriors and residents never feared him. They talked freely with the commissioner and they agreed on various ways of ending conflict in the region," Akaule said. Many reformed warriors received the news with disbelief and said that they will continue preaching peace in the region to keep Ndiema's legacy. Wilson Merikamar, a pastor and one-time warrior, said he decided to surrender his gun to the government after the commissioner held several meetings in the region. "The peace meetings he held in this region have helped in getting youths to surrender their guns and change their lives," he said. Merikamar said Ndiema persuaded many youths to abandon cattle rustling. "He did not reject methods suggested by warriors to help restore peace in this region. Recently, we asked him to help us set up a permanent church in this region since many youths were saved and he was ready to help." Read: Pokot chief turns cattle rustlers to peace envoys through gospel Click here for the latest political news