Results of the KCPE exams will be released by the end of this month, the examination council has said. The Standard 8 candidates sat their last paper yesterday. Knec said the marking process will take approximately three weeks. Knec chairperson George Magoha yesterday said the council is prepared to mark the papers. He termed the exam process “successful, albeit with minimal challenges experienced”. “Soon after the candidates finished, the papers started streaming to Knec headquarters. We have received papers from across the country from the first two days of the exams. We hope that by the end of the week we will have all the papers,” Magoha told the Star on the phone. Also read: President makes impromptu visit to Uhuru Gardens to oversee KCPE Knec will use 20 machines, which were acquired last year, to mark the exams. The marking process will take place in Nairobi for easy coordination. The Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) machines will enable examiners to scan the exam papers with multiple choices. They can handle more than 10,000 papers each day. The machines have been programmed with a feed of correct answers and detect the pencil shade on the answer sheet. Only composition and insha will be marked manually. “The machines proved to be 99.9 per cent efficient in 2017. The council is confident that with the help of two new machines, this year’s exams will be released earlier than last year,” Magoha said. Last year, the KCPE exam results were released on November 21. Magoha dismissed claims about militarisation of the exams. More than 70,000 police officers were manning this year’s exams. He said those criticising high security could have hidden motives in altering the exam credibility and encouraging cheating. Teenage pregnancies Meanwhile, Education CS Amina Mohamed yesterday raised concerns over the increased number of teenage pregnancies. A high number of candidates became mothers during the three days of the KCPE exam. If this is happening all year round, then the country could be facing a crisis,” Amina said. Also read: Two Kwale candidates fail to show up for KCPE The CS said she has asked the Quality Assurance and Standards directorate to investigate the extent of the problem and give her a report for further action. In this year’s exams, three examination centres are on the Knec’s radar after ‘unusual occurrences’. At Oloonamuka Primary School in Narok, the exam materials went missing on Wednesday. Amina said 17 students registered in the centre were, however, able to sit their exam shortly afterwards. The candidates started the exam almost two hours late. Field officers had to photocopy the Science and Kiswahili papers from a nearby primary school so the 17 candidates could sit their exams. They started the exam few minutes past 10am instead of 8.30am. Twelve people were arrested on Wednesday — eight teachers and four security officers — in connection with the disappearance of the exams. The suspects were to be arraigned in court yesterday. Narok police boss Thomas Ngeiywa yesterday said the papers have not been recovered. In Kisii and Migori, two people were arrested for trying to impersonate candidates. Click here for the latest political news