JUST why is a cartel of suspended Kenya Airways security personnel hell-bent on frustrating the stringent standard operational security measures by the airline to guarantee the safety of passengers? Corridors of Power is reliably informed that the group that was sent parking by the airline in tough security guidelines failed to meet the security intelligence threshold set by the management. A highly rated former government intelligence and security official who was recently hired to scale up security at JKIA is said to have transformed the place with thorough guidelines aimed at weeding out incompetent personnel who have over the years become complacent. Now the cartel is fighting back through blackmail in a smear campaign targeting the security management. Will they succeed?  ***** WE told you last week of an officer in the police investigations department who has refused to leave his Kiambu office even after retirement and how the place has become synonymous with chaotic operations. Today we tell you of another senior commander at the prison department who retired five months ago but is still stuck in the system. Unlike his investigations counterpart, he doesn’t issue orders but he is still using official prison department cars and using junior officers to carry out house chores for him. He has also refused to hand over the prisons quarters he used. Surprisingly, those who are supposed to evict him fear the man because he keeps a huge snake in his house which he uses for his black magic. They are worried about the man visiting its wrath on them. Can the relevant cabinet secretaries confirm if it is now a norm for exiting officers to retire with public assets or offices?  ****** AU Infrastructure Representative Raila Odinga (pictured)has often told Kenyans of the biblical journey to Canaan. He has literally alluded to its elusiveness because of the humongous crocodiles that have infested the proverbial river Jordan. But his nemesis and Migori governor Okoth Obado was in his element over the weekend, alluding to a crocodile that is standing on his way ready to swallow him. Whether it is part of political theatrics, Obado’s reference to a real crocodile had many tongues wagging. So, when did Obado discover the crocodile on his way and why was he silent all the time? Or has he found the ammunition to confront the crocodile with his latest dalliance with Deputy President William Ruto? Well, looks like he is also building bridges to confront the local crocodiles. Click here for the latest political news