Be prepared to walk to work this morning if you have not made alternative transport arrangements. Matatu operators last evening maintained that they will withdraw their vehicles from the roads starting 6am today to protest the enforcement of the strict Michuki rules. “The position has not changed,” Matatu owners association chairman Simon Kimutai said yesterday in reference to a statement on withdrawal of matatus from roads issued by Federation of Public Transporters Association chairman Edwin Mukabana on Saturday. Mukabana said the move was prompted by Interior CS Fred Matiangi’s statement on Friday that the police would from today launch crackdown on rogue matatus. “We would like to advise our members to withdraw transport service provision on Monday November 12, 2018 for the purpose of aligning our operations to the new guidelines,” he said. Mechanics in Grogon and Ngara garages in Nairobi were yesterday busy repainting and removing ‘immoral’ graffiti from matatus when the Star made spot checks. Read: Crackdown on matatus showing obscene videos begins in Mombasa The mechanics were installing speed governors, safety belts and painting yellow mark on 14-seater matatus. “The work is good and we are even getting overwhelmed. I have been doing panel beating since last week, I have been repairing at least two vehicles a day. I charge between Sh1,500 and Sh3,000 per vehicle for panel beating,” mechanic Samuel Odoyo said. A driver of a Killeton Sacco matatus wondered why they are required to remove bull bars from vehicles. “Why am I being forced to remove a bull bar? Does a bull bar cause an accident?” he posed. There were long queues of matatus, an indication of the rush their owners’ were in to comply with the new rules. Matatu welfare association chairman Dickson Mbugua said they have taken their vehicles to the garage so as to comply. Yesterday, Nairobi residents expressed mixed reactions about the planned crackdown. While some supported the move saying it will help curb the risingroad accidents, others lamented its timing. “It is long overdue. People cannot keep on dying on the roads like these because of some rogue drivers and money-minded matatu owners,” Clifford Juma, a resident said. His sentiments were echoed by Utalii resident Tom Hawinga who reiterated that impunity has reigned on the Kenyan roads because of the government’s inaction. Read: Matiang'i shocker awaits those flouting laws “Apart from people dying on the roads because of someone’s rush to make money, the common man is also suffering financially. The Fares we pay are dictated by the operators,” he said. In the new traffic law, commonly known as Muchuki, drivers will be required to have valid licenses and badges with long distance PSVs required to have two drivers each driving eight hours. Drivers will also wear blue uniforms and conductors will be in maroon. Matatus must be insured and will not be allowed to have tinted windows. During a press briefing at Kenya School of Government on Friday, Matiangi said that excess passengers as well as owners of vehicles that get involved in accidents will be arrested. Government data shows that road deaths are up 10.5 per cent to 2, 626 in the year to January. Click here for the latest political news