President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned NYS officials against pocketing money meant for youths in the service. He said it was regrettable that certain individuals take resources meant to empower the youth for their personal use. The President spoke at a time former NYS bosses are in court over the loss of millions of shillings at the agency. "We will do everything in our power to ensure that the culpable pay the price and return the stolen resources," Uhuru said. He made the remarks during a pass out parade for NYS servicemen in Gilgil on Friday. Over 16,400 recruits graduated. Former Youth PS Lillian Omollo, former director general Richard Ndubai, and 35 others have been charged with theft of Sh226 million NYS funds. See: NYS suspect Lillian Omollo sacked as PS, replaced by Francis Owino Uhuru said the diversion of resources to a few individuals must come to a stop 'at all costs'. "I want to promise you that we will not and we cannot continue this kind of behavior of people taking procurement money for their own use." "We must ensure that we utilise the resources that Kenyan tax payers have bestowed upon us," the president said. To solve the problem, Uhuru asked MPs to speed up the legislation of a Bill seeking to transform the NYS into a state corporation. He said the measures in the proposed National Youth Service Bill, 2018 will allow the NYS perform its role with vigour and integrity. "The National assembly should fast-track the approval. Let us pass the Bill now and have it enacted." The Bill states that an 11-member board with strong State representation will oversight the scandal-ridden National Youth Service. The proposed Bill is part of Uhuru’s strategy to seal loopholes exploited by top NYS insiders to loot billions of shillings. It was tabled by Majority Leader Aden Duale. NYS Director General Matilda Sakwa gave a firm commitment to contain graft at the institution. The President acknowledged the various commercial undertakings and initiatives by the NYS including garment production. He said besides producing uniforms for the Kenya Defence Forces, the NYS will now also produce the new uniforms for the police. "I am also reliably informed that other institutions such as county governments are engaging the service in garment production," Uhuru said. The Head of State acknowledged that the NYS has rolled out a programme to produce cotton on some of its land where they have piloted production of the crop on a 300-acre farm. The President said the 50,000 NYS graduates trained over the years had contributed immensely to nation building in various ways covering disaster and humanitarian relief responses, security and other public duties. While congratulating the fresh recruits, Uhuru re-assured them that the government does not champion the cause of the youth through NYS as a favor but rather as a necessary and undeniable responsibility. More on this: NYS Bill says personnel can be deployed to army, police Click here for the latest political news