Tuk-tuk drivers in Mombasa will be subjected to stringent regulations after the assembly passed a new law regulating their operations. MCAs on Wednesday passed the ‘Tuk Tuk Operations Rules 2018’ Bill which seeks to ensure order and saffety are maintained. The law takes effect from May next year. Under the new guidelines, it will be an offence for a tuk-tuk to operate without the owner’s full name and business address clearly displayed on its right side. Drivers must wear an official uniform which is yet to be prescribed by the county. Nominated MC Mohamed Hatimy, the sponsor of the Bill, told the Star yesterday the county is mandated to regulate the transport sector under Schedule Four of the Constitution. “There have been increased incidences of acts of insecurity and malpractice by operators of tuk-tuks and if left unregulated, the public will continue to be exposed to security and safety hazards,” he said. Hatimy said each operator must be a registered member of an association recognised by the county. He said the association will be responsible for the training of its members on safety and security of passengers. The new law states that each tuk-tuk will be painted different colours, depending on its operating zone. Those plying the island will be painted green, Likoni (yellow), Changamwe (red), Jomvu (orange), Nyali (blue) and Kisauni (blue with yellow stripes). The colour codes are meant to prevent operators from crisscrossing or passing through another zone. A driver will also be required to display his photo in the tuk-tuk and always carry his national ID or valid passport. If a driver fails to report to police any personal property left on the vehicle, he will be found criminally culpable. Every tuk-tuk should have three safety belts and registration stickers paid for and issued by the county. Drivers will be required to be always well-groomed and are prohibited from smoking and spitting while working. They have also been barred from using vulgar and foul language against passengers and other motorists while on the roads. Click here for the latest political news