Sportsmen and women in the country have a reason to smile after pay TV service provider, StarTimes renewed their partnership with Sport Journalists Association of Kenya for another year in a deal worth Sh4.5m. The deal retains the previous perks of Sh100,000, a 43 inch StarTimes TV set and a personalised plaque, the terms they have had since the partnership began in July 2017. A host of athletes led by world marathon record holder, Eliud Kipchoge, Commonwealth 800m champion Wycliffe Kinyamal, World Boxing Council champion Fatma Zarika, topped-ranked tennis player Ismael Changawa, international rugby player Janet Okello, Africa Rally champion Manvir Baryan and hockey star goallie Cynthia Akinyi among others have been feted. StarTimes brand marketing and PR director, Japheth Akhulia, affirmed their keenness in developing sports in the country, saying that the award system is just a small step towards that vision. “Sports is a big industry in our country and we want to be part and parcel of it’s growth,” said Akhulia. He assured the sportsmen and women that their hard work and commitment in the various disciplines will not go in vain. “The sports industry has grown in leaps and bounds and we promise to continue honouring athletes who perform exceptionally well despite the numerous challenges they face,” he added. “We don’t discriminate anyone. We award the best of the best irrespective of what sport someone plays.” “In the last 15 awards we have had so far, we have noticed renewed fervor amongst athletes in various disciplines hence the renewal of the deal. This is testament to our diversity in appreciating our sportsmen and women as we seek to reward excellence across the diverse sports disciplines”. SJAK president Chris Mbaisi, said: “Thanks to the sponsors, we have been able to award sportsmen and women who never thought they could get an award in their entire career. Kenyans are used to seeing the long distance runners being awarded but thanks to this partnership, highly talented rugby players like Okello and tennis greats like Changawa can get some recognition.”