Kenya may have to wait longer to reap benefits of the Africa open skies agreement intended to open the country to the intra-Africa air transport market. International Air Transport Association vice president for Africa Rapahel Kuuchi told the Star that member states still needed to iron out problems involving requirements under the treaty. He said there also needs to be a clear understanding of the benefits signatories and operators stand to gain in providing unrestricted air movement. “We do not anticipate immediate resolution as there still needs to befine-tuning of regulatory requirements under the treaty and sharing of the regulatory text with the member states and airlines,” Kuuchi said. The African open skies treaty came into effect on January 28 when African Union heads of state signed off on the Single African Air Transport Market in line with the adoption of the 1999 Yamoussoukro Decision. Twenty-six countries, incuding Kenya, have come on board to open up their skies in hopes of capitalising on benefits. Despite the treaty coming into effect, and transport costs in the continent expected to drop by 25 per cent, the cost of traveling across African is still significantly high. A spot check on the Travelstart Kenya website reveals that the cheapest return tickets from Nairobi to Addis Ababa are offered by Rwandair at Sh19,081, Kenya Airways at Sh21,691 and Ethiopian Airlines at Sh22,516. It also revealed that the cheapest return ticket to Johannesburg from Nairobi costs Sh40,441 by Rwandair, Sh49,616 by Ethiopian Airlines and Sh76,486 via KQ. This is more expensive than travelling from Nairobi to Dubai. The cheapest return ticket is offered by Air Arabia at Sh34,215, Asky and Ethiopian Airlines at Sh43,476 and KQ at Sh53,786. Kuuchi said signatory governments needed to ensure there were no barriers in form of taxes imon both passengers and airlines to create fair competition and reduce the cost of travel. “Airlines are already dealing with the fact that aviation fuel is 21 per cent higher in the continent compared to the global average, not to mention the high handling costs,” he said. “The governments need to take off some of these burdens by lifting taxes.” He added that airlines needed to ensure that aircraft being used are compatible with both high- and low-traffic cities to boost competitiveness. A survey by IATA suggests that if just 12 key African countries opened their markets and increased connectivity an extra 155,000 jobs and $1.3 billion (Sh131.43 billion) in annual GDP would be created in those countries. “This number could be higher if we take into account all 55 African states,” Kuuchi said. Unrestricted intra-Africa air travel is also set to help promote trade and cross-border investments within the continent.