World marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge and Berlin champion Gladys Cherono have been named as the male and female winners of the 2018 AIMS ‘Best Marathon Runner’ Awards.
The AIMS athletes’ nomination committee has decided that Kipchoge and Cherono were the outstanding candidates for the awards based on their performances over the past 12 months (October 1,  2017, to  September 30, 2018).
Kipchoge is undefeated in the marathon in 2018, having won London in April and Berlin in September. Besides his victory in Berlin, he also posted a world record of 2:01:39, taking 78 seconds off the previous record hence registering the biggest single improvement on the world record for more than 50 years. The record was previously held by Dennis Kimetto at 2:02:57. Cherono won the Berlin Marathon in a world-leading time of 2:18:11 and finished fourth at the London Marathon earlier in the year in 2:24:10.
The achievements of the two Kenyan athletes will receive global recognition during the AIMS ‘Best Marathon Runner’ Awards Gala in Athens, Greece today.
Elsewhere, Olympic silver medallist Feyisa Lilesa will make a welcome return to the Standard Chartered Dubai Marathon when he lines up for the IAAF Gold Label road race on January 25.
The Ethiopian had been in exile in the USA since making an anti-government gesture while winning silver in marathon at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio.
But after his recent return to Ethiopia following the election of a new reformist government, the 28-year-old who won half marathons in New York and Bogota during his exile in the USA­—has returned to training and set his sights on once again competing at the highest level of distance running, starting with his first appearance at the Standard Chartered Dubai Marathon since finishing fourth in 2015.
“It has been a difficult time for Feyisa but we are delighted he has chosen to compete in the Standard Chartered Dubai Marathon, which is the only IAAF Gold Label race in the Middle East,” said event director, Peter Connerton.