Former Cricket Kenya chairlady Jackie Janmohamed yesterday donated Sh1.6 million to the national cricket team ahead of this month’s International Cricket Council World Cricket League Division Three tournament in Oman. The former CK boss said the donation was meant to bail out the players, who have not been paid their salaries for two months. She said Kenya risk ban from International Cricket Council (ICC) if they fail to show up for the tournament in Oman. “The ICC has catered for the team’s travel expenses and accommodation and for our boys not to honour the tournament could mean a ban for our team,”  said Janmohamed. She said she has had to go out of her way to cater for the team’s allowances even though she resigned from her post early this year. “There are all sorts of rumours CK have secured a sponsor but where is that sponsor now? I have begged and borrowed in order to take care of these boys because we all know how important this tournament is for Kenya but we all just can’t sit back and watch out team go to ruins.” This comes a few days after CK vice chairman, Harpal Singh Sehmi dropped coach Maurice Odumbe and team manager Tariq Iqbal from the traveling party while at the same time appointing Lameck Onyango to take charge. Former team captain, Shem Ngoche expressed his gratitude to Janmohamed and emphasised on the importance of this tournament. “It has been very tough for us players. Some of us have been unable to pay rent and school fees for our kids but what kept us going is the support we always get from the former chairlady and the possibility of us being promoted to Division Two.” Each player will now be paid US$60 (Sh6000) per day for 15 days, which will add up to US$900 (Sh90,000). The tournament which will be held from November 9-19, will form part of the 2017-2022 cycle of the World Cricket League (WCL) which will determine the qualification for the 2023 Cricket World Cup. The top two teams will be promoted to the 2019 ICC World Cricket League Division Two tournament.