Kenyan’s Albert Njogu and Sneha Kotecha overcame stiff oppositions to proceeded to the finals of the ongoing International Tennis Federation (ITF) East Africa Junior first leg circuit yesterday at Nairobi Club. Njogu floored Maxime Dubouch 7-6( 5 ), 6-3 in the boys semi finals while Sneha had to confirm her place in the girl’s finals in the third set,sweating to eventually down a resilient Tela Lukic of Germany 6-2, 2-6 and 7-6. Njogu and his opponent exchanged fierce serves in the opening set, to go neck to a five-all draw after 10 games forcing the winner of the set to be determined by a tie breaker, which ended in Njogu’s favour. The diminutive home player, however, served the Frenchman with an improvised game in the second set, unleashing hard-to-return forehands which earned him a comfortable 6-3 win to sail through. Njogu has made it to the quarters three times this year,proceeded to the semis twice and yesterday’s exploits saw him reach the second final of the year which he vowed to win. “The match was really tough especially in the first half and I had to change tact in the second half to avoid a nervous exchange in the tie break. My forehand worked really well, just like I had planned and I am happy to be in the final. I want to be ruthless in the finals and win my first singles junior crown.” Njogu will play Rostilav Galfinger of Kazakhstan in the final today. The latter saw off Burundian top seed Abdoul Kabura 7-5, 3-6 and 6-3. The Nairobi-based Kabura admitted to have been unwell throughout the tournament and expressed optimism in performing better in the second leg set for next week. “I have been struggling with a flu throughout the tournament and today, it really affected me. I hope I will have recovered fully before the second leg.” In the girl’s category, Kotecha had a bright start against Lukic winning the opening set 6-2 but the German returned with vigour in the second set and restored parity, leading to a hotly contested third set. Things never eased in the determining set for the home girl as the German proved equally strong pushing the match to the tie break but her poor handling of returns saw Sneha prevail. Kotecha acknowledged the calibre of the opponent and the match where she noted the difference with the preceding ones. “It was tougher than the initial matches played in the quarters and preliminaries. My opponent stretched me and had a good game but I managed to down her in the tie break,” said Sneha. Kotecha will face Lara Claudia Van Der Merwe of South Africa in the final. Merwe tossed out second seed, Burundian Aisha Niyonkuru 6-1, 6-3 in the semis.