British supermodel Naomi Campbell is Malindi for a working holiday. Campbell, 48, arrived on November 23. Reports indicate she is in Kenya for a photo shoot for an international magazine. Journalists have not been able to meet her as the management of Lion in the Sun Beach Resort, where Campbell is staying, said the supermodel did not want to be interviewed. Italian billionaire Flavio Briatore owns the hotel she is staying in. Campbell is accompanied by a 13-member crew. The super model's visit is a major boost for tourism. Tourism players in Malindi are optimistic that the kidnapping of the Italian aid worker will not scare away visitors as the festive season approaches. A number of activities, including the Koroga Masala Festival, have been lined up to promote tourism in Malindi. The festival that is held once every three months attracts hundreds of local and international tourists. Kathy Bisset, an American married to a Kenyan, said Romano's abduction is an isolated case. She is praying that the Italian aid worker comes back alive and safe. Bisset, who has been in Malindi since 1984, said people should not fear travelling to Malindi. She said her family members will be coming to celebrate the holidays in Malindi. "If it wasn’t safe I wouldn’t bring them here. There are people who are writing an inquiring if it is safe," she said. "We have no warnings from our embassy about not coming to Malindi." Edward Aniere, a director of Bare Foot Beach Camp near Che Shale, which organises the Koroga festival, said the event brings together hotels to showcase food varieties. Aniere who is a Kenyan of British origin said Romano's abduction is an unfortunate incident. "There is going to be a repercussion. We are strong in Malindi and we believe in what we do here," he said. Aniere said for years he has lived in Malindi, they work together as a community. "We are all connected in one way or the other, not necessarily be in the hotel business. There are other businesses in Malindi. We do not give up, we try to make Malindi great," he said. Suheil Bakhrani from 7 to 7 supermarkets in Malindi has competed in the Koroga festival. "It's not only a competition, but a family gathering. We prepared the oldest ethnic Indian spices and nyama kima curry," he said. Maureen Obunga, the general manager of Ocean Beach Resort and Spa, said the Koroga festival also brings together hoteliers from Malindi to share, enjoy and interact. Click here for the latest political news  