MPs have been criticised over their plans to raise their perks through amendments to the Parliamentary Service Bill, 2018. The Bill, which is due for voting on Wednesday, will see all 416 MPs enjoy rent-free housing, a government vehicle, an expanded medical cover among other benefits. Transparency International executive director Samuel Kimeu said it’s hypocritical for the MPs to push back attempts to ratify the Gender Bill on grounds that it will inflate the wage bill and at the same time move to raise their perks. "It is unacceptable for Members of Parliament to initiate discussions on improving their perks at a time when the taxpayer is burdened by high taxes and public debt caused majorly by lack of oversight by parliament, wastage and corruption," Kimeu said. In a statement on Tuesday, Kimeu said MPs are by virtue of Article 232 and Article 201 of the Constitution bound to observe efficient, effective, prudent and responsible use of public resources. He said the principles should be applied whenever state organs, state officers, public officers or any other person applies, interprets, enacts or implements the Constitution, the law or public policy decisions. A section of MPs have openly voiced their objection to the Gender Bill that gives way for implementation of the two-thirds gender rule if passed. If passed, the new law will see more women nominated to parliament to meet the Constitutional provision of having at least 30 per cent of women in parliament. However, MPs across the political divide have argued that other than raising the wage bill, there are no clear guidelines on the nominations for purposes of stopping party leaders from nominating "slay queens" to the August House. The MPs have, however, thrown their full weight behind the Parliamentary Service Bill, 2018 saying they will pass it. The Bill, which has sparked a public outcry, has been opposed by President Uhuru Kenyatta who has asked the MPs to put the interests of Kenyans before their own. Kimeu said in passing the Bill, the MPs will have overstepped their legislative and oversight functions and usurped the powers of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, thereby creating a conflict of interest. "We therefore call upon MPs to show leadership and drop the proposed amendments. Our focus now should be to ensure that citizens access the basic services," Kimeu said. He added: "It is unfortunate that the proposed amendments come at a time when majority of Kenyans are struggling to meet basic needs such as food, healthcare and decent housing." Read: MPs plot to strip SRC of its powers, determine own pay Also see: SRC slashes President and Governor salaries, abolishes MPs sitting, mileage allowance Click here for the latest political news 