A member of the Judicial Service Commission has filed a case in court seeking to stop his arrest over alleged unpaid taxes for the period 2009-16. Tom Ojienda says the Kenya Revenue Authority is being used to fight political battles, especially now that the JSC-LSK representative elections are approaching. “It is apparent the respondents are out on a malicious excursion to ‘get’ me and to ensure I’m subjected to a flawed criminal process that is smeared with illegalities, bad faith, witch-hunt with the sole intention of irredeemably tainting my reputation in the eyes of the public and lawyers,” he says. According to the court documents, Ojienda says on September 2016, KRA served him with a notice requiring payment of Sh378 million, which was arrived at after illegal amendments to his tax register and the insertion of fictitious figures derived from clients’ deposits and personal emoluments between 2009 to 2016. Read: DPP wants Tom Ojienda to disqualify himself from representing Swazuri A month later, Ojienda filed an application seeking to quash the assessment of KRA dated June 2016, demanding from him Sh443 million and the amended assessment dated September 5, 2016, demanding from him Sh378 million as total tax due for the periods of 2009-16 and 2011-16, respectively. On October 5, the court stayed the implementation of any civil or criminal action by KRA against him pursuant to the amended assessment dated September 5, 2016, pending determination of the application. In May this year, Justice George Odunga quashed the assessments dated June 7 and September 5, 2016 and further prohibited KRA from acting upon the assessments. KRA appealed but the matter is still pending, meaning the orders of Odunga are still subsisting. Read: Mumias in Sh642 million fight with lawyer Ojienda Ojienda says since the assessment was quashed, there is no action that can be taken pursuant to those assessments. “KRA cannot purport to conduct an assessment after the expiry of five years. KRA is purporting to implement a process after the lapse of five years without any justifiable cause,” he says. Ojienda wants the court to prohibit the KRA, DCI and AG from commencing any civil or criminal processes, arresting, summoning, questioning or in any way harassing him with respect to any tax questions for the period 2009 to 2016. Click here for the latest political news