Citizen TV Journalist Jacque Maribe wants State Counsel Catherine Mwaniki to be disqualified from prosecuting her murder case. In an application filed in court, Maribe claims Mwaniki failed to ensure that she is supplied with the relevant documents and witness statements that will be used in her trial. Maribe says the DPP has violated her rights in the case by failing to comply with court orders. In a case filed in court through her lawyer, Maribe says she has not been supplied with documents and material that will be used in the murder case against her and her then-fiancee Joseph Irungu. She also wants the state to surrender back her house and car that are still being held by the police. "That the respondents jointly and or severally handover to the applicant her house, the rental house situated at Royal Park, Langata Estate Nairobi within 24 hours of the court’s orders, taken over and held exclusively by the DCI and DPP since 22nd September 2018." the application reads. Read: Maribe gets bail but ‘woman eater’ fiancé Jowie unlucky Through lawyer Katwa Kigen, Maribe further wants the DPP to be held in contempt for failing to supply her with witness statements after the deadline set by the court. "DPP and his lead representative in the proceedings be jointly and severally held in contempt of court made on November 30," the document reads. "No known good reason exists for the breach of the court orders and the fundamental freedoms and rights." Katwa says up until now, Maribe has not received even the modest measure of courtesy of a reply to her letters that she has written requesting for statements. The defense argues that the prosecution might be unwilling to supply the materials because the materials show no culpable evidence against Maribe. Maribe was charged alongside Irungu with the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani. They denied the charge and she was released on Sh1 Million bail while Justice James Wakiaga denied Irungu bail. Last week Irungu filed an application for Judge Wakiaga to disqualify himself from the case arguing that he was biased and judged him harshly by calling him a 'woman eater' The case will be mentioned today. Read: How police are linking Jacque Maribe to Monica Kimani's murder Also read: Monica Kimani murder: Jowie to remain in custody as Maribe freed on bail Click here for the latest political news