Murang’a county government and the National Land Commission have been given seven days to file submissions in a case where two residents want open bidding conducted before Del Monte’s land lease is renewed. The two petitioners want the Lands and Environment court in Murang’a to issue conservatory orders stopping the lease renewal process until the case is heard and determined. Through their lawyer Sam Ogutu, the petitioners James Mwangi and Ephantus Githae said the constitution requires the county government to conduct an open bidding to give other interested parties a chance to bid for the land. The county government and the National Land commission were given a week to file their submission as Justice Grace Kemei scheduled the case to be heard on December 3. The petitioners filed the suit on November 5, in Thika High Court before it was transferred to Murang’a High Court. They told the court that the land was leased to Del Monte company in 1973 for a period of 49 years by the defunct Murang’a County Council and is due to expire in 2022. They said that the land as it is currently used, occupied and managed by Del Monte does not meet the constitutional stipulations, disadvantaging locals. “The lease renewal should be done in line with the provisions of the Public Procurement and Disposal act that allows invitations of bids from all interested parties to make the process Both the county government and NLC, they said, have not made public information concerning the lease renewal saying they feared the process could be conducted in secrecy. They told the court that the company should not be granted an automatic renewal of its lease which they said would go against the constitution. Over 17,000 acres out of the 22,000 acres of land the company has lie in Murang’a county while the rest are in Kiambu county. A similar petition filed by Kandara residents association is set to be settled out of court after the petitioner withdrew it. Justice Kemei gave the parties that include Murang’a and Kiambu county government, NLC, attorney general and Del Monte until December 23 to have negotiations and table a report before the court. An earlier attempt to have the talks mediated by NLC flopped, after majority of the parties failed to turn up. 