A section of Wiper legislators have asked Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana and former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama to stop criticizing Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka over his decision to be President Uhuru Kenyatta's "errand boy". Danson Mwashako (Wudanyi), Patrick Makau (Mavoko) and Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti) defended Musyoka's move to work with Kenyatta. Speaking on Saturday at Mukuyuni village, Kaiti Constituency in Makueni County during a burial, the legislators said there was nothing wrong with Musyoka working with the government. "Why are you not happy when someone who has been in the cold for five years gets a job?," wondered Makau. Read: Kalonzo roasted for ‘mtu wa mkono’ plea More: Kalonzo heads to Juba as special peace envoy Despite there having been no official confirmation, Kalonzo recently took up the role of the head of the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission (JMEC) for South Sudan's peace process. The former foreign affairs minister is is largely expected to see to it that the peace accord signed between President Salva Kiir and rebel leader Riek Machar holds. Muthama and Kibwana, however, expressed reservations about Kalonzo's new role saying it shows that he is not serious with his 2022 presidential bid. They threatened to withdraw their support because "he is now running to the opposite direction with the relay baton.” Mwashako who is the deputy national treasurer of the Wiper party said the former Vice President had the right to give direction to the Kamba community by virtue of his position as a national leader. "Don't chest thump saying you are better in politics than Musyoka, you are wrong. He is the best presidential candidate Kenya needs," he said. Makau said Musyoka didn't have to consult anyone in the decision he made. He asked Kambas to be ready to support Musyoka in his presidential bid to succeed Kenyatta in 2022. Kimilu said he was confident that Uhuru's surprise successor will be Kalonzo. He said Kalonzo's decision to work with the president will not affect the Wiper party arrangements. Read also: Wiper leaders divided over Kalonzo’s ‘errand boy’ role Click here for the latest political news