Kenyan players served off the first leg of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) East Africa Junior Circuit on losing note as eleven fell out in the first round of the week- long tournament Nairobi Club. The tournament, which marks the last event this year, saw the home-based players fail to capitalise on home advantage and were dumped out in the first round save for Keean Shah, who advanced to the second round after a 6-2,6-3 win over Hitesh Yalamanchili of India. Eight Kenyan boys bade farewell to the first leg of the tournament with Samuel Urasa opening the exit door for the home players after losing 6-3,6-2 to Ethiopian Natnael Ahmed. He was followed out by Brian Madegwa, who fell to Belgian Alexander Stokbroekx  with similar set scores of 6-0. Brandon Sagala fell to Canadian Ziad Aboufirassi in a similar fashion while Wycliffe Okenye’s efforts to make it to the second round were dampened by Ethiopia’s Yabets Kebede, who won 6-4,6-0. Kennedy Musembi lost 6-0,6-0 to Italian Rotilio Riccardo as Raymond Oduor narrowly bowed to Joseph Cyiza of Rwanda in sets of 6-4,7-5. United States-based Jayson Mbogoro was floored 6-1, 6-4 by Alexander Gammariello of Italy while Mwendwa Mutuku could not match the prowess of Khushal Gentela of USA as he lost 6-3,6-1. In the girls category, Esther Miheso was eliminated by Chiara Li Yaw Hay of Mauritius in sets of 6-2,6-4 as her sister Gabriella Miheso also succumbed 6-1, 6-2 to Chantal Mutuyimana of Rwanda. Cynthia Wanjala bitterly lost 7-5, 7-5 to Eva Baziv of Ukraine. And as the home players registered a false start, the seeded players who had a bye in the first round are set to play in the second round today. The players will also have a chance to redeem themselves in the second leg slated for next week. Derrick Ominde is lined up to play Rishikrishna Ayyappan of India who won 6-1,6-0 over Junior Joseph of Rwanda in the first round. Albert Njogu is paired against Denzel Seetso of Botswana who won 6-4,6-0 against Deepak Vayara of India while Ryan Randiek will be up against Baccoune Youssef of France. Sneha Kotecha, who won the past edition’s girls’ crown, also start action today. Click here for the latest political news