The Auditor General has questioned expenditure of at least Sh86 million incurred by the Tana River county Assembly in 2016-17. Auditor General Edward Ouko also asked why the county legislature had failed to spend about Sh110 million for the mortgage and car loan fund that was unused for more than two years. Ouko said he could not confirm the regularity and validity of Sh33,421,300 incurred for domestic travel and subsistence He said auditors were not availed the names of payees and the imprest surrender documents, invitation letters, work tickets, bus tickets and boarding passes for verification. The report indicates that the county assembly could not verify the completeness and validity of an expenditure of Sh14,950,794 for hospitality, supplies and services. He said auditors were not availed invitation letters, records of journeys made or seminars attended, purchases, requisitions for goods purchased, minutes of meetings held and signed payment schedules for payments. The Auditor General could not verify the regularity and validity of Sh7,181,633 spent for routine maintenance of motor vehicles and transport equipment. Repairs claimed to have been made were not recorded in log books, work tickets, as well as engineers’ mechanical inspection reports. Ouko criticised the assembly’s management for paying legal fees of Sh4,470,640. He said the amount should not have spent had it done public participation, an omission that led to the assembly being sued by members of the public. He queried an expenditure of Sh23,109,000 on construction and civil works. The auditor said anomalies had been detected. The expenditure included Sh7.2 million paid to a contractor to build drainage works, a septic tank, a soak pit and an ablution block. The project’s certificates of completion, approvals for cost variations among other documents were not availed for audit verification. OUTSTANDING IMPRESTS It also included Sh8.7 million spent on catering facilities it never used for more than one year. The management attributed the anomaly to failure to hire staff to work in the cafeteria. Another Sh6.2 million was spent on faulty exchange and other communications equipment and Sh918,275 on the installation of CCTV. Documentation was not availed for verification. The auditor cited outstanding imprests amounting to Sh1.6 million. He said seven officers had been advanced multiple imprests amounting to Sh883 million. Ouko said that by failing to utilise the mortgage and car loan fund, the county assembly management was in breach of Section 116 ( 2 ) and 4 ) of the Public Finance Management Act. It stipulates that the administrator of a public fund shall ensure that monies in the fund, including earnings or accruals, are spent only for the purposes for which the fund was established. He said the fund had not been availed for audit review contrary to the Public Audit Act. It provides that the financial statements of every public entity shall be submitted for audit within three months after the end of the fiscal year. “Consequently, the management is in breach of the law, and as noted, the fund has not benefitted its intended beneficiaries,” he said. This means that the county officials will have defend themselves before the Senate.