The National Cereals and Produce Board will meet this week with the board of the Strategic Grain Reserve to set new maize prices to stabilise the market. Maize prices have fallen to as low as Sh800 for a 90kg bag. Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday said farmers will know the new prices this week. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and his Devolution counterpart Eugene Wamalwa are expected to be present at the meeting. Sources said the discussions are expected to be held on Wednesday. The NCPB has been buying maize from farmers at Sh3,200 per 90kg bag since last year. The farmers say they should be paid more because the cost of farm imputs has increased. “We welcome the announcement by the Deputy President to set new prices. We expect the price to be better that what was set last year,” Kipkorir Menjo said. Menjo is the director of the Kenya Farmers Association. Ruto who spoke in Eldoret said the government will also announce the amount of maize it will buy from farmers to avoid over-purchase. NCPB depots are still holding maize from the stock bought since December last year but sources said it can accommodate another three million bags. Farmers are expected to harvest about 40 million bags this year. It is projected that half of the bags will be for sale. The farmers are still owed about Sh2.2 billion by NCPB. Ruto said the Treasury has released the money and farmers should expect to get their cash this week. He said all farmers will be paid. The money will be the last tranche of payments for the farmers who have been waiting for the cash since last year. ELIMINATE BROKERS In August, the Devolution ministry released Sh1.4 billion for deliveries made last year. The farmers were owed 3.6 billion. Ruto was speaking at the Sacred Heart Cathedral during the first memorial celebrations for  Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir. The DP said the government was committed to doing away with brokers and unscrupulous traders who have cheated farmers. He said the government will work with counties to encourage crop diversification.