Last week I
received a call from one of the four leading politicians of our time. He wanted
to know if in my interactions with the people, I have found out whether the
masses really want a referendum. And if so, whether they know the issues that
should be decided through a plebiscite. My answer to
both questions was an emphatic Yes! Generally, Kenyans want to determine some
sticking issues of governance that have engulfed the nation in raging debates.
But what is a referendum? It is the
process of making a decision through a popular vote by all citizens on matters
of national interest and importance. Once such decisions are made through a
simple majority win, the necessary legislations are made to secure the people’s
will. In my discussions with citizens on the on referendum debate, three issues
come out as the matters that require canvassing and eventual vote. However,
before delving into these issues, it would be important to discuss the small
matter of timing. I view timing as small matter though not unimportant. Timing
is crucial because it would influence greatly the environment of the
referendum, which will eventually impact on citizens’ approach. All factors held
constant, Kenyans will go to the polls in August 2022. That means that a
referendum anytime near 2022 will be unduly influenced by the expectations of
the general election. It may turn out to be a pre-match and lose out on the
merits of questions to answer. We have done one year after the last elections
in relative calmness courtesy of the handshake and we should strive to maintain
the same. Since referendum requires extensive preparations, 2019 is a bit too
close for such huge undertaking. Therefore, the most ideal time to hold the
referendum is mid-2020. It is far away enough from the general elections to
escape the polarization of the electoral mood. And yet it is not too soon to
provide adequate time for the necessary logistical preparations. The budgetary
considerations of the opinion poll should be factored in the next budget of
2019-20 financial estimates. Three issues
have emerged to deserve determination in a referendum. They revolve around the Executive,
representation and devolution. On the Executive, Kenyans have voiced concern on
its exclusive nature. There are concerns that, as presently prescribed in the Constitution,
it does not resonate well with the historical experiences of the nation. It
also creates confusion in its implementation. However, the main challenge seems
to be the fusion of the functions of the Executive with those of the state. The
President is today the head of State and Executive as the government. The confusion
arises when the occupant exercises state roles while at the same time
discharging the government responsibilities. The current presidential system is
model borrowed from the US, but missed on the federal premise. The states in
the US act as strong checks on the presidency, which our counties, as presently
constituted, cannot execute. The question on
the Executive is major challenge, which must be approached with utmost
sobriety. Kenyans should be allowed to debate it exhaustively and determine
whether they want a presidential or a parliamentary system. In the
circumstances, a decision to separate the functions of state from those of the
government must be deliberately made. Scholars of political science must help
citizens understand that the theory of three arms of government is a fallacy.
It should be known, and accurately so, that Executive, parliament and the Judiciary
are the three arms of state not government. For stability, the head of State
should never be same as head of Executive. If this argument
is taken to its logical conclusion, then Kenyans will have created a head of
State separate from the head of Executive. The argument of a ceremonial head of
State is illogical since the powers and responsibilities will be stipulated in
the Constitution. The question of representation
should be organised around the size and role of the Senate. There have been
widespread concerns about cost of representation, which is the essence liberal
democracy. Citizens exercise their sovereign right to self-governance through
elected representatives. However, it has been considered that Kenyans have far
too many representatives in the National Assembly and the Senate. The burden of
high cost of living has been partly blamed on the bloated size of Parliament. The boundary
review of 2012 increased the number of constituencies from 220 to 390. At the
same time, the pay package increased by almost three times, making the country
have the highest paid legislators comparatively worldwide. A question should
framed to determine whether Kenyans want the size of their parliament reduced
and to what extent. Should the number of constituencies be fixed or allowed to
correspond to population growth? What do other countries have? Tied with this
would be the place of senate in the representation. Opinion is
currently divided or the role and relevance of the Senate. It has been established
as a junior partner of the National Assembly. Why did we establish a Senate that
is not consistent with world best practices? If we must continue with this
House, how should it be structured? It has been suggested in some quarters that
the post of county woman representative be abolished. Further that each of the
47 counties should elect two members, one female and the other male, to the Senate.
Senate should have legislative roles and act as a check to the National Assembly
and the presidency as the head of State. The third
important issue is devolution, the main plank of the 2010 constitution. It has brought joy and
anguish to many Kenyans in almost equal measure. The counties of Makueni and
Kakamega are today being celebrated as success stories of devolution. The residents
of these counties have every reason to celebrate devolution and put every
effort to secure it. Other counties  such as Homa Bay and Busia have been fingered
as bastions of corruption and ineptitude. Residents are more
used to fistfights in the assemblies than service delivery. They have nothing
to celebrate in devolution, and they consider it a burden rather than source of joy.
Then there are those in the middle of the road — counties that have nothing significant
to show neither serious underperformance to lament about. Kenyans will have to
address the shortcomings of devolution so that it truly serves its original
intention. The county executives have run roughshod over the county assemblies.
This has rendered the oversight role of the assemblies nugatory. How can this
be cured in the laws? Should we retain the counties but introduce a third tier
governance level at the region? Would this third tier level in line with the
regional economic blocks being launched make devolution more cost effective and
economically viable? The law should
be clear on the relationship lines between the national and devolved
governments. It may useful to establish a national council headed and chaired by
the President as head of state. The national council would comprise the Prime Minister as head of government or the Executive, the Chief Justice as head of Judiciary, the speaker as head of the legislature and the chair of Council of Governors as the representative of devolved governance. In attendance should be the
Chief of Defence Forces as head of the armed forces. As can be seen, such
president as head of state cannot be ceremonial. This arrangement would help
cure the perennial challenge that the nation has to face every electoral cycle, where the head of state is also a candidate. As head of state, the IEBC, Chief
Justice and Speaker report to him. Yet as a candidate in a presidential
contest, the electoral agency and the Chief Justice might be called upon to arbitrate an electoral
dispute. Further, as head of government, the current President is expected to be
at par with the Chief Justice and Speaker. This relationship is untenable where
the holder of the office of state is the same as the head of government as the
executive.  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst