Athletics Kenya (AK) Western region have suspended the long-serving chairman Francis Afundi and the assistant treasurer Fridah Okwomi over claims of misappropriation of funds. In a meeting held in a Kakamega hotel yesterday and attended by leaders from four counties in the region, it was unanimously agreed that the two be suspended pending investigations. The two have allegedly been accused of colluding and withdrawing facilitation funds (Sh249,000 ) meant for the annual Kakamega Forest Marathon. The officials claimed that Afundi has not been able to open the office ever since they allegedly withdrawal of funds was reported. “Members who attended this meeting felt it was appropriate for the two (Afundi and Madam Okwomi) to step aside as the investigations continue because we reported the case at the DCI Kakamega,” said 1st vice chairman Patrick Kipsang, who was appointed in an acting capacity to take over the region. Also suspended is Henry Moi, the regional deputy secretary, who was accused of usurping the powers of the secretary and who allegedly squandered Sh20,000 meant to hire Mumias Complex Stadium for the National athletics championship in July. In the new office, Patrick Kipsang was appointed Acting chairman, Anne Otiti (first vicechair), Martin Kabaka (treasurer), Reuben Kioko (public relations officer), Irene Mido (member Hilda Amusogot and Fred murunga (members) and Shem Keroria (athletes representative). “Members are not happy with these leaders and therefore they have decided to take stern measures to correct the situation and ensure the forthcoming marathon is a success,” said the PRO, Kioko Chate. Meanwhile, Kipsang, the incoming chairman has assured stakeholders that his team is going to put everything in place to make sure the Kakamega Forest Marathon takes place on November 24 as scheduled. “We want to ask all Kenyans to come and participate to enable us preserve the only natural forest in the county through athletics,” Kipsang said. He added that for those who have embezzled the money the law will take its course and they have no option but return the money. The embattled regional chairman, Afundi, could not be reached on phone after his ouster but had earlier on asked the officials who had issues with him and the assistant treasurer to follow the right and constitutional procedures in addressing their problems