The process of recruiting a new Kenya Ports Authority managing director should be made transparent to the public, Mombasa woman representative Asha Hussein has said. The government has advertised the position seeking to replace immediate former boss Catherine Mturi-Wairi, who was sacked in May. Hussein said after the closing of applications on November 16, the list of applicants should be made public. “This position usually raises a lot of emotions and the only solution is to have it transparent so that every Kenyan is able to follow it on TV and on radio,” the woman representative said. She spoke on Friday at the Swahili Cultural Centre during a gala dinner for recovering drug addicts in Mombasa. The recruitment of the KPA boss has always been a political card played by the powers that be especially is search of votes from the Coast people, she said. Acting MD Daniel Manduku, who is in the running for the job, has seen his chances soar after a brief spell on the seat, with notable positive performance. Hussein maintained the government should appoint a Coast native to head the facility, which has been the subject of a battle between the national and the Mombasa county governments over control. “We do not want to see a circus as we have witnessed before. Unless the government has a specific person it has reserved the slot for and has hired the consultancy firm as a public relations exercise, we want the process made public,” she said. She also urged Mombasa residents to apply for the job and stop crying that they are left out all the time. “This is the time for the region’s brilliant brains to apply for the job,” she said. “We, the region’s leaders, will be happy to see one of our own succeed Catherine as Manduku’s acting capacity comes to an end this month,” she said. However, she cautioned the natives against being controlled by cartels in the port. The MP said previous Coast natives at the helm of the port were unable to help local people because they became puppets of the cartels.