US President Donald Trump might have in his inherently petulant and boisterous nature taken the spotlight off the November 6 mid-term election with his rant on CNN’s Journalist Jim Acosta but let us not lose sight of the history women made. At least 118 women will fill seats, out of who 31 are first timers and mostly Democrats. And while Kenyans were mesmerized by former Dadaab refugee Ilhan Omar win in Minnesota and rightfully so, one woman’s victory caught my attention. It was 29-year-old Boston University graduate Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez who a year ago was tending at a Cocktail bar in Manhattan. In a tweet, she said she only managed to buy her first couch two weeks ago. On Tuesday, she made history becoming the youngest woman ever to be elected to US Congress defeating an established Democrat Rep Joe Crowley who was poised as the likely next Speaker of the House. Oh, Ocasio too is a Democrat, only that she is the progressive type and she won by a whooping 78% of the vote in the midterm elections. The economics and international relations graduate took up bar-tending and waitressing jobs to supplement her mother's income as a house-cleaner and bus driver. I must say, she stirs hope and the audacity to reach for the stars in some of us children of ‘nobodies.’ In her own words- “growth does not happen in a straight line, we are all closer to our breakthrough than we think.” Her win justifies my aspersions of Kenyan women who have always waved the victim’s card in their dismal involvement and performance in the political arena. I dare say mediocrity largely accounts for the same. Millennial Kenyan women would rather be puppets of established political godfathers and online spin masters hoping to get at least HSC titles and at most nominations and other appointments negotiated by the male party elites. During the Political seasons, they are at the forefront organizing doltish forums like Warembo and so and so (mostly male contestants who have a few notes from the looted stash to bribe them with) to champion the agenda of ‘so and so.’ Pundits have largely attributed Ocasio’s win to her progressive ability to mobilise voters at the grassroots. This is a glaring contrast from our female so called politicians who spend more energy screaming over their disadvantages than actually doing something about it. They think the only way to break ranks and cut a niche in Politics is having unholy dalliance with a politician, be seen shouting for the political bourgeoisie rather than shouting for the people, taking selfies with party leaders rather than rolling their sleeves and getting to the ground and working with the people. When you have the masses, the party has little choice but to embrace you. The reason our politicians male and female worship party leaders is because they know they have fickle standing back at the grassroots owing to their dismal performances. She also rooted her campaign on tangible issues that affect the people she sought to represent. The political novice’s campaign centered on a progressive platform advocating Medicare for everyone, universal jobs guarantee, and immigration and criminal-justice reform. Not chants of six - piece; or why she needed to be elected so that she can to strip or insult other leaders’ mothers and their gonads so as to appeal to her ethnic group. I have interviewed women politicians who blame lack of financial muscles as a major hindrance in their quest to run for political seats. But the new, New York's 14th congressional district rep ran a low-budget campaign, raising about $200,000 mainly through small contributions. Heck, didn't the Igembe South MP win in the last general elections when he could barely afford decent clothes on his back? But he campaigned from door to door and the young women can learn the power of grassroots from both him and Ocasio. Her campaign video, which went viral, was homemade: She wrote the script herself, shot it in her local bodega, and had her family and volunteers help out. Her biggest challenger whom she floored mercilessly Crowley had $3 million for his primary election campaign. He hadn't had to contest a primary for the past 14 years. One American publication quoted her as having averred that: "This race is about people versus money," Ocasio-Cortez said in her campaign video. "We've got people. They've got money." "Women like me aren't supposed to run for office," she said in a recent campaign ad. "I wasn't born to a wealthy or powerful family." That is the mentality institutions, patriarchal political parties, a chauvinist society and a none progressive education system has fed young women in Kenya who have chosen to look from the periphery and tweet while other millennials even in neighboring countries in Africa immerse themselves into politics of change. I challenge youthful women in Kenya today that the politics of hash tags, blogging and Tialala Tibim is good, and necessary. But it will take us nowhere. The potential in us is being wasted behind talk shows, keyboards and hotel rooms when we can be on campaign platforms as contenders and mobilisers for each other. We can be on the grassroots making a difference and we can be in Parliament and county assembly showing these old guards and jingoists how progressive leadership of the young – especially women can make all the difference.