Raila Odinga and Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru yesterday ended their three-year-long duel, which was sparked by the ODM leader’s call for investigations into the NYS I scandal. The two, during a surprise meeting at Capitol Hill, agreed to leave the National Youth Service cases to the investigative agencies. They further agreed to put aside differences that arose from the loss of funds at the NYS during Jubilee’s first term. Waiguru was Devolution Cabinet Secretary when the scandal erupted, ushering in months of fierce exchange of words between the two and their allies. Raila’s spokesman Dennis Onyango said, “The two leaders announced that they had agreed to let bygones be bygones.” “The two leaders also reviewed the status of devolution in the country and agreed to exchange views frequently on how to address the challenges.” Read: Waiguru meets Raila, settle defamation case in 'spirit of cohesion' Waiguru, in September 2015, sued Raila for defamation. She wanted Raila held liable for allegedly linking her to the theft of millions of shillings at the youth agency. The ODM leader, on the other hand, sought the court’s say on his call for Waiguru to be subjected to a lifestyle audit. But in a tweet after the afternoon meeting, Waiguru affirmed that her defamation case against Raila stands settled. She cited the ‘spirit of cohesion’ that followed the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila. The meeting is likely to spark speculation on whether the two also reached an election deal ahead of the 2022 general election. Raila has since declared he has no interest in the Uhuru succession debate which has seen many leaders, especially from the President’s turf, declare support for Ruto. More on this: Raila seeks Waiguru lifestyle audit in defamation case Waiguru is among those who have openly declared their support for Ruto in the duel clouded by uncertainties of a possible referendum. The referendum push, which was initiated by Raila, took a back seat owing to his new AU job. Click here for the latest political news  