Education cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed has confirmed 21 people have been arrested over exam malpractices in separate cases across the country, Fifteen people were arrested as they prepared to answer examination questions from a photocopied paper in Kisii county. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday, Amina said the suspects had the intention of smuggling responses to candidates at the Munianku secondary school in Kisii. Amina said TSC CEO Nancy Macharia has ordered disciplinary action against the administration of the school. Read: At least 14 arrested in Kisii over leaked Chemistry paper Four others were arrested after they were caught in a classroom with fake examination pre-prepared notes in Kakamega county. Two more others are in the custody of the interior ministry and the examinations council though the CS failed to mention where they were arrested from. "The two of the greatest masterminds of the 'early exposure' ring are now in the custody. The two were hunted down last evening after a long and meticulous investigative process and the case now is before court," she said. Read Also: [VIDEO] Amina says no hitches as KCSE written exams begin "Their game-plan was to smuggle all or some of the examination questions, take them to unauthorized persons to the tackle the questions and smuggle the “answers” back into the examination rooms," the CS said. She said having sealed all loopholes of exam leakage, a few unscrupulous people have over the last three years devised new criminal tricks of opening examination packages minutes before the beginning of the papers. "Since the examination started, we have kept true to our promise to deliver free and fair results. All the papers have been delivered to every centre with all the unique security features intact," Amina said. The Education CS noted that they had not recorded a single case where an examination has been leaked. Thursday marks the fourth day of KCSE 2018 where 664,550 candidates across 10,077 centres are sitting for their papers countrywide. The exam is being invigilated by 37,978 teachers. A total of 20,156 officers have been deployed to provide security and 5,039 drivers tasked with delivery of exam materials. Read: KCSE starts with new orders to curb cheating Also read: No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned