Jubilee MPs and two governors have dismissed reports of a fresh ICC probe on poll violence in Kenya, saying opponents of Deputy President William Ruto are behind it. They said it is an underhand tactic that will not stop Ruto from becoming Kenya’s next President. The leaders spoke on Sunday during a service at the Presbyterian Church of East Africa Gaaki in Tetu. DP Ruto was present. "These so-said ICC reports are being propagated by enemies of the people. But no evil scheme will stop an idea whose time has come," Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa said. "Nothing can come between President Uhuru Kenyatta and the DP." Speakers said the allegations of fresh investigations into the 2007/8 post-election violence are being made by selfish leaders. Tetu MP James Gichuhi said, "You were taken in The Hague with the President and you emerged victorious. You will still emerge a winner in this witch-hunt, and eventually be our President." Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga said the development in Kenya is a result of the good working relations between the President and the DP. “No one should accept cat-and-mouse games that will divert attention from development," he said. Migori governor Okoth Obado said, "The Uhuru-Ruto union is what Kenya yearned for. They have changed our way of politics. That is the kind of leadership that would make future generations benefit." Also see: [VIDEO] I don't mind working with Obado, I don't care what people say - Ruto Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said Kenyans have already made up their minds on who will succeed Uhuru in 2022. His South Mugirango counterpart Sylvanus Osoro said the 2022 presidential race is a done deal. "In Kisii, we have made a decision. It is development and more development. We have risen above empty story-telling by some leaders. I urge Mt Kenya to remain steadfast in backing Ruto," he said. MPs Anthony Kiai (Mukurweini), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Rahab Mukami (Woman Rep, Nyeri), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Michael Muchira (Ol Joro Orok), Richard Tongi (Nyaribari Chache) were present. Others are Kanini Kega (Kieni), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), Patrick Mariru (Laikipia West), Samuel Gachobe (Subukia), Githua Wamacukuru (Kabete), Wangui wa Ngirici (Woman Rep, Kirinyaga) and Ngunjiri Wambugu of Nyeri Town.  Deputy President William Ruto (C) participates in the Dr Gakuru Wahome Memorial Half Marathon 10km race on Sunday, November 11, 2018 /EUTYCAS MUCHIRI Earlier, the DP participated in the Dr Gakuru Wahome Memorial Half Marathon where he completed the 10km race. He urged Nyeri leaders to continue implementing the former governor's development blueprint. Dr Wahome died in a road crash in November last year. The race attracted more than 5,000 participants. In the men’s half marathon, Titus Ekiru from Nandi emerged the winner. He was followed by Titus Kipruto from Elgeyo Marakwet and Josphat Kiprotich from Nandi. In the women's race Lydiah Njeri from Nyandarua clinched victory, Maryanne Wangari from Nakuru was second while Carolyne Cheptonui from Kericho emerged third. Click here for the latest political news