 Revenge killings are a
common feature amongst nomads everywhere in the world, including Somalia's
myriad clans that often fuelling a complex web of the unstoppable circle of
violence. In the past few weeks,
such clan feud has left over 100 dead and more than 200 others seriously
wounded in the disputed Sool region in northern Somalia. The region, together
with Sanaag and Aayn, are all claimed by Somaliland and Puntland states ,and in
the recent past been an epicentre of deadly clan violence, including between
Puntland and Somaliland States. The latest violence in
the village of Dhumay in Sool region, which is 45km south of the regional
capital Las Aanod, started in early September after a man was killed. The two
men belonged to the feuding communities, which have clashed before — recently a
year ago — under the same circumstances. The story is the same
every time and is ignited by revenge. In Dhumay, the slain man's close
relatives revenged, prompting a circle of revenge killings that ended up into a
full-blown war between the Bahararsame and the Qayaad subsub clans of the
Dulbahante, a subclan of the Darod. As hugely reported by
local media, the war involved heavy weapons, including artillery fire, mortars
and heavy machine guns, used by both sides. The fighting has defied all
attempts to stop it from clan chiefs, clerics and even the Somalia government.
The violence is the most trending news item on traditional media, digital and
on social media, as well with a barrage of attacks in form of volleys of mostly
hate speech comments from interested parties.  COUSINS’ BATTLE Counter accusations by
Puntland and Somaliland administrations of abating the violence has added
another new twist into the battle and a hardline stance from the feuding
sides. The sad part is that
the Dhumay violence is actually between cousins from the Dulbahante of the
larger Darod clan, with divergent political affiliations for Puntland and
Somaliland respectively. War is generally very
expensive. In the Dhumay violence, the war is said to be financed by relatives
in Diaspora and local businessmen. The Somaliland and Puntland are also accused
of secretly supporting either side. No evidence is, however, available to prove
this possible notion. However, what is known
is that when your clan is involved in a battle, there is a harambee to buy
food, fuel, weapons and ammunition for your cousins in the battlefield.
This harambee in Somali is called 'qaaran', from the root word 'qaran', which
literally means a State or nation. The state in this case here is the clan.
This gives you a hint as to how important clans are regarded by Somalis.  TIT FOR TAT What actually fuels
revenge killings amongst nomads is the idea of being seen as weak. In the
Somali context the revenge is often pre-meditated or planned. Relatives of a
slain man or woman would actually sit and carefully choose their target from
the other clan that they plan to revenge against. This could also
possibly be the cause of the renewed tribal clashes in Marsabit, Moyale,
Mandera and Wajir counties pitting the Borana, the Burji, the Gare, the Gabra
and the Rendiles on one side and the Somali clans on the other. These Kenyan
tribes are predominantly nomads as well. To break it down for
you, if a man, for example from clan X, kills another from clan Y, close
relatives of the slain clan Y man would arguably sit and plan to kill another
man of the calibre or equal in status from clan Z. Talk of tit for tat. So, for example, if
their dead brother was a businessman, they will target to a businessman from
the other clan, who is closest to him by blood. And if he is a farmer, then the
closest blood farmer from the other side, unfortunately becomes the target and
vice versa. Most of the killings
in Somalia — which often go unresolved — are as a result of this crazy nomadic
mentality, pushed purely by ego and the struggle for supremacy. In the nomadic
life, only the strong survive and no group wants to be the losers. In the
process, you get two sides well prepared to take the battle to the wire, with
no sign of weariness. This explains why violence in Somalia or amongst nomads
is never ending. Sadly, it is their way of life.  BIGGEST KILLER More than often — during
such circles of violence —, many innocent people are caught up in the crossfire.
Stray bullets and mortar rounds are the biggest killers in Somalia simply
because those fighting are on the alert and often evade direct fire from their
opponents because they fight from barricaded frontlines strengthened by sand or
walls. Bullets and mortars
are blind and don't choose who to hit and so you find totally unaware persons
far from the battle field or theatre of battle who unfortunately end up as
victims or collateral damage as known in military language. This leaves me
wondering when will we, the Somalis or the general nomadic communities, realise
that we cannot win against each other. It is time to stop this primitive
behaviour of revenge killings, which actually ends up claiming more souls than
the one single soul we so desperately fight for. The following message
is for the cousins fighting in Dhumay, Sool region, and all those supporting or
simply watching as the brothers senselessly decimate each other. They should
remember the famous Somali saying: "Dagal wiil kuma dhasho, wiil ba ku
dhinta". “War does not give you a son, it takes a son away”.  DID YOU KNOW? That Somalis are
composed of 4.5 major clans and minorities grouped together to form half a clan.
The four major clans are Hawiye, Dir, Darod and Rahanweyn or Digil and Mirifle.
Minorities include the Bantu or the Jareerweyne, the Banaadiri, the Bajuni, the
Madibaan, the Tumaal, the Yibir and many other smaller communities.  That the clan acts
like an insurance system. It is expected that closest relatives or clan members
ought to defend and support each other. You are required to chip into a clan
harambee or qaaran whenever a calamity befalls them. Calamities could be
natural as in droughts or man made like in war. Each clan acts like a state and
has a council of elders, who manage its internal affairs and represent them
during negotiations with other clans.  Mohamed is a Somalia expert and former Correspondent based in Mogadishu.  