Public power distributor Kenya Power yesterday announced 63 per cent drop in profits for the year ended June 30, 2018 due to unpaid bills. The firm’s net profit for the year under review dropped to Sh1.9 billion from Sh5.28 billion last year. Gross profit dipped by 59.4 per cent to Sh3.08 billion despite almost tax provision shrinking to Sh1.17 billion from Sh2.37 billion in 2017. Acting managing director Jared Othieno said the firm was forced to set a side Sh6 billion in bad debt provisions in line with new accounting standards that become operational starting January. “The International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS9 ) forced us to provide for all pending collections of more than 30 day. This, together with increased transmission and distribution costs that went up 14 per cent to Sh 39.63 billion dented our profit margins,” Othieno said. These financial results come barely a month after the company it issued profit warning, citing depressed economic environment, poor hydrological condition, prolonged election cycle, and delayed review of retail electricity tariffs. Shareholders who received a dividend of Sh0.50 per share last year went home empty handed yesterday after the company announced a nil offer. Even so, the firm’s total revenue rose to Sh125.85 billion from Sh120.74 billion helped by a 2.3 percent growth in electricity sales of Sh95.46 billion. It sold 8.4 billion units during the year compared to 8.2 billion the previous year. This year, Kenya Power has been riddled in several corruption allegations that saw former MD Ken Tarus and his predecessor Ben Chumo arraigned in court in July with six others, denied more than six charges of economic crimes, abuse of office and conspiracy to defeat justice in purchase of substandard transformers worth over Sh409 million. Last month, Kenya Power was forced to stick to tariffs approved by the Energy Regulatory Commission and set up billing query centres countrywide in an out-of-court agreement with lawyer Apollo Mboya. The lawyer filed a class action suit against Kenya Power in January, accusing the power man of abusing its monopoly and dominance following allegations of hiked power bills. Kenya Power was the worst performer at the Nairobi Securities Exchange yesterday, with its share having shed 2.78 per cent to close the week at Sh3.50. It has lost a whopping 70 per cent in value since August when it hit a high of Sh12.