The Kenyan duo of Ryan Randiek and Albert Njogu eased to the third round of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) East Africa Junior circuit’s first leg after registering wins in their second leg matches yesterday at Nairobi Club. Randiek sailed through, thanks to his 6-2, 6-2 win over Youssef Baccouche of France while Njogu tossed out Denzel Seetso of Botswana 6-1,6-1 to book places in the third round where they join compatriot Derrick Ominde, who had qualified on Tuesday evening. The hard-hitting Randiek showed early signs of making it to the third round as he took a four-game lead after breaking his opponent’s serves twice and made good use of his, to ease pressure on his side. He, however, conceded the fifth game but made amends in the subsequent game to stretch his lead to 5-1.The Frenchman pulled one more but his efforts were put off as he lost the eighth game to Randiek and the opening set. Things were not different in the second set as Randiek commanded proceedings from onset and conceded two games which could not stop him from advancing to the next round. Following the win, Randiek will meet Damien Laporte of Seychelles in the third round. Laporte won in similar sets of 6-0 over Aryan Esmaeilpourfallan of Iran. Randiek attributed the win to his ability of combining both power and tact. He said: “It wasn’t a tough match as anticipated but I managed to get a win after realising his weakness in the first game of the first set. He had good strokes but I countered them by playing the ball to the edges of the court and slicing once an opportunity presented itself. I am looking forward to renew my rivalry with Laporte who has been training in Spain. It’s going to be tough but I hope I will emerge victorious.” Similarly, Njogu had an easy time in court, edging out Seetso who struggled to make successful and strong returns hence bowed out of the race. Njogu is set to play Devin Badenharts of South Africa in the third round after the latter beat Tunes Talavar of Iran in sets of 6-4,6-3 in his second round encounter. Ominde who had a rest day yesterday will play Galfinger Rostislav of Kazakhstan, who won 6-2,6-0 in the second round against Natnael Ahmed of Ethiopia. The remaining Kenyan girl in the tournament Sneha Kotecha will take on Seke Onia of Belgium in the third round. Sneha qualified on Tuesday after her 6-0, 6-1 win over Occeane Mallevre of France.