Public Service Vehicle operators have been banned from accessing Nairobi city centre from Monday next week. In a public notice in one of the dailies yesterday, acting county secretary Pauline Kahiga announced that the county government made changes to the omnibus termini routes. The notice states that all PSVs accessing the CBD from Jogoo and Lusaka roads will pick and drop passengers at the Muthurwa terminus. Commuters using Waiyaki Way, Uhuru Highway, Kipande and Limuru roads will have their final stop at Muranga Road Fig tree terminus A. Matatus from Thika Road including Ruiru and Kiambu Road will stop at Muranga Road Fig tree terminus B. All PSVs that go past Ruiru but branch off before Kenol Town on Nyeri/Meru - Nairobi Road, will stop at Desai road terminus. The notice further indicates that all vehicles going past Kenol on Nyeri/Meru-Nairobi road and all upcountry buses on Uhuru Highway will be stationed at Park Road terminus. Ngara Road terminus will be the final stop for vehicles using Juja Road, Ring Road Ngara and Park Road to access CBD. "All Urban and peri-urban routes from Mombasa Road and Langata road will use Hakati terminus," reads the notice. Railways terminus will be used by all urban and peri-urban routes from Ngong Road. All high capacity PSVs from upcountry will be stationed at the Machakos terminus. PSVs such as City Hoppa, Kenya Bus Services which serve multiple routes within the city will be stationed at Central Bus Station. "The operators are required to take note that the above changes take effect as from December 3, 2018, and all previous gazette notices allocating any other place as picking and dropping areas within CBD are hereby revoked and become null and void as from Monday," read the notice. County executive member for transport Mohammed Dagane told the Star that with enough enforcement, the changes will be effective. However, matatu owners did not take the notice politely, stating that the county government is never serious when it comes to the matatu sector. Matatu Welfare Association chairman Dickson Mbugua said the notice is inappropriate, even as Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai opted to preserve his comments until Monday. "Is the county government aware of the capacity of these termini?, some of them such as Fig Tree, New Park and Ngara Road termini are already full?" Mbugua said. He further said that Muthurwa terminus had been taken over by hawkers and the termini area is in bad condition with no lights, bad carpeting and cannot accommodate all matatus using Jogoo Road. "The county should come up with solutions of transporting commuters from the termini to the CBD and vice versa," Mbugua said. He added that Matatu owners are open for consultations over the issue before the ban. Removing matatus pick up and drop off points from the CBD is however not new news to city dwellers. Back in 2016, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero attempted to remove PSVs from the CBD but changed his tone after operators vowed to stay put until they were allocated alternative parking areas. He had earlier ordered all PSVs parked on ungazetted areas to be towed to the county general stores, saying they are causing disorder and congestion. Last year on September 17, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko banned PSVs from accessing the city centre in an attempt to decongest the CBD. However, Sonko changed his mind two days later and postponed the implementation. In turn, Sonko set strict conditions including compliance with the law and warned PSVs against double parking, making U-turns at undesignated points and noise pollution. To enhance self-regulation, Matatu owners hired traffic marshals and designated them at various stages in order to ensure members comply with the law and road use regulations. The traffic Marshalls up to date are still monitoring the PSVs at the various designated stages within the CBD. Click here for the latest political news   