The Kitui government wants residents to use renewable energy to help in environmental conservation. Deputy Governor Wathe Nzau said on Monday that they will develop a master plan to promote clean energy sources, including solar, biomass and wind. They will also reduce its operation costs. In Kitui, Nzau said they will work with development partners and NGOs to formulate the document and ensure its implementation succeeds. He spoke at Kitui Energy Centre in Kitui town. He led a team of county officials, including Environment and Natural Resources executive John Makau, and NGO staff in studying renewable technologies. “To ensure our county is properly lit, we need to light our rural villages where over 90 per cent of our population live,” he said. Centre manager Nahashon Weru took them through the tour. They visited the sections dealing with biomass, solar and energy-saving jiko. Across the globe, focus has shifted to renewable energy to combat global warming, which is blamed on high demand for fossil fuel. The clean sources reduce pressure on the grid and demand for fossil fuel power. They save money for ratepayers and enable people to breathe cleaner air by displacing emissions and helping in the war on climate change. Economic growth Most communities or countries are modernising their power sectors by building low-carbon economies that are able spur economic development for decades. Adoption of renewable and sustainable sources will enable most villages across Kitui county to access safe and affordable energy, Nzau said. Executive Makau said electricity charges have become unaffordable even to the county government and the plan will provide a lasting solution to the problem. “The use of renewable energy is feasible in Kitui county. It’s the way to go for the county to become more prosperous,” he said. Head of the Inpower Campaign George Mwangala said his group is advocating renewable energy following the ban on charcoal production. “Using renewable energy gives people, who previously produced charcoal, an alternative source of income,” he said. “Renewable energy is not only affordable and sustainable, but also helps to reduce health complications like chest pain and eye problems resulting from use of charcoal.” 