Siaya governor Cornell Rasanga has proposed scrapping the Sh30 million Wards Development Fund in favour of flagship county projects. The plan is part of a supplementary budget for tarmacking roads and constructing a stadium. Speaking at St Adrian Catholic Church in North Alego on Sunday, Rasanga said his administration has decided to scrap the wards allocation and the resources will be used for flagship projects. “I have in the last five years allocated close to Sh150 million to facilitate development in wards but they have not achieved much. That is why I have changed tack and resorted to key projects, including tarmacking of Siaya-Sirembe and Bondo-Nango roads that support the fish trade,” he said. The governor’s decision has been backed by his allies to re-direct funds for the next four years. Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi said the flagship projects will transform the county’s economy and benefit more residents. The governor said the Wards Development Fund is used for projects that have had little impact on residents. But MCAs have rejected the proposal and vowed to shoot down the supplementary budget. Central Alego MCA Leonard Oriaro led his colleagues to accuse governor Rasanga of bribing MCAs to pass the supplementary budget scrapping the ward fund. But Atandi said the MCAs should not worry as the proposal will benefit them. He said Kakamega county has the biggest stadium and health facility while Makueni has a juice factory that supports farmers. MCAs should allow Rasanga to implement key projects for his legacy, he said. Atandi said as the secretary of the Siaya County Leadership Forum he will whip all leaders to give Rasanga space and time to deliver the projects. Senator James Orengo and Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo have supported Rasanga. They asked the MCAs to end their wrangles for the sake of development of the county. Odhiambo said the governor’s flagship projects are unstoppable, arguing that all counties — and even the President — have legacy projects. He said counties are now focusing on flagship projects.