Since
the launch of the SGR services last year, the project has become a significant component
of the country’s overall infrastructure revitalisation and transformation. The
Makadara Express, which operates four trains daily between Nairobi and the port
city of Mombasa, has hauled over 1.9 million passengers. The passenger service
has become safe, efficient and punctual as it takes only four hours between the
two cities. To
handle increasing demand, coaches on the route have been increased from 11 to
20, while online booking has been introduced to improve the interface with
customers. Significantly, mobility services for the physically challenged and
refreshment facilities are now in place at various terminals. Cargo
services came on board at the start of this year and the uptake has been
positive. Cumulatively, the SGR has moved over two million tonnes (twenty foot
equivalent container units). The target is to increase the number of trains
from the current 8 to 12. Bulk
cargo freight has been launched. Transportation of non-containerised cargo has
already started in earnest. The main relief line to the conventional cargo area
yards at Mombasa Port is ready, and is expected to break bulk cargo like grains,
fertilizer, steel and clinker. To
provide human capacity, the Railway Training Institute has trained over 2,000
staff, who are already working in the sector. Some 100 students are undergoing training
in China. Any
transport system is only as important as the reach of its corridor and the network
that feeds it. Thus, the 120-kilometer SGR Phase 2A between Nairobi and Naivasha
is progressing well and the few challenges that recently beset it have been
resolved amicably. The project is underway and expected to be ready next year.
The line from Naivasha to Kisumu will be undertaken on the completion of Phase
2A. The
modernisation of the Nairobi Commuter Rail will be done under World Bank
funding. KRC is building new stations in Ruiru, Dandora, Githurai, Kahawa, Mwiki,
Embakasi Village, Athi River and Kikuyu for this service. KRC will also set up
economic and logistics centers in Athi River and Suswa. SGR
freight operations have greatly boosted cargo transportation and port
efficiency. Mombasa port is the most connected in the region with at least 33
shipping lines providing direct connectivity to more than 80 ports globally. SGR
has lowered conventional cargo volumes and congestion, positioning the port as
a logistics hub. Some 1,300 containers arrive at the port daily, with 800 being
loaded to the trains bound for the Nairobi Inland Container Depot. Thanks
to SGR freight services, the Kenya Ports Authority is now operating around the
clock. SGR
has proved that it is uneconomical to move cargo by road. Moving cargo by train
translates into less wear and tear on the road, while significantly
contributing to economic growth. It also bolsters value addition on Kenyan
exports. Operationally,
KRC, in conjunction with the operator China Road & Bridge Corporation have
ensured timelines are respected and adhered to due to efficiency. The
impact of SGR is being felt across the business and commercial spectrum, giving
credence to the government’s strategic objective to develop infrastructure in
the country. We
have delivered an environmentally sound public transport system with minimal
damage to the ecosystem. We have revamped the country's dilapidated railway
transport system after more than a century. Jobs have been created for our
people, while our youth have a chance to acquire high-level skill sets for the
sector. Local businesses, including suppliers, have a stake in the SGR project,
which translates in economic growth. We are in talks with transporters to
explore how they can leverage the SGR. We have ensured the contractor
undertakes programmes along the corridor to improve the livelihood of communities. Land
compensation for Project Affected Persons remains a challenge, but we are in
the process of finalising all claims to ensure the project proceeds on time. Certain
aspects of the relations between Chinese nationals working for the SGR project
and their Kenyan counterparts have raised eyebrows. In cases of proven
breaches, we have taken concrete steps to find closure. KRC
will endeavour to achieve excellence and to benchmark SGR services with the
world's best operated railway systems.  The author is the acting MD, Kenya Railways
Corporation    