Trouble is brewing within the leadership of Athletics Kenya (AK) Western region as a section of the leaders demand for the suspension of the long-serving chairman Francis Afundi and assistant treasurer Fridah Okwomi over alleged misappropriation of funds. The officials claim that the two have misappropriated funds meant for facilitation of the annual Kakamega Forest Marathon. The region’s executive committee led by regional secretary general, Homar Mugalitsi, 1st vice chairman Patrick Kipsang and public relations officer, Kioko Chate among other members have called for the immediate suspension of the two for lack of transparency and abuse of office. The two are said to have withdrawn Sh249,000 of the Sh250,000 deposited to their regional bank account to help facilitate the programs without the consent of the executive and the money cannot be accounted for. The funds were to be used to prepare for the Kakamega Forest Marathon scheduled for November 24. In a meeting held at a Kakamega hotel on Monday to chart the way forward in preparation of the race, it was resolved that Afundi and Okwomi be suspended pending investigation into the disappearance of the Sh250,000 from the regional bank account. Afundi and Okwomi were not present during the meeting. “As we prepare for this big event, a number of teething issues have come up among them lack of transparency among the members of the executive. We received money meant to facilitate the programs in the run-up to the marathon but we have learned that the money has been withdrawn without the due consent of the executive committee,” said the secretary general. “Members are not happy with and we have therefore decided to take measures to correct the situation in order to make the marathon successful. This is why we are calling for accountability of every cent withdrawn under the signature of the chairman and Assistant treasurer before 24th this month as we plan for the Annual General Meeting to oust them procedurally,” the secretary general added. He said members of the executive have put a caution to restrict any more transactions on the bank account until everything is resolved. “We shall follow the right procedure as we liaise with the national office and call for the Annual General Meeting before November 24t to ratify whatever action we shall take. We are compelled to enforce article 6 of the constitution,” Mugalitsi added. “This is a national event that has already been captured in AK calendar and we shall not sit and watch few individuals bring it into disrepute,” said Kipsang the 1st vice chairman, adding that this is painting the association in a bad light and those involved should face the full force of the law. The executive members also said that the chairman had personalised the regional office as though it was his personal property, going to an extent of locking them out and disappearing with the keys. When reached on the phone, Afundi refuted and laughed off the allegations. He called on the disgruntled officials to prepare tangible prove to implicate him in such act. He termed the allegations as false and unfounded. He referred them to the chief coordinator, George Murila for more explanation. The regional chairman asked the officials who have any issues with him and the assistant treasurer to follow the right procedure rather than rush to the press with unsubstantiated claims. “If there is any problem within the executive, we all know the procedure to follow. We don’t sort our issues in the media. I have not done anything wrong and those accusing me should produce tangible evidence to do so,” Afundi said.