Many Kenyan biographies are predictable. They are actually broad eulogies. But not Jagi Gakunju’s. The immediate former CEO of Africa Air Rescue aptly titled his memoir, Living on the Edge. It’s all about perilous exploits in the bush and high drama in boardrooms. He calls these, ‘Adventures in business and the wild’. Jagi’s exploits range from trekking and hitchhiking across East Africa to sleeping in the bush in many of the region’s forests. It’s a journey of cycling (he remains an ardent bicycle rider), motorcycling and climbing mountains, including Mt Kenya, Mt Kilimanjaro, Mt Elgon, Aberdares, Longonot, Ngong Hills and Mt Kulal. Jagi has climbed Mt Kenya 14 times, two of those with his young sons. The former CEO has also explored expansive caves under Mt Suswa, south of the Longonot, and camped in Samburu, Tsavo and many times in the Mara. With 16 fellow Uvumbuzi Club members, he also undertook the treacherous road excursion to the Okavango Delta in Botswana in 1989. No one knew how to get there, but they knew the journey would take them through Tanzania, Zambia, possibly Zimbabwe and finally Botswana. Initially they travelled by bus then wound up on foot. After many days of hitch-hiking on trailers and tottering to exhaustion that most times led to animosity between Jagi and those he had coaxed to join him in the excursion, the ‘swinging seventeen’ got to the Okavango Delta. Their last trek to the destination was unwittingly through a game reserve that was home to many wild animals. At one time when his travelling theatre group attended a festival in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, Jagi became involved in fortune-telling, reading palm.  CORPORATE WORLD Jagi had his share of drama in the corporate world. At the Heritage Insurance, where he worked in 1977, he played detective and together with the CID, unearthed a scam where pickup vans were being stolen, converted into meat vans in the bush in Ongata Rongia and registered anew. While he worked for Alico, he smashed a scam that involved employees of the Policy Owners Service department, applying for and getting loans using the names of policyholders and a fictitious bank account. In the 1980s, he sniffed out another insurance fraud in Sierra Leone, which involved policy owners forging death certificates and their relatives claiming compensation. In Liberia, he found out that people genuinely died but their names continued to appear as policyholders and as members of staff in institutions such as the army. “When I asked why, I was told that the individual had indeed died but his job, and even his identity, had been ‘inherited’ by a relative”. In these memoirs, Jagi recalls how he learned of a plot by the American government to overthrow the Liberian government headed by Samuel Doe. The CIA was passing money through Alico, money that was then paid to people unconnected to Alico in Sierra Leone. When Jagi asked about this money, his boss in West Africa swore him to secrecy before explaining the CIA angle. Jagi, who belongs to more than 10 conservation organisations, converted his inheritance of 20 acres of highly arable land in Nyeri into a conservancy, known as Wajee Nature Park.