Nairobi county has proposed a new policy that will affect all kiosks in tough new measures meant to regulate trade and beautify the city. Under the policy, traders will be required to paint their kiosks green and yellow while those seeking to put up new ones must seek approval from the county. The existing kiosks will all be repainted and those that stand on road reserves and other unauthorised locations will be brought down. The proposed policy is currently before the county executive committee awaiting approval. Devolution chief officer Jairus Musumba, said the document will ensure there is a planned erection of kiosks in estates and along the roads. This, he said, will help the county map out traders and businesses for easy licensing and ensure a clean city is maintained. "Currently, we are losing money because there are many kiosks whose owners do not pay any fee to the county," Musumba said at a workshop in Mombasa last Thursday. He said the policy would also help address insecurity as a result of the random construction of kiosks, especially in slums. Some residents, especially those in BuruBuru, Umoja and Donholm estates have protested against the uncontrolled construction of kiosks. They said criminals were using the kiosks as hideouts to carry out attacks on them. Musumba said the policy would rein on cartels that currently collect monthly rent from traders operating in “their” kiosks. The official said the policy would also help tame grabbers who have been taking advantage of recent demolitions of illegal structures by the county to destroy kiosks and evict genuine traders. The county has in the recent past demolished several structures across the city in a bid to reclaim road reserves and riverbanks and restore sanity and order in the trade. Demolitions have taken place in Kileleshwa, Umoja, Mombasa Road, Outering Road, Allsoaps and BuruBuru estates. Last month, Nairobi governor Mike Sonko stopped the demolitions following protests from traders whose kiosks were destroyed. Last week, Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja and Embakasi East MP Babu Owino criticised Sonko and his administration after several structures in Utawala were demolished. 