Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji wants State officers facing charges to step aside until cases are dispensed. Speaking on Citizen TV, Haji said leaving accused persons to continue holding offices hampers prosecution. A number of national and county government officials, parastatal bosses, and Judiciary staff are facing various charges in court. He said such officers can utilise government resources to intimidate witnesses ending up undermining the process. Most of them are facing corruption and economic crimes charges while others have pending criminal cases. "My concern is that most of the still remain in office and worse off is that we have orders allowing them to continue enjoying office perks." Haji further raised concerns over bail and conservatory orders given to suspects saying the management of the same is wanting. High profile individuals facing serious charges include Migori Governor Okoth Obado and Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri is also in court on charges of fraud arising from flawed SGR compensation payout. In the list are also parliamentarians, parastatal chiefs among others. A number of the suspects have secured court orders allowing them to continue serving in their capacities. Obado was bailed out in the murder, corruption and illegal guns possession cases he is facing. Mwilu secured an order stopping her prosecution in a bank fraud case while Swazuri was allowed to access his office. Garissa Governor Ali Korane is also in court over the attempted murder of former finance executive. On Obado's case, Haji expressed his disappointment saying the governor made a public address at an international forum despite the charges. The DPP further lamented of officials who asked to present credentials in a foreign country for ambassadorial positions yet have active cases in court. Read: DPP taps top lawyers for corruption battle "What message are we sending to Kenyans. Our laws are clear that people need to step aside on integrity grounds," he added. Haji said he doesn't have a problem with the Executive as most of those implicated in graft have stepped aside. "It is independent constitutional institutions that are not agreeing that the laws be applied across the board." The DPP said they will go to Parliament so that some of the laws shielding suspects are amended. "We will ask Parliament to ensure that officers in ongoing cases should not be paid. They can be paid in lump sum once the cases end." Read: Troubled Uhuru now banks on graft war to secure legacy Click here for the latest political stories