The unity pact between President Uhuru
Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga, popularly known as the 'handshake', has left an opposition vacuum that MPs claim has enhanced Parliament's oversight role. Last
Tuesday, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi told the House that Cabinet secretaries are not above the law and should honour invites from committees to answer their questions. Muturi
said CSs have no excuse not to appear before the committees and
warned that stern action will be taken against those who fail to honour the
invites. He
was responding to MPs' concerns. Muturi
directed committee chairpersons to furnish the
names of the CSs who deliberately snub invites. “If
a committee determines that a person deliberately failed to appear, the team
should communicate to us so  the Powers and Privileges Committees can issue
summons,” Muturi said. So has the handshake really strengthened Parliament's hand? The
12th Parliament began with persistent House boycotts by Nasa lawmakers who pledged not to recognise Uhuru as the legitimately elected President. Speaking
to Siasa, Majority
Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali said Parliament has changed its mode of operation
since the handshake but superficial cordiality was not an automatic guarantee the
President's agenda would sail through. Washiali
said the opposition and government factions in Parliament have been weeded out
and they were working as a team for the best interest of Kenyans. "As
it stands now, it is not automatic for the President to get support from
Parliament. Issues brought to the House must be logical for us to
support them. With or without the handshake, our role of keeping the government in check is still there," the Mumias East MP said. "As Majority Chief Whip, my role is to convince members to go along with
government decisions. But at the end of the day, the MPs represent
Kenyans and they always consult their electorates." He
said that the "new team of legislators" is geared towards supporting the
President in fighting graft and effectively implementing its role of
budgeting and oversight. "Recently,
Jubilee MPs opposed the decision of government during the
VAT debate. The government almost got defeated. This means the new system
in Parliament is working for Kenyans," Washiali said. Wrangles
in the National Assembly began after the Supreme Court upheld the election
of Uhuru during the repeat presidential poll on October 26 and his inauguration in November. The
MPs resolved to boycott parliamentary activities, including passing crucial
laws and vetting nominees for public office. But
in January, Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka declared that
he recognises Uhuru as the legitimate President of Kenya. The
MP, who was elected on Nasa's Ford Kenya party ticket, told the media at
Parliament Buildings that Uhuru was legally in office — diverging sharply from the alliance's stance. "Rais wa Kenya ni Uhuru.
Ukiangalia kisheria aliapishwa akapewa instruments of
power. Yeye
ndiye president wa Kenya," he said. ("Uhuru is
the President of Kenya, having been sworn in and given the instruments of
power.") President
Kenyatta officially opened the 12th Parliament despite Nasa MPs skipping the
occasion, arguing that the Supreme Court's nullification of his August 8
reelection voided authority. He
went ahead to address the joint sitting of the National Assembly and the
Senate, both dominated by Jubilee. But
barely a week after Uhuru and Raila entered into a unity pact with the handshake on March 9, the long-standing
tension between the opposition and Jubilee largely evaporated. Minority leader John Mbadi said at the time, “There will be no party alignments of Jubilee
or Nasa. We will be handling issues the way the parliamentary system should
work. The House will oversight the Executive without being petty.” Mbadi,
who is also the ODM party chairman and Suba South MP, said they had resolved to call off the House boycotts. The Raila Odinga-led ODM party enjoys numerical strength in the National
Assembly and Senate, after President Kenyatta's Jubilee Party. Kalonzo
Musyoka's Wiper Party follows. Recently,
Raila was appointed the African Union High Representative for
Infrastructure Development in Africa. Last week,  Kalonzo — Raila's running mate during the August 8 presidential
election — was elevated to the role of Kenya's special peace envoy. Public
Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi said the handshake of cooperation has not
been entrenched in Parliament and MPs  would continue "slaying the dragon
of corruption". "PAC is doing serious reports, despite the
handshake. We are playing our role more robustly without fear, favour or
influence of whatever kind. Corruption is the number one threat to Kenya's survival. Parliament must play its part. The new PAC is more than equal to the task," the Ugunja MP said. Wandayi, who is also ODM director of political affairs, said the minority party in the
House was steadfast in providing effective oversight to Uhuru's administration. "The
handshake is out there but not in Parliament. As MPs from the minority
party, we are doing our role of oversight effectively. We are putting the
government under close check," he said. Previously, opposition MPs had on many occasions given House and committee activities a
wide berth. This angered their Jubilee counterparts, who accused them of
serving their own interests. In
November last year, MPs proceeded on a three-week recess, a day after resuming
sittings. Muturi
had told the lawmakers of challenges entangling the House in dealing with some
business due to the lack of Nasa's representation on departmental committees “My office has received many petitions from
Kenyans but my hands remain tied as they cannot be dispensed without first
being tackled by committees,” Muturi told members. By then, Nasa was yet to pick its members for leadership positions in the House before they had taken a short recess. 