Has the supervision of the conduct of the 2018 KCSE morphed into an enterprise? Well, in the last few days Education CS has been cladding in some KCSE 2018 branded merchandise as she traverses selected regions to oversee the examinations. Many are asking when the tendering process for the supply of the classy caps and scarfs was done. Could the CS have ordered her own merchandise at her expense? Questions are now flying about the procurement process and cost of the entire kit and caboodle of the administration of the national examinations. Corridors is confident this is something the good CS has come across and will hopefully be addressing soon.    ****  Prison officers are happy with the grand house cleaning being spearheaded by Correctional Services Principal Secretary Zeinab Hussein. In an unprecedented move, Hussein is said to have cancelled multi-billion tenders awarded by her predecessors which are believed not to have been above board. Sources whispered to Corridors that prison offices are celebrating. They want the PS to crack the whip even harder to net a cartel that has been supplying literally everything to the correctional facilities. One of the items that have been supplied by one man for years is meat. They also complained that promotion is so skewed in favour of one community. While others are forced to face the Public Service Commission interviews, others are alleged to be getting promotions unilaterally. May Hussein’s big broom continue to sweep, they are praying.  ***  We recently told you about a parliamentary clerk who is wielding a lot of power and cutting deals on behalf of members of a departmental committee he is seconded to. As if that is not all, the clerk is as well on the spot for coaching some members considered naïve to direct the committee sessions in a certain manner so as to serve his own interests. Armed with information in his possession courtesy of his position, the clerk usually briefs and drafts questions for some members to pose to witnesses with who he has interacted with prior to their appearance before the committee. Tellingly, the leading questions are supplied to some MP from the northern Kenya with limited literacy. National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai may need to strike before the issue explodes as many MPs are loudly grumbling about the conduct of the officer who also treats them with disdain. We are waiting and will tell you when and if it happens. Click here for the latest political news    