We are halfway through November and it’s like our politicians have taken a chill pill from doing dumb sh*t! No corruption cases have been reported, no government official has been caught stealing or in any form is a scandal...yet. Technically, apart from shida za Obado of playing hide and seek with the cops in the streets of Nairobi and being investigated for lost county cash, not to mention illegal guns, the month has been cool running...The cops have so much free time that they have concentrated all their efforts on the Migori governor. Meanwhile, the President went to China and wasn’t held hostage because of our debt seeing as he came back and left for Paris. While in Paris, UK declared peace will be his legacy. Whether that replaced Big Four remains to be seen. His deputy, William Ruto, is still running across 254 beating siasa huku na kule...In fact Obado's most recent arrest happened under his nose at a function at the Hilton. Arresting Obado at Number Two’s function was very dodgy. #TheRaverend believes it’s all politricks!!! As Kenyans and #TheRaverend are celebrating the fact that we have no scandals or corruption, it’s worth noting that some politicians have already started to campaign for 2022. The Raverend would like to remind them that we are in 2018 and next year is 2019, not 2022. As KCSE enters the third week, and with the November 28 end date approaching, I would like to commend efforts to contain exam cheating. We are living in different times, where kids carry mobile phones into exam rooms and receive answers via WhatsApp or take screenshots of the exam papers, sending them to their accomplices who answer all the questions and send them back. So kudos to CS Amina Mohamed and her team though I’m still waiting for a solution to the teen pregnancy challenge that’s been the highlight of this year's exams. Moving from the classroom to the streets of Nairobi, the Michuki Rules are back and I fully support them with only one exception. Graffiti is a non-issue and is part of the ma3 culture in Kenya. Forcing the ma3 operators to get rid of the graffiti is unfair, especially to all the youth who earn a living and express themselves through the art. The rules on speed governors, safety belts, driving, tout uniform and badges are welcome because they will bring order and sanity in the transport sector, no doubt! Ma3s have terrorised the city and motorists for far too long and it’s time GoK put an end to the madness. Enough is enough. The ma3 menace and impunity have to end. The Raverend feels for all Kenyans who were inconvenienced by the ma3 strike and the high fares, but this was a necessary sacrifice. We can’t be the same guys who complain when lives are lost due to road carnage and still allow the madness to continue...Statistics confirm this year we have had more than 2,000 death on our roads en that has to end, fast. Looking at #TheRaverend's personal life: I have weeding this weekend, the outfit is ready and the line-up is set; will definitely share photos next week. On that personal note, I would like to congratulate my fellow Arch-Bishop of 1824 & Blend Sunday schools, TheRaverend Joe Muchiri, formerly of CFM, for his new bundle of joy! Joe is the proud father of a baby girl just like his fellow Mafisi who are all blessed with girls by Sir Jah #IronyOfLife! To all Raverends and Mafisi we shall be celebrating Joe Muchiri’s graduation from baba zero at all his favorite drinking holes, so when you spot him throw him a rao and top it up with chums for diapers.