Officers from Kabete police station who “rescued” two DCI colleagues nabbed by anti-graft officials on Wednesday will be arrested. The officers are likely to be charged with obstruction of justice. DCI officers Julius Oguma and Constable Charles Macharia, who had been arrested for allegedly taking a bribe, escaped with Sh100,000 “treated bills” they received from a foreigner. They are attached to Kabete police station. “No arrest has been made. The matter will be dealt with administratively now that the operation was foiled,” a top officer privy to the developments at the DCI headquarters said. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission wants the DCI to produce the two officers to face corruption charges. In a statement on Wednesday, the commission said its detectives laid a trap for the two suspects, who escaped after their colleagues fired in the air to scare away the EACC officers. “The two suspects were arrested and handcuffed but were rescued by their colleagues from Kabete police station, who fired several rounds of ammunition to facilitate the escape of the officers,” reads the statement. Spokesperson Yasin Amaro said on the phone that they had asked the DCI to produce the two officers. “We are sure the DCI will also go after the other officers and they will be charged with obstructing justice,” he said. Amaro said the EACC is waiting for a reply from the DCI so the processes to charge the officers can start. “We have worked with the DCI and we are sure the EACC will arraign them in court,” he said. Read: Two arrested cops escape after colleagues fire in the air to scare EACC officers Earlier on Wednesday, 15 officers were arrested in Kwale after being found with Sh11,000 bribes solicited from motorists. The officers reportedly collected the bribes while manning a roadblock on Likoni-Lunga Lunga highway. Kwale police boss David Kosgei said they suspected an anomaly and instructed the cops to surrender whatever they had. “We normally brief officers before we send them on duty and even after returning, we take them through a debrief on whatever case they reported,” he said. Click here for the latest political news