Those making allegations against Deputy President William Ruto, led by Nandi
Hills MP Alfred Keter, are fronted by Baringo senator Gedion Moi. The National Cereals and Produce Board and Ministry of Agriculture provided
a list of businesspersons who sold maize and farmers who were claiming abnormal
payment. We did not see the name of the Deputy President on that list, unless they
have fresh evidence. If they want their 2022 presidential candidate to succeed, I advise them to
use objective leadership but not that which is engineered by a certain family.
The route that Keter and his colleagues are pursuing is not helpful to Kenyans. Politics of dynasties will not help them because they are just being wasted.
We know very well that they are being given a lot of money to make such
statements against Ruto. Kenyans know very well that Keter does not do anything for free. He lacks
moral uprightness and we will soon unmask his behaviours. This agenda is being pushed by money and we don’t take his statements with
any seriousness. With his ugly background, Keter does not even have the
standing to condemn anybody. If they want us to go towards that direction, then we will put in public the
evils they have been doing. Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny has lately been working for Moi’s camp where
they are pushing dynasty politics. When you are in a vantage position like the one being held by Ruto right
now, all arsenals will be leveled against you mercilessly. The more these leaders aim arsenals against the DP, the more his supporters
feel that he is heading in the right direction. As a politician, it is normal
to have enemies. If indeed Ruto bought that land long time ago as they allege, why are they
raising the issue now? When Uhuru Kenyatta was about to clinch the presidency, lots of bad things
were said against him. Now that the President is out of 2022 politics, they
have trained their guns on Ruto. He is the heir apparent. The National Assembly Majority Chief Whip and Mumias East MP spoke to
the Star Click here for
the latest political news