Two Kabete police station officers could face the hangman after being found guilty of murdering three people, including their AP counterpart.  Justice Stella Mutuku yesterday found constables Benjamin Changawa and Stanley Okoti guilty of murdering AP Joseph Obongo and his two relatives Geoffrey Mogoi and Amos Okenye. Obongo was then Bomachonge MP Joel Onyancha’s bodyguard. The three were killed in Kangemi, Nairobi, on October 7, 2014. Mogoi and Okenye were prosecuted after IPOA investigations established unjustified use of firearms. They were facing three counts of murder. Mutuku said the prosecution proved beyond reasonable doubt all the ingredients of murder in all the three counts facing the two cops. Read: Dandora police killings spark outrage “I find that the deceased persons died as shown in the three counts of murder and that their deaths are unlawful. I find sufficient evidence to prove that the accused persons acted outside the law in performing their duties and shot to death the three deceased persons with malice aforethought,” Mutuku ruled. “I reject their respective defence and find that their defence of self-defence is not available to them jointly or to any of them individually.” The two convicts shot their victims at a club in Kangemi. Obongo had arrived at the club with four men including his two relatives. He isolated himself and sat at the back of the club while the rest continued drinking. A waitress asked him to identify himself but he declined. A bouncer approached him to identify himself, but Obongo only showed a pistol and a fight started. Obongo’s relatives and the two others joined the fight but were overpowered by the watchman who later locked Obongo inside the club’s kitchen. Read: State denies executions by police and blames al Shabaab A supervisor called police and three officers on foot patrol arrived. The third officer was left outside the club. They ordered the watchman to unlock and let Obongo out of the kitchen. Then the cops ordered everyone to lie down. Obongo did not lie down, but lifted his pistol in surrender and identified himself as a policeman. Mogoi and Okenye shot the three dead. Each of the deceased had wounds on the head, chest and abdomen. Mutuku said given the nature of injuries inflicted, the intention must have been to kill or maim them. The sentencing date will be next Wednesday.