Obado denied ownership of three guns found at his Lavington home. He was told to record statements with officers from the DCI Serious Crime Unit. Sources said Obado told police he was a licensed gun owner, but only owned one firearm. He told investigators the two other pistols recovered from his Nairobi home belonged to his bodyguards. He said he has five bodyguards who are APs who use his safes in his Nairobi and Migori homes to keep their guns. All government firearms are clearly labelled. The guns that have landed Obado in fresh trouble are two Ceskas recovered from his Lavington home. Obado was nabbed at the hotel’s basement where he took cover after he was told of police presence outside the hotel. A taxi, which police said Obado wanted to use to escape, was at the basement when police arrested the governor. Detectives from the Special Crime Prevention Unit whisked Obado to the old Nairobi area offices before he was transferred to the DCI headquarters in Kiambu. Read: [VIDEO] Okoth Obado arrested over guns netted in EACC raid RUTO TOUR The old Nairobi area is the headquarters of the DCI Special CrimePrevention Unit. Sources said the arrest was sanctioned by DCI chief George Kinoti who yesterday met with top police chiefs from the unit hours before the arrest. EACC investigators, who on Tuesday raided two homes belonging to the governor in Nairobi and Migori, recovered firearms. There has been no official confirmation on the number of weapons recovered. Obado was released on bail on October 24 following his arrest on September 21 in connection with the murder of university student Sharon Otieno. Sharon, who was pregnant with Obado’s baby. Read: EACC raids Obado's Nairobi, Migori homes in Sh2.5bn graft probe Obado has denied being involved in the murder. He was released on Sh5 million bail and two sureties of similar amount. AWAY FROM RAPOGI He is required to comply with stringent bond terms, including staying at least 20km away from Homa Bay county where Sharon’s parents live. Obado’s Rapogi home is within the 20km. Obado hit the ground running after his release and hosted Deputy President William Ruto during his tour of Migori. Click here for the latest political news