Taxpayers are overburdened with huge office rent for government institutions and embassies, a National Treasury report has shown. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, as a result, wants permanent buildings for ministries, departments, agencies and residencies for missions to cut costs. “The government should take a deliberate effort to construct centralised office blocks for all MDAs, and foreign missions that are currently in the rental as this will be a sustainable option in the long run,” part of a 198-page report reads. The recommendations are contained in the 2018 sectoral report on Public Administration and International Relations for the 2018-19 and 2020-21 Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Sports ministry, which is based at Kencom House owned by Kenya Commercial Bank, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, National Police Service Commission, Salaries and Remuneration Commission, Independent Policing Oversight Authority are among state institutions spending millions of taxpayers money on rent. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission located at Integrity Centre used to pay Sh5.83 million monthly rent to the late former Cabinet minister Nicholas Biwott until September, when it bought it at Sh1.5 billion. Read: Raila’s pledge on house rent control though noble, will not yield the desired results “The government should carry out an office space and equipment audit with a view to rationalising,” Rotich says in the report. Auditor General Edward Ouko, in his annual audit reports, has put Kenya’s foreign embassies on the spotlight over mismanagement and high costs of running them. The auditor’s latest report for the year ended June 2017, for instance, reveals the sorry state and abandoned embassies in Washington DC, New York and London forcing diplomats to rent homes costing taxpayers a total of Sh2.3 billion. “Inadequate funding for maintenance and repairs of government-owned properties has resulted in gradual dilapidation of the properties and the need for redevelopment,” Rotich says in the report. Stiff donor funding conditions, poor planning and procurement process are among “systemic challenges” contributing to slowed implementation of capital projects such buildings in MDAs and embassies. The MDAs are told to institutionalise committees tasked with implementation of capital projects and budgets by improving on vetting, appraisal and monitoring and evaluation of projects. “They should also prepare appropriate tender documents on a timely basis to improve procurement processes and implementation of the respective projects,” Rotich says. Click here for the latest political news  