A section of Rift Valley MPs have said rebel MPs from the region have been hired to derail Deputy President William Ruto’s plans of becoming president. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Joshua Kuttuny (Cherangany) and Sila Tiren (Moiben) had been hired as brokers by Baringo senator Gideon to undermine Ruto in Rift Valley. He said that the three had been frequenting the Moi’s family home in Kabarak to collect money, which they use to undermine Ruto’s presidential ambitions. He described Keter, Tiren, and Kuttuny as political failures who masqueraded as representatives of farmers yet they were engaged in a different business of brokering for Gideon and the Moi family. His sentiments were echoed by eleven legislators from the region who held a press conference yesterday said the three rebel MPs were hired to weaken Ruto’s 2022 game plan of ascending to the presidency. Read: Rift farmers and leaders want DP Ruto investigated over maize crisis Led by MPs Caleb Kositany (Soy), Robert Pukose (Endebess) and Kericho senator Aaron Cheruiyot, the leaders termed the three lawmakers as ‘cheap hired machinery’ out to derail the DP. “The three politicians sent on this errand are known brokers, in fact Keter, who fashions himself as a crusader of the oppressed is a known criminal, facing numerous forgery and theft cases amounting to hundreds of millions of shillings,” Kositany said. Other MPs who defended Ruto include Nixon Korir (Langata), William Kisang (Marakwet West), Lodepe Nakara (Turkana Central), Moses Lesonnet (Eldama Ravine), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East), Sylvanus Maritim (Ainamoi), Nelson Koech (Belgut) and Japhet Mutai (Buret). However speaking to the Star on phone yesterday, Gideon said he does not want to be dragged into such issues. The senator said he would prefer leaders to urgently deal with the problems farmers are facing. “I don’t understand what they are talking about. The farmers are suffering and we need to come up with solutions on how to help end the recurrent problems they go through every year,” he said. Kanu branch officials in Rift Valley led by Paul Kibet asked Sudi to stop blaming Gideon whenever Ruto faced problems of his own making. Read: MPs: Ruto wants to bring Congo maize EXPERT COMMENT: MPs in Congo maize claim are Gideon Moi’s hatchet men Click here for the latest political news