Three more KCSE candidates will be deregistered over exam malpractice, KNEC chairman George Magoha has said. Speaking to KTN news on Wednesday, Magoha said two of the students were arrested with cellphones in Northeastern. The other candidate was arrested in a school in Western. "We kept the cellphones on. Someone sent answers during the exams and called at the end of exams demanding to be paid," Magoha said. He said Knec officials and law enforcers tracked the phone signals and arrested the culprits. The Knec boss said it was discovered that those sending the exams were in universities and "special rooms". The latest cases brings to seven, the total number of candidates discontinued from sitting the exam for malpractices. On Monday, Knec deregistered four candidates after they were caught with "foreign material and documentation". Three cases were reported in Garissa while the other was reported in Nairobi when students sat Mathematics Paper 2. "The exams have to be done according to the rules. All those people and students have been arrested. Those students will not continue breaking the law," he said. More on this: Four KCSE candidates deregistered, 40 teachers face probe for cheating Magoha further revealed that over 20 centre managers have also been arrested awaiting prosecution for abetting cheating. He said the school principals were opening exam papers before time and aiding in the smuggling of mobile phones in exam rooms. "We will definitely catch them at the marking process and you can be very sure that the results from the cases will be canceled," Magoha said. He added that some principals, however, helped in catching students who had phones. Magoha, however, declined to reveal the identity of the schools affected for purposes of protecting the privacy of the other candidates. "The only reason I took this job from the president was because of the children. I have been given the freedom to protect the children," Magoha said. In relation to teenage pregnancies, Magoha said parents should teach their children appropriately on sex. "What is right is for me is to go back several months and asking parents to start parenting their children and the issue of sex should not even arise," Magoha said. He said the council is still mulling over the idea of giving candidates who gave birth during the exams supplementary exams later on although he did not give any assurances. "That is an issue which we are dealing with and our challenge has been that various candidates gave birth at different times. It is an issue we are dealing with and we are likely to back with an answer going forward," he said. The KCPE and KCSE exams have been marred with high pregnancy cases where some candidates have ended up sitting their papers in hospital wards. The Knec boss confirmed that KCPE results will be released this month while KCSE before Christmas holidays. Read: Alarm as Kitui reports 110 pregnancy cases during KCSE exams Also read: Five KCSE candidates give birth on exams day one Click here for the latest political news