Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Friday paid a courtesy call to former President Daniel Arap Moi at his Kabarak home in Nakuru. He was accompanied by his son and EALA MP Kennedy Musyoka, Senators Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and his Kitui counterpart Enoch Wambua. Baringo senator and Moi’s son Gideon received the delegation. MPs William Kamket and Memusi Kanchori were also present. During the burial of his father last Friday, Kalonzo said he would visit Mzee Moi. The former President had sent an official invitation to the ex-Vice President. The Wiper leader and his host discussed various issues including his role in the South Sudan peace process. "I wish you well in your new role of midwifing a sustainable peace deal in South Sudan," the former President told Kalonzo, according to his spokesman Dennis Kavisu. Kalonzo briefed his former boss on the new role and promised to keep him informed on the peace process. At the same time, the former President called on all leaders in the country to pursue peace and unity, further calling on them to trust God and seek His guidance in everything they do. "He challenged leaders to focus attention on the less fortunate members in society and shun differences arising from competition for power and positions," Kavisu said. Addressing the media after the visit, Kalonzo thanked God for Mzee Moi's good health. He urged Kenyans to keep praying for the former President. Kalonzo now joins a growing list of top politicians who have visited Moi before. President Uhuru Kenyatta, NASA leader Raila Odinga, Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho and Central Organisation of Trade Unions boss Francis Atwoli are among those who have visited with Moi. Read: Raila visits Moi at his Kabarak home, talk on state of Kenyan nation Also read: Pictures: Uhuru meets Moi, son Gideon at Kabarak Deputy President William Ruto was on May 4, not able to meet the former president when he made a 'casual' visit to Kabarak as Moi had an appointment with his personal doctor. Moe on this: Was DP Ruto blocked from seeing Moi in Kabarak? Click here for the latest political news