Is Nairobi governor Mike Sonko aware of how cartels in Eastlands are colluding with county officials to deny residents water? Water vendors pay county officials to cut off supply, forcing residents to buy from them at exorbitant prices. In some estates, residents have gone without water for three weeks. They are now forced to buy water from the vendors who sell a 20-litre jerrican for Sh20. Umoja estate is the worst hit with a national government official said to be part of the cartel. For how long will the residents be exploited by these unscrupulous cartels?  A clerk of a critical committee of the National Assembly is shamelessly cutting deals on behalf of members. The clerk who behaves like a committee member believes nothing can be done to him. So well-connected in the corridors of power is the clerk that he summons public servants called for questioning by the committee and brazenly extorts money ostensibly on behalf of the committee members. Unknown to his victims, the clerk just shares the proceeds of his corruption with select members in his wing. One livid member of the committee has threatened to draw the House’s attention sooner than later.  Still in Parliament, a group of seasoned MPs is working in a cartel-like manner and extorting money from their first-term colleagues. The MPs have reportedly been collecting money from their ‘novice’ colleagues ostensibly to manage their publicity. The lawmakers reportedly scour the audit reports on the use of their Constituency Development Fund and approach them with a view to helping them avoid being exposed. Nervous and anxious, the first timers fall to the gimmicks. One of them recently found himself in hot soup after he allegedly obtained substantial money from his colleague from Kisii region with the promise of managing his image using the name of a renowned scribe.  A county commissioner from North Rift could soon find himself in trouble. The administration officer who has been dating a married woman for two years since he a took up the posting could soon face a moment of reckoning. The husband to the 36-year-old woman has filed divorce papers after months of agony with the mother of his two children. Click here for the latest political news