A tribute to Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha  I am sure you will all join me in paying tribute to the Leicester City owner who died so tragically when his helicopter crashed at the King Power stadium last weekend. There are so many reasons to mourn this likeable, exceptional man. He was of course behind the appointment of Claudio Ranieri as manager of the club and then backed him financially which enabled Leicester to win the Premier League Championship against all the odds. However, it is behind the scenes that Mr Srivaddhanaprabha was a real hero. He built up an empire selling duty free airport goods in his native Thailand but unlike so many super-wealthy owners, he did not live 3,000 miles away paying little or no attention to his football club. He worked hands on to make Leicester City successful. He personally knew many supporters and showed his appreciation for them with generous gestures such as giving everyone in the stadium free beer and hotdogs when Leicester won the Premier League title. He laid on mince pies for all the fans at Christmas and doughnuts on his birthday. Before a big match he would also fly Buddhist monks from Thailand to say prayers and give spiritual support. Outside football, he helped the people of Leicester by giving generously to local charities and helping to build a brand new hospital. Back home he gave money to small villages to help with sanitation, schools and medicine. When his team won the Premier League title he rewarded 19 players, buying each of them a BMW i8 sports car, painted in the team’s blue and white colours. After the accident, I traveled up to Leicester and could not believe my eyes at the sight of so many flowers, souvenirs, personal notes and tributes to Vichai. It reminded me of the public outpouring of grief when Princess Diana was tragically killed and Kensington Palace was completely surrounded by thousands of floral tributes. One thing is for sure: The world of football and especially the fans and people of Leicester, will never forget this remarkable man.  Sarri looks to tighten his defence Chelsea’s £60m striker Alvaro Morata has hardly been a bargain buy having scored only three goals this season. New signing Olivier Giroud has not found the net at all. However, I am told it is Chelsea’s defence that manager Maurizio Sarri is most concerned about. Only Manchester City and Liverpool have let in less goals this season but Sarri says he needs his defence to improve. I wondered why this obsessed him more than his strikers and found the answer to be his coaching and training in Italy. He pointed out that Juventus have won the Serie A title for the last four years and he believes it is because they have a solid defence and very little gets past them.  Worrying words from Tottenham manager Spurs manager Mauricio Pochettino is under siege — from himself. He is still the man both fans and club owners believe will take them on to great things but time is running out. However, this season Spurs appear to be going backwards. Since arriving in 2014 Pochettino has not won anything! He said this week, “The season so far is strange because my feeling is the worst I’ve had in five years. It’s the worst. It is about learning to compete. It is about learning to be better. Or maybe we are never going to learn because we have some quality but we cannot cross this level.” Dangerous and worrying words from a manager. Spurs are at the top end of the table but they look far from the confident team of last season. Not buying players in the transfer window was probably a mistake and January could see some new arrivals. The new stadium has been a disaster and has seen the club negotiating to extend its stay at Wembley. The pitch on Monday night, against Manchester City, was a joke. Only hours previously there had been an American football NFL match played on the pitch and all the line markings for that game were mixed up with the Premier League football markings...it looked ridiculous.  Learning the lingo New Arsenal manager Unai Emery is determined to learn English properly by Christmas. At the moment he is struggling but insists that English is spoken in the dressing room, on the training pitch and in press conferences. He believes it is important to speak the language of the country in which he is working. The former Sevilla boss has won the Europa League three times and says that unlike his predecessor Arsene Wenger, he will not be rotating his team. He says it is his strategy to always play whatever he feels is his strongest team no matter what the competition.  Neville comes under severe attack Ex-Man United defender and now TV and radio pundit Gary Neville, launched a stinging attack on Tottenham Hoptspur this week. He called Tottenham rubbish, accused them of being flaky and spineless, rolling over when challenged and said they have not been a decent team for 30 years. Ex-Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp quickly entered the argument calling Neville disrespectful, rubbish, disgraceful, out of order and totally wrong. He also commented that Neville was a football manager at Spanish team Valencia and produced the worst team for 30 years! I am wondering if Neville is taking out his frustrations on football as his personal business life has been a spectacular failure recently. He has shut down his restaurant “Rabbit and the Moon” located at United’s Old Trafford ground and also closed down his Manchester nightclub.  Lukaku eyes on Juventus Manchester United will be less than pleased that Romelu Lukaku has told an Italian newspaper that he would like a move to Italian giants Juventus. He knows he would have an easier time in Serie A. Lukaku has scored only four times in 11 matches this season and has struggled with his form and is no longer the threat he was two years ago. His younger brother Jordan Lukaku plays left back for Lazio and that is another factor attracting the United striker. Juve already have Cristiano Renaldo, Paulo Dybala and Douglas Costa so adding an in-form Lukaku would give them one of the strongest strike teams in Europe.  Who does Kyle Walker hate playing against? During a chat after training Kyle Walker revealed that he would rather defend against Mo Salah than Sergio Aguero. He said, “For me, I’d rather mark Salah any day of the week. Having played against Sergio when I was with Tottenham, I can tell you that he is a nightmare to defend against, clever, aggressive and physical. He’s done it year in and year out. He is always up there scoring the most goals in the Premier League. He has probably carried City for a number of years.”  Pep annoyed again at fixture unfairness Pep Guardiola is once again fuming at the Christmas fixture list. Manchester City and Liverpool face each other on January 3rd. Pep says that, like last year, the three day period between matches is not enough for players to recover fully from their exertions on December 30th when his team travel 300 miles to play Southampton. Travelling back on the New Year’s Eve means only 48 hours of preparation for the Liverpool game. Liverpool by comparison do not have to travel after their match at Arsenal on December 29th as they have a four day period between fixtures.  Real eyeing Mourinho With their start to the season an absolute disaster it is not surprising that Real Madrid manager Julen Lopetegui was shown the door. And it is no surprise to me that Real’s president Ramon Calderon is turning his attention towards Manchester United’s Jose Mourinho. Former Chelsea boss Antonio Conte was in discussions with Real but they are not going well. Conte is a difficult, volatile character and Real are worried that his public arguments and disagreements with both players and management at Chelsea could become a problem if he adopts the same attitude in Spain. Some would argue that Mourinho is exactly the same but Caulderon knows Jose well and they are close. Conte also wants to be involved behind the scenes and to approve players brought into the club because of lucrative sponsorship backing. Calderon has always been an admirer of Mourinho and I am told from inside the club that re-hiring him would be a personal triumph for the president. Caulderon is constantly in touch with the controversial United manager and if the Conte negotiations fail completely I think he will make an approach to United.