Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr has registered his disappointment with the unprofessional conduct of some of his players during the 4-0 defeat to English Premier League side, Everton, at Goodison Park on Tuesday. Kerr took issue with some of the players, who didn’t buy or have their required playing boots. He said it was embarrassing to see the players interchange boots whenever  he called for substitution. "On Monday we agreed that they get the preferred boots that will be used at the Goodison Park but clearly some of the players didn’t buy them and you could see them embarrassingly fall off whenever they had the ball or made contact and really, that is not professionalism. Even when I had to make substitution, they took minutes changing here and there,” a clearly frustrated Kerr said after the match . "We didn’t play as well as we do in Kenya and definitely not how we played in Caf Championship. The performance was way below expectations but we pick positives that will help us going forward, ahead of league that kicks off later this month." The official admitted that they missed the presence of lead striker Jacques Tuyisenge, whose travel plans were complicated by a visa hitch. Kerr said: "Our finishing was poor and for sure, Tuyisenge was missed. I talked to him and I was alerted that his visa was still in Pretoria. Maybe I am to blame for the poor show because I gave every player a chance to play. I could have stuck with my preferred first 11. But all in all, we return home with our heads high having been the first African team to play on the European soil." Team captain Haroun Shakava said their focus now shifts on the local league, which he expects to be even tougher. "We played well and had a few open chances but it’s unfortunate we didn’t score. We are aware it’s going to be tough season and I hope the exposure and experience we have picked here will go along way in aiding our campaign," noted Shakava. Impressive Shafik Batambuze admitted that their opponents were a better side. Click here for the latest political news