The High Court has extended orders stopping Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu's prosecution for corruption. The DCJ is charged with corruption, abuse of office and failure to pay taxes and improper dealings with Imperial Bank. The case is before justices Mumbi Ngugi, Chacha Mwita, Francis Tuiyot, Hellen Omondi and William Musyoka. On Monday, Fida, ICJ, and Njenga Kamotho sought to be joined in the case as friends of the court. Mwilu's lawyers opposed Njenga's bid to be joined in the case on grounds that he has not demonstrated additional legal know how he is going to be presenting to court. Also, the five-judge bench gave the DPP and the office of the AG seven days to file any additional document they might want to have included in the case. The case has been set for hearing on December 6. Mwilu was arrested on August 29, at the Supreme court over suspicion of corruption, failure to pay tax and improper dealings with the Imperial Bank. Read: [VIDEO] Kinoti leaves with DCJ Mwilu from Supreme Court in possible arrest Also Read: Judiciary panic as DCJ Mwilu faces Sh12m graft charge She then moved to the High court to block her prosecution in the Sh12m graft case. She filed the case through her lawyers seeking orders to stop her from taking a plea. Lawyers Nelson Havi, Harun Ndubi, Okong'o Omogeni, John Khaminwa, and others argued the petition before judge Chacha Mwita. Read: Justice Chacha Mwita suspends criminal charges against Mwilu Mwilu had sensationally claimed that there have been efforts to remove her from office after she joined in nullifying President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election last year. In an affidavit filed in court, and obtained exclusively by the Star, Mwilu said following threats made by the President after nullification of his first win, a series of events have targeted the Judiciary, specifically the majority judges. More on this: Kenya election: Uhuru vows to 'fix' court as win quashed See: Deputy CJ Mwilu’s driver shot on Ngong Road, robbed of gun Click here for the latest political news 