T he Affordable Art Show 2018 returned to the Nairobi National Museum from Friday to Sunday last week. The show is said to be the largest juried art event in Kenya.  Since 1996, the Affordable Art Show presents a platform for art lovers to appreciate contemporary Kenyan art at reasonable prices, produced by established and upcoming artists. Organised by the Kenya Museum Society (KMS), the exhibition is so named because all art is priced under Sh100,000, with a number of pieces going for less than Sh10,000. Last year’s edition attracted 237 artists, and over 300 paintings and sculptures were displayed. And for the first time, photography art was included. In recent years, more local visitors are patronising the show. It is a place for ordinary people to understand the kind of art that appeals to them and to start their own collections. The art is themed into categories of portraits, wildlife, music, sculptures, landscapes and society. A panel of jurists evaluates the submissions to ensure creativity and excellence. You are likely to see well-known names like Patrick Kinuthia, Geraldine Robarts, Ruth Nyakundi and Alexandra Spyratos. But expect to see pieces by new artists, which is a chance to purchase early works by the next generation of leading creators. Artists from Uganda and Tanzania are also anticipated to feature. Big crowds come for the Friday evening opening party, which has a fun ambience of art buying, entertainment and refreshments, with art assistants on hand to answer questions. KMS say more than 50 per cent of buying happens on the first day. Several artists are present at the event, giving visitors a chance to meet and chat with the creators. Saturday and Sunday are characterised by a relaxed atmosphere of art browsing. Although there were fewer of the big names in 2017, and despite the uncertainty brought on by the general election, organisers say that buyer interest was strong and that both attendance and sales were the highest ever. Since 2016, the Affordable Art Show has sold over 30 per cent of works on display, a notable achievement, considering that art galleries target at least 15 per cent sales during an exhibition. All proceeds from the show go towards the museum development programmes. This family-friendly show is also an opportunity for people to learn about art. The Saturday morning art appreciation session for children is popular. Artist David Mwaura will guide children on a tour of the show, explaining the subjects and techniques. Then children will have a chance to practise their paintings skills and take home their artwork. For adults interested in boosting their art knowledge, veteran painter Leonard Katete will lead a tour of the show on Saturday afternoon, identifying themes, features and media. Representing the older generation of artists, Ugandan-born Katete is a long-time resident of Kenya and former art teacher. He has become known for Christian-themed artwork and paintings of Kenya’s cultural people. Katete’s work will also be on display.  VENUE: The Courtyard of Nairobi National Museum, Kipande Road CONTACTS: 0724 255299, 020 2339158 or info@kenyamuseumsociety.org