KTN sparked fury among Kenyans on Twitter after awarding a comedian with a free 40-inch TV set for being a passionate fan. Kelvin Agure from Kibra shot in the limelight after a picture of him with children 'watching news on a box' surfaced on social media. The comedian made the 'TV' out of a carton and drew the 'KTN News' logo. Agure, seven children and a dog are seen pretending to be watching unfolding news on the box. KTN said on Twitter on Thursday that a team from the broadcaster would visit Agure and award him. "Remember this guy? ... a comedian from Kibera. Today the KTN team will go to his home and award him for being a passionate fan." Agure, an orphan, lives with his 18-year-old sister in the slum. He says his favorite anchor is Hassan Jumaa of the Sports desk. He says that he loves watching a program dubbed 'Zilizala Viwanjani' But the award did not sit well with Kenyans on Twitter who said Agure deserves better than a TV set. "I would rather you to give him a job and nurture him for future life instead of a TV, just my opinion please," @DavidOn08397448 said. @barasa_BS said: "You're not serious @KTNKenya. How will a 40'' TV help this guy?? Give him a job." @ogotjohn said: "That's mockery, belittling someone as well. How is a TV set going to change his life? Do things that would have a permanent impact on someone's life." "Giving a 40-Inch TV to a guy in Kibera is to put him in trouble. Mpeni hiyo pesa afanye kile angetaka kufanya nayo," @CMwabili said. @GachauGitau said: "40 inch TV and he lives in a slum! gynecologist mentality." "Award him in terms of Money," @calebsonkoro said. @imeldamac said: "40" TV in Kibera, why are you subjecting this man to insecurity.......give him a job instead." Other users asked the Channel to award the seven children who watching the channel. "Only that ???...whats the prize of passion?" @KoskeiKiprotich said. ‏@pmutua2012 said: "Hii ni kureward ujinga, the guy will sell of the thing na aendelee na ujinga wake. You should have invested in those kids instead." Click here for the latest political news