Starehe MP Charles Njagua, alias Jaguar, and his Embakasi East counterpart Babu Owino were on Thursday chased away from Parliament. This was after they failed to apologise as ordered by the Parliamentary Privileges Committee. The committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi had in June directed the lawmakers to ask for forgiveness over the October 2017 incident. The two youthful MPs went for each other’s neck on October 10 after exchanging bitter words. Related: Babu, Jaguar appear before House team over fistfight Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi ordered they be escorted out of the chambers. "I therefore order the chief sergeant-at-arms to escort the two strangers Paul Ongili Owili and Charles Kanyi Njagua if they are in the chamber," he said. "Ensure that they are escorted to the suitable place designated for strangers at the bar of the house. Thereafter, I will summon each of them at the bar of the house for disciplinary action." Dressed in a light brown suit, Babu walked out alongside Jaguar, who was in a blue suit. Cheboi did not allow proceedings to go on until the duo left. "We do not transact business in the presence of strangers," the deputy speaker said. Cheboi further directed that the two not be referred to as 'honorable' for their unethical conduct. However, minutes later, Babu and Jaguar gave a verbal apology and were allowed into the chambers. "I shall always abide by the responsibilities of leadership set out in the Constitution," Jaguar said. "On that day, I did not slap Jaguar. It is his cheeks that moved towards my hands and I am ready to apologise," Babu said. He was ordered to repeat his apology after Cheboi termed it as a joke. "I tender my unreserved apologies to the members for having acted in a manner that did not bring honour, respect and dignity to this house." "I will always abide by the responsibilities of leadership set out in the Constitution," Babu said. Also read: Babu, Njagua to apologise over fistfight in Parliament precincts Click here for the latest political news  