As
more Western countries accept transgender people, the Kenyan trans community
fears that the reclassification of gender identity from a mental
disorder to “conditions related to sexual health” will
result in misconceptions in society. Transgender
people have a gender identity or gender expression that differs from their
assigned sex. Kenyan transgender Letoya Johnstone is a talented fashion stylist
and and catwalk trainer, who identifies herself as a woman trapped in a
man’s body. She
talked to the Star about her struggles to find acceptance, and ultimately, herself,
since she identified herself as a member of the lesbian, bisexual, gay and
transgender community. Letoya
likes sharing photos flaunting her ‘curves’ on social media, and works with
local and international brands. “People
in our society don’t understand transgenders. I am more than gay,” she says. “Being
gay means you are a man who is attracted to other men, but for me, I
felt more of a woman, powerful as a woman, carrying myself as a
woman, walking like a woman. It was in me even before
coming out as a transgender woman,” she added, while admitting she is attracted
to men. Asked
why most gay guys act feminine, she said: “You don’t see gay men and find them
feminine. You see feminine men and assume they are gay. That’s a whole world of
difference. “It
is more genetic than one may think because not all men who are feminine are gay.
Some are heterosexual. People should stop having the conspiracy that all men
who have a feminine aspects in them are gay.”  SOCIETAL
STIGMA The
25-year-old says it has not been easy for her, as she has had difficulties
living life as a transgender, and at one time, she was denied medical attention
after she was raped. “Immediately
after high school, something really sensitive and so unfortunate from my side
happened. There was a time I was in Homa Bay in 2007. I was so young and was
beautiful, with glowing skin. Dressed like a girl,” she said. “Hell
broke loose and I was grabbed and thrown into the ditch and got badly raped. I
almost lost my life. I went to the district hospital and the doctor on duty
refused to treat me because he was Muslim and told my mum that he could not
treat me because I was sleeping with people of my gender. “He
said I was looking for people to rape me, adding that I wanted to be a woman.
That is how my parents came to learn that I was gay.” Before
the assault, Letoya says she “had never had sex with anyone whatsoever”. “I
was in my own space and nobody liked me and no parents wanted me to be with
their children. Neither did the society welcome me because I was always the
different one. I got traumatised,” she said. She
added that she has faced discrimination from celebrities. “A sister to a top
celebrity here in Kenya told the celebrity not
to hang out with me because I am a trans-gender woman. Not because of
being incompetent but because of my sexuality, which leaves someone wondering
if one’s sexual orientation determines whether you are a liability or asset in
society.  CAREER
JOURNEY After
being rejected numerous times back in the day and being told she wasn’t the
standard of beauty most Kenyan agencies and designers wanted, she almost gave
up in what she wanted to become. However,
Letoya says she didn’t let it get to her, and instead used the rejections to
start her own brand. She
started training models in 2012, whereby she first trained models in Kenya Fashion
Awards and some ended up becoming international fashion models. She
has had a great influence on Kenyans in the fashion industry, by helping them
know the difference between beauty pageant walk and high fashion walk. Being
denied the opportunity to be a model helped her learn and teach other
models and trainers in the fashion industry what is supposed to be done
and how it should be done. “I
had the opportunity to meet Naomi Campbell a British model singer and
actress, who ended up loving my runway walk and made people learn about me
and also want to see what I had to offer,” she said. “I
have worked with Parents magazine, Akothee, Lupita Nyong’o’s stylist, among
other big brands.” In Kenya,
homosexuality can lead to a 14-year jail sentence. But in recent years, campaigners
for LGBT rights have become increasingly vocal and she advice to people
who are fighting to be identified in the society is to know who they are with
so that they will never have to explain themselves to people. Letoya
has had to explain everything to people about her sexuality. “In
my career, I have to explain myself and tell people what transgender is and
other parts of the LGBT community, so people can understand what I am coming to
do as a fashion stylist or whatever,” she said.  PERSONAL
LIFE Letoya
has never dated and is not planning to date any time soon. Asked what she thinks
about sponsors, she said: “My mama raised me better”. However,
she does not judge anyone who dates an older man, since if an old man marries a
young woman it’s okay, but wonders why when an older woman marries a young man,
it’s a problem. “If
things are done out of love, then people should let those people be,
without judging or trolling them,” Letoya said. “Love
is love. I really don’t look on the physical aspect. It’s always about a deeper
connection that surpasses how someone looks like.” What does she think about gay blackmailers? “I detest
people who blackmail or make women and other people look bad. No one has the
authority to make another person think less of themselves. A problem
is a problem, whether it happens to a heterosexual person or a member of the
LGBT.” Despite identifying as a woman, Letoya still dresses
like a man. “I
do not have a problem with people who have fully transitioned. However, I
love myself as I am and will not transition, since it does not define
who I am,” she said. “My inner being is
greater than the physical aspect, and since I’m from a Christian background, I
believe in God and that He never makes mistakes. The way I was
created is perfect.” In
April 2012, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights reported that a patient
who had undergone the process of reassignment claimed she had been denied the
surgery by Kenyatta National Hospital without reason. Her subsequent attempts
to appeal to the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists’ Board had been
futile.
Additionally, Kenya doesn’t have laws to allow a person to change their gender
from the one assigned at birth. Currently South Africa and Botswana are the
only African countries that have laws to allow official documents to be changed
to suit the desired gender. As for Letoya, she has faced harassment online. “People send me pictures
while naked, while others troll me and tell me to
kill myself because I should be dead. I put all the negative energy
behind and always do what makes me happy,” she said. “It
is really sickening what hate can make people do or even say. However,
others admire me and even tell me that I’m an inspiration
and that my positive vibe builds them. They say my courage gives them
the strength to be themselves, and that makes me want to stand firm even more.” Letoya
says people need to be educated about the LGBT community because many of
them despise and say foul things about the community with little knowledge
of what usually happens. “Educated
people and government officials say how it is wrong to be gay, not knowing that
their kids do the same out there. People need to have knowledge about
it so they don’t misrepresent anyone and also know how to handle different
situations about us,” she said. “I want
people to ask me more of what I do and
join me in proposing for a Fashion Council of Kenya that
will help the local fashion industry grow. People need to see me as a
human being without using labels; not only me but every member of the LGBT
community.” 