 Mea
culpa. This is a Latin phrase meaning “through my fault” and is an
acknowledgement of having done wrong. It
is an admission of having made a mistake that ought to have been avoided. Its
origin is a Catholic prayer of confession of sinfulness called the Confiteor.
It is used in the Roman Rite at the beginning of the Mass, or when receiving
the sacrament of Penance. We
are sorry. This week the nation had a mea culpa moment from a very unlikely
source, the matatu industry. The chairman of the Federation of Public Transport
Operators apologised to Kenyans for inconveniencing them during the nationwide
strike on Monday, which was called to resist the enforcement timing of road
safety and courtesy rules. Never in a million years did Kenyans expect to hear
those words from the matatu industry. But we did. And not only did they
apologise, but also committed to comply with the rule of law. So
bizarre was the apology to commuters that it made headline news in local
dailies. Yet ordinarily, in a free market economy, mea culpa is standard
business practice. Firms apologise, for example, when a computer glitch double
charges a customer; when a trainee waiter mixes up a restaurant order; or when
a package is mangled during shipment. The common denominator these situations
have is that the consumer is left unfulfilled with the value received for the
money they paid. And therefore, to restore or preserve the relationship the
enterprise has with the consumer, they apologise. An apology is not a
confession of culpability. It is a statement of compassion. It lets the
consumer know that you regret their dissatisfaction with your product or
service. It helps to defuse the situation and restore their loyalty. The
Harvard Business Review reports that acquiring a new customer is 25 times more
expensive than retaining an existing one. This is simply because the customer
is king. In economic-speak, this is known as consumer sovereignty. Consumer
sovereignty means consumers influence production decisions. They exercise a
daily plebiscite where every shilling they spend, is a vote on the goods and
services they choose to consume, and this necessitates firms to respond to
their preferences and produce only those goods and services demanded, and at
the quantity and quality that consumers dictate. They are the actual bosses in
a free market economy. Their decisions to buy or abstain from buying determines
who will own the enterprises or firms. The attitude with which they are treated
dictate either profit or loss for the enterprise. Consumers have the power to
make poor men rich and rich men poor. And they have no loyalty. As soon as
another firm offers a cheaper, more efficient alternative, they desert their
old purveyors. And that is why apologies and even compensation is the norm
rather than the exception, because the customer is king. Regrettably,
as consumers of matatu services, we have abdicated our sovereignty and reversed
the free market roles. And because nature abhors a vacuum, matatu operators and
the mobs aka cartels and traffic officers that have perfected the art of
extortion, have usurped our sovereignty. They have become the king. Subsequently,
they dictate to us the quality of services they offer; they treat us with such
disdain once we board their contraptions; they abuse us when we request them to
lower the music volume, to slow down, not to pack the vehicle with more humans;
or when we pay with high denomination notes. They arbitrarily terminate their
services and forcefully eject us simply because they encounter a crowd needing
to be transported in the opposite direction. Their business ethics goes against
the grain of any free enterprise principles. And resultantly, other natural
laws to normalise it are rendered ineffective. Is it a wonder then that this
industry has become manic? I
submit that we, the consumers, have nurtured this anarchic industry. There is
an apt saying for this – ngoma ínanaga ní
guthínjirúo. Loosely translated, this means the devil demands more blood every
time because of our willingness to incessantly sacrifice to him. We
do not need Interior CS Fred Matiang’i or the law enforcement to restore order
in the matatu industry. That power is latently lying with us. We should collectively
refuse to board matatus that will not treat us with the respect we deserve;
that are already carrying the maximum allowable capacity; that are dirty and
appear unroadworthy. We should disembark en masse when they start driving
dangerously; when they overcharge; when they abuse and mishandle one of us. Let
us awaken to the fallacy of their illusory superiority and recognise that there
are more of us than there are of them. So, to survive, the industry will have
no choice but to swiftly conform to our preferences. And just like that, we will
have reasserted our sovereignty; we will have reclaimed our kingly positions;
we will have regained our role as their masters. But
this can only happen if we collectively discard our selfishness and stand in
solidarity as a plebiscite to quality service; if we become better at time
management so that we are not tempted to board the first matatu available; if
we cherish our self-worth enough to want to be treated with dignity; if we
value our hard earned money enough to want to receive the best quality of
service; if we are tired of the unnecessary regular road fatalities; and when
we appreciate that we have choices; and that we have the collective power to either
make the matatu owners rich or poor; and create employment to the tout and his
driver. My
unsolicited advice to Cabinet Secretaries Matiang’i and James Macharia
(Transport) is that scarcity creates value. The scarcity principle is an
economic theory in which a limited supply of a good, coupled with its high
demand, results in a mismatch between the desired supply and demand
equilibrium. And in natural submission to the pricing theory, the price for a
scarce good or service rises until an equilibrium is reached between supply and
demand. Therefore, it is farcical to arrest the matatu entrepreneurs who were
simply heeding to the economic forces of this scarcity principle.  We think we are the consumers, but we are the
consumed – Bryant McGill 