Since 1991, the Haandi Restaurant in Nairobi has been serving up authentic north Indian cuisine. I went for a weekday lunch to the original establishment at Westlands Mall. It was not very busy, but over the weekends, it is advisable to make advance reservations. The restaurant has an understated modern look, where both businesspeople and families with children can feel at home. Through a glass window you can watch the cooks preparing meals in the kitchen. As a starter, the crispy thin poppadum were a light way to start the meal. For something more substantial, the platter of mutton and chicken kebabs are an appetising choice. I ordered a boneless Chicken Tikka Masala, which is prepared in a rich tomato sauce. A dish of slow-cooked black lentils called Dal Bukhara and a side salad complemented the tikka. When dining as a group, it is practical to order several dishes to share. The portions look moderate in size, but when there are several options on the table, you will not leave hungry. The Butter Chicken, cooked in a creamy sauce, and the Mutton Curry, are said to be favourites among customers. You can specify how hot or mild you want the pepperiness of your meal. The main courses come with an extensive choice of accompaniments, including 16 different types of Indian bread and six kinds of rice dishes. Naturally there are plenty of vegetarian appetisers and main dishes. There is also a selection of Jain meals that do not contain root vegetable, such as onions, carrots or potatoes. Instead of the usual sweet lassi drink, a type of chilled yoghurt beverage, I selected a freshly made mint and pineapple juice, which was very refreshing. Ice cream seemed like the best way to round off my deliciously spicy meal. Haandi also offers a range of Indian deserts like a warm Gajar Halwa carrot dessert, or a cheese and chilled milk pudding, called Rasmalai. You can have assorted fresh fruit instead. Over the years, more Haandi branches have opened in Nairobi, Kampala and London. A new Haandi restaurant is expected soon at Westgate Mall.  LOCATION: Westlands Mall, along Waiyaki Way, Nairobi CONTACTS: 0774 157034  Star Rating: 4/5