Embu leaders yesterday expressed concern over rising cases of sexual and physical violence. They accused boda boda riders of defiling schoolgirls and villagers of sodomising boys. They did not name names. Deputy governor David Kariuki, Gender, Culture, Children and Social Services executive Joan Mwende, nominated MCA Jane Muriithi and politician Alexander Mundigi separately said many marriages are rocked by violence. Some men pounce on their wives with blows and some women batter their husbands, they said. The leaders warned parents against assaulting their children, instead calling for better ways of discplining them. Kariuki said in Embu town that the county administration is keen on finding lasting solutions to the problems. He launched a 15-day anti-gender violence campaign. Kariuki promised to ensure all residents, young and old, are protected from any form of violence or harassment. “The campaign is aimed at ensuring peace in our families. It’s well known that our county has big problems. Women are assaulted by their husbands, men by their wives and children by their parents,” he said. The county partnered with the National Aids Control Council and the Beyond Zero Initiative Embu team to organise the event. Kariuki said everybody has a right to live in peace and free from harm, and nobody should be allowed to abuse that right. At Makima shopping centre in Mbeere South, Mwende condemned rampant defilement of girls by boda boda riders who ferry them to school. She said Mbeere South subcounty is worst hit because schools are sparsely distributed and children have to rely on the riders to get to school or home in time. The riders take advantage of the long distance covered, she said. Mwende cautioned parents against handing over their daughters to riders. On the way, some are forced into sex while others are seduced, and this has been the main cause of early pregnancies and school dropout, she said. The executive urged security agencies to ensure culprits are punished. In Nembure village, Muriithi and Mundigi condemned “immoral men in the villages” for sodomising boys. They appealed to couples to settle their domestic disputes amicably and where necessary seek arbitration from trusted friends, relatives, or religious leaders.