Rose Karimi, the proprietor of Niche Décor Furniture, understands too well the meaning of the old adage “old is gold”. Three years ago, having lived in Germany for more than 20 years, Rose saw a gap in the local furniture market. “The quality of the furniture in Germany is very good, and I thought Kenya needed such,” she said. Rose came home and began a furniture business, where she sells old antique and vintage products from Germany. Situated in a bungalow house on Kabarnet Road, off Ngong Road, the warehouse is packed with a new stock. A more than 100-year-old grandfather clock chimes, as several pieces of antique items adorn the wall. Well-crafted corner units sit on each corner of the room, with multicolored Roman crystal glasses and German beer mugs inside. Customers walk around admiring the beautiful art. Rose says she loves antique and vintage stuff, and that’s what drove her to start the business. “German furniture lasts forever, thats what amazes me,” she said. When the idea came, Rose was worried whether Kenyans would appreciate quality and pay for it, something she now says is not a problem. “This business has taught me many things. I have realised Kenyans’ value quality and are ready to pay whatever cost, going by the number of clients I now have,” she said. She, however, says their prices are reasonable, since the products are highly valuable. Rose says furniture shopping should be a family affair, and Kenyans should accept to invest in good quality furniture and make them family assets, which can be passed over to many generations. She says she doesn’t compromise on her products. “The standard quality for German furniture is very high, and people there buy them once in a lifetime, unlike in the local market, where furniture wears out within even a year. This, at the end of the day, is more expensive than investing in a quality item once,” Rose said. Since most of the time she is in Germany, where her family is, Rose has two permanent employees at the warehouse, with temporary workers coming in on needs basis. She collects her stock from different antique shops in Germany and imports every three months. “The consignments take at least five weeks to get here, and this is always the most stressing part of my job, since most of the items are delicate and I am always worried if they will get home safe,” she said. Among the items she sells are sofas, dining tables, antique vases, mirrors, wall hangings, old paintings, Persian carpets, and kitchenware, utensils and antique candle holders. She says all her products date many years back, with furniture made of mahogany, walnut and oak . Niche Decor manager Benjamin Muvengi says the business is seasonal. “Soon after a consignment docks, we sell a lot, but it slows with time, until the next import,” he said. Due to the many upcoming high-end estates, Benjamin says the business is good and can only get better. He says they use word of mouth to reach out to people. “Customer reference is what has been building us,” Benjamin said. Their clients come from as far as Tanzania.