Kenya’s public transport (para transit) is in jeopardy. Again. Has the time come for Kenya to have an integrated public transport system or are the goings-on the usual fuss that will fizzle out as usual? We have always heard of a number of roads every government has built or is ‘dreaming’ of building. However, failure by government to invest in public transport has abandoned an important and vital sector in the hands of a corrupt and rogue private group that has no regard for the law. The fact is that this group is profit-driven and thus rarely concentrates on proper services. Matatus have no standards, they are expensive—don’t even mention the unpredictable fares; one minute it’s Sh50 and, depending on the conductor's mood, it's Sh100 thirty seconds later. They have no schedules and are very difficult to police. There are many reasons why the government should finally bring sanity into this industry. The main reason is how menacing matatu operators have become and how important this sector is. It’s understandable that this is a Third World problem and we are just a broke nation trying to get by and the public rarely matters. If the government is intent on restoring sanity in our transport system, here is the chance to finally nail it. It is shameful to always be a country that creates a lot fuss over an issue for six months and then goes back to its messy ways. Sounds familiar? When Transport minister John Michuki tried to address the issue of road safety by introducing the legal notice that amended the Traffic Act Cap 403 of the laws of Kenya, the legal notice was then only implemented for six months. We should not be a country excited by noise and public relations stunts. We need well marked roads that are exclusively reserved for public service vehicles to reduce traffic in Nairobi. Public transport accounts for more than 80 per cent of the country’s total passenger traffic. With reduced traffic Kenyans can spend more of their economic hours being productive. Besides, when you make public transport safe, fast, accessible, cheap and convenient the amount of revenue that will be generated is projected to the tune of billions of shillings. The measure of development has never been when the poor have cars but when the rich use public transport. Until we start thinking about a total overhaul of our public transport, the matatu peril will always be front page news. Failure to invest in the sector years ago was normal. However, failure to invest into the sector now and into the future will be a disaster and a shame. Government officials have always blamed each other for inaction. Resolving this problem needs consolidated efforts from all players involved and a leadership that finally recognises the need for a total overhaul of the para transit sector for the good of the public. In addition to a new transport system, new regulations are vital. Curbing the matatu menace is not enough, we must start planning to make public transport cheap and efficient.