Hundreds of commuters were stranded in various Nairobi routes on Monday after police stepped up the crackdown on non-compliant matatus. The operation, which kicked off on Sunday, saw many operators keep off the roads in fear of arrest. A senior traffic officer at the Buru Buru police divisional headquarters told the Star they are targetting vehicles with blaring horns, bullbars, and tinted windows. On October 25, the government issued a directive to all PSVs to comply with all traffic laws, popularly known as Michuki rules, by November 12. Hordes of commuters were spotted at bus stops on Thika road, Outering, Mwiki-Kasarani route, Umoja, Jogoo road, Ruaka, Rongai, Mombasa road, and Kiambu road. Some operators took advantage of the rush and hiked fares, in some cases as high as double the normal charge.  A number of commuters opted to walk to work. Kenyan, expressing their frustrations and disappointments on Twitter, condemned the operators for raising the fares. "Thika to Nairobi is Sh200," @Hamez_JMwangi tweeted. "CS Matiangi please help netizens fares. Please protect us from this exploitation," said @brydenjames. @Silasands said: "The Ruiru buffalo train is really packed I don't know where these folks will get to." "Today we have a walking nation. Few matatus and the fare is really high," said Frank Daviella. "The pain I've felt having paid Sh150 from Kasarani is nothing compared to labour pain," said StishLiberator. "Matatu should not overcharge! It should be in them to obey traffic rules, no one force an individual to invest is matatu," James said. @Xavierkavoi noted that the scarcity of vehicles is an an indicator that most of PSV vehicles don't comply with the transport service standards. "If you have a personal car and you are alone kindly be considerate and give someone a lift," said @Elguto2. Read: Molo Shuttle sacco among seven deregistered in NTSA crackdown Also read: Passengers not spared in State's renewed plan to enforce 'Michuki rules' Many others wondered why the police have always let such a high number of vehicles to operate without complying with the set regulations. In the proposed enforcement plan, cops will be tasked to impound matatus that lack seat belts, operational licences as well as ensure crew wear uniforms. The enforcement has been slackened for long, a situation blamed on the high rates of accidents involving passenger service operators. Click here for the latest political news