The 2022
succession is taking shape and becoming clearer as Kenyans approach the close
of the year. What appeared to
be William Ruto’s secured seat is now wide open for competition. Initially,
confusion reigned as to whether President Uhuru Kenyatta was setting up stage
to review the Constitution for a limitless presidential term. This would give
him an opportunity to run for a third successive term in 2022. Or could he have
been paving the way for his nemesis, now turned brother-in-arms, Raila Odinga,
to succeed him? Pundits had predicted that the push for the constitutional
review was meant to retain Uhuru as head of the Executive, albeit as the Prime
Minister and have Raila as head of state as a ceremonial president. This narrative
started after the handshake, which was in response to poisoned political
environment. The pushers were close confidantes of Gideon Moi and anti-Ruto
forces in Central Kenya, united to scuttle Ruto’s 2022 bid. They then found new
partners from ODM who were also determined to have their leader continue
playing a leading role in national politics. There was hue and cry from the
Ruto camp who read mischief and saw betrayal at its best. Initial attempts to
frustrate the Building Bridges Initiative have come to a naught and Ruto’s camp
has changed tact. Anyone openly opposed to the BBI activities risk being
branded a fascist and may burn their political fortunes. Then Raila was
appointed African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development and
his regular bashers encouraged him to retire from politics and abandon
presidential ambitions. Coming hot on the heels of this appointment was an unequivocal
statement by Uhuru that he is not interested in another term during an interview
by CNN’s renowned anchor Richard Quest. These events
reopened the debate on 2022 succession politics with fresh impetus. Opinion was
and is still divided on whether the two foremost political protagonists were
diverting attention or setting up another route for the 2022 election. There
was also open and renewed interest in the two leaders by international players.
The many accolades sent to Raila on his appointment and the launch of direct
flights from JKIA to New York helped put the two leaders on international news for
a while longer. In the meantime, local news channels were dominated by the
murder cases in the courts almost missing out on Gideon Moi’s moves. At the onset of
the push for the constitutional review and launch of the handshake, Gideon and
Raila seemed to have developed newfound friendship. The senator hosted the
opposition leader at Kabarak upon his father’s arrival from a medical trip to
Israel. Gideon became an ardent supporter of the Building Bridges Initiative.
He seemed to enjoy warm reception in many parts of Central Kenya. While the URP
side of Jubilee dillydallied in supporting government programmes in Parliament,
young Moi rallied Kanu troops to endorse the President’s agenda in the House. They joined
ranks well with ODM MPs and seemed to read from the same script. The only challenge
came during the debate on the Finance Bill (2018), which introduced 8 per cent
fuel levy. Many MPs from both sides of the divide sought to play to the gallery
and appeared to be on the people’s side. All the while Kanu officials led by
secretary general Nick Salaat kept reminding Kenyans that their party leader
will be on the ballot come 2022. People still did not take them seriously. They
were persistent and Gideon appeared to be Uhuru’s messenger of peace between
Raila’s and Ruto’s feuding forces. His handlers also helped him cut the image
of a humble and reluctant prince being pushed to the throne. The tribal and divisive
nature of Kenya’s politics helped shore up this image of a safe leader in the
midst of bitter ethnic rivalries. Recent events
have exposed another side of the senator’s quest for the house on the hill. In
a well-organised and choreographed tour of Nyanza, it became clear that Mzee
Moi’s successor is in the thick of President Kenyatta’ succession plan. While Raila was
away in South Africa, a retinue of Luo leaders received the Baringo senator,
including MPs in South Nyanza. He stayed for the whole weekend meeting local
leaders and conducting fundraisers for churches and small-scale businesses.
There was a chorus led by the MPs calling on him to forge an alliance with
Raila. Homa Bay senator
Moses Kajwang’ described his Baringo counterpart in the most flowery of language.
The MPs were pushing an agenda for an alliance between their hero and Ruto’s
bitter rival for the Kalenjin kingpinship.  As has been argued elsewhere previously, the
grand plan seems to be to block Ruto at all costs. While the senator has had
his ambitions earlier on stated, his dalliance with anti-Ruto forces is on
invitation. His camp takes the convenience of the unity as enhancing his
chances of repeating the Uhuru success at State House. However, he has not
demonstrated capacity at mounting serious presidential campaigns to succeed his
agemate and royal comrade. Kanu has withered into a pale shadow of the old
independence party under his watch. He has had challenges operating in the
opposition ranks, even though his party has never been openly in government. He
operates with political ambiguity that confuses his supporters more than it inspires
them. His support stems more from his father’s networks rather than from his
efforts. In spite of
resource wherewithal akin to the Kenyattas, he has never deployed the same for
political enterprise. Unlike the other three main political players of Raila,
Kenyatta and Ruto, he does not command a fanatical support base. Neither does he
excite crowds nor elicit mass following with propaganda. He instead appear to
be too careful for the rumble and tumble of Kenya’s ethnic based politics. He
is enjoying widespread appeal in crowds that belong to his other two partners
in unity. These crowds cheer him up because of joining hands with their
preeminent sons but not that they like anything special in him. His opponents
view him as weak but sponsored by the other two oligarchs of Kenya’s politics.
He has failed to take advantage of the circumstances and wrestle control of
these masses from his partners. Instead, he continues with his laid-back
leadership style at Kanu. He is
comfortable in the back left seat, while his quest requires he takes the front
right seat. If he wishes to be taken seriously as a presidential candidate in
the next general election, then he must return from Christmas with oomph and
aura. He should forthwith halt the merriment of his royal brothers’ patronage.
His handlers must remove the canopy of Raila and Uhuru so that he is exposed to
the sweltering sun of high stake politics. He must inspire
confidence in his current small base, excite awe and cult admiration in his
partners’ bases, and instil fear in his opponents’ ranks. In the current
constellation of succession politics, he cuts the image of the handshake
project and may suffer the fate of Uhuru in 2002.  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst