Wrangling MCAs have disrupted work at the Elgeyo Marakwet assembly where 10 bills have been shot down in six months. The MCAs are split into two competing factions and efforts to unite them have failed, causing concern among leaders. One group of MCAs is led by house deputy speaker Christopher Chemosong who represents Arror and another group is allied to David Kipketer (Sengwer). Kipketer and Chemosong are the only ones serving their second term after 18 of their colleagues in the previous assembly were voted out. Divisions among the MCAs worsened two month ago after some of them ganged up and disbanded the county assembly Public Service Board. It has yet to be reconstituted. Speaking in Iten yesterday, nominated MCA Nedy Kiptoo said the differences have hurt all operations. “This is a disservice to the public and we cannot continue working like this,” Kiptoo said. Chemosong’s  group ganged up on Wednesday and threatened to shoot down a bill helping on youth, women and persons living disabilities. It’s sponsored by an MCA from the rival group. Out of 33 MCAs in the house, those allied to Chemosong’s wing number 19, compared with 14 in the rival group. The divisions mean they cannot conduct any meaningful business. Senaator Kipchumba Murkomen has been working behind the scenes to unite the MCAs. “They must work together for the benefit of the people of Elgeyo Marakwet,” he said. MCA Kiptoo said it had become difficult for the MCAs to agree on anything. Speaker of the assembly Kiplagat Sabulei has completely removed himself from the feuds and declined to comment on the problems yesterday.  Chemosong said it was not the first time  a county assembly was divided. “Yes, we are divided and my group has more numbers. However, anyone with bills should bring them to the house and convince members to either pass them or shoot them down,” he said. Chemosong said his group was not going to approve anything without exercising due diligence. “We have asked our Speaker to keep off the matter if he cares about his job and let MCAs deliberate on their affairs without any influence or interference,” he said.