Sarah Pkyach, Miss Tourism Kenya 2018, is determined to change the name of West Pokot county, which has been tarnished for many years by cattle rustling, FGM and early marriage. “This is indeed a county of hidden treasures. I am going to use the title l was crowned recently to make sure the name of our county is changed,” Pkyach told the press in Pokot. "This county has many hidden treasures that have not been exploited and this is the time." The beauty queen, 21, received a warm reception recently, when she landed after clinching the national title in Nairobi. A long trail of vehicles and a huge crowd marched along the streets of Makutano township, bringing business to a standstill as thousands of residents came out to welcome and catch a glimpse of the now-famous girl from Sangakai village in Kacheliba constituency. Songs of praise, clapping and whistling from locals rent the air, as Pkyach, dressed in traditional Pokot regalia, moved on streets of the town before she finally arrived at Makutano Stadium, where she addressed residents. “I want to thank the Pokot community and Kenyans who supported me throughout the journey. I could not have clinched the title if my parents denied me the right to education. Let's embrace girl child education,” she said. The girl from a family of three also praised her parents for their unconditional support. “I never imagined that one day I would become a winner who is being mentioned by everyone in the country, though I had confidence during the county tourism competition,” Pkyach said. She also said she is going to use the title to market tourist attraction sites in the county. “I'm dedicated to bringing the sector a notch higher so it can be known locally and internationally. I will market our bead works so that women can start earning income from the venture,” she said. Pkyach, who is also the reigning beauty queen at JKUAT and the current Miss Tourism West Pokot County, beat 45 other contestants in a ceremony held at Safari Park Hotel on October 13. She is a third-year student pursuing Bachelor of Science in Biostatistics at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. Pkyach has made history in the county for being the most beautiful girl in the country, despite the many challenges girls face in her community.