A report by Auditor General Edward Ouko has revealed irregularities in Siaya county government’s finances. In the latest report, Ouko points to unsupported spending and loss of county cash for the year 2016-17. The report tabled on Wednesday by Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen states 27 senior officers in governor Cornel Rasanga’s administration have refused to surrender Sh62.6 million advanced to them as imprest. The county only managed to recover Sh11.5 million which, according to Ouko, was not adequately backed with supporting documents. Ouko has questioned an expenditure of Sh22.9 million on reimbursing staff members as night out and transport allowances for trainings allegedly held in Kisumu. Read: How Nairobi swindled billions - audit report “No proper supporting documents such as attendance registers, acknowledgement of receipt of cash due to officers and honourable members were availed for audit review,” Ouko said about the trainings. “The expenses for the venue where the courses were held were also not indicated and there was no approval or explanation on how the county government settled on those hotels outside the duty station.” The county is also on the spot for wiring Sh24.3 million to the Council of Governors’, a body with separate funding model. Section 19 of the Inter-Governmental Relations Act, 2012 mandates CoG be to draw its finances from the national government. Read: Millions lost by counties, says Auditor General The 20-page report also indicates Siaya county breached Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act 2015, when it directly wrote to two maize suppliers requesting them to quote cost of maize in respect to emergency relief and the refugee assistance programme. The county spent Sh95.1 million to buy the maize from suppliers. According to the report, the county indicated spending Sh2.05 million on construction of Kochino-Kamalango road during the 2016-17 financial year, while records showed the road was done during 2015-16. Click here for the latest political news