Bungoma chief officers were yesterday sworn into office after a year of protracted court battles between the executive and the assembly. Joseph Wakoli was sworn in as the county secretary and head of public service, Denson Wanjala (Office of the Deputy Governor), Maurice Wabwile (Roads) and Carolyne Nekesa (Youth and Sports). Chief officers who had earlier taken their oath of office are Isaac Juma (Livestock and Fisheries), Moses Sichei ( Environment and Tourism), Patrick Wandili (Health) and Rose Nafula (Education and Vocational Training). Others are Patrick Wandili (Health and Sanitation), Phoebe Buchunju (ICT and Records Management), John Wekesa (Agriculture and Irrigation) and Chrispinus Nyongesa (Office of the County Secretary. Christine Sifuna and Bonee Simiyu also joined the Public Service Board. For one year, the first term governor Wycliffe Wangamati relied on a skeleton team of chief officers in the wake of dozens of suits by interest groups. The addition to the government is a big boost to governor Wangamati as he gets down to implementing his manifesto including key flagship projects. Wangamati asked the chief officers to take to their duties with zest, reminding them that the offices they hold is no privilege but responsibility. He cautioned them against corruption and anything that will undermine their offices and the delivery of his manifesto. “You are now in office and I expect you to hit the ground running,” he said. “Always remember that you are the chief accounting officers in your respective areas and you must operate within the law,” he said, adding that they have the primary responsibility to protect the resources of the people of Bungoma. Speaker Emmanuel Situma put the officers on notice, saying that just the way the same the county assembly cleared their appointment, so will it will sanction their sacking if they failed to deliver. The governor also lauded the county assembly for passing the two charters guaranteeing municipality status to both Bungoma and Kimilili towns. 