The government has started the Sh285 million Kakamega Forest conservation programme. The programme called scaling-up sustainable land management and agro-biodiversity conservation, is supported by the United Nation Environmental Programme (Unep) through the Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA). Programme senior research scientist David Mbakaya and representatives from Masinde Muliro University, Kefri, Nature Kenya, Anglican Development Services, and Nandi, Kakamega and Vihiga governments planted tree seedlings. They planted trees on six acres of the degraded forest land in Shamiloli on Thursday. Mbakaya said the programme seeks to reclaim 50,000 acres around the forest. “The programme seeks to build capacity of communities living within five kilometres around the forest with new technologies on how to improve soil fertility and support the county governments of Kakamega, Vihiga and Nandi to formulate policies that back reafforestation,” he said. Through the programme, they will also create awareness among the communities living in the area on alternative technologies that will ease pressure on forest resources. Mbakaya said 20,000 people living around the forest have been educated on reafforestation and the new technologies. He said Kalro has identified 10 landscapes in Lurambi, Shinyalu and Malava subcounties in Kakamega; Aldai, Emgwen, Chesumei and Mosop subcounties in Nandi; and Hamisi subcounty in Vihiga county to serve as demonstration sites for farmers around the forest. Mbakaya said residents will be taught about crops that can improve soil fertility and improve food production. “The project seeks to benefit 50,000 people directly and 100,000 others indirectly within a stretch of five kilometres radius,” he said. The Kakamega Forest is an equatorial rain forest that covers 45 square kilometres. The forest is home to more than 380 tree species, 330 species of birds, 27 species of snakes, seven species of primates and more than 400 species of butterfly and other animals.