Mombasa governor Hassan Joho’s 2022 presidential ambitions have complicated the elusive search for Coast unity, with the region’s MPs divided on the bid. Joho on Saturday reiterated that he will run for president. The region’s lawmakers are divided into two groups of those supporting Deputy President William Ruto’s bid and those opposed to it. On Saturday, those opposed to Ruto’s bid, met at the Wild Waters Complex. They resolved to support the handshake and the Building Bridges Initiative. They said the handshake team will address pending land issues. They were led by Joho. Ruto’s supporters have been criticising the Building Bridges Initiative of the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. They say the handshake details are unclear. They believe it is a scheme to curtail Ruto’s presidential bid. Read: Either Raila or I will be ODM candidate in 2022 — Joho During the Saturday meeting, the leaders reiterated the need for a stronger voice in the national political scene. Those supporting Ruto skipped the meeting, exposing divisions and the elusive search for unity. “Let me assure you that I’ll be in the race,” Joho said. The governor says his success will depend on the support of Coast residents. Ruto backers, led by Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori, accuse Joho of forcing himself on them. Dori is the chairman of the Coast Parliamentary Group. Last week, he led Team Ruto to a meeting at Voyager Beach Hotel in Mombasa where the MPs hit out at Uhuru’s administration saying the projects initiated in the Coast do not help residents. They cited Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor and the standard gauge railway. Kilifi governor Amason Kingi said the region will not achieve its objectives if leaders don’t unite. He said those with presidential ambitions should not be representing the interests of leaders from outside the region. “It will be hard to achieve all these dreams, including the presidential ambition, if we are here today but representing the likes of Uhuru Kenyatta, Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. That is not the unity we want,” Kingi said in a statement yesterday. More: I will run for President in 2022, says Joho Click here for
the latest political news