MPs Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and Charles Njagua (Starehe) finally apologised over the fistfight they had in Parliament last year. The Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Committee found them to have acted in a manner demeaning the House and recommended that they offer an apology before the whole House. The Powers committee chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi tabled its report on Wednesday. The two were found to be punishable in accordance with Section 41 of the Leadership and Integrity Act and Section 17(3) of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act. “The Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act, 2017, orders Hon Paul Ongili Owino and Hon Charles Kanyi Njagua to apologise to the House and the members for conducting themselves in a manner that reflected adversely on the dignity and integrity of the National Assembly and its members,” reads the report. Read: Babu Owino, Jaguar briefly chased from Parliament over last year's fistfight It was tabled by Powers and Privileges vice chair and Limuru MP Peter Mwathi and the House unanimously approved it. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale while contributing on the issue said that the youthful legislators violated the parliamentary powers and privileges act. “We will not allow you young people to bring this House into disrepute. If you continue misbehaving, we will chase you from our parties. I know they have many fans- Njagua is a renowned artist and Babu Owino should know that he has left campus politics and is therefore an MP,” Duale said. National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi questioned why an assault on her Suba North counterpart Millie Odhiambo has never been presented before the Powers and Privileges Committee. Mbadi said Millie was allegedly fought and stripped, the matter was never investigated, adding that the House should exercise impartiality in handling such issues. The Suba South MP cautioned the two youthful lawmakers, telling then to exercise care insisting that Millie’s case be also addressed. “The case of my sister Millie has never been addressed by this House despite her being physically and sexually assaulted by a member. Or is it because Millie is a lady?” Mbadi asked members. See: [VIDEO] Drama as Babu Owino, Jaguar fight in Parliament More: Babu, Jaguar appear before House team over fistfight Click here for
the latest political news 