President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on global leaders to control destructive human activities on the health and productivity of maritime resources. In his statement of commitment at the Blue Economy Conference yesterday, the President called for the  adoption of "transformative ways of using and sustaining oceans, seas, lakes and rivers". "I pledge to adopt appropriate policies, strategies and mechanisms to harness the blue economy, confront, head-on, the challenge of waste management and plastic pollution, ensure responsible and sustainable fishing, and ensure safety and security in the high seas," the President said at KICC. He said the unless the environment is protected, "there can be no lasting prosperity for any of us". "I am convinced that for the sake of the present and future generations, and for the continued viability of our ecosystems, we have to envision a different future and a different model for the blue economy. I pledge to envision that future and do my part to promote it," Uhuru said. Some of the highlighted sources of ocean pollution include sewage, toxic chemicals from industries, land run off, oil spills, ocean mining and littering. Last week, President Kenyatta commissioned a new fisheries complex jetty to enable docking of large fishing and patrol vessels, and announced the establishment of a Fishing Corporation. The President also launched the Kenya Coast Guard, which he said will help in combating illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. "We have taken measures to enhance security and safety of our collective waters," the President said. Some of the initiatives the President said states could consider include providing financial resources, transfer of technology and innovations and capacity building. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma said the outcome of the conference will be an expressed collective and strong commitment to drive the realisation of a  tranformative blue economy. Leaders from various countries  made their commitment to a global Sustainable Blue Economy. They include Canada and Japan, who are co-hosting the three-day conference, Seychelles, Somalia, Zanzibar, Uganda, Mozambique, Namibia, Norway, UK, China, Ireland, South Africa, Sweden and DR Congo. Others are Egypt, Oman, Nauru, Rwanda, Algeria, Sierra Leone, The Gambia, Senegal, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Malta, Mauritius, Morocco, Madagascar, Djibouti, Niger and Cooks Island, among others. Africa Union Commission chairman Moussa Faki said Over 90 per cent  of Africa’s imports and exports are conducted through the oceans and seas. "By including maritime issues in Agenda 2063, the AU has made the blue economy central to its vision," he said. "In this regard, over the years, the African Union has developed key policy documents such as the Lomé Charter on Maritime Security and Safety and Development in Africa, the 2050 African Integrated Maritime Strategy and the Revised African Maritime Charter." Jonathan Wilkinson, Minister of Fisheries, Oceans and the Canadian Coast Guard, said a sustainable ocean economy creates good jobs for youth, women and promotes equal inclusion for all. Click here for the latest political news