Deputy President William Ruto has asked opposition leader Raila Odinga's followers to support the government's development project. Ruto also asked elected leaders to shun petty politics and embrace the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila. The DP said the good relations between the government and the opposition through the handshake would result in an equal initiation of projects across the country including in the opposition strongholds. Speaking in Migori, Ruto said the March 9 truce was meant to bring to an end political rivalry that was a major obstacle to development in the country. In a veiled attack on Nyanza leaders who had expressed reservations about his visit to the region, the DP said that no one should think they had more say than Uhuru and Raila. "Si munaona ata Agwambo amekubali tushirikiane, kama Agwambo amekubali tushirikiane wewe ni nani hapa katikati kutuambia ya kwamba hatuwezi kushirikiana (You have seen even Agwambo (Raila's nickname) has agreed that we work together. If Raila has agreed for us to work together, who are you to say that we cannot work together?)," he said. He added that elected leaders should set aside their political differences and focus on the implementation of development projects that will transform the country. "If you were elected in Nasa or Jubilee, this is the time to unite to work for Kenyans," Ruto said. He dismissed those criticising him for touring Nyanza saying he is the deputy president for the whole country. "I am the Deputy President and you know you are paying me a salary and I must do the work you are paying me for," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Migori Governor Okoth Obado who welcomed the DP in Migori County during his development tour of the county on Monday. “We are very blessed that the Deputy President has come here to initiate development projects. That is the development we want. As Migori residents we love visitors and love peace as well," Obado said. The Deputy President promised Migori residents more development projects from the national government. He also made a promise to return to Migori County in February next year to conduct a fundraiser for all the churches in the region. Read: Eyes on Obado as Ruto tours Migori on Monday Click here for the latest political news