On Wednesday, UN Environment executive director Erik Solheim resigned following audit queries on his frequent global travels that cost the agency almost $500,000 (Sh50,000,000) in just 22 months. “On Saturday, I received the final report on the audit of official travel undertaken by the UN’s Office of Internal Oversight Services. As I have maintained throughout this process, I have been and remain committed to doing what I believe to be in the best interest of UN Environment and the mission we are here to achieve,” Solheim said in a statement. “It is my most sincere hope that this proves to be in the best interest of UN Environment and the wider UN.” In September, a leaked audit report of OIOS recommended that Solheim refunds the UN agency “all travel costs and related staff time not accounted for and all additional costs incurred by UNEP as a result of uneconomical and inefficient decisions made by management”. Some countries were unhappy with his trips and withheld millions of dollars in funding. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres accepted the resignation and appointed Tanzania’s Joyce Msuya, who was the deputy executive director of UNEP, as the acting executive director. That’s taking responsibility. Still here in Kenya, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Tuesday said State officers facing charges should step aside until cases are dispensed in an interview on Citizen TV. In our case, they have to be told. Haji said leaving accused persons to continue holding offices hampers prosecution, and risks defeating or derailing justice through interference with evidence and intimidating witnesses. “My concern is that most of the still remain in office and worse off is that we have orders allowing them to continue enjoying office perks.”  A number of judicial, state officers and governors are still in office despite facing economic and criminal charges without shame. For instance, National Lands Commission chairman Mohammed Swazuri was early this month allowed back in office after more than two months by Justice Hedwig Ong’udi’s. In her ruling, Ong’udi said it was wrong for anti-corruption chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi keep Swazuri out of office through tough bail conditions that amounted to ejecting him through the back door. While Swazuri and others have the right to appeal, it defeats the purpose of keeping away accused persons from office to ensure justice. Granted Swazuri is innocent until proven guilty it behoves such an officer to act in a manner that is consistent with the spirit of the law and government policy. For instance, Principal secretaries and NYS senior officers mentioned in the agency’s scandal stepped aside. Why not follow suit and come back when declared innocent? “I’d rather die than resign.”  Kibii comments on current affairs  