The DPP has directed the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to investigate Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina and others over claims of inciting communal clashes in the Mau Forest. The clashes led to the death four people and left scores of others injured in Narok county. DPP Noordin Haji was acting after receiving a petition from the Mau evictees through lawyer Sigei Bett on September 13. In a letter by Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions Jacob Ondari and received by Bett last Thursday, the DPP said thorough investigations will be conducted to bring to book any person found culpable of inciting the public to violence. “We have received complaints from a section of the public that Senator ole Kina is alleged to have made inflammatory remarks and statements to violence in Mau area of Narok county... The provocative remarks resulted to the skirmishes experienced in the region,” the letter reads. Read: MPs in blame game over Narok clashes The evictees had petitioned the DPP to prosecute the senator. Lawyer Bett said the legislator was quoted making inflammatory statements between June and August. He said the statements were targeted on members of one-ethnic group in the Mau Forest. “The senator on different occasions was heard saying if the government fails to evict the people living in the Mau, they will take the law into their own hands,” Bett said. He argued that the constant threats made by the lawmaker have come to pass. The lawyer said if the DPP fails to arrest and prosecute the senator and other individuals accused of incitement, they shall petition the court to allow them to commence private prosecutions against the lawmaker. “We are demanding from you .... that you commence proceedings against the senator within 14 days. We shall make the application stated above after the expiry of the period stated. Failure to exercise your powers, we shall seek leave of court for the case,” the Nairobi-based lawyer said. On October 1, Ledama appeared before the Narok security committee and intelligence officers. He denied claims he fuelled the clashes by inciting the Maasai community against the Kipsigis community. Ledama instead blamed a section of Rift Valley leaders for causing the violence. Click here for the latest political news