An 86-year-old woman desperately wants conclusion of a land dispute that has been in court for more than 40 years. Sarah Nyambura pleaded with Chief Justice David Maraga on Friday to intervene. The case was dispensed with last month but she appealed. “This is too much. The Chief Justice should come in and help us resolve this tussle. I’m old now but without peace. Just this week, Maraga asked judges to work out and resolve cases, which are over five years old. I wish they look at this keenly and quickly,” she said. She said the dispute started after her late husband Evans Chege bought the land from his neighbour, Mungai Githu, in Kirenga village,Lari constituency. He paid in instalments between 1954 and 1958 and they settled on it in 1959, she said. Nyambura said their trouble started when Githu was allegedly incited by others to sell the five acres at a low price. “At the time the issue was raised, we had already settled on the land and built a house. We lived there,” she said. Her son Joseph Kahenya said the case was arbitrated after they reported to area chief. His father was told to part with additional charges — a male goat and a bucket of honey. He said his father refused and filed a suit in a Kiambu court, demanding the land be transferred to him based on the initial agreement, which he had honoured. “Since that time, it was in early 1970s, the case has been in court. It’s all about who owns that land,” Kahenya said. He said the case has been handled at a Kiambu court, a Milimani court and the High Court in Nairobi. On October 4, Milimani judge E.O Obaga ruled that the Chege family were trespassers. The judge said the family, including Monicah Wangare, Jonathan Karanja, Margaret Njeri, Mahia Chege, Phyllis Muthoni and Isabela Njeri, did not produce enough evidence to prove the land belonged to their late father Julia Wanjiru and Hannah Njoki who represented Githu’s family were allowed to demarcate the land. Nyambura appealed the ruling at the High Court. On Friday, Chege’s family supplied copies of the appeal to Githu’s family who had arrived with a surveyor to start the demarcation. Administration Police officers were called in to avert a clash as residents came out watch what was unfolding. Githu’s family declined to speak to the press, with one saying they will comment when the case is settled once and for all. “We can’t comment on land that rightfully belongs to us. As of now, we can’t say anything. Leave us alone,” a family member said. In the appeal, Nyambura said they had produced evidence of the sale agreement, photographs of Chege’s funeral on the land and other documents, which were said to be missing during the ruling made by Obaga. Nyambura also appealed to the ombudsman, the attorney general and President Uhuru Kenyatta to assist her family get justice. Click here for
the latest political news