President Uhuru Kenyatta has challenged the ministry of lands to speed up reforms to propel the country to position 50 in the ease of doing business. The President said while the ministry had effected several positive changes, it still has a lot of work to do in its reform agenda. “And one Ministry that has got a lot of work to do is the Ministry of Lands,” said the President at State House, Nairobi, in an event attended by Deputy President William Ruto. Kenya’s attractiveness to investors improved 19 places, according to World Bank's latest ranking on the ease of doing business. The rankings show Kenya advanced to position 61 out of 190 economies from 80 in 2017. President Uhuru also expressed his frustration with some lawyers who have persistently defeated reforms at the Lands Ministry especially at the Registry. “It is very disappointing when you see our lawyers being in the frontline of defeating reforms that we wish to make especially in land registry and how people are able to register mortgages,” said the President He told the legal fraternity to put the interest of the nation first because the registration of more businesses and genuine land transactions translates into more jobs for the lawyers. “Am calling on our brothers and sisters in the legal fraternity to be supportive of this (reform) agenda. Do not look at it from a selfish agenda but look it from what it means in improving our business environment, attracting investment and increasing the volume of business “ The President spoke during a breakfast meeting he hosted for various stakeholders who have worked tirelessly to enable Kenya to emerge among the top 10 most improved countries globally in the ease of doing business, according to the current World Bank report. The stakeholders included the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) and development partners, among them Britain and the Netherlands. Cabinet Secretaries Peter Munya (Industry, Trade and Co-operatives ), Adam Mohammed ( East African Community and Northern corridor Development) and Mwangi Kiunjuri ( Agriculture) were among top government officials at the function. The new ranking marks the fifth year-on-year improvement in the country’s overall ranking since 2014 (under Jubilee Administration), moving 75 places from position 136 to position 61. The country’s Doing Business Index has frog-jumped 19 places from the 80th position in the 2018 WB report The World Bank report compares business regulations for domestic firms in 190 economies globally, reviewing various parameters over the ease of doing business that include the ease of getting credit, protection of minority investors, resolving insolvency, paying taxes and trading across borders. Click here for the latest political news