You will now be able to report police misconduct or even give compliments to the hardworking officers anonymously. This was made possible yesterday after Anonymous Reporting Information System was commissioned at the National Police Internal Affairs Unit in Nairobi. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said the move is part of the much-waited reforms that will make the service professional. “Change is a must, reforms are real and we are now at the radical phase,” Matiang’i said. The CS, who also commissioned National Police Internal Affairs Unit offices and operation manual, said the reform trajectory will proceed as planned. Read: NPSC educating officers on police reforms “The change of uniforms is on course, command structure is also on course. The house allowance is also on course as presidential directives are not negotiable,” he said. Matiang’i said that as part of professionalising the service, a new cadre of cadet officers comprising lawyers, education experts and engineers will be enlisted into the National Police Service. He said the society is dynamic and as such the service must be in a position to respond to emerging challenges. “I have asked IG (Boinett) to have electronic database of all police officers by December 3. We need officers to be registered using bio metrics, their family background to trace mobility,” he said. Matiang’i said police human resource management system will be in place by December 3. Read: Boinnet to scrap 12 top offices in reforms He said the Anonymous Reporting Information System will help generate data that will inform decision making. “Prevalent complaints to inform training needed and where we went wrong,” he said. The Anonymous Reporting Information System can be accessed through various platforms. This includes National Police Internal Affairs Unit official website www.iau.go.ke or SMS through 40683. Complaints, compliments and excesses can also be aired through toll free number 0800721230, *683# and unit’s mobile app that can be downloaded. United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and Transparency International supported the setting up of the system. National Police Internal Affairs Unit Director Charlton Muriithi said they have received 7,0746 complaints with 2,107 of them already concluded. Click here for the latest political news