EACC officials will be in Nyandarua for three weeks to assess systems, policies, procedures and practices of the Nyandarua executive and assembly. This follows an invitation by governor Francis Kimemia in September. The assessment was launched on Tuesday and aims to promote the war on corruption and unethical behaviour in Nyandarua county. Participants include executives, chief officers, directors, subcounty administrators, senior officials of the county assembly led by the speaker, clerk, MCAs and the Public Service Board. EACC held a workshop on leadership and integrity for senior government officials in Naivasha in October. Kimemia said Nyandarua has had cases of integrity and ethical issues including delays in service delivery, bribery, conflict of interest, fraud, theft and embezzlement. There have also been cases of misuse of public property, abuse of power and absenteeism. Kimemia said reports of infighting, name-calling and blackmailing of the Executive by the assembly have been reported. EACC will map out corruption risk-prone areas and recommend measures to develop an anti-corruption framework to enhance internal controls. “By undertaking the corruption risk assessment, I am not only affirming best practice in open governance, but also making true my inaugural pledge to minimise wasteful spending and graft,” Kimemia saidi n a statement. “My government has also taken this preemptive, longer route of research and capacity building so that none among us may plead ignorance when the long arm of the law comes knocking. I hope we all can avoid matters having to get that far in the first instance.” In a speech read on his behalf by EACC deputy director for South Rift Hassan Khalid, EACC chief executive officer said the review is a demonstration of Kimemia’s commitment to “good governance and readiness to promote transparency and accountability in all the operations of the county”. He said the review aims to advice the county government on how to strengthen work procedures and practices. Click here for the latest political news