Tuk tuk operators will have to have the owner's full official name painted on the right side of the cab from next May. This is after the Mombasa county assembly passed a motion approving new guidelines contained in the Tuk Tuk Operations Rules 2018. The owners' business addresses must also be imprinted or they will face prosecution. Drivers must also be clean and well-groomed. The rules seek to end crime and improve road safety. Read: Tuk tuk operators form stickers to help fight crime in Mombasa Operators are, however, not happy with the rules. A driver is required to wear a uniform, yet to be prescribed by the county government. Each tuk tuk will be painted differently depending on the operational zone. The zones are Island (green), Likoni (yellow), Changamwe (red), Jomvu (orange), Nyali (blue), and Kisauni (blue and yellow stripes). "The colour scheme shall not prevent operators from criss-crossing or passing through another zone," the motion states. A driver will be required to display his photo in the cab and always carry his national ID or passport. If a driver fails to report to the police any personal property left in the cab, he will be criminally culpable. Every tuk tuk shall have installed three safety belts and stickers paid for and issued by the county government. Following complaints of bedbugs, the assembly said tuk tuks must be washed any time there is dirt. Drivers are banned from smoking and spitting while working. They have further been barred from using vulgar language against passengers and other motorists. "The county government shall have powers to enforce these rules and shall include prohibition of any tuk tuk cab from operating or prosecution in a court of law for violating the same," the motion says. Photographic and video evidence of violations of rules will be admissible in court according. The Tuk tuk Associations estimates there are close to 8,000 cabs in Mombasa alone. Nominated MCA and mover of the motion Mohamed Hatimy on Thursday said the county is mandated to regulate the transport sector under Schedule Four of the Constitution. "There have been increased incidences of acts of insecurity and malpractices by operators of tuk tuks and if we left unregulated, the public will continue to be exposed to security and safety hazards," he said. Hatimy said each operator must be a registered member of an association recognised by the county. He said the association will be responsible for the training its members on safety and security of passengers. Click here for the latest political news 