A quick response from the Nairobi county fire department yesterday saved many traders from huge losses at Gikomba market. At dawn, a fire burnt a section of the open-air market, destroying shops near the U&I Microfinance banking hall. No casualties were reported. In contrast with other Gikomba fire responses, this time fully filled tankers and equipped fire engines arrive at the scene. The quick response was praised. Fires and slow responses are common at Gikomba market. In June this year, at least 15 people were killed and 60 Others injured in a fire. The fatalities and inadequate response, including lack of water, caused an uproar. The cause of the latest fire was not immediately known but in the past traders have blamed electrical faults and arson by landlords who want higher-paying tenants have been blamed. Rivalry among traders and land grabbers also have been cited. Speaking to the Star yesterday, director of Nairobi Fire Rescue Brian Kisali said eight fire engines and four bowsers were at the scene. “We received a call at 0310hrs telling us a section of Gikomba market was on fire and two fire engines arrived at 0314hrs,” Kisali said. He said an extra fire engine soon arrived because they feared the fire would spread. In the morning, the city fire brigade, Kenya Police and the Kenya Red Cross were on the ground assessing the damage and trying to determine the cause. Police barred traders and others from accessing the destroyed section of themarket. Trader Duncan Mwangi said, “The fire caught us by surprise. One of my immediate stall neighbours had brought stock on Tuesday and everything burnt.” Despite the damage, traders praised the fire department and said the response was much better than in the past. “We have to give credit to the firefighters as they collaborated to contain the fire,” traderSamuel Mwangi said. The Kenya Red Cross also praised the fire brigade.Fire rescue boss Kisali said firefighters encountered problems of access, especially at entrances where stalls had encroached on the roads. In July the national government announced it would spend Sh3 billion to build a new market in two years.