The government has assured all the more than one million pupils who got their KCPE results yesterday that they will join secondary school. Education CS Amina Mohammed said her ministry is mapping vacancies in all categories of secondary schools. “The candidates will form the second cohort to be admitted to secondary schools under the 100 per cent transition policy,” Amina said. They will be admitted under the Free Day Secondary Education programme. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said he has already released a circular outlining details of the programme. He said plans have been put in place to ensure that free secondary funds are released on time for both continuing students and new ones. The government advanced Sh22,000 to every student in public secondary schools in its policy to ensure universal access to secondary education. “In January, we shall make sure all the necessary resources are there. We will release the 22,000 we normally release for our children in secondary school, and ensure that all the necessary books are there,” she said. Amina said that form one selection exercise will be launched on December 3 and the exercise concluded before Christmas. “The Ministry’s relevant departments have put in place all mechanisms to ensure that the selection exercise is completed as fast as possible,” she said while releasing the results at Speaking at Sea Primary School in Mombasa. Some 1,052, 364 students sat the 2018 KPCE exam. More than 50 per cent of the candidates scored 250 marks and above. Some 12, 273 students who scored 400 marks and above will be admitted to national and extra-county schools, while the 228,414 candidates who scored between 301 and 400 will be absorbed in county schools. About 574,927pupils who scored between 201 and 300 marks and 234, 573 candidates who garnered between 101 and 200 marks and the 2177, who managed to get between 0 and 100 marks will get places in day, mixed schools. “I want to clearly state that there will be only one selection process. There will be no second selection,” Amina said. Meanwhile, the Teachers Service Commission will withdraw services of teachers posted to Starehe Boys Centre, pending management wrangles. The commission seeks the institution management gives the principal powers to make key decisions so as to ensure smooth running of the facility. In a letter to the institution management, the commission raised concern on the poor coordination between the principal and the directors leading to lack of accountability. Traditionally, the institution founded in 1959 by the late Dr Geoffrey Griffin, who died on June 28, 2005 at the age of 72, late Geoffrey Geturo and late Joseph Gikubu, Starehe was established as a charitable institution that provides care and education for boys in need. The three directors ran the institution hand in hand with the principals and not only provided an education to bright needy students but so too a home, where they could live. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Kenya National Examination Council chairman George Magoha raised concern over the threat to withdraw teachers from the institution. “Director Griffin was in control of everything until his death but he used to work with the principals appointed to the school. However, the ongoing wrangles threaten to destroy this management arrangement and we hope that the ministry will step in and solve the issue,” Magoha said. The management wrangles have further had a ripple effect to the institutions with financial crisis lighting up the future of sustaining funding for the poor students. In May this year, it emerged that the institution is grappling with a financial crisis that threatens to affect the learning of more than 600 needy students. The school with a population of about 1000 students majorly depends on donations from sponsors to support more than half of them.