The private sector has been urged to offer internships to TVET students. Vocational Training PS Kevit Desai and Youth CS Margaret Kobia made the appeal on Friday during the graudation cermeony for Meru National Polytechnic. Desai said parents, industries, the private sector and civil society should help build the institutions’ capacity to fill skills, infrastructure and equipment gaps. He said the national government is committed to funding TVET institutions. Kobia said TVETs equip many youths with skills that enable them get employed. “I urge you (TVETs) to further explore opportunities through partnerships with the business sector to ensure TVET graduates access the requisite internships that makes them job ready,” she said. Kobia gave an example of the partnership between the NYS and the Prisons department to provide training. “Through similar partnerships, TVETs will have a relative advantage over other institutions in the competitive job market,” she said. Big four agenda Kobia also urged other technical and vocational training institutions to strengthen their curricula. She said this could be done by ensuring the establishment of practical courses implemented through rigorous quality assurance monitoring to ensure adherence to the set standards and international best practice. Kobia said President Uhuru Kenyatta and his administration have created many job opportunities for youths in the Big Four agenda. “The President perpetually urges the youth to step out of the shadows and claim their space in various sectors of society. I urge you to seek the opportunities that have been opened up by the national Big Four agenda and claim your dividends,” she said. Kobia said there are opportunities opening up in the agriculture and food security sector. She cited cottage industries, where technical training is needed. “The construction industry is at its all-time high and various opportunities await to be exploited. Artisan and craft skills are under great demand in the construction industry. Indeed, the biggest beneficiary from the Big Four national agenda is you, the youth,” the CS said. She added that more youths should enroll into the TVets because they are sponsored by government. Kobia said the government will sponsor youths to get training through Helb.