Retired President Daniel Moi may have given out more than 419 acres of forest land irregularly to squatters in 1995, documents show. Kamiti Gazetted Forest was originally declared a forest area as per proclamation No. 14 of 1933. Subsequently, it was declared Central Forest via legal notice No. 174 of May 20, 1964, with its ownership vested with the state and the Kenya Forest Service. However, President Moi gave out the land without following due process, a matter that is now being probed by National Assembly Lands Committee. The committee visited the controversial parcel Friday last week. Committee chairperson Rachael Nyamai was accompanied by committee members Joshua Kuttuny (Cherangany), Waruguru Catherine (Laikipia), Sunkuyia George Risa (Kajiado West) and Kingara Simon Ng’ang’a (Ruiru). The Kamiti Gazetted Forest has been at the centre of protracted ownership wrangles pitting Kamiti Development Association, Kamiti Forest Squatters Association, Muungano wa Kamiti Group, Kamiti Anmer Development Welfare Group and the Kenya Forest Service. Moi verbally gave out the land to squatters who had been displaced following post-election violence in Rift Valley in 1994. The squatters had requested to be settled, through the late former Cabinet minister Arthur Magugu in Kirigit stadium. The Kiambu residents had raised concern over the forest as it had become a dumping site for bodies of murder victims, carjacking and other crimes including those that occurred elsewhere. Following the request, Moi gave a directive triggering the hiving off of the forest. Consequently, the then minister of land JK Mulinge jump-started the process of settling, not withstanding that the land was not available for allocation. Mulinge issued legal notice No. 179 of May 12, 1995. However, he failed to involve the Ministry of Environment, whose main mandate covers forests in the country, in the alienation process, making the whole process null and void. Further, KFS contends that the action was irregular as it was done without any reference to the then Forest Act CAP 385, which defines the procedure for excision of forest land. The defunct Kiambu County Council, however, went ahead to demarcate the entire parcel, classifying it into three categories: low density population with one to five acre parcels. The defunct council also classified medium density population with half-acre parcels and high-density with quarter and eighth-acre plots. Public utility parcels were also set aside for establishment of a primary school, grave yard, police post and assistant chief’s office. This was after a court ruling by Justice Ole Keiuwa who, in January 1995, ruled that there was no law requiring a county council to seek permission from KFS for approval of subdivision. Nginyo Kariuki had filed the case. The land was accordingly subdivided by Kiambu County Council and the issuance of allotment letters and title deeds began. One of the groups claiming ownership of the land - Kamiti Development Association - alleges that allotment letters were issued to 1,400 beneficiaries from the group as they were the original allottees. Phillip Kamau, who was then clerk to the Kiambu council, issued allotment letters in collaboration with district plot allocation committee. In 2007, the process was stopped by the government following concerns that most of the land did not go to intended beneficiaries. There have been various previous attempts to hive off the parcel. On December 5, 1994, former Provincial Commissioner for Central Province Victor Musoga wrote to Kiambu County Council clerk requesting for the hiving off of 300 acres through his letter Ref. No. D74/1/173. On January 17, 1995, a letter from the Attorney General addressed to the Chief Land Registrar said: “Herewith please find the draft legal notices in respect of LR. No. 8390 situated in Kiambu district, for your minister’s signature and return to us for publication.” LR No. 8390 was however a state forest and was not available for disposition. Various attempts to have the parcel converted compelled the KFS to place a “caveat emptor” in 2009 in the media warning unsuspecting Kenyan public not to be persuaded by proprietors who claimed to own the parcel. The caveat said boundaries of state forests or local authority forests can only be varied by recommendation by KFS and consequently approved by resolution of Parliament. “Further take notice that any person or persons, company or companies purporting to sell, purchase, assign and or otherwise deal with this gazetted forest land is doing so fraudulently and the alienation of any portion of this forest land is null and void,” part of the caveat says. The caveat, according to KFS, is still in force. Interestingly, the Kamiti Forest Squatters Association wrote to KFS via a letter referenced No. KFSA/07/013 dated July 10, 2013, acknowledging that they were illegally in the forest. In the letter, they requested for a lease and not excision. Their request was however turned down by the KFS. All attempts by the National Land Commission to address the sticky matter including initiating degazettement have been futile. This is due to court injunctions as well as lack of cooperation between contending groups. Click here for the latest political news