A section of Banking Insurance Finance Union members want their secretary general Isaiah Kubai investigated for allegedly embezzling union funds in excess of Sh4.8 million. The lobby group’s Joint Negotiation Council led by Alphonse Were told the Star that the union’s bank statements for the past 24 months show that Kubai has been withdrawing Sh400,000 per month in two equal tranches of Sh200,000. “Although he has refused to disclose financial statements to members as per BIFU constitution, our investigation shows Kubai who has held the office since 1986 has been taking a cheque of Sh200,000 twice a month for the past 24 months for unknown purpose,’’ Were told the Star on phone. Yesterday, members issued a statement asking the director of public prosecution Noordin Haji to commence investigations against Kubai who they accused of gross abuse of office. Besides alleged misappropriation of funds, members accused Kubai of altering the group’s constitution to extend his tenure in office, nepotism, non-disclosure of the list of BIFU members and use of non-members to further his goals. ‘’Our secretary general has led BIFU from 1986 to date. He single handedly amended a clause in the union’s constitution that required officials to relinquish their seats after hitting 65 years. No credible election has been held throughout his reign,’’ the group said. The group further accused the secretary general of hiring his daughter as BIFU legal officer and selection of non-members to head regional offices in Mombasa and Kisumu. ‘’We therefore demand his immediate resignation, failure to which we will hold weekly demonstrations and picketing at the union headquarters. We will also have other actions taken against him that we will communicate in due course,’’ a signed statement by the group read. Kubai however dismissed the group, saying that he has already taken a defamation case against them. ‘’What do you want me to tell you. Go ahead and write whatever they have said. I already have defamation case against those individuals,’’ he said. Kubai is among the founding members of the now over 10,000 member union which receives Sh600 in monthly subscription per member. He has played a pivotal role in advocating for bankers’ and insurers’ welfare with respective employers for the past 32 years. The group will tomorrow (Tuesday) hold peaceful demonstrations in Nairobi to rebuke abuse of office by its leadership.   