Kenya is hopeful that the Judiciary will fast-track corruption cases, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. "We are waiting for the judicial process. The Judiciary needs to play its part...this is something that we are concerned about...many Kenyans have high hopes," he said. Uhuru who is in Paris told France24 on Sunday all Kenyans and the world are watching the Judiciary, especially after the support it has received. Last month, the President proposed additional funding for the Judiciary, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the office of the Director of Public Prosecution. Uhuru said this will expedite corruption cases. More on this: Uhuru cuts VAT, opts to tighten spending "The clearest indication is the manner in which we are working in Kenya. We have put a lot of efforts to strengthen our capacity in each case that has been investigated," Uhuru said. The President said Kenya wants to ensure all the people who have been arrested or who are being investigated for scandals return stolen assets. Also read: [VIDEO] Corruption fight my legacy, Uhuru says in renewed push for lifestyle audit  PEACE AND SECURITY At the same time, Uhuru said Kenya is not immune to terror attacks. He said the world must come together and fight the menace. Terror group al Shabaab is a constant danger to Kenyans due to its frequent attacks. Read: Kenyan Somalis are pawns in al Shabaab’s reign of terror "I don't think any country is immune to terror. No single country can combat this threat alone," Uhuru said. He said the increase of intelligence sharing among countries has helped many nations. "We are not out in the woods but we are able to detect and prevent attacks. At the end of the day, we may prevent it but we must be on high alert and continue this solidarity to drive this evil out," he said. Uhuru said Kenya's soldiers will stay in Somalia if, by 2021, the Somali government will not have built its own military to fight the enemy. "If it's deemed that our presence will be required, we are willing to participate with other Africa troops under Amisom to ensure the terrorists are defeated," he said. Uhuru said there has been a lot of improvement in Somali since the government has been able to hold elections and transitions. He said it will not be difficult for the government to building the military base. "We have seen the support of international community, there will be a build up of military capacity but I cannot be sure that by 2021 they will adequate military capacity," he said. In October, the President affirmed that Kenyan soldiers will maintain their presence in Somalia until the troubled country achieves peace, stability, and security. The President said Kenya Defence Forces under Amisom will not be withdrawn until all terror networks are fully neutralised. "We went to Somalia in 2011. We shall continue our presence in the country until the restoration of full security in Somalia," the President said. More on this: KDF to remain in Somalia until al Shabaab neutralised, says Uhuru Click here for the latest political news