It will be a race against time for Gor Mahia forward, Jacques Tuyisenge, as he arrives in the United Kingdom today for their SportPesa trohy match against English Premier League side Everton at Goodison Park. Tuyisenge was forced to detach himself from the rest of the team, who traveled to Liverpool on Friday, due to a visa hitch. Gor coach Dylan Kerr was concerned about the player’s late arrival saying he is a reliable player who ought to have been with team but was quick to note that, hopefully, he will shake off the jet well ahead of the clash. “It’s unfortunate Tuyisenge will join his fellow players hours to the match but I hope that he comes around and actually perform well,” said Kerr. “Well aware that scouts will be on look-out, I will be fielding a strong side with the intention of one or two players being picked by the European clubs. I have talked to some of the scouts and I know at least a player will be scouted, as to who and from which department, only time will tell.” Kerr at the same time took a jibe at the government and football authorities back at home for not investing on training and playing facilities. Gor are training at Everton’s base at the Finch Farm, which has more The development came after he watched his side train at the Finch Farm training ground that has more than five grounds. He said: “This is not Goodison but look at the facilities. Camp Toyoyo, where we train is not even a quarter match up to  this facility and really if the sports industry has to grow then county and national governments should invest in facilities.” “We are not asking for a lot but at least something to work with and I know it can be done if only they put their mind to it. See how the boys are enjoying the facilities — they can’t even remember it’s cold out here and this is good.” Meanwhile, Gor Mahia attacker George ‘BlackBerry’ Odhiambo and captain Harun Shakava have revealed that training under England physical performance trainer, David Tivey, was tough but worth it the trouble. Kerr’s players were put through the paces by the England official in their first training session at the Finch Farm training ground on Saturday. “It was one of a kind. Very draining but I must admit it was not easy. But the good thing about it is that I got to do it under one of the England official and Everton consultant Tivey who I believe has our best interest at heart. The regime was meant to improve our speed,” said Odhiambo. “The training was hard but classy,” said Shakava. “Basically it was a good session but very demanding and we hope it will help us on speed going forward.” The Kenyan contingent had the privilege to watch their hosts beat Brighton 3-1 on Saturday. 