STARRING: Eddie Redmayne, Katherine Waterston, Dan Fogler, Alison Sudol, Ezra Miller, Zoë Kravitz, Jude Law, Johnny Depp RELEASE DATE: November 16  Grindelwald sits heavily guarded in the deepest dungeons of the Ministry of Magic in New York after his capture in the film’s prequel Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them ( 2016 ). But Grindelwald manages to escape when he is being transported to Europe to answer for his crimes. He escapes with the help of a devoted follower. Meanwhile, Newt Scamander faces trial in the Ministry of Magic in London as he tries to appeal his travel ban. Newt’s brother Theseus is also part of the hearing. Theseus is engaged to Newt’s old love Leta Lestrange. As it happens, Newt has been sent to find Credence and Grindelwald by Albus Dumbledore. Newt goes to Paris illegally with his old no-maj friend from New York, Jacob. In Paris, Newt and Jacob find Tina and Yusuf, Leta’s half-brother. Cadence, the Obscurus from New York, is hiding out at a circus in Paris. There he meets a mystical woman called Nagini. Nagini carries a blood curse that makes her transform into a giant snake. Credence is being sought after by many people. Grindelwald believes Credence is the key to his plans for a pure-blood magical dynasty. For those of us who are intimately familiar with the Potterverse, the film is like the answers to most of the missing pieces from the past and future. Only true Potter fans would understand the minute details that Rowling has revealed in the film. The background of Nagini for instance; what made her so special for Lord Voldemort to choose her?  And what about the relationship between Albus and Grindelwald? Anyone else catch the highlighted “more than brothers” reference? The tease of Dumbledore’s sexuality by Rowling has always been an open-ended thought. But now we know. For those who are not deeply involved in the Potterverse, the film might be quite long, but as long as you have your 3D glasses, the rollercoaster of magical cinematography makes it all worthwhile.  Star Rating: 4/5