Health CS Sicily Kariuki has urged elected leaders in Nyandarua to focus on service and stop wrangling. Reacting to accusations she and area MPs were interfering with county operations, Kariuki said their interest was to ensure residents get all essential services. “It is true I convened a meeting of the Nyandarua 11 - governor, senator, woman rep and all MPs - on Monday which was a follow up to another we held on June 25. This particular one was on the instructions of the President whose desire is a focus on development,” she said. Kariuki said MPs from the region were concerned about the wrangles that have pitted MCAs allied to the governor against those on the speaker’s side. “With the President having the desire to focus on development, how does this happen in an environment where elected leaders do not appear to agree on priorities and cannot work in a cohesive manner?” she said. Kariuki said the meeting agreed governor Francis Kimemia and the speaker would call their supporters to order as a way to end the wrangles. Read:Nyandarua leaders call for unity to fulfil pledges The CS, however, said they were surprised that a day after the meeting, the MCAs went ahead to try and swear in a new speaker, prompting chaos. Kariuki said the residents of Nyandarua were looking at how to get better roads, water and health services. “This will not be possible when elected leaders are focused on politics and 2022 elections. We have work to do. I am busy ensuring the President’s Universal Health Coverage is a success,” she said. The CS and Nyandarua MPs have been trying to help solve the wrangles that have seen MCAs fight each other in full glare of the media. “We may have to leave it to higher powers such as the courts to decide on the way forward,” Kariuki said. On accusations by the MCAs that she has not done anything about the local health situation, Kariuki urged the ward representatives to focus on the county government. “One of the most underperforming counties in health is Nyandarua, I am ashamed to say. The local person seems to have been told that the CS is the one who has not done anything here. I have no business fixing a hospital in Nyandarua just like I have no business fixing Pumwani. That’s the work of the governor,” Kariuki said. Click here for the latest political news