The Murang’a government has formed a committee to investigate a case in which 11 boys underwent botched circumcision. Health executive Joseph Mbai told the Star yesterday that the four-member committee will seek to establish how the exercise was conducted and whether the medics involved were qualified. The 11 boys had gone for the rite of passage at Wanjengi ACK church in Kahuro subcounty a few weeks ago but were forced to undergo a second cut after their wounds failed to heal. The boys had earlier been taken to a private hospital for the circumcision by the church but after two weeks, they were taken to Murang’a general hospital where the process was repeated. Mbai said the team would investigate the private health facility that conducted the cut to establish whether it was licensed and met the required health standards. “We also want to find out how qualified the doctor who performed the procedure was. If he wasn’t, then the appropriate legal measures will be taken,” Mbai said. The executive said circumcision is a sensitive exercise that requires precision, saying it is wrong for someone to conduct it knowing they lack the capacity to do it professionally. He warned that stern action would be taken if the centre or medics involved were found culpable of negligence. “We will also close down the facility if it is found to be on the wrong and especially if it is unlicensed,” Mbai said. The official said in future, centres would be required to acquire a permit from the county to conduct mass circumcision. Medical practitioners conducting the exercise will also have to get an authorisation letter to avert a recurrence of such incidences. He said the county would not allow unqualified medics to operate such procedures since it dealt with people’s lives directly. Mbai said the county would sponsor the circumcision of boys who could not afford the fees charged by health centres. Murang’a woman representative Sabina Chege blamed the procedure on negligence saying the doctor involved should have his license cancelled.