Kisii governor James Ongwae has said he will sack absentee and non-performing staff. The governor also gave an ultimatum to executives saying they must deliver according to their performance contracts or be shown the door. "It is no longer business as usual. You must deliver at all cost. That is my directive," Ongwae said. Speaking on Tuesday when he witnessed the signing of staff performance contracts at the Culture Hall, Ongwae said the tendency of staff skipping duty must come to an end. "My deputy and I were given a specific mandate by the electorate. We want to deliver on what we promised them. It is either you come to work or resign. It is as simple as that," Ongwae said. The directive comes after concerns that some junior staff has been pocketing monthly salaries and allowances without reporting to work, a trend that has hampered service delivery. The governor put the executives on notice saying that they must provide leadership and supervisory roles in their various departments to ensure better performance. Ongwae directed the ministers, who have already signed performance contracts with their respective chief officers, to show exemplary leadership to other staff. The governor had earlier signed the performance contracts with all his ten executives. Ongwae, a former head of the Directorate of Personnel Management, said he wanted to leverage on his experience as a human resource expert to streamline management of staff to deliver on his manifesto. "As an administration, we may have sent a wrong signal that we are lenient and some workers have been taking advantage of that to abscond from duty. My deputy governor and I shall from now on crack the whip on non-performing officers until the culture of satisfactory service delivery is institutionalized, ” Ongwae said. He also announced that the exercise will be further cascaded to officers in lower cadres by way of a performance appraisal system which he unveiled during the function. Under the new system, officers from Job Group J to Q will commit on their annual output with their directors through agreed performance indicators, which are to be signed early next year. Ongwae said that his government was keen on service delivery through the Kenya Devolution Support Programme (KDSP), which is a World Bank initiative. A number of workers have already been trained on the programme with a view of improving service delivery in the county. The governor dismissed claims that the process would be a witch-hunt mechanism aimed at victimising workers. Deputy governor Joash Maangi hailed the performance contracting initiative and asked those tasked with supervisory roles to ensure all staff achieve their set targets.