Gor Mahia is undoubtedly the best football team in East African right now, going by their recent results in domestic, regional and continental competitions. That assertion will be put to the test today when they face a team that considers themselves their equals or even superiors in Tanzanian champions, Simba, when they go head to head in the SPortPesa Super Cup final tomorrow. At stake will be, not only the regional bragging rights but also a slot to play English Premier League side at the Merseyside base, Goodison Park. Gor have steamrolled their way into the finals scoring five goals without conceding any and have a fully fit squad available for selection in the final to be staged at the Afraha Stadium, Nakuru. Simba, on the other hand, have huffed and puffed their way into the last two without scoring a goal in regulation time, instead, showing cool heads in shoot-outs to prevail against Kenyan sides Kariobangi Sharks and Kakamega Homeboyz. Without star striker Emmanuel Okwi, Simba have been short of the attacking threat that saw them win the Tanzanian Vodafone Premier League at a canter. The availability of Shiza Kichuya and Rashid juma will give them feint hope against a formidable Gor defence led by Haron Shakava and the no-nonsense Joash Onyango. It is upfront that Gor have looked formidable with Francis kahata a joy to watch with his deft touches beguiling many fans. The speed of George Odhaimbo and the eye for goal from Meddie Kagere gives Gor plenty of options to trouble the Simba defence that include experienced Taifa Stars’ defender, Erasto Nyoni. But like Homeboyz showed, it is in the full back positions that the Tanzanians are vulnerable and that is a department that Gor will be keen to exploit to open them up. It will be touch-and-go between goalkeeper Shaban Odhonji and Boniface Oluoch on who starts the game though the former has played both matches so far and looks primed to be considered again for the final. With Sh3m prize money awaiting the winners, the players will be keen to line their pockets and compensate for the one week they have been away from their families. That will, however, be a bonus to the once in a lifetime opportunity of playing at one of the most famous grounds in English’s football — Goodison Park.