Residents of Githunguri and Mugumo villages in Ol Kalou on Saturday feasted on a female hippopotamus that was shot by KWS officers after it strayed to the area. The lot landed on the animal with axes and pangas, each cutting enough for themselves and families. The alarm was that some of them did not care if the animal was fit for human consumption. Oblivious of possibilities of contracting diseases, some ate the meat while still raw. "The meat does not pose any healthy risk as the hippo feeds purely on fresh vegetation. Rift Valley Fever means nothing to us. The hippo cannot even have anthrax," one of them said. The animal had strayed from Lake Ol’ Bolossat before it was spotted by residents at Kiganjo dam which is at the edge of Ol kalou town on Ol kalou-Kipipiri road. KWS officers from Nyahururu camped at the dam the whole day to keep away residents who were throwing anything they could find at the animal. They said they will wait for it to come out at the fall of darkness so that they could scare it to go back to the lake. But instead, it strayed further west, 5km from Ol kalou town to Mugumo village where it was noticed by residents at 5am Saturday. The residents mobilised themselves and chased it down across Mbichu’s valley that divides Mugumo and Githunguri villages. They shouted "Meat! Meat!" On the other side of the valley, along Mbichu-Rakeri road, the animal met other residents who chased it with dogs through the farms and back to the stream at Mbichu’s valley. The already scared and injured animal hid its head inside a bush in the stream where KWS officers shot it. KWS officers at the scene said it was not possible to pull the animal from the deep forested stream. "We have done all we could. To us, the animal is now disposed of. No resident should go near or even eat its meat," a KWS officer told hundreds of residents who thronged Mbichu’s valley. But the residents heard none of it as they landed on the animal even before the officers, who were accompanied by the police, left the scene. The residents thanked KWS officers for quick response upon being notified and also for killing the animal, hence "making it easy for them to get free meat". "They killed it in the right way and left us to eat. Some of us are very excited and that is why they are eating raw meat to feel the taste," Lucas Mbugua said "I don’t know whether those eating raw meat are normal. But again, some of them work in slaughter houses where they eat raw meat," Wangari Nyoike said. Other wildlife officers regretted the animal's death saying it was unfair, given the stream where it was killed was bushy and posed no danger to humans. "Where it is now, it would be easy to trace its way to the nearby dams and eventually to Lake Ol' Bolossat. It did not deserve to die," an officer who requested anonymity said. He said the residents need to be educated to care for such stray hippos instead of killing them of meat. "If this trend continues, they will eventually finish their animals." Click here for the latest political news