Can NASA co-principal and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka deny he admits the shoes left behind by the defection of Raila Odinga to Jubilee are too big to fill? Having been the running mate, it’s assumed he’d readily put on the shoes and make the final run for it. So until he refutes the story, Kalonzo’s shied off the race. Hence, it is not impolite to implore him to hang up the boots and vanish into retirement too. Still, it is not often you encounter such a rare breed of honesty, a politician saying “I can’t.” However, Kalonzo bequeathed Raila the title of ‘official opposition leader’, which does not exist, at least not in law and not in NASA structures. Kalonzo promoted a media delusion of a title called ‘NASA leader’ reserved for Raila. Kalonzo must feel sorry for Raila, but that is not the way to express it. Likeable Kalonzo is not fading away quietly. He’s confusing me, and you too. He’s reported affirming Raila as the “official opposition leader” and wants him to explain whether he’s crossed over or not! Seriously? Who doesn’t know that Raila doesn’t give a hoot about NASA, having voted with his feet to Jubilee on March 9? Hasn’t he dropped the core NASA agenda of electoral justice, devolution in an all-inclusive national dialogue? And who stops the trio from convening a summit and expelling ODM for foregoing the NASA Agreement and going to bed with the competition? Fear of leadership? Raila has everything to gain from divorcing NASA. To him, NASA’s usefulness ended after the elections. It should have worried the trio that Raila committed ODM to impossibilities when he sought the NASA candidature. Meaning he was bound to seek a quick exit from that bondage the moment he got or created an opportunity. In the post-election period, Raila only needed NASA to create a crisis and force Jubilee to the table. Once that was achieved, provocatively, ODM reneged on sharing parliamentary minority leadership slots, hogging everything, well, almost. Those spared are Raila’s Fifth Column waging insurgency against their party leaders. Motivating the ODM gallop is awareness that it’s locked in a loose-loose marriage in NASA. Not many know that neither Raila nor an acolyte can run for President in NASA. That’s a closed route. But there is another deceitful demotivation against staying in NASA. Only ODM qualifies for political parties funding. In the NASA agreement, ODM must share party funds with partners on the basis of contribution to the presidential vote. More, since ODM produced the candidate, it was advantaged over the rest. ODM’s exit strategy has always been to create a crisis of confidence so the party is not forced to share the hundreds of millions of party funds. Kalonzo asked Raila to “extend forgiveness to NASA colleagues who’ve since joined calls for Luhya unity”. Now there is the bite: since when did NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi of ANC and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula wrong Raila and require forgiveness? And who fed the notion to Kalonzo, if not Jubilee, that merging ANC and Ford-K is anti-Raila? What was so alluring about the handshake sideshow that took over the National Prayer Breakfast. Wouldn’t it have been sombre to pray for those who prey on public coffers and donate the breakfast to victims of ravaging floods? Kenyans are looking to the NASA trio to provide opposition leadership. Their meekness is nauseating. Let them brave the times. Let them drop coyness and hit the road. They do not need Raila’s big shoes to run; Kenyan athletes did not conquer the middle- and long- distance races with borrowed or any shoes at all. NASA’s support base is unhinged and it is callous to continue bewildering them with hesitation. The trio should not drive looking in the rearview mirror. Let them take over NASA, revamp it and move on. The mistake NASA principals made was to let its organs be dominated by ODM. Reinvigorate these moribund organs. The base is still there. No more mixed signals. Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com