Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo and his partner Tim Jessop have taken over the Kenya National Rally Championship lead from Baldev Chager and Ravi Soni after the dust on the RSC Athi Rally settled over the weekend. The five-time Safari Rally winners had their campaign effectively sewn up after emerging victors in the RSC Athi Rally. Driving a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10, Carl carried the day by 34 seconds ahead reigning African champion Manvir Singh Baryan (Skoda Fabia R5 ) as Chager completed the podium dash in a similar make. After round four action, Carl leads the KNRC log on 78 points, but only just. Chager, who enjoyed a point lead ahead of Tundo prior to the Athi event, now drops to second position on 77 after settling for third place. Chager’s Kabras Sugar Racing teammate Onkar won the opening round of the series in his Nakuru home turf in February while Carl emerged the winner of the second leg after equaling Shekhar Mehta’s record of five wins on the ARC Safari Rally 2018. Eric Bengi, in a Menengai Cream Subaru Impreza N12, retained third spot on 45 points as Farhaaaz Khan in his Oilibya Racing Evolution 10 Mitsubishi dipped to fourth on 43points. Farhaaz was all smiles: “It was a tough day but we braved on. Some of the stages were a bit tricky, rough and short. But all in all we are happy to maintain our 100 percent finish record in the 2018 season. We are glad to finish seventh despite not feeling well today (Saturday). A big thank you to Keith Henrie for driving us back to the finish from the last stage. It was a good event by the organizers.” Onkar Rai, who finished fourth in Athi is ranked fifth on 41 while Manvir has jumped to fifth on 36points. Athi was a closely contested affair. Carl held on to the lead with one stage to go. Tension mounted from the word go with 21 seconds separating the top three after the second stage. Nikhil Sachania, the only physically challenged competitor on the series, was happy with his result after coming in 9th overall. “We went well and were happy to finish the rally. The stages were okay and the car behaved well.” Jasmeet Chana, one of the most consistent drivers in the KNRC with 53 finishes out of 64 starts since joining top flight action in 2010, was elated to bring his Mitsubishi back in top ten for the umpteenth time. After the rally, Jasmeet said he will be joining the Classic scene as well as his KNRC participation.