A group of Coast opposition leaders on Saturday agreed to form an alliance with Deputy President William Ruto in preparation for thew 2022 presidential election. Led by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, the leaders said they were ready to work with the DP in an alliance as partners in formation of the 2022 government. Kingi was categorical on the alliance, saying it should be based on terms and conditions for the region to have its share as opposed to previously when the region supported parties without any agreements. Kingi told leaders to stop endorsing the DP and focus on uniting the region, then sit down with him and agree on how they can work together. Ruto said he was ready to work with Coast leaders, and asked them to organise themselves as he was ‘well prepared’ to take over the presidency after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s second term. Coast region is an opposition stronghold. However, the DP has on several occasions camped there, keen to win the support of the local leadership and the entire voting bloc. Already, some MPs from Kilifi and Lamu counties have endorsed Ruto. The DP was in Malindi for an Iftar and a fundraising for Malindi Education Development Association Foundation at Malindi Sai Eden Rock Hotel attended by Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale, Devolution CAS Hussein Dado and MP Aisha Jumwa. Others present were MPs Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Kilifi Woman Rep Gertrude Mbeyu, Nominated Senator Christine Zawadi, Lamu Woman Rep Ruweida Obbo and Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama among other politicians. While Kingi is leading his brigade towards Ruto, his ally and Mombasa Governor is still in ODM. During the meeting Kingi said they would work with the Jubilee administration as they have the goodwill of Raila Odinga, going against the handshake would be betraying him. He dismissed ODM leaders branding Kilifi MPs rebels for endorsing and following Ruto. “The union was easy because of the handshake. We should thank Raila for saying Kingi should not fight Ruto if he comes to Malindi. I welcome them because of the handshake Kingi said it was time to plan for 2022 and the beast way was to bring the people of Coast together and have a plan. “Since Independence, we have listened to a voice from outside the region. This time around, we shall not listen to another person from outside. The decision as to where Coast will go will be made by the Coastal people,’’ he said. Ruto said Coast region only like the Jubilee Government during fundraising and money matters but during elections they vote for the opposition.