The government has ruled out reopening NCPB depots to buy three million bags of maize from North Rift farmers. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Senator Margaret Kamar and eight MPs have asked the government to reopen National Cereals and Produce Board depots to take maize still held by farmers. Crop Development PS Richard Lesiyampe yesterday said the stores will not be reopened because they are full. “We have no capacity to buy more maize at the moment. We hope the farmers will get other markets,” Lesiyampe told the Star on the phone. Mandago and Kamar on Wednesday said the board should be given more funds to buy all the maize as promised. “Farmers have experienced many problems this year. It will be better if the state buys their maize and pays money owed,” Mandago said. He spoke at a meeting with farmers in Eldoret. The NCPB owes farmers about Sh3 billion. The government has promised to pay in two weeks. “Payment should be hastened,” Kamar said. The NCPB is embroiled in a scam in which Sh1.9 billion was paid to ‘unscrupulous’ traders who supplied large amounts of grain at the expense of 3,500 farmers. The traders said they are farmers. They bought more maize and sold it to the board. Mandago and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi have defended the traders, saying they are not cartels. Mandago said most of the traders are genuine farmers who harvest maize in large quantities. The governor asked Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri to name the real culprits who were involved in maize importation. “We insist that the government tell us who imported all the maize to fill up the NCPB stores. The traders so far named are genuine farmers whom we know,” he said. Kenya Farmers Association chairman Kipkorir Menjo said trucks that delivered maize to NCPB belonged to “big boys” who could not be named. “It is regrettable and must be punished. The ongoing investigations must unearth the merchants for prosecution,” Menjo said. Menjo asked NCPB officials to take responsibility for the mess. “We should not be told that no money was lost,” he said.