Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua yesterday told a Nairobi court the state did not lose a single cent in the Euros 59 million (Sh6.9 billion) Anglo Leasing scandal. While being led in his evidence in chief by assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Nicholas Mutuku he said all the money was refunded. He said the commitment fee and first installment paid to Infotalent Ltd was approved by Parliament in the 2003-2004 financial year. See this : No cash was lost in Anglo Leasing project — Kimunya He told Milimani trial magistrate Martha Mutuku Euros 5,287,164 was returned after he advised the then Attorney General Amos Wako to stop further payment and cancel the contract. “Infotalent Ltd refunded the money and the Treasury was informed,” Kinyua said. Kinyua, who was accompanied DPP Noordin Haji, was testifying in a case in which businessmen Deepak Kamani, Rashmi Kamani and Chemanlal Kamani are accused of conspiracy to defraud the government. Others are the late former Finance minister David Mwiraria, three former PSs Joseph Magari, Dave Mwangi and David Onyonka. They are are accused of conspiracy to defraud the cash through a suppliers financing agreement for the computerisation of security, law and order systems and procedures of Kenya police code named E-Cops. The contract was executed on November 11, 2003. He said Magari and Mwangi signed the contract on behalf of the government, as well as a representative of the supplier company. Kinyua said by the time he took office as the PS in the Ministry of Finance he was not aware the contract had valid legal opinion of the former AG Wako. He said he took over the office of PS Finance in July 1, 2002, after his predecessor Magari stepped aside to give way for investigation of the alleged fraud. Kinyua said he advised the then Finance minister to stop payment for the contract. He intiated an audit by writing a letter to the then Auditor General Evans Mwai. Read : Anglo Leasing suspects keep Muigai and Kimani from testifying Click here for more political news 