Did President Uhuru Kenyatta ignore an appeal from a section of Kisii MPs to give two former MPs state appointments? While the President is said to have promised the politicians plum parastatal jobs during the Jubilee campaigns last year, it has emerged that nothing seems to be in the offing. Attempts by the politicians to seek audience with Interior CS Fred Matiang’i over the delayed nominations have hit a snag. One of them told Corridors of Power the powerful CS no longer picks calls from them after they raised the issue in his recent trip to the region. Post-election moments for election losers can be excruciating end even worse - tormenting - when broke. ***** A senior official at the National Land Commission is in a panic following the renewed anti-corruptin fight. The woman bought four appartmanents in Lavingtom a few months ago after she was paid cash for her services. We are told the woman used two different identities when conducting the transactions. She used her relative’s name and national identification details, but where the PIN number was required to facilitate the transfer of ownership, she then used her PIN. Now she doesn’t know how she will evade the lifestyle audit ordered. ***** Some politicians were heard whispering President Uhuru Kenyatta doesn’t need to struggle to get the wealth records of senior government officials suspected of graft. He only needs a whistle blower website where Kenyans will send piles of information about the dark secrets of government officers. This was informed by yesterday’s Twitter campaign in which Kenyans exposed what they believe are proceeds of graft owned by Kenyan leaders. According to the first-time MPs, the new anti-graft crusade has rekindled memories of the Narc era when Kenyans threatened to arrest corrupt police officers. Maybe it’s something for His Excellency to think about. ***** A senior national government representative in Nyanza fears worse days ahead after he was caught in a compromising situation with a married woman. The man in his mid-fifties was busted with a primary school teacher at a two-star hotel within Migori town last weekend. The randy woman’s husband, a sleuth with the police, had been tracking his wife’s mobile phone conversations and laid a trap for them at the hotel. However, as the husband found out later, he struck too fast before any crucial evidence had started unfolding as they were yet to retire to their room. They were taking lunch when the wife saw her husband walk in. 