The defence team in the NYS fraud case opposed the start of the pre-trial conference on Wednesday, citing unfair treatment of its 46 clients. In a unanimous protest, the lawyers accused Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti of dealing with the case in a "hasty manner", and said this clearly indicated that their clients' rights were being violated. They said they were neither willing nor ready to sit but that they would consider doing so in two weeks, should their clients' rights be guaranteed. "The haste [may make it seem that we are] doing something out of the ordinary, and are going to finalise the matter within the shortest possible time, but it is opening up a basis for various applications, both in this court and the High Court, which in the long run will delay the hearing," argued lawyer Kirathe Wandungi. Related: [VIDEO] Corruption cases a priority, evidence must be watertight - Maraga The team further accused the prosecution of failing to supply them with documents as the court ordered. The lawyers noted that the right to receive exhibits and statements is protected under the law. "Accused persons ought to be shown in advance the evidence against them for purposes of defending themselves," they said in their notice. Wandugi and his colleagues said the trial should only commence after they receive all the exhibits, statements and any other documents the prosecution intends to use. "We are not ready to proceed," said lawyer Cliff Ombeta. The lawyers further noted the magistrate's views during the issuance of the bail ruling on Tuesday. "In your our own comments, you said this matter has attracted the lowest Wanjiku to the highest in the country. You also indicated in your ruling that a sum of Sh9 billion has been stolen and even took judicial notice of matters circulating in the media. Even for purposes of service of summons you indicated the best mode of service was through the media," they told Ogoti. They added: "Since their arrest, during arraignment and thereafter, our clients have been tried in the court of the public, on social media and regular media. They have been tried, found guilty, convicted and sentenced." Wandungi told the court that it must recognise guidelines with overriding principles and the accused's right to a fair trial. The suspects were denied bail and an order issued for them to remain in remand until the trial is concluded. Earlier today, the suspects asked the magistrate to order that they be provided with water and biscuits. The lot told Ogoti that they left remand very early and the court very late on Tuesday so they missed breakfast and supper. Read: NYS suspects denied bail, to remain in remand until end of trial More on this: 'Hungry' NYS suspects ask court for water, biscuits after missing meals Click here for the latest political news