Without a doubt, the late elephant conservationist Daphne
Sheldrick was deeply in love with Kenya’s wildlife and her husband. She penned
her life in a memoir called Love, Life
and Elephants: An African Love Story. Born in Kenya in 1934 and raised during the colonial era,
Daphne’s farming family was originally from Scotland. Her childhood is an
account settler life where big game hunting and wilderness camping during the
school holidays was the norm. Although she lived through the independence
struggle, Sheldrick only touches briefly on “the horrific reality of the Mau
Mau” and with the sentiments of a minority community watching a treasured way
of life disappearing. The memoirs recall heart-warming and amusing anecdotes of
home and working life. A young bushbuck in their home when she was just 3-years old
sparked a lifelong passion of caring for helpless animals. As suggested by the title, the book is directed towards
Western audiences. There are sweeping descriptions of wilderness areas and in
depth vignettes of individual animals. However, very few African people
feature, perhaps not surprising of a woman of her particular place and time. Daphne gives insight into the poaching plague, wildlife policies
from the 1950s and hands-on management in the Tsavo National Park where her
first husband, game warden Bill Woodley, was working. Here she continued to
rehabilitate various kinds of orphaned and injured animals, honing her skills
in observation and wildlife behaviour. It was in Tsavo that Daphne met her second husband, David
Sheldrick, former professional hunter and founder warden of the park, and she
fell madly in love with him.  She
describes him as her “soul mate” and theirs was passionate love story strengthened
by mutual dedication for wildlife welfare. The couple moved to Nairobi when
David was relocated. He died quite suddenly in 1977 at 58 years and it is clear
that Daphne never stopped missing him. In Nairobi, people once again sought out Daphne to help
with abandoned animals. She created the David Sheldrick Elephant Trust, named
after her late husband and commonly known as the ‘elephant orphanage.’ Elephants were particularly special to Daphne. She
relates many years of unsuccessfully trying to raise young elephants which are
reliant on milk for the first 3 years of life. After 28 years of experimenting,
Daphne finally succeeded in creating a digestible milk formula and which marked
the turning point in the fortunes of dozens of orphaned infant elephants. For her work in elephant rehabilitation and collective
efforts in wildlife conservation, Daphne was honoured with the Moran of the Burning Spear in 2001 from the
Kenya government. She was named Dame Commander of the Order of the British
Empire (OBE) by Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II in 2006 and received many more
awards. Her work can be
summed up in the quote found in the forward to the book which reads, “What we
are is God's gift to us; what we become is our gift to God.” Daphne Sheldrick
passed away in April 2018.