On May
24, 2017, the Qatar News Agency was hacked and a fake statement purported
to belong to his Highness the Emir of the State of Qatar Sheikh Tamin Bin Hamad
Al-Thani was broadcasted. This, as would be proved later, was the start of a well-planned
but a failed strategy to block and exclude Qatar from the rest of the world. On June 5, 2017, three countries in the Gulf region (namely
Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain), together with Egypt, declared a sea, land and air blockade on Qatar, accusing it of supporting and financing terrorism-related
activities. They put forth 13 demands as prerequisite to lift the
blockade. The key demand was to shut down the international news channel,
Al Jazeera. The announcement
of the blockade was preceded by well-oiled malicious campaigns
through international media and PR firms. The campaigns, which
were geared towards smearing Qatar's image, flopped. While proponents of the blockade did not
attain their objective of paralysing Qatar economically, it had
effects socially. The normal lives of thousands of citizens and families in the
four Gulf countries were significantly disrupted. The blockade was not only on
the diplomatic front but was also sadly, designed to be as inhuman as possible.
Any form of human contact between the citizens of KSA, UAE & Bahrain on one
side and Qatar on the other was not
only illegalised but also severely dealt with. The decision violated the
rights of movements, education, and residence as well as denying Qataris the right
to perform Umrah and
Hajj at the two holy mosques in Mecca and Medina. According
to the National Human Rights Commission in Qatar, more than 13,000 people
were affected directly by the blockade and the rights of more than 2,000
citizens violated. Human Rights Watch says parents were forcibly separated
from their children, husbands from their wives and families prevented from visiting
each other. The sick, the elderly and the young were not spared either. Amnesty
International documented the same. The
irrational and irresponsible blockade also grievously infringed on
animal rights. Saudi authorities deported about 12,000 Qatari-owned
camels and sheep; hundreds of these poor animals died cruelly
after being subjected to harsh conditions. Despite
the blockade lasting a year now, Qatar has become
stronger and made great strides economically. All the mega projects in Qatar
were not affected in any way, including preparations to host the 2022 World Cup.
The Qatari economy proved to be extraordinarily resilient and remains one of
the strongest in the world. Oil and gas exports have continued uninterrupted
and new trade routes have been established and the authorities are keen to
achieve a high level of economic independence. The government plans to increase
LNG production and aggressive marketing strategies were put in place to make
Qatar a highly competitive tourists destination. As a
firm believer in upholding international obligations and guided by respect for
human rights, Qatar gave the citizens of the blockade countries the option to
stay and continue with their normal lives.
A report released by Qatar National TV shows that quarter of a million citizens of the four countries lived in Qatar before the blockade. A few of these
citizens heeded the call from their countries to leave Qatar. Qatar, despite sustained provocations, did not take any action against the citizens of those countries. There are more than 200,000 Egyptians
working in the private and public sector. Considering Qatar can easily procure more skilled and affordable manpower
from other countries, this is undoubtedly a kind and honourable gesture. That Qatar
still supplies the LNG that supports the UAE power energy speaks volumes of the
virtues the state stands for. Qatar – rightly- rejected all the accusations levelled against it and
refused to give in to the baseless demands fronted by the blockade countries.
It agreed to and declared support for the Kuwait initiative of dialogue and
solving issues amicably. All accusations levelled against Qatar are baseless,
and the demand to shut down Al Jazeera is unjustified. Interference with the media is a clear violation of the freedom of
speech, which Qatar is committed to upholding. Qatar has never and will never support any form of violence, be it
based on religion, ethnicity or race. We stand for peace, respect and sanctity
of human life. Qatar stands for respect for property, peaceful coexistence and dialogue. The state has played a pivotal role in solving the
Darfur crisis; it deployed a peacekeeping mission to the disputed border of
Eritrea and Djibouti. It also extended a hand to the people of the Republic of
Somalia in their peace, reconciliation and reconstruction efforts. Qatar’s
foreign policy is based on respect and noninterference with other countries'
sovereignty and internal affairs. The
four blockading countries tried to lobby other nations to join them in their
illegal blockade but the free world refused to be dragged into this lowly and
undiplomatic move defined by illegalities and violation of human rights. Some countries that joined the four in cutting ties with
Qatar have since restored their diplomatic relations with Doha after
objectively analysing the issue. We
extend our gratitude to our friends (countries/nations/organisations) who
stood with us in the trying moments, who called for sanity and respect to International
law; more so when the world space, regulated by the ICAO, was illegally shut off for
our national airlines. In the face of the propaganda, diplomatic pressure and threats,
the free world chose to stand with the truth and justice and shunned the selfish
demands from the four countries. Kenya and Qatar enjoy deep and warm relations. Kenya's President visited Qatar in April 2014
and His Highness the Emir reciprocated the visit in April 2017. The two countries
have signed several agreements on education, economy and culture. I take this opportunity to thank the government and the people of
Kenya for standing with
the truth. May God bless Kenya, its government and people. Ahsanteni  Qatar ambassador 