Douglas Mwangi, a young leader from Mathare, was on Tuesday presented with the Queen’s Young Leaders Award at Buckingham Palace by Queen Elizabeth. Douglas received the award for the work he has been doing to reduce illiteracy and poverty in his community after founding Oasis Mathare. Oasis Mathare offers entrepreneurial and IT skills to unemployed young people, including teenage mothers within the community. “It’s such a huge honour to receive an Award from Her Majesty The Queen for the work I’m doing at home in Kenya. It’s been such an amazing experience being here in the UK and meeting all of the other Award winners,” said Douglas. “I’ve learnt so much and I can’t wait to put it all into practice. Being part of the Queen’s Young Leaders family is really exciting and I’m looking forward to seeing what the future now holds.” As a Queen’s Young Leader, Douglas has gained access to bespoke mentoring and training through the University of Cambridge’s Institute of Continuing Education, designed to develop his leadership skills further and ensure he is best placed to lead the way in the future to tackle some of Kenya's most pressing issues. Speaking at the Awards ceremony, The Duke of Sussex, Meghan Markle said: “In this rapidly changing world, it is heartening to meet so many inspiring young people gathered here today, who have already stepped up as leaders and improved the lives of so many people across the Commonwealth. You are the hope and optimism the world needs and we will all do whatever we can to support you in it.” “Each and every one of our 240 Young Leaders is a remarkable and exceptional young person, who I have no doubt will play an important role in shaping our future world. It has been an absolute privilege and delight to get to know them," said John Major, Chairman of The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust. Each year, exceptional young people from all Commonwealth countries are selected to receive a Queen’s Young Leaders Award and become Queen’s Young Leaders. This year saw young people from 38 countries been awarded. Click here for the latest political news 