Uhuru Kenyatta surmounted huge obstacles to become President in 2013. All pundits seemed sure that the odds were against him and his running mate, William Ruto. There were the ICC cases, the ending of the Kikuyu presidency of Mwai Kibaki and land grabbing charges against Ruto in local courts. The incumbency at the time appeared to favour their opponents led by the battle-hardened Raila Odinga, then serving as the country’s second Prime Minister. Raila was joined in fateful unity by the most unlikely of friends — Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka and Trade minister Moses Wetang’ula to establish the Cord triumvirate. The country went through an electoral campaign period that had never been witnessed before. The Jubilee Coalition — formed by Uhuru’s The National Party and Ruto’s United Republican Party, among other small parties — scored a decisive win at the ballot, which Cord contested. Though Jubilee won at the Supreme Court as well, the country was divided down the middle. Last year’s election was no different. It is, therefore, in the context of these divisions and the baggage of alleged crimes against humanity that Uhuru sought to make a legacy during his second and last term. The state suffered nationhood and economic decline: The unemployment rate had soared to unprecedented levels and industries were closing shop and shifting bases to our neighbours. The government expenditure was heavily reliant on external financing and the national debt, especially from China, rose to trillions. The KRA was having great difficulties meeting the annual revenue collection targets. The Supreme Court invalidated the results of the presidential elections, thereby denting the legitimacy of the second Jubilee administration. After winning the repeat presidential election, Uhuru announced the launch of the Big Four at his inauguration. He appeared to have resolved to change tack in serving Kenyans and leaveing a legacy. He was clearly in no mood to entertain sideshows and nuances that would impede his determination to deliver on the Big Four agenda. The country thus expected the teams at Harambee House and State House to pull together and in one direction to support the President in this arduous task. There has been discomfort with some of the steps taken by the President, including the handshake, which has created unease within the Jubilee ranks. However, the tolerance of corruption by some quarters within the government has become the greatest stumbling block in Uhuru’s quest for a lasting legacy. Corruption has been both pervasive in and anathema to Kenya’s public service since Independence. Kenneth Matiba was eulogised as a self-made pioneer indigenous millionaire. Many compatriots have described him as probably the only true businessman of independent Kenya. He had the courage to leave a plum government post to venture into clean business. We now know that he suffered the consequences of playing clean in the corrupt field of dealer sharks. This revelation about Matiba is an admission that mega corruption has been the thread with which the old and new capital have been woven. Jomo Kenyatta never made any pretence to fight graft, instead, he regularly cajoled his erstwhile detention colleagues to help themselves to state largesse. Those like Bildad Kagia, who chose to walk the straight path of nationalist ideals, were scolded and not spared harsh repressive police treatment. Mzee Daniel Moi succumbed to international pressure from the US, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to institutionalise the fight against graft. This push from the Bretton Woods institutions became unbearable after Moi’s Foreign Affairs minister Robert Ouko was killed, apparently by corrupt cartels within the government. Much was expected from the Mwai Kibaki administration, but much less was delivered on this front. Goldenberg compensation continued under Narc and the Anglo Leasing scandal was born. Then came the Grand Coalition with much anticipation of some success in the war on corruption. Sooner rather than later, both sides of the coalition were fighting allegations of major scandals. The Grand Regency Hotel was sold in unclear circumstances, while the PAC began investigating the opaque sale of the Tokyo Embassy building. Then private lorries were claimed to be loading maize from the Strategic Grain Reserve to sell to millers. As if that were not enough, ships docked at Mombasa with maize suspected to be contaminated but destined for national consumption. Ministers mentioned in these ‘Nusu Mkate’ were shuffled, but it became our usual game of musical chairs.  LIST OF SHAME It was thus refreshing when Uhuru appeared to have taken the bull by horns in 2015 when he asked top leaders in his government to step aside to facilitate investigations. This was during the State of the Nation address. He tabled before Parliament a confidential document — the so-called List of Shame — containing the names of state officers suspected to be complicit in corrupt deals. There was condemnation and ululation in almost equal measure. Nothing significant seems to have happened, in spite of high-profile court appearances. Instead, the action appears to have reinvigorated some political careers that were clearly on a downward trend. After the handshake with Raila on March 9, Uhuru got a new impetus, and the determination to stamp out corruption looked real. Things have since taken a turn for the worse after revelations of large-scale graft in the inner sanctums of government. First to rear its ugly head was the second NYS heist, initially reported as Sh9 billion. Investigative agencies have since stepped in and revealed confounding details that have many wondering whether there is anything else happening at NYS, other than theft. Then all of a sudden, the country was treated to news of the resignation of the National Cereals and Produce Board managing director Newton Terer. Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe then sent three regional bosses and eight senior managers on compulsory leave. It is alleged the NCPB authorised the importation of cheap maize, while at the same time pilfering subsidised fertiliser to sell in the open market. Furthermore, two schools in Nairobi county are battling to retain their land. Ruaraka Secondary School and Drive-Inn Primary School discovered to everybody’s shock that their parcels belonged to a private citizen. Part payments had been made to the land owner who was demanding the balance, or else eviction. The NLC, the Nairobi County Lands department, the Ministry of Lands and the Ministry of Education all have different stories to tell about the same issue. The occurrence of the major graft cases at a time when Uhuru is steadying the ship before launching his legacy drive is a pointer to bad tidings ahead. The President must, therefore, move with both speed and absolute resolve to excise the cancer of corruption. Otherwise, his legacy is in jeopardy.  Kanyadudu is a political and public policy analyst