President Uhuru Kenyatta has tried to reconcile Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and EAC Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. The head of state on Saturday asked the two leaders, who were rivals in the last general election, to shake hands and work together.Munya is the former Meru governor. “We want the people of Meru to be united under their leaders for development to be realised. You are brothers and sisters, the political bickering between the people of Imenti, Igembe and Tigania must come to an end,” Uhuru said. Kiraitu comes from South Imenti, while Munya is from Tigania. Munya in January agreed to withdraw a petition against Murungi’s win after State House intervened. In an attempt to end the rivalry, Uhuru handed Munya the CS position. Munya has said he is not happy with the way Kiraitu treated him after he was defeated in the race. The rivalry started long before the election, when Munya was governor and Kiraitu the senator. The two spared no efforts in trying to outdo each other, going to great lengths to test their popularity in each other’s strongholds. But Uhuru reminded them the time for competition is long gone and they should settle down to serve the people. “Kenyans want electricity, good roads, clean water and quality education for their children, not endless politics that won’t benefit them,” the President said. He spoke during the launch of the Inua Jamii programme at Inchuui Primary School, Tigania East. The event was also Munya’s homecoming party. In Meru, more than 40,000 people aged 70 years and above will benefit from the national payment under the programme. During the event, Kiraitu was booed when Igembe North MP Maoka Maore asked the two to “extend the handshake”. Munya intervened and Kiraitu spoke without interruption. Kiraitu said, “I attended Munya’s homecoming ceremony because the President brought us together.” In addition, Uhuru issued 65,000 title deeds to residents. Deputy President William Ruto said the national government has budgeted Sh1.2 billion to elevate Meru town to city status. Ruto said the money will be used for water connections and upgrading the sewerage system to city standards. The DP said the government has allocated Sh1.5 billion for Phase Two of electricity connections and 20,000 Meru people will benefit. “From Monday the contractor working on Kianjuri and Ura dams will be on site. We have Sh1.2 billion for water and sewerage installation to uplift Meru town. We had only 40,000 people connected to electricity but today 100,000 people have access to power,” he said.