Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday downplayed President Uhuru Kenyatta's remarks that he is loitering across the country. Ruto said he only 'loiters' commissioning development projects as directed by his boss, the president. He spoke at the burial ceremony of Virginia Muturi - the late mother of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi in Embu. The President on Wednesday threw a jibe at Ruto and publicly accused him of loitering across the country in weekend politicking. In a surprise barb, Uhuru said Kenyans should tell Ruto their problems when he is travelling around. "Hii
Kijana anaitwa Ruto unajua kila weekend anatangatanga kila pahali
atakuwa anapitia hizi machoro choro mkiona kuna kitu inaenda kona kona
mumwambie," Uhuru said. (This
young man called Ruto, you know, loiters aimlessly everywhere. He will
be passing through these alleys, if you see something wrong happening,
tell him.) More on this: Uhuru spanks Ruto, says handshake with Raila intact The
statement set the grapevines on fire, coming against unspoken fears
in Jubilee that Uhuru and the Central Kenya bloc may not be solidly
behind Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. Ruto, in his response, said: "Mr President, it is time for you to tour the country and listen to the people on the ground...but as a result of the directive you gave me the other day that I should implement every weekend as I loiter around in remote areas, upcountry, counties and even backstreets, I will give a summary of findings". Ruto, in an attempt to show the worth his words, said he has engaged some contractors within Embu county whom he said were directed to either pull up their socks or be shown the door. The DP further reaffirmed his commitment to the handshake citing the government's renewed efforts to unite Kenyans and hold public servants to account. "We must join hands and support unity and ensure that public officials are accountable. The unity of the country and the integrity of the government is the two major concerns that we are worried off," Ruto said. Also see: How Uhuru broke ice between Raila, Ruto He said corruption is undermining unity of the nation and the progress of development asking all sector players, including judiciary and police, to join hands to effectively fight the vice. "Public resources must be safeguarded through unity and integrity and the responsibility lies equally on all of us," he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta, in his speech, however, insisted that it is his DP's responsibility to check on any projects launched by the government. He asked the deputy president to supervise works on a laboratory he pledged for Kanyumbora secondary school following the request of Embu leaders. The President directed Education CS Amina Mohamed to ensure the laboratory, to be put up in memory of Muturi's mother, is built within the shortest time. "Na DP wakati anazururazurura hapa na pale atakagua huo mradi na alete repoti," Uhuru said. (And the DP as he will be move around will inspect the project and give me a report on the same). The president further asked political leaders to work hard in their areas and ensure the cordial friendship across political divide is maintained. Also read: Uhuru reaffirms stand against changes to Constitution Click here for the latest political news