The facts are as follows. Every government is formed after citizens vote into
power a political party whose policies they support as good for their lives. Let us, for a moment, put aside the
controversies surrounding the last year’s elections and the strong challenge NASA
put regarding the legitimacy of the "win" by the Jubilee Party, and
the contention that the majority of Kenyans felt left out in the Jubilee
agenda. Let us, in equal measure, put aside the
Uhuru Park swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the People's President on January 30, thereby restoring hope in the
people that they now had a place to feel at home in an otherwise alienated
state they had found themselves in. We have put aside all these momentous events and crises because two sons of
this country, themselves erstwhile rivals for the leadership of this nation,
graciously decided, just a few weeks ago, that "something is rotten in the
state of our nation Kenya." We have, for a very long period of
time, lost our  bearing as a nation
driven by the toxic politics that surround presidential elections every year.
Even when leaders have good ideas that can drive this nation forward, these are
quickly burrowed into pits of wrathful politics that take no prisoners among
the vanquished in the awry art of political competition. For this very reason,
we have murdered, assassinated, killed and burnt to death visionary leaders such
as Pio da Gama Pinto, Tom Mboya, JM Kariuki and Robert Ouko. In order to help turn the tide in Kenya's acidic political culture that we
seemed to have become slaves to, President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime
Minister Raila decided to shake hands and state an agenda for the renaissance
of a new democratic and inclusive political culture to help build Kenya as a
national, democratic and developmental polity. Within this context, I am
inviting our doctors, young and old, to "put down their bright
swords" of union politics, and pick up the ploughshares for harvesting in
a Kenya where dialogue and building bridges may be a better way of achieving
their desired goals for an improved and rewarding working conditions. Why do I
say this? I say this because, when I was a young university lecturer at the University of
Nairobi in the late 1970s, we formed the University Staff Union, which included
all workers — manual, service, intellectuals and ancillary — to not only fight
for our rights but to promote a democratic academic and administrative culture
in the university. We were also determined to struggle against the oppressive
and authoritarian Kenyatta and Moi regimes that made life very miserable for
our people. Every now and again, we demonstrated
against certain policies and actions by the state, earning us the wrath of the
same government, and frequently being locked up by the police, detained without
trial or sent to exile. However much we suffered, we swore never to go on
strike because this would simply punish our comrades: The students and their
parents. I don't think there is any time we discussed the need to strike
because of our relatively low salaries compared to other sectors in government
like the parastatals. But we did discuss and improve the housing and healthcare
arrangements at the university. The income distribution graph in this country has run a mock. Very few earn too
much, while the majority either earn just enough to make it in life or to
wallow in abject poverty. While the salaries paid to our doctors is definitely
not commensurate with the responsibilities they bear as compared to their other
colleagues at the same rank in the civil service, it would be difficult to
contend that doctors are not part of the privileged elite who live much better
than the ordinary Kenyan worker or civil servant. And given the responsibility doctors
have over our lives, I wish they could borrow a lesson from the university dons,
who belonged to the University Staff Union who swore not to strike because of
wages due to the fact that they would punish innocent comrades by taking such
action. The doctors, very unfortunately, punish people who could easily die
when they don't receive medical attention because of such strikes. This is
indeed tragic. I think Uhuru and Raila must also have realised the kind of politics they have
been involved in must have had consequences that unfortunately punished their
innocent comrade voters and the people of Kenya as a whole. Hence the handshake
for a Renaissance in Kenyan politics to build bridges among us towards building
a national, democratic and developmental Kenya. This has made it possible,
therefore, for us to join in building Kenya on the basis of the Big Four Jubilee
Agenda, universal healthcare coverage being one of them. And in this the
doctors are key players. I was, therefore, very saddened to hear that our doctors had gone to court to
stop our invitation of 100 doctors from Cuba  to come and help us roll out
our Universal Healthcare programme. Why are our doctors objecting to this?
Because the Cuban doctors are going to earn too much, way above the "job
group” they ought to fit into. Not far from the Central Business District in
Nairobi are the UN institutions, where people earn much more than their
counterparts downtown in Nairobi. I don't remember any professional complaining
about this, even when the work of these UN agencies is focussed purely on
Kenya. Now, let us be realistic. The Cuban doctors are no different from any
expatriate who is displaced from his or her home country to work anywhere in
the world. The general principle is that such an expatriate cannot be paid in
accordance with local pay scales since she or he is not local. So why are our
doctors trying to deny the Cuban doctors their expatriate rights? Many
countries in Africa and Latin America enjoy the services of Cuban doctors under
similar terms. Why should Kenya be an exception? Even if we have to engage in a
discussion about the terms, need we go to court on the issue? Is it not much
easier to build a bridge and travel to State House rather than engage on a
rather ugly litigation process when our visitors have arrived? As they say in my language Dho-Luo, "the mouth is yours" comrade
doctors.