When former President Barack Obama was at the helm of American politics, many, especially the intolerant racists on the far right and other haters, took great pleasure in deriding and calling him names simply because a Black man now occupied the White House. One of the allegations against him was that he was not born in America and, therefore, not a legitimate President. Indeed, Donald Trump launched in part his presidential campaign by enthusiastically embracing and quickly becoming the spokesperson for this nonsense that came to be known as the Birther movement. The charge was, of course, false and was only swallowed hook, line and sinker by those who loathed the idea a Black man as President. The other false charge was that he was “dictatorial” and was “destroying the very fabric of America.” That was crying wolf. The real wolf is Trump, especially when it comes to pursuing dictatorial whims. One needs only hear the man speak at any of his Hitler-like rallies to know how far America has come, with millions among them having no qualms their President openly admiring dictators and basically salivating and wishing he could become one. Observers, for example, shake heads in total disbelief as Donald Trump viciously attacks people he perceives to be his enemies (read: Democrats) while he has not once attacked Russian President Vladimir Putin, a man who would love nothing but the down fall of America and, when not attacking or otherwise not saying anything other than nice things about Putin, he is busy heaping praises on other world dictators. Coveting dictators and wanting to be one is one thing, but actually becoming one is another for try as he may, it just won’t work because the American political system was designed to specifically make it impossible to have Kings, let alone dictators. President John F Kennedy became the closest thing America had to a king. Trump will no doubt be the closest the country will ever have to a dictator. But having a country led by a dictator is not necessarily a bad thing; rather, it’s having dictators who use the power to use and abuse its people instead of building them up and uplifting their respective countries. History of the world is replete with examples of dictators from the absolute worst such as Adolf Hitler to less so horrible like Kim Jong-Un to some better known as “benevolent dictators,” which is defined to be make an authoritarian leader who exercises absolute political power over the state but does so for the benefit of the population as a whole. There are not many modern examples but there are many going back to Peisistratos, who is widely accepted to be the first benevolent dictator and whose first rule lasted from 561 to 527 BCE, with the last one generally accepted to be Sir Seretse Khama of Botswana, who ruled until he died in 1980. With the runaway corruption, reemergent impunity, mediocrity in service and a general sense of defeat we need a benevolent dictator to nyorosha the country, starting with politicians who are at the forefront in actively inflicting the country with these ills, or doing nothing to rid of same. We may not all agree on who that could be, but other than those engaged in intellectual dishonesty, nearly everyone would agree that person cannot be one bearing the name William Ruto for obvious reasons.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States