When you think about adding alcohol to food, what comes to mind? Fine dining perhaps at a top restaurant where the chef pours in red wine to a meat dish, the pan fires up and a delectable dish of a perfectly charred steak is served. Well, your taste buds need not crave an expensive meal anymore as there are other ways to infuse your meals with alcohol for flavor and not break the bank. Guinness has come up with a food website to help its customers enjoy the drink in food. Here are some recipes on their website:  BURGER 400g of minced chicken 1 tablespoon of black pepper 2 tablespoons of garlic powder 1/2 a cup of finely chopped spring onions 1/2 a tablespoon of finely chopped rosemary 1/2 a cup of Guinness stout  Other Ingredients Garlic stout BBQ sauce 250g of rindless bacon Burger buns Fresh tomatoes slices Cheddar cheese slices  In a pan, cook your bacon until it totally renders and is nice and crispy. Once done, remove from the heat and set aside.  Collect the bacon fat that remains in the pan which shall be used later.  The burger is all about building flavours and this will play a huge role. In a bowl, add your minced chicken followed by you Guinness stout. This should be immediately followed your finely chopped onion, rosemary, garlic powder and black pepper. Allow this to marinate for 20-30 mins. Because the chicken is already minced, the marination time is not that long since plenty of the surface area is already exposed and flavours penetrate a lot faster.  However, if your chicken is not minced, you can allow to marinate for 24 hours or more, then mince it before you cook it. All your marination time has lapsed, scoop some of the minced chicken and shape it in your hands into 1/2 inch thick patties. On a pan, drizzle the bacon fat and heat it then place the patties to cook. They cook through pretty fast, about 5 minutes. The time taken to cook through will of course vary according to the thickness of the patties. After the patties have even sears on both sides, add the cheese slices and allow them to melt over the bun using the heat of the pan  Once done remove from heat. Begin layering you chicken bacon knockout burger. Slice your bun and place your lettuce first. I like having my lettuce on the bottom since it prevent the sauce from soaking into the bun making it soggy. GARLIC & CUMIN NJAHI STEW 2 cups of Njahi 1 1⁄2 tablespoons of Royco 2 red onion, finely chopped 1 tablespoon of black pepper 2 tomatoes, pureed 2 carrots, finely chopped 1 teaspoon of finely chopped sage (optional) 1 green bell pepper, finely chopped 1 tablespoon of tomato paste Guinness stout, 1 bottle 1⁄2 a teaspoon of whole cumin seeds Vegetable oil for frying 5 cloves of garlic, finely chopped Salt to taste 1⁄2 a teaspoon of cayenne pepper  Directions Soak your Njahi overnight in some Guinness. After the soaking time has lapsed, put them to boil until softened then set aside. In a pan with your heated oil, add your cumin and let it simmer until fragrant. Then, add your chopped red onion, garlic, the finely chopped sage. Let this cook on medium heat for about 5 minutes. After the onions have softened and the garlic is fragrant, add your pureed tomatoes, your tomato paste and allow it to cook down for about 4 minutes. Add the boiled Njahi and mix them in. Add all the spices and allow them to simmer for about 10-15 minutes. 5 minutes before removing your stew from the heat, add your finely chopped carrots and green bell pepper. Once done, serve.