Leaders in Wajir have srrongly condemned what they termed as police brutality meted on their people. They were reacting to an incdeint on Monday where security officers allegedly rounded up locals ,burnt several houses and shops in kutulo,Boji Garass,Konton and Qarsa in Tarbaj and Wajir east constituencies. Several people are also nursing injuries. Speaking to the press in Wajir town on Tuesday, the leaders who included Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim and wargadud MCA issa Ahmed said that it was wrong for the police to round up innocent locals beat and harass them. Kassim said that as leaders they are on the forefront in condemning terror related incidences hurt and morn the untimely deaths of Kenyans ‘but will not sit down and watch as the righst of our people are violated’. “The local communities have been working with the security arms by volunteering information on the presence of Al shabaab and its adherent in the boarder locality. there are many evidence in writing and otherwise to that effect.we advice the same positive trend on the part to continue,” said Kassim. He added: we want to remind the security agencies that ideological terror outfits are global ,not based on race or nationalities. they should adopt a better approach to get better results for the safety of Kenyans. On his part Wargadud MCA Issa Ahmed said that as the situation stands, the approach the security apparatus had used would only serve to be counter productive. They said at least 4 people are missing after allegedly being picked by security officers on Monday evening. Recently 8 security officers were killed by suspected al shabaab militants in Boji Garass where 7 of them were from the local communities in Tarbaj. Before that,3 teachers had been killed in the boarder town of Konton. Several people have since been arrested in connection to the two incidences. Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamud Saleh had last week told the press that all those who were involved in the incident will be brought to book.