Preparations are underway at Kakuma Refugee camp in Kenya, venue of the world's first ever TED event held in a refugee camp. TEDxKakumaCamp will be held on Saturday and has various speakers lined up including refugees, artists, aid workers and international experts among others. The event organised with support from UNHCR and volunteer teams aims to offer a different lens into the reality of life as a refugee, away from the images of devastation and suffering, and instead tell stories of resilience, contribution and creativity. Mercy Akuot, a South Sudanese refugee, will be one of the speakers at the event. She was married off against her will at 16 years old to an elderly man. She escaped the forced union and now advocates for women's rights and supervises a women and girls empowerment programme in the camp. "You never know what will happen; I don't know who is in the crowd. May be I will touch someone's heart to help another one person out there," she said. Kakuma provides a temporary home for 185,000 refugees from Somalia, South Sudan and other states hit by war in East and Central Africa. Most refugees there are from South Sudan. The camp is made up of rows of thatched or aluminium housing structures that provide little respite from blistering year-round heat. Almost 2.5 million people from South Sudan alone have been forced to seek refuge in neighbouring countries after the country plunged into civil war in late 2013. The UN says a further two million are displaced inside the country. Hortence Rwimo is an award winning filmmaker, who is passionate about telling refugee stories, especially those that empower women. She tackles tough topics affecting refugees and aspires to tell stories that have global impact. Hortence will also be speaking at the event. "Oh!! My God!! This talk, I'm nervous, I'm excited first of all when I saw my picture I don't know with big people, I was like me?" said Hortence. Pur Biel fled to Kenya aged 10 and grew up in Kakuma. He competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics as a member of the first-ever Refugee Olympic Team, running in the 800-meter event. His inspiring story illustrates the resilience, talent and determination of refugees. He too will share his story at TEDx Kakuma. "Surely, it is a great achievement in my life to be part of this TEDX talk in Kakuma because it's the first time to be held in a refugee camp. But it will give a refugee a chance whereby they can know that they have not been left out in this world," he said. According to TEDx, its lectures have grown in popularity having been viewed cumulatively over 4.6 billion times since going online in 2006. Click here for the latest political news