Not so long ago, beer empire heiress Anerlisa Muigai broke up with her boyfriend, only identified as Don, after just six months of dating. Don could not cope with the high publicity that comes with dating Anerlisa, who has assumed socialite status on social media. She confirmed their break-up through a post that read: "He said he's feeling me but he doesn’t want the spotlight… he loves his quiet life and I was like 'your wish is my command baby.'" Well, a little birdie told Word Is that the reason the two broke up is because of a third party, a lesbian, Anerlisa couldn't get enough of. "Anelisa is currently in love with a foreign woman, who is studying at a local university. The two are inseparable and they're living together in one of the city suburbs after the lass ran away from home," said our source. We visited the said apartment and confirmed that it was true she lives there, but when contacted for comment, Anerlisa exclusively told Word Is;  "I live with my mother and the lady lives on campus." Anerlisa's neighbour, who also sought anonymity, intimated that the woman's father and police officers visited the Keroche heiress's apartment, searching for her, but couldn't find her because she was well hidden. The 30-year-old CEO denied the claims, saying: "I have never experienced such in my life." Our source also told us that Anerlisa had since given the woman in question one of her posh cars, which she drives to and from school. "About my car... She is from a very wealthy family, where her dad has given her the best of everything," she said, adding: "I do not discriminate, so whether you are rich, poor, bisexual or gay, I don't look into such things. She is a good friend like everyone else close to me." The university student is said to be from a well-off family, and her love for Anerlisa is out of this world. According to the woman's friends from campus, her father is not for the relationship but Anerlisa denied, saying; "Her dad and I are very close. And he's never against me. He always tells me to mentor his daughter as he would like her to be like me." When asked if she was a lesbian, Anerlisa responded, "I'm very straight." She later vented on Instagram: "I'll address this issue because it has gotten to that place where i feel it has gotten to much. The BS that has been written about me the past few months has now gone overboard and has got to stop. Honestly I feel the media has the power to make or break the nation, it has the power to inspire or discourage, and as much it's an independent body that should play the role of keeping people and things in check, it really should concentrate more on creating meaningful conversations," adding: "Is it impossible for a woman to be successful in peace? All i try to do is inspire and become a voice to those who find it hard to be heard."