The family of the student who was pushed out of a moving matatu along Thika Superhighway near Safari Park Hotel is yet to come to terms with the loss of their loved one. Doreen Mwetu, a 21-year-old first year student at the Nairobi Institute of Business Studies, Kimbo campus was on Wednesday pushed out of PSV bus registered under Zam Zam sacco at 3.30pm. Mwetu was at the time of her demise living with her sister who identified herself as Catherine near Safari Park Hotel. Speaking to the Star on Friday, Catherine described Mwetu as a hardworking girl, polite and of good character who always did her work unsupervised. "On that fateful day, I woke her up because I knew she would be late for school. She left the house at seven in the morning in a jovial mood, only to hear a report of her death on social media. She used to take her studies seriously and she would do house chores even when i requested her to take a rest. She was a humble girl who never looked for any body's trouble so it is not possible that she had quarrelled with the conductor," Catherine said. She said they are yet to get a solid report from the police even though the driver and the matatu involved are still being held at Kasarani Police Station. "Some people are saying she was pushed, others are saying she threw herself out of the moving matatu while others are saying she was made to alight at a place where there is no stage. But someone who was in the matatu has promised to come out and say the truth about what actually transpired" she added. She said as a family, they have hope that the truth will eventually come out and justice served because she was a girl whose bright future had been shattered. Kasarani OCPD Robinson Mboloi on Friday confirmed they are yet to arrest the conductor involved, two days after the incident happened. The deceased was taken by a good samaritan, Peter Pekat, to Neema Hospital located along Thika superhighway but she succumbed to her injuries before they could get to hospital. Pekat said she might have died from internal injuries because there was no blood at the scene of the accident.