The Nairobi ECDE programme is now free and every child will be allocated Sh3,815 in financial year 2018-19, Governor Mike Sonko has said. Sonko launched the free Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) programme at Charter Hall on Friday. He presented cheques for the 13,848 children in the 205 ECDE centres within Nairobi . "Today is a big day for education in Nairobi. [We have] come together to celebrate an important milestone that will have a positive impact for years to come,'\ he noted. "It is also a day on which I fulfill one of my key election pledges; to improve the quality of education in the city and make it accessible for all children." This initiative is expected to increase enrollment from the current 15,295 children to about 17,000 by the close of the year. "Free ECDE [puts] the capital city ahead of other counties in looking after the needs of our nursery school children," the Governor said. The county has finalised plans to hire 520 more ECDE teachers. Sonko further directed that all levies in all public ECDE centres in Nairobi be scrapped with immediate effect. The Governor, however, warned those intending to misuse the ECD budget. "I want to see strict and transparent steps taken to ensure these funds are used for the intended purpose. Make no mistake; anyone who misuses money set aside for ECDE will be arrested and prosecuted," he said. Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi said  in progress promised Sonko support in projects for a better Nairobi. Majority leader Abdi Guyo said he will ensure the Governor's policies are implemented in the house. "We are in full support of our Governor. We will ensure we deliver and carry out his policies," he said. Lydia Kwamboka (County Attorney) and county executive members Janet Ouko (Education), Charles Kerich (Lands),Allan Igambi (Trade), Emmah Mukuhi (ICT) and Mohamed Dagane (Roads) were among those who attended the launch. Others were Majority Whip Chege Mwaura, Education Committee chair Millicent Mugadi, MCAs, Knut representatives and public school head teachers. Click here for the latest political news  