It will be a Kenya versus Tanzania affair in the semifinals of the Sportpesa Super Cup as the battle to win the Sh3 million prize money and the ultimate prize of travelling to Merseyside to face Everton at Goodson Park intensifies this afternoon at the Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. First up will be surprise package Kakamega Homeboyz, who defied difficult odds to play Yanga FC off the pack and clinch a place in the semifinals. They will have to produce another remarkable display against the other half of Dar-es-salaam giants’ Simba FC. Homeboyz coach Paul Nkata’s magic seem to have rubbed off on his latest side. However, even Nkata was not looking beyond the last four and has promised to take a match at a time after the win over Yanga that shook the tourney at the very beginning. “We will be taking each game at a time, and we are ready to meet anyone in the next round. No one expected this result and I told the boys before the match that soccer is soccer and it has happened now. We have to continue taking our chances because we had several chances to bury the game for good but I can’t blame the substitutes for the missed chances because when you are introduced to a game, you have to acclimatize with the situation and that’s maybe why they missed,” Nkata remarked in the aftermath of the 2-1 win over Yanga. Simba will therefore have to be cautious coming against a side that ousted their greatest footballing nemesis. The Tanzanian giants Simba were second best against Karioabngi Sharks and went through on penalties. Their coach Pierre Lechantre will be well advised not to look far beyond this fixture, particularly with Allan Wanga firing on all cylinders. Champions Gor Mahia are still on course to reach the second successive final and probably earn a right to avenge the 2-1 defeat they suffered to Everton in Dar last year. The Kenyan champions easily saw off JKU and will need to play with the same zeal to oust the conquerors of AFC Leopards, Singida. With fixtures coming thick and fast, all eyes will be on whether Dylan Kerr rests his key players notably forwards Meddie Kagere, Jacques Tuyisnege, Francis Kahata and George Odhiambo.