A Chinese firm denied a Sh30 billion tender to construct the Lowaat Dam Project in Turkana wants the Public Procurement Review Board to reopen the tender. It calls the tendering process a sham. In its petition, the China International Water and Electric Corp wants the PPRB to declare that it was the most responsive and lowest bidder. It says the tender should be awarded to them for funding, designing, building and transferring of the Lowaat Dam. The firm argues the National Irrigation Board, which is the procuring entity, was in breach of the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015, the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal regulations and the Fair Administration Action Act. According to the company, the NIB failed to promote competition and ensure all bidders are treated fairly and equally to promote integrity and fairness. “The tender process initiated and carried out by the respondent is devoid of fairness, equality, transparency, competitiveness and is discriminatory,” the petition reads. Through their country manager, Eng Wang Ruyi, CWE says that since they submitted their bid, they have never been notified of reasons why they did not get the tender. “The procuring entity had by engaging in a flawed procurement process and in acting against the laid down laws and procedures, tilted the scales to enable them to carry out a sham procurement process and act in breach of the provisions of law as stated in the main grounds of our request for review,” Ruyi said. The company further says it has been denied an equal opportunity to be fairly evaluated in the tender, denying it a commercial opportunity to secure an award of the tender. However, the NIB says the entire procurement process was in accordance with the law. The NIB denies claims they did not notify CWE of its unsuccessful bid. The irrigation board says they issued notification of tender outcome to all the three participating bidders by way of letters. The board further argues that PPRB has no jurisdiction to hear the dispute. Click here for the latest political news