Deputy President William Ruto has been accused of interfering with Baringo South politics after Charles Kamuren was declared winner of Jubilee nominations for the MP seat. The nomination held on Saturday ended peacefully although supporters of aspirant Mark Kiptoo claimed the Deputy President had a hand in the entire process. “How come the tallying process started well before it was suddenly stopped on Saturday night when Kiptoo was ahead by 141 votes?” Kiptoo’s chief agent Moses Lemeluk said. Read: I'll accept defeat in Jubilee nominations for Baringo South MP - Kamuren They also faulted the action taken by the IEBC to transfer the tallying process to the subcounty administrative offices in Marigat town where it was delayed until past 2pm, under tight watch of security officers. It is alleged results for about 56 polling stations in Mochongoi and Ilchamus wards were yet to be received and that the IEBC counted some ‘ghost’ votes. PEOPLE FIRST “Several of our supporters were hospitalised after being intimidated and beaten by the security officers and Kamuren supporters during the exercise,” Lemeluk said. Last Saturday, Ruto toured Marigat to receive Kamuren who ditched Kanu saying Jubilee was a nationally recognised party. The DP said the party has no preferred candidate. But Kebenei criticised the DP for his move. “How could he do that yet some of us pioneered the party since 2013? This is discrimination at its best”. Read: Ruto's hand in Jubilee polls stirs fury in Uhuru strongholds BY-ELECTION Kamuren’s supporters turned up in large numbers to celebrate his ‘win’ saying he deserved it. “Mwananchi kwanza (locals first),” Kamuren said. He pledged to improve projects including education, roads, water and help fight insecurity caused by banditry and cattle rustling. He called upon residents to elect him in the by-election slated for August 17. Earlier on Saturday, Kamuren said he would accept results and move on if he was defeated. He called for free and fair elections. The by-election will fill the vacancy left by Grace Kipchoim who died and was laid to rest at Kimoriot in Mochongoi on May 5. Kipchoim had suffered from acute colon cancer for close to two years. Kipchoim did not campaign due to the illness but won the tough race for reasons such as her development track record and security initiatives. The race included six other male contenders. Kamuren came second during the August 8 election with 10,184 while Kipchoim got 10,300 votes. He challenged the results in court when he lost in 2013, but decided not do the same in 2017. WITHDRAWAL However Kiptoo said he will address supporters on his decision on the way forward in due time and called on his supporters to be patient. Other candidates in the Jubilee race were lawyer Joseph Tarus and Eunice Lepariyo. Earlier on, the 30-year old son of late MP Kipchoim, Shadrack Kiprop and Amos Olempaka withdrew from race under unclear circumstances. The Jubilee winner shall face Paul Kimaru (independent), Lewis Migiri (PDR), Edward Tamar (PNU) and Dickson Keis (Kanu) in the coming by-election. Click here for
the latest political news