Eight months ago, tears flowed as Moi Girls High School, Nairobi, bade farewell to eight students killed in a night blaze. Speaker after speaker — parents, teachers and senior government officials who converged for a funeral service at the school — were overcome by emotions. The management and the government, united in grief, promised to ensure a similar tragedy does not recur. But despite the promises, parents were on Saturday night hit by shock over another tragedy, which also brought to the fore security breaches in the institution. See : Our girl was framed, say Moi Girls arson suspect parents That a stranger walked into the institution, raped a girl and walked away without being arrested shocked the nation. The school was back again in the limelight for the wrong reasons — this time battling claims of negligence and cover-up attempts after the Friday night rape. Spread over 43 acres and sandwiched between the sprawling Kibera slums and Woodley estate, Moi Girls High School, Nairobi, has a rich history. Retired President Daniel Moi — the man after whom the school was named — frequently visited the school for Sunday services in the 1990s. The retired President would enjoy a jig with the girls, raise money in impromptu harambees and occasionally ordered bulls and goats slaughtered to feed the girls. Moi’s love gave the institution special status and prestige, making it a magnet for the rich — the very rich. The school is situated on Kang’ethe Road and a few kilometres from Moi’s Kabarnet Gardens home. However, despite the high-flying connections and well-connected parents, the institution is on the spot for security lapses that could have as well cost the girls their lives. Moi Girls is protected by Lavington Security and has six guards with two dogs at any given night. How a man was able to gain access and rape girls without being detected is anyone’s guess. Yesterday, former Education PS James ole Kiyiapi termed the incident troubling and “totally unacceptable”. “The Ministry of Education must get to the bottom of the security lapses and come up with far-reaching measures to restore confidenc and wellbeing of students,” he said. Kenyans have vented their anger at the administration following the rape. “The principal of Moi Girls, where a student was raped, must be jailed for the offence of negligence,” former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale said on Twitter. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said swift action must be taken. “It is clear the principal of Moi Girls’ High School, Nairobi, has questions to answer over the alleged rape incident. MOE [The Ministry of Education] should indict her like yesterday. Those are far too many grave mishaps in her school,” he said on Twitter. Read : [VIDEO] DCI probes alleged rape of three girls at Moi Girls' school Nairobi Click here for the latest political news