 Controversial Embakasi East MP Babu Owino's election was upheld because the petitioner could not prove ballot papers were interfered with and election officials intimidated. Court of Appeal judges Kathurima Mi'noti, Mohammed Warsame and Daniel Musinga said Owino was validly elected and overturned High Court judge Joseph Sergon's decision that had nullified Owino's victory. “We believe the will of the people of Embakasi East constituency was clear beyond peradventure. It follows, therefore, that the nullification of the election on account of the aforesaid irregularities was not well founded in law”, said Justice Warsame who read the judgment. The three judges noted that the errors reported in form 35B were arithmetical and did not affect the final result. "The returning officer told trial court (High Court) that the said arithmetical errors were occasioned by human errors due to fatigue. No interference or manipulation of the ballots and results were proved," the judges said while setting aside judge Sergon's decision. They added: "Lastly by nullifying the election on account of the said arithmetical irregularities, we think the learned judge gave very little regard to the results of the scrutiny and recount exercise." The recount showed Babu garnered 46,817 votes, 230 more than the 46,587 as shown in form 35B while his opponent Francis Mureithi had 42,501 as shown in form 35B an increase of 248 votes compared to the 42,253 indicated in form 35B. The other prominent element of the case is allegations that there was violence at two polling stations and claims that Babu intimidated the constituency returning officer forcing him to announce results before concluding the exercise of vote tallying. On this issue the appeal judges found that it was not enough to find there was some form of violence in a given station and proceed to nullify results of an election. In their view not a single voter testified in court saying he or she was denied the right to vote as a result of the violence. "To the contrary, evidence was tendered to the effect that voting hours were extended to compensate for any time that was lost due to the unrest that occurred at Soweto Social Hall polling centre," they said. Justice Warsame further said that failure by the petitioner- Mureithi and
IEBC to summon the agent and the presiding officers respectively to
testify - robbed the court of the opportunity to settle the issue as to whether
or not the form 35B was altered as claimed. And on that basis the judges said a certificate confirming that Owino was duly elected as member of the National Assembly for Embakasi East Constituency during be forwarded to IEBC and the Speaker of the National Assembly. Mureithi was ordered to pay Sh3million as costs. 