During one of our taxpayer education sensitisation forums, a taxpayer I will call Jack asked why he is required to declare his employment income earned over a given year and file individual annual income tax returns. He believes the monthly PAYE deduction by his employer is final as the employer declares, files and pays the tax on his behalf for the entire year. In fact, in his own words, the process of filing individual annual income tax returns is a replication of what employers do every month when they file Pay As You Earn (PAYE). Jack’s concern epitomises the sentiments of many taxpayers with employment income and who are required to file their individual annual income tax returns on or before June 30 every year. This requirement by law is founded on two major crucial reasons. First, it gives the Kenya Revenue Authority an opportunity to verify if what the employer declared in his PAYE monthly submissions matches what the taxpayer with employment income has declared for a given year of income. In case of a disparity, the necessary steps are taken to address the anomaly. This process further serves to enhance accountability and transparency so that we don’t have instances where an employer deducts PAYE from their employees’ incomes but fails to remit it to the KRA. Secondly, filing of individual annual income tax return provides an opportunity for employees with additional sources of income to declare the extra sources of income at the end of every year. Additional sources of income may include rental income, consultancy, farming or any other businesses. Such taxpayers are required to declare the additional income and pay the tax due by April 30 and subsequently file the return by June 30. For individual taxpayers whose tax payable in a year is Sh40,000 and above, the tax should be paid in four equal instalments and the balance paid by April 30. Monthly Rental Income is payable at 10 per cent of the gross residential rent received on a monthly basis for each taxpayer (including employees) receiving a residential rent of Sh10 million and below in each year of income. Payment is due on or before every 20th of the month following the month rent was received. According to the Income Tax Act, the filing season for individual annual income tax returns officially opens on January 1 and runs for six months up to June 30. The long span over which the exercise takes place ensures that taxpayers get ample time to submit their returns. Early filing of tax returns presents a load of benefits to individual taxpayers. You will have enough room to seek clarification or any form of assistance from any of our service centres countrywide; it gives you peace of mind; and saves you the agony of hefty penalties. The Tax Procedures Act 2015 prescribes a Sh20,000 penalty for any individual income tax return filed after the June 30 deadline and an interest of one per cent of the tax due. The question, therefore is, why risk the penalty and interest yet the filing period is long enough for the exercise? Employers, on the other hand, are key stakeholders in this crucial exercise. This is because apart from deducting, remitting and filing PAYE every month, they are required by law to issue tax deduction forms known as P9 to their employees after every end of the year. A P9 form guides the employee in filing their annual income returns. In the past, taxpayers who have on varying instances submitted their tax returns late have directed a pointing finger at their employers for late issuance of this requisite document. It is therefore very essential for employers to issue their employees with P9 forms early to enable them submit their returns in good time. Over the years, before KRA rolled out the phenomenal iTax platform, the filing season would be characterised by long queues, especially as the deadline approached. In most cases, taxpayers would cheat the deadline by an eyelash. Since its rollout, iTax has not only revolutionised returns filing experience but also empowered the taxpayer to file their returns from any part of the world at any time. In the spirit of facilitating all the taxpayers at all times, and especially during the filing season, KRA has increased its presence countrywide by establishing service centres and desks at Huduma Centres. Working hours have also been extended at the centres for optimum service delivery. Therefore, let us all honour this patriotic exercise and submit our tax returns in good time for the betterment of our nation. Kenya Revenue Authority’s chief manager for taxpayer services in Domestic Taxes Department Judith.Njagi@kra.go.ke)