Some Sh1 billion under the Free Day Secondary Education programme will be directed towards sports and music festivals. Each student has been allocated Sh440.98. The government will retain Sh270.62 for organising the co-curricullar activities at the national and regional levels. The remaining Sh170.36 per head count is sent to school heads to organise the activities at the zonal level. In this year’s second term, the government will retain Sh700 million for organising the events. Some Sh300 million will be sent to school heads to cater for expenses.  CONSTRAINT BUDGETS Some school heads raised concern about the high budget to cater for the events compared to the funds allocated. The funds allocated per head count disadvantage institutions with less admissions as they get far much less cash. Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi said, “We have to squeeze the budget to fit. Most of the requirements, such as kits, costumes and equipment such as balls and shoes are expensive. Many principals are unable to meet these demands.”  SPORTS AND MUSICAL FESTIVALS In a bid to comply with the new policy, the ministry announced second term sports competitions will be conducted in one phase. Previously, sports events were divided into Term Two A and Term Two B. Term Two A events included rugby, netball, cross-country marathon, heptathlon, decathlon and soccer under 16. Term Two B incorporated football, volleyball and racket games. The music festival is also part of the second term’s events. The activities are set to start this month until August. School heads cater for the transport of participating students, food, costumes and hiring of trainers. The government takes care of hiring of judges, organising the venue, security and accommodation in later stages of the competition. Kahi said the school heads have received funds from the government under the FDSE. The first tranche of the funds — Sh11.3 billion — was released in May. Each student was allocated Sh4,346 for tuition and other school operations for the second term.