Four US Senators have protested against establishment of a coal plant in Lamu County. The four, Jeffrey Merkley, Brian Schatz, Bernard Sanders and Edward Markey in a protest letter to African Development Bank AfDB, claim the plant will tarnish Kenya's reputation as a leader in clean energy worsening environmental quality. This the senators claim will result in millions of tonnes of annual carbon dioxide emissions. In the letter dated May 28 and addressed to the Banks' Executive Director Tarik Al-Tashani, the senators also said they lobbying against the bank financing the development of the Chinese-backed plant because the project in financially unsound. "Kenya has emerged as an undisputed leader in clean and renewable energy in Africa, with the overwhelming majority of the country's electricity currently coming from renewable resources,'" read part of the letter. In fact Kenya is home to Africa's largest geothermal and wind power plants and it will be home to the continents largest solar power plant," added the letter. The senators also argue that Kenya's ambitious emissions reduction targets under the Paris Agreement underscore the country's commitment to a clean energy future. "The development of the Lamu Coal plant would be counterproductive to Kenya's climate goals and would set back the progress in building a sustainable energy system," they said. The four further claim the proposed 1,050MW plant will emit as much as 8.8 megatonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. They also said the construction of the plant will contribute to global climate change undermining Kenya's commitment to reduce emissions under the Paris climate accord. The emissions from the plant they say will result in detrimental health impacts caused by high levels of local air, water and soil pollution. The long lifetime of coal-fired power plant they said will perpetuate such negative environmental and health impacts for decades. The plant will increase African indebtedness to China and potentially undermine African partners long-term economic health. Kenyan experts indicate that by the time the project becomes operation operational, the $2billion project will create unnecessary capacity yet the government will be obligated to pay $360million per year in fixed annual capacity payments whether or not the electricity is ever dispatched," the protest letter said. The senators argue in contrast, renewable energy prices are falling precipitously and Kenya has emerged as one of the lowest cost developers of geothermal power in the world. "We understand the need for Kenya to increase electricity supply and access for its citizens. However instead of financing projects that would produce profoundly negative environmental impacts, the bank should consider projects that tap into Kenya's tremendous renewable and low-cost resources," the letter quoted. Their sentiments comes amid protests from locals in the county who have appealled to the government to stop the project. The government in April however maintained that construction of the controversial coal-fired power plant will begin this month. Transport CS James Macharia said this will give a boost to the proposed Lamu Resort City. “We are happy to say that groundbreaking of the plant should be expected in the next two months,” said Macharia during the launch of the Lamu Port City Investment Framework at the KICC in Nairobi. Works at the proposed 1,050-megawatt plant was initially set to start in June 2015, but has faced strong headwinds including land acquisition, obtaining requisite licences and revolt from the local community as well as international environmental watchdogs