Nakuru West MP Samuel Arama who has been in police custody since Friday night was moved early today to an unknown location. His family and supporters have expressed their displeasure after it came clear that the MP will not be arraigned in Nakuru law courts. "I have talked to him (Arama) and he has confirmed that he has been moved and not sure where he was being taken. Even his lawyers have not been notified yet," Omoi Makori, the MP's friend said. DPP Noordin Haji on Saturday said Arama will be charged with abuse office and land-related corruption matters. In a statement, Haji noted that Arama will be charged with conspiracy to defraud, making a document without authority. On Sunday evening several MPs including Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Alpha Miruka(Bomachoge) and Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira Woman rep) from Nyamira and Kisii counties visited the legislature to show their solidarity. Nyamoko expressed their displeasure in the way the MP has been in custody without Police Cash Bail. "This is harassment and denial of the MP's constitutional right of being denied a police bond awaiting to appear in court. Why was he being treated like a criminal hunted by over 30 police officers? It is unfair to the MP," said Nyamoko. Arama was held at Railways Police Station. Several MPs and his supporters spent the better part of the weekend camping at the station as they demanded his release. Among the leaders were Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria, Kuresoi South MP Joseph Tonui, Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), John Mututho (former Naivasha MP) nominated MP Sammy Seroney and Nakuru County branch Secretary Mtumishi Cheruiyot. The leaders said their efforts to secure bond for the MP flopped after officers holding him said they were waiting for orders from the DPP. According to the detectives, the MP and four others, including the lawyer, conspired to defraud Ahmed Muhammad Nisar by means of dispossessing him of plot 6/95 on diverse dates between August 3, 2015 and August 11, 2015. The EACC had recommended that Arama faces several counts of corruption involving land transactions and abuse of office contrary to section 46 as read with section 48 (1) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003. Read: MP Arama spends another night in cell as cops disperse rowdy supporters According to the detectives, the MP and four others, including the lawyer, conspired to defraud Ahmed Muhammad Nisar by means of dispossessing him of plot 6/95 located in Nakuru Municipality. The detectives added that the MP made a document without authority, purporting it to have been signed by Yusufu Mustafah Ratemo. “Arama wilfully procured for himself land registration of a certificate of lease of Nakuru Municipality Block 6/95, the property of Nisar, by falsely pretending that he had bought it from Ratemo,” the charge sheet from EACC read. The agency further said that in February 2016 at EACC offices in Nakuru Town, the MP knowingly misled detectives by claiming he bought the plot from Ratemo at a cost of Sh60 million, which he knew was false. Onkoba is accused of misleading the detectives in April last year by stating that Ratemo appeared before him and signed a land sale agreement in respect of plot Nakuru municipality block 6/95. Also read: MP Samuel Arama arrested over land fraud Click here for the latest political news