In his book The Millionaire Next Door, author Thomas Stanley studied the lifestyles of the rich and concluded it takes certain habits to become wealthy.  Here they are:  1. Avoid living a flashy lifestyle and being showy. Billionaires such as Warren Buffet and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg live simply. Buffet is known to be frugal. Despite his net worth increasing significantly over the years, he is said to have lived in the house he bought in the 1950s for decades.  He is also said to buy slightly damaged cars at a reduced price.  2. Marriage plays a role? Stanley found that 92 per cent of the wealthy people studied (net worth of more that Sh100 million) were married, suggesting it could be easier to get rich when married than single. Think about the Bible verse Ecc 4:9-12 "Two are better than one, because they have a good return for their labour: If either of them falls down, one can help the other up. But pity anyone who falls and has no one to help them up. Also, if two lie down together, they will keep warm. But how can one keep warm alone? Though one may be overpowered, two can defend themselves. A cord of three strands is not quickly broken."  3. Could children make you strive for riches? Stanley also found that 95 per cent of the wealthy had children (and on average they had three). Some people have said they become more ambitious when they have children because they want to give them the best of life and because it's not cheap to raise them.  4. For the couples surveyed, the men did not spend more than Sh450,000 on an engagement ring. That may not be music to women's ears because diamonds are a girl's best friend, but those were the findings. Many rappers are notorious for spending millions of dollars buying rings with large diamonds that, in the words of Jay Z, "are like tumours - so big that you cannot put your hand in your new purse".  But as Stanley found, the really wealthy folks don't spend that much on flashy items.  5. Time to quit employment? Stanley found the majority of the wealthy own their own businesses. As Rich Dad, Poor Dad authors Robert Kiyosaki and  Sharon Lechter put it - you are very unlikely to become wealthy in employment.  6. Older folks: Stanley found the wealthy are on average aged 54. So don't despair if you're still in your 20s and are struggling. You have decades to implement the habits of the rich to join the club.   Forbes list of Africa's billionaires and their net worth 1. Aliko Dangote $12.2 billion - Nigeria 2. Nicky Oppenheimer $7.7 billion - South Africa 3. Johann Rupert $7.2 billion - South Africa 4. Nassef Sawiris $6.8 billion - Egypt 5. Mike Adenuga $5.3 billion - Nigeria 6. Issad Rebrab $4 billion - Algeria 7. Naguib Sawiris $4 billion -Egypt 8. Koos Bekker $2.8 billion - South Africa 9. Isabel dos Santos $2.7 billion - Angola 10. Mohamed Mansour $2.7 billion - Egypt