Counties Amusement and Gaming Society of Kenya chairman Samuel Kahiu has accused police of a witch-hunt in the crackdown on illegal betting. The national and county governments have intensified the war on illegal gambling machines, which have become popular with children and the youth. On Monday, Athi River police raided and confiscated slot machines from Kahiu’s stores. He said the operation was not procedural. It violated his constitutional rights, as the officers ignored a court order, Kahiu said. Athi River police boss Simon Mpaka said he did not know the officers who raided the premises but admitted the station had custody of Kahiu’s machines. Mpaka told Kahiu to follow the law when seeking justice. Kahiu plans to sue the officers for forcibly entering his outlet, taking away his machines and keeping them. “I’ve been at the forefront advocating equal treatment of big players and ordinary Kenyans in the betting industry. I’ve been asking the government to treat all of us equally,” he said at Athi River police station on Monday. “This has led to a direct attack and confiscation of my machines in a bid to silence me. The crackdown was improperly executed at my Syokimau Stores.” The swoop was carried out in Kahiu’s absence. He said he is yet to establish the number of slot machines seized. The police also took other items with them, he said. Kahiu accused the police of failing to record the property they took away despite finding his employees. “I was told by my employees the police came in large numbers, raided the premises and took everything. This is illegal. They never took inventory of the property at the scene,” he said. “This is a way of creating opportunities that people use to steal. It has happened despite my employees showing the police a court order that had been served to their superiors.” Kahiu said the raid was carried out in violation of the law. Otherwise he should have been arrested and charged, he said. The operation was recorded in the occurrence book, but no officer bothered to arrest him for wrongdoing, he said. “If they believe the operation was done in a lawful manner, they could have charged me, but they refused — confirming they had knowledge of the irregularities of their work,” he said. Kahiu urged security officers to respect the law when before and when carrying out raids. “Big multinationals are allowed to carry out their businesses without regulations. Online betting businesses are enjoying, while ordinary Kenyans are kicked out of the businesses violently,” Kahiu said.