City Hall has denied claims it is en- gaging parking boys to extort motorists. Motorists said parking boys were demanding extra pay for directing and guarding parked vehicles. They said the boys were working on the orders and supervision of inspectorate officers. “We have our team which deals with parking and the boys are not part of it,” county inspectorate director Peter Mbaya told the Star in an interview yesterday. Mbaya said parking charges are paid online. “Why would the county engage parking boys?” Payment of parking fees was automated in September 2014 to seal loopholes through which City Hall was believed to be losing millions of shillings. The county wants to reduce park- ing charges from Sh300 to Sh200, according to the 2018-2019 County Fiscal Strategy Paper. The move is aimed at attracting motorists who have shunned public parking spaces. Mbaya said they have recruited an additional 300 officers. The department had personnel shortage with only 97 askaris. “The new officers will go for a six- month training in two weeks time,” Mbaya said. The official said demolition of illegal structures was proceeding well. Most traders have heeded calls to relocate, he said. “We are currently at 60 per cent. However, some traders are still putting up structures on the wrong places even after demolitions. Our officers will ensure they are pulled down,” Mbaya said. He said security in the Central Business District had improved. “We rarely have cases of muggings and theft within the city centre. That shows that the county government is working,” he said. The drop in muggings was attributed to City Hall’s anti-mugging squad which works closely with police. The squad was formed in January by Governor Mike Sonko following public outcry over rising insecurity. The county is still grappling with boda boda operators who still occupy CBD streets despite orders to vacate. “So far, we have impounded 500 motorcycles. They are a nuisance but we will control them,” Mbaya said. Pillion passengers risk arrest. Read: 60 boda boda riders arrested in Nairobi CBD crackdown Also read: Special unit formed to remove ‘rogue’ parking boys from city Click here for the latest political news