The 2018 World Cup in Russia has entered the critical last days of the Group Stage, with the upcoming Group B match between Portugal and Iran being especially important. Portugal is currently locked in a close battle with Spain atop their group standings, while Iran, boasting one of the tournament’s top defenses, are just one point behind and looking to advance further. Here’s all you need to know about when the match will be held, where it’ll be held, how to watch, key players to watch and what the current odds are. When is the match on? The Iran vs. Portugal clash will take place at 3pm on Monday, June 25. Where will the match take place? The upcoming match will be held at the Mordovia Arena in Saransk, Russia. Players to watch It comes as no surprise that Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo is the key player to watch in the upcoming match. The legendary striker has racked up all four of Portugal’s goals so far in the tournament and could very well win the coveted Golden Boot if he keeps up his dominant performance so far. Winger Goncalo Guedes is likely another key player to keep an eye on. For Iran, forward Sardar Azmoun is always a top offensive threat and player to watch closely. He’s been compared to Barcelona star Lionel Messi and could pose a tough challenge to Portugal’s defenders in the upcoming match. Match odds Portugal is favored to win their upcoming clash with Iran, though the Iranian squad likely won’t make it easy for them. Ronaldo has proven to be an offensive juggernaut in the tournament, carrying them close to the knockout stage thanks to his World Cup-leading four goals so far. Though the rest of the team has been inconsistent, Ronaldo almost single-handedly carried the team thus far and is eager to advance even further. Iran likely won’t go quietly however. The Iranians boast a tough defense that could stymie Portugal’s attack and have over-performed against expectations so far, defeating Morocco and losing only narrowly to Spain. Though they’ll be taking on the best player in the tournament, they likely won’t be intimidated and will give Portugal a run for their money in the upcoming match.