The Pan-Asian Yao Restaurant serves an exciting selection
of Asian foods. Situated opposite the UN complex in Nairobi, this outdoor eatery
with red-painted columns and planted shrubbery has the feeling of garden dining.
The owners of the Pan Asian Yao have travelled extensively in South East Asia.
They chose to share their love of food by serving a contemporary fusion of
meals from Japan, China, Malaysia, India and Indonesia. The Bento Box is a Japanese style home-cooked meal packed
in a carrier box. Yao Restaurant presents theirs as a tray of ceramic dishes
containing salads, soups, meat items, a starch and sauces. My favourite was the
Indonesian bento tray, which had a clear
Sayur Asem soup, Gado Gado salad with fried tofu cubes, spicy chicken skewers,
Nasi Goreng rice and chilli peanut sauce. I also sampled the Indian Bento tray, starting off with a
tangy tomato soup. The main course was Tawa Chicken, a popular roadside dish served
with Kachumbari and mint chutney. For the vegetarian tray, the chicken is
replaced with paneer cheese and you have the option of vegetable biryani rice. For the communal Asian dining style of hot pot meals, you
have to make advance reservations because there only are a limited number of hot
pot tables. We chose several raw food ingredients in the hot pot menu, including thin
slices of beef, chicken, seafood, tofu, vegetables and sauces. Several pots of boiling hot broth were placed in front of
each person on the glass-topped table which is inbuilt with electric burners. The
idea is to cook your food ingredients in the simmering broth and eat them with
various dipping sauces that range from mild to very spicy. It is a fun style of eating and you can refill the hot
pot as often as you wish. In proper Asian style you eat with chopsticks but
they also provide forks. Also on the menu are Sushi and Sashimi from Japanese
cuisine, and Dim Sum, which are Chinese sweet and savoury dishes in bite-size
portions usually served as snacks or a light meal.  Location: United
Nations Avenue, Gigiri, Nairobi Contacts: +254
710 886688 Star
rating: 4.5/5 