The quartet of Ryan Randiek, Petty Andanda, Albert Njogu and Kevin Cheruiyot have been included in the provisional Kenya team for the Davis Cup tournament set for June 18-23 at Nairobi Club. The inclusion of the four brings to eight the total number of players for the event. The four players join experienced Ismael Changawa, Sheil Kotecha, Ibrahim Kibet and Olivier Kigotho who featured in the 2017 edition. The six-day event which has attracted nine African countries will see Kenya battle to capture the elusive promotion to the Euro Africa Group II which they narrowly missed in Egypt last year after going down to Zimbabwe in the deciding match. According to head coach Rosemary Owino, the final four players will be named on June 17. Kenya is currently ranked 86 globally and will face stiff competition from Benin, who are the highest ranked ( 79th position) among the nine participants. The other participants who constitute the nine nation tournament are Rwanda who are placed 120 ,Mozambique ( 122 ), Algeria ( 88 ), Nigeria ( 102 ), Cameroon ( 127 ), Namibia ( 106 ), and Uganda who are not ranked in the International Tennis Federation log. Owino promised to fairly hand the four slots to deserving players who have been in a residential training at Nairobi Club. She revealed the motive of doubling the squad was to instill more competition and team spirit which she observed was their undoing in last year’s outing. “I have doubled the participants so as to increase the teamwork spirit and competition before naming the final four. “The teamwork spirit was fairly good in Egypt last year and I feel the presence of more players in the camp will boost it. “The slots will be given fairly to deserving players who will fly the Kenyan flag and win the tournament. “I will be working closely with my assistant George Oyoo in identifying the best out of the eight. We beat Benin last year in Egypt and the other participants are ranked below us and we really stand a big chance of winning the Cup. “We thank the federation for hosting the event home and I urge all Kenyans to turn up in large numbers and motivate the boys,”she said. Two pools of five and four teams will be drawn in a World Cup (round robin) format, where all teams in each pool face off to decide the top two. The winners and runners up of Pool ‘A’ and ‘B’ will then face off in a decider where the two winners will earn promotion to the lucrative Euro Africa Group II. The event will be conducted by South African ‘Gold Badge’ referee’ Iain Smith with Kenya’s Patrick Kamuhia ensuring the smooth running of proceedings as his assistant. Kenya last hosted Davis Cup in 2003 and 1996 in Mombasa and Nairobi respectively. The team enjoys sponsorship from the Ministry of Sports.