President Uhuru Kenyatta bets on a stellar anti-graft war to protect his legacy perceived to be under siege from multi-billion-shilling scandals. Confronted with massive plundering of public resources in a vortex of corruption and faced with questions about his legacy, Uhuru has kicked off an unprecedented crackdown. As questions linger over sustainability of the fight, analysts and politicians look at the war as a deliberate move aimed at cleansing and firming up his second term. Political analyst Mark Bichachi says the President is under pressure to safeguard personal interests as well as entrench his legacy that got a nosedive in his first term. “The fight is a deliberate effort. The President has realised he is pretty young and his legacy is important because after retirement, he has many years to share the same country,” Bichachi told the Star. He says the President is aware that without fighting corruption, his Big Four agenda go up in smoke and, therefore, compromise his legacy. “To safeguard his interests he is aware he needs a country free of corruption. He knows corruption will kill the optimism around his ambitious projects,” Bichachi says. However, asked if the President would be able to sustain the anti-graft war, Bichachi observes that the problem has not been lack of institutions but rather poor coordination of state agencies mandated to tackle corruption. He says, the President has so far managed to achieve the required coordination among the concerned institutions. “It is not a matter of sustainability but political goodwill,” he says, adding that the handshake with NASA leader Raila Odinga gives the fight more impetus as suspects can no longer hide behind political or tribal cocoons. “The fridge upon which cockroaches used to hide has been removed. They have started scattering and looking for dark places to hide, but they are very few,” he said. Uhuru’s six month-old administration has adopted a new approach in dealing with the scourge with the country’s anti-graft body appearing to have been sidelined. Uhuru is actively involving a multi-agency team comprising of the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Attorney General’s office. After assuming office in November last year, Uhuru embarked on revamping the three offices and brought on board new faces, who are now at the heart of the ongoing anti-graft war. He replaced Keriako Tobiko, whom he appointed Environment CS, with Noordin Haji, a former deputy National Intelligence deputy. He brought in Court of Appeal Judge Paul Kihara to take over from Githu Muigai as AG, while former DCI Ndegwa Muhoro was dropped for George Kinoti. The deliberate alignment and shift in coordination at the investigating agencies and legal counsel, observers say, was a masterstroke in Uhuru’s anti-graft crusade. The National Council of Churches of Kenya has already termed the EACC a toothless dog, and called for it to be stripped off investigative powers. The NCCK wants those powers vested on the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, with the Director of Public Prosecutions tasked with taking corrupt individuals to court. “Corruption must attract speedy, visible, public and effective consequences regardless of who engages in it so that all people realise their corruption, cheating, stealing and abuse of office are expensive undertakings,” NCCK secretary general the Reverend Peter Karanja said. Karanja said the war can be sustained if a one year amnesty is given to corrupt individuals to declare and surrender all illegally acquired wealth, while those who fail should be jailed for life, and funds recovered. Last week, National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi said Uhuru is keen in sealing legacy crowed by a successful fight against corruption. The Suba South MP said while Uhuru’s first term was overshadowed by denials on graft scandals, the President has publicly admitted to the existence of the dragon and vowed to fight it. “The President has overhauled the DPP, the DCI, the NIS and the AG’s office. These are the offices he is using to fight corruption. The president, in his second term, is likely to do something so radical that Kenyans have been yearning for,” Mbadi said. Mbadi, who had been one of Jubilee’s harshest critics, however, expressed confidence the President’s renewed onslaught will help him solidify his legacy. “If it is cosmetic, then it will irreparably damage his legacy and dampen Kenyans’ expectations,” the Suba South MP said. He said Parliament will give the necessary legislative support, if need be, to win the fight as well as fulfill his Big Four agenda. While Uhuru has also admitted his ambitious projects are threatened, analysts also believe a successful fight against would guarantee proper implementation of the Big Four agenda. Political analyst Martin Andati says more than anything else, corruption poses the biggest threat to Uhuru’s legacy because of its multiplier effect. “Corruption has affected service delivery in a big way. If you observe clearly, corruption levels under Uhuru have exceeded those of Kibaki’s era. It is unfortunate,” Andati said. While Uhuru banks on his four-point agenda to capture the hearts and minds of Kenyans in his last term, implementation of the ambitious programmes could be crippled by lack of resources. “The amount being lost could have been pumped into these projects,” he said. Political analyst Danstan Omari warns that if not well-thought out and properly executed, the crackdown may be the last straw that will break the camel’s back. He says corruption cartels in and outside government may use their networks to sabotage government programmes key in securing the president’s legacy. “The corruption at the current levels is a dangerous monster and if left to go on like that, it will leave a very bad legacy for the President. If mishandled again, it may bring down Uhuru’s government,” said. Already two huge scandals — Sh9 billion NYS and Sh1.9 billion Maize scam at the National Cereals and Produce Board — have been linked to powerful figures in government. This could pose a big headache for the President, as he seeks firm and stern action on suspects, especially those having well-networked connections. “He [Uhuru] needs to include corruption as his fifth agenda,” Andati said. Uhuru’s administration has arrested more than 50 suspects, among them senior public officers, linked to the Sh9 billion NYS theft and charged them. Uhuru’s critics, including key opposition figures, have termed his move as a smoke and mirrors attempt that won’t net real masterminds but the President has warned there will be no sacred cows. However, in his first term there were no high-profile corruption convictions. High-ranking public officers named in the Sh791 NYS scandal in 2015, among them some Cabinet ministers were left off the hook for lack of evidence, leaving former Transport CS Micheal Kamau battling court cases. Other dozens of NYS suspects were also set free by the court due to lack of enough evidence. Now after securing a controversial victory in last year’s disputed Presidential election, Uhuru is asserting his authority by going for the ‘big fish’ to secure his legacy.   