Higher taxes will raise the cost of living in Kenya and result in industrial action for better pay, Cotu boss Francis Atwoli has warned. The Secretary General issued a statement on Friday following the reading of the 2018/19 budget by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich. Atwoli said that though Rotich indicated that the Sh3 trillion budget is aimed at creating jobs for youths, ending poverty and sharing prosperity, higher taxes on fuel, for instance, will affect transport as PSVs will hike fares. "Cotu is greatly concerned and disturbed by the new tax proposals. For instance, the cost of medicine is already too high so many workers are straining to buy medicine. Increasing the inspection fee to 12 percent simply means workers will not be able to afford it," he said. "Rotich must be warned that an increase in the cost of medicine is a death certificate to workers. He should not touch medicine as that is fatal." The price of unga is expected to go up as the CS proposed a new policy that will see manufacturers of basic products such as maize meal pass tax costs to consumers to recover their VAT. Kenyans will also dig deeper into their pockets for mobile money transfer services as Rotich introduced a 12 percent excise duty on this, two percent higher than before. The CS said the money that will be collected from the increment will finance the universal healthcare programme. Rotich also announced a robin-hood excise duty of 0.05 per cent on Sh500,000 and above transferred in banks. He also proposed an increase of 30 per cent excise duty from the current 20 per cent on all private passenger vehicles that exceeds 2,500cc for diesel vehicles and 3,000cc for petrol powered vehicles. Read: M-Pesa charges, kerosene, mitumba go up in Big Four budget Also read: Cost of unga, milk, drugs to go up in budget Awoli said the government must ensure the people get reasonable pay if it intends to impose these taxes. He warned of inflation and a decline in Kenyans' purchasing power. "Taxes on food, fuel and medicine will anguish workers who already have to dig deep into their pockets to meet the high cost of living," he said. "The government must be advised to compensate workers who are losing their purchasing power [due to] increased taxes in the budget. Failure to protect workers against these erroneous taxes will lead to confrontation." More on this: Read:Budget will hurt mwananchi with petty taxes, Opposition MPs say Also see: How government plans to raise additional Sh27.5bn in tax revenue Click here for the latest political news