Locusts have invaded parts of Marsabit, Isiolo amd Turkana counties. Agriculture chief administrative secretary Andrew Tuimur yesterday confirmed the tree locust variety have invaded about 494,210 acres of land in Merti sub-county in Isiolo county. Residents of North Horr in Marsabit county have also reported the pests, which disrupted classes in some schools last week. Attempts to control the pests by schools were futile and pupils had to sit under trees to continue with learning. In Marsabit, farmers have resulted to hiring youth to scare away locusts that have invaded their maize and bean farms. The pests have also invaded parts of Turkana East sub-county that borders Samburu, Baringo and West Pokot. However, Tuimur assured this type of locusts invades trees and shrubs, unlike the desert locusts which are more dangerous and feed on grass and crops. “”We have sent a team of officers for surveillance and we have also contacted the Desert Locust Control Organisation for Eastern Africa who have provided a plane to spray the pests to avoid any attack that could affect browsing for goats and camels,” the CAS told the Star. The organisation is based in Nairobi and promotes control operations and forecast techniques against upsurges and plagues of the desert locusts and other migratory pests including the  African armyworm and tsetse fly. Tuimur said tree locusts were last reported in 2016 in Turkana county and the government was able to control them. The pest is common in semi arid areas and flies from one place to another especially after the rains when the shrubs are green. In December 2007, the Agriculture ministry issued an alert over the desert locust in North Eastern region, which was a threat to maize and wheat. This was after a ldense swarm flew over Mandera from Ethiopia. The ministry said the swarm was first reported in Ogaden region in Ethiopia having originated from Yemen and later to south of Somalia and northern Kenya. The ministry was able to control the pest, which was at the hoppers stage, using pesticides. According to the ecology of the pest,  this is the most destructive stage and this was the focus of control during that time.