Only one match stands between Gor Mahia and a repeat clash against English Premier League side, Everton after the holders edged Tanzanian side Singida 2-0 to book a place in a second successive final of the SportPesa Super Cup tournament. Meddie Kagere’s header in the 32nd minute and a rasping shot on the stroke of full-time in a rain-soaked match proved to be the difference between the two sides yesterday. K’Ogalo will on Sunday now face off with Tanzanian league champions Simba, who had earlier eliminated Kakamega Homeboyz on post match penalties. The start was fast and furious from the Kenyans with Kagere failing to test Peter Manyika when picked out by a neat flick from Jacques Tuyisenge with just eight minutes on the clock. K’Ogalo oozed class as they ran rings around Singida in a manner that would otherwise be considered spiteful. Against the run of play, the Tanzanians found a rare opening when Dani Lwamba picked out his striking partner Tady but not believing the time and space afforded to him, the Singida forward opted to pick his spot in Shaban Odhonji only for him to watch in disbelief as Godfrey Walusimbi nicked the ball from his feet much to his disbelief. Suddenly the heavens opened up at Afraha and it seemed luck had smiled on Singida as the sleek quick Gor moves would be curtailed. Immediately, a lose ball fell to Duke Kaseke and he let fly from distance with the ball coming off Gor’s crossbar much to the relief of Odhonji. That let off led to the opening goal soon after as Kagere thumped in a near post header from Francis Kahata to give Gor the lead and leave Singida with a steep hill to climb in the second half. Their first response was to ring the change in attack at the start of the second half with Lubinda Mundia taking up the place of John Tibar. The shake up up-front notwithstanding, it was Gor who looked dangerous going forward. Kagere weaved his way into the box but his cross was wayward. Then his partner Tuyisenge was brought down by Salum Kipaga but the referee waved play on as K’Ogalo remained firmly on the ascendancy. As the tie passed the hour mark, the clash slowly turned in Singidas favour. Shafik Batambuze sent in a couple of dangerous crosses one of which Mundia headed too close to Odhonji. With 20 minutes to play, George Odhiambo nearly doubled Gor’s lead but Manyika saved his side-footed effort. A minute later, Tuyisenge went down under the combined challenge of the rugged Kevin Juma and Batambuze but his pleas for a penalty again went unheeded. Click here for more political news