Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga has said he is in good health. He denied reports circulated by a blogger that he had gone to the United States for treatment. “They are even saying that I am sick! Looking at me. Surely, do I look sick?" Kahiga asked. The governor spoke on Thursday outside the Nyeri law courts during the unveiling of the Court Users Committee, where he was the chief guest. Kahiga jetted back into the country on Thursday. He said he went to the US to meet investors and his mission was successful. Kahiga was in the US for 10 days. “They said I was in the US because I was getting operated on and a thousand other things. Anyway, that is a price we have to pay for freedom,” he said. Kahiga urged residents to stop spreading rumours and focus on development. “Nyeri has had the longest transition period. We are holding the record for the county that has had the [most] number of governors. While others are at the second governor, we are at a fourth one,” he said. Nyeri's first governor, Nderitu Gachagua, died in office on February 24 last year. He died of pancreatic cancer at a London hospital. His deputy, Samuel Wamaathai, took over as governor but he was defeated in the August 8 General Election later in the year by Jubilee's Wahome Gakuru. Gakuru was killed in a freak accident near Kabati on the Thika-Muranga highway on November 7 of the same year, barely three months in office. His deputy Mutahi Kahiga was then sworn in as governor. Last week a blogger posted on his Facebook page that Kahiga had travelled to the US for prostate cancer and diabetes treatment. But the county director of communication, Carol Nderi, rubbished the claim and said the governor was well. "Our attention has been drawn to a false post circulating on social media, emanating from a Facebook account that has previously spun outright lies and is seemingly at it again," she posted in a Nyeri journalists WhatsApp group. "We assure the people of Nyeri that Kahiga is well and in the USA with a section of senior officials to meet investors." Nderi said Kahiga and his delegation went to the US for an inter-city exchange programme between Nyeri and Reston City. Earlier on Thursday the governor had visited Nyeri County Referral Hospital to inspect the ongoing renovation.