Twenty counties are big winners in the latest formula of sharing the multi-million shilling Equalisation Fund for marginalised areas. Four minority communities are included among the beneficiaries in the policy unveiled on Friday in Nairobi by the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA). They are Waata, Makonde, Elmolo and Dorobo-Saletia. The have a small population, unique culture and traditional lifestyle. “The commission recognised that even within marginalised areas, there are some minorities that need special consideration,” reads part of the new policy. It states the four “most minority groups” deserve special consideration in accessing to services to the level enjoyed by other communities. CRA chairperson Jane Kiringai, her chief executive office George Ooko, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairperson Francis ole Kaparo and the National Assembly’s Finance Committee chairperson Joseph Limo were present at the launch. The latest CRA policy has increased marginalised counties to 34 from 14 to benefit from state-funded multi-million projects to facilitate access to basic services. Water, roads, health facilities and electricity projects for marginalised areas will be implemented in 1,424 sub-locations across 366 wards, according to the policy. The Equalisation Fund Advisory Board helps in identifying projects to be rolled out and funded by the national government’s line ministries. New beneficiaries of the fund are Baringo, Bomet, Bungoma, Busia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Homa Bay, Kajiado, Kericho, Kisumu, Kitui, Machakos, Meru, Migori and Nakuru counties. Others are Nandi, Siaya, Tharaka Nithi, Laikipia, Trans Nzoia and Murang’a. They join other 14 marginalised counties such as Turkana, Mandera, Wajir, Samburu, West Pokot, Tana River, Narok, Kwale, Garissa, Marsabit, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Isiolo and Lamu. The Equalisation Fund raised from 0.5 per cent of all revenue collected by the state annually has a time frame of 20 years since the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution. It seeks to bring marginalised counties at par with others. However, delayed funds by the Treasury and low absorption has hampered implementation of the projects leading to expenditure of a meagre Sh1.1 billion of Sh12.4 billion allocated since 2016. The previous policy considered a county as the unit of focus based on historical injustices, poverty levels, status of roads, access to electricity, clean water, improved sanitation and health and literacy levels. “To identify marginalised areas, an index of deprivation was constructed by using information on access to safe water, school attendance, and improved sanitation and electricity,” the policy reads. Read : Uhuru approves Sh11bn for 14 marginalised regions Click here for the latest political news 