Former NYS director general Richard Ndubai finally walked to freedom on Tuesday, one month after he and 46 others were charged with Sh468 million theft at the service. Only Ndubai and 15 others have been released since they were granted strict bail terms on June 19. Others include Youth Affairs PS Lillian Omollo and Stephen Muchai — an internal auditor at Treasury. Omollo and Muchai were the first to be cleared by the DCI and the courts on Monday after the High Court released them. This followed a protracted battle with the Director of Public Prosecutions, who had opposed their bids for bail. Others are businessman James Thuita and his wife Evon Wanjiku, the directors of Firstling Supplies Limited, a company alleged to have fraudulently received more than Sh100 million from the National Youth Service. Former NYS acting director general Sammy Muchuki, Evans Wafula Kundu, Peter Muthomi and Don Kariungi, an IFMIS buyer, were also cleared on Monday. Former NYS director of finance Wellington Lubila, Sammy Mbugua, Peter Murio and Kennedy Mburu were released on Tuesday, while Michael Ojiambo, Peter Kimani and Rogers Nzioka got their freedom yesterday. Read:Humbling prison life for high-flying NYS suspects By yesterday evening, three more files, including one belonging to Lucy Ngirita, had been verified by police and were awaiting clearance. Lucy’s daughters Ann and Phyllis, son Jeremiah Gichini and his wife Catherine Mwai had yet to execute their sureties. Ann, through her company Annwaw, is alleged to have received more than Sh74 million, while her mother allegedly received Sh59 million through Waluko Investments. Gichini is said to have received Sh72 million through Jerrycathy Enterprises, while Mwai is said to have received Sh23 million through Kunjiwa Enterprises. Each suspect was granted Sh1 million bail, Sh5 million bond and sureties of Sh2 million. They were asked to hand their passports to the court and appear before the DCI once every week. Last Friday, the DPP directed the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to ensure bail and sureties presented by the accused are not proceeds of crime. Noordin Haji’s directive came after some of the sureties surrendered in court, including a Prime Mover caravan, were suspected to have been bought using the loot. The DPP told the DCI to confirm the validity and legitimacy of the securities. He said concerns had been raised by the Assets Recovery Agency that some of the funds were subject of the ongoing cases. Click here for the latest political news