Ol Kalou traders have refused to pay market fees to protest against lack of water and overflowing toilets. The traders said they have been forced to defaecate in an open field adjacent to the market. The Nyandarua county government has attributed the problem to the breakdown of their exhauster. The traders have also blamed Trade executive Rose Wamuiya, saying she unleashed askaris to harass them for refusal to pay levies. The fresh produce sellers at the Ol Kalou open air market have not been paying the fees for a week. The traders are demanding restoration of water supply and collection of garbage. There are 12 eateries at the Ol Kalou Bus Park whose customers also use the toilet. “We fear there could be an outbreak of cholera due to open defaecation and the deteriorating hygiene around the market,” chairman Jackson Njuguna said. Traders said their produce is often exposed to thieves, cows and donkey which roam the unfenced market. Last Wednesday, Wamuiya allegedly sent enforcement officers to arrest traders and confiscate their goods to force them to pay. The traders overpowered the ten officers who accompanied revenue collectors and sent them away. “It is unfortunate that instead of offering services to traders, the county is sending askaris to come and beat us with batons,” Njuguna said. The 500 traders want more toilets built at the two-year-old market. Njuguna said the county has failed to intervene despite numerous calls. “Sometimes you go to the bush to answer a call of nature and find an old woman squatting there doing the same thing. You turn away in shame. The county doesn’t care,” he said. County revenue director Stephen Kinja said the finance department was not to blame because the services demanded by the traders were a responsibility of department of trade. Wamuiya declined to confirm or deny the accusation she unleashed enforcement officers on the traders. In an email sent to the Star, county director of communication Jesse Masai said the traders’ demands were legitimate. He said the county was looking for a sustainable solution to the water shortage. He said the resource has been mismanaged in the past. Masai said they were looking for a private exhauster to fix the toilet mess. “A contractor will soon be on site to fence the market and do drainage and leveling works. Garbage was cleared last week,” Masai said. Wamuiya said they will put up sheds to shield the traders from rain and sun.