Upto 75 per cent of the 33 million litres of kerosene reported to be consumed monthly is used to contaminate diesel and petrol. According to the Petroleum Institute of East Africa, only five million litres of the monthly consumption is used for lighting and cooking. “This means the Kenya Revenue Authority loses Sh34 billion from tax evasion on a monthly basis,” PIEA said in a statement. The institute further said adulteration leads to untold suffering in terms of high maintenance costs of buses, matatus, farm machinery and trucks due to frequent breakdowns.  SELLING AIR The high cost of maintenance is subsequently passed onto the public through public transport fares and logistics costs. As if that was not enough, some motorists have also complained about the rising trend by petrol stations to sell them ‘air’. “Most petrol stations have tampered with their machines so they indicate you have fueled say Sh1,000, but the amount in the tank will not reflect the same,” Digital Taxi Association of Kenya chairperson David Muteru said yesterday. The Energy Regulatory Commission said Mt Kenya and Western regions are the most notorious for fuel adulteration. It attributed the alarming adulteration levels to a large volume of subsidised kerosene. Treasury CS Henry Rotich during the Budget presentation last Thursday proposed to harmonise the cost of kerosene to that of diesel. He attributed the rising cases of adulteration to the low cost of kerosene. Currently, under the Excise Duty Act, kerosene attracts a duty rate of Sh7,205 per 1,000 litres while gas oil is subject to excise duty at the rate of Sh10,305 per 1,000 litres. “The difference in the rates applicable to these two petroleum products has led to adulteration of the fuel products resulting in loss of excise duty revenue to the Exchequer,” Rotich said. “In order to reduce the incidences of adulteration of fuel, I propose to harmonise the rate of excise duty applicable on illuminating kerosene to Sh10,305 per 1,000 litres.” While it is not clear by what percentage the cost of kerosene will go up, a kerosene tax benchmarking report forwarded to Petroleum PS Andrew Kamau by the regulator shows the plan is to make three increases of Sh7.053 per litre for at least one year. Currently, kerosene users pay tax totalling Sh8.41 per litre compared to Sh29.57 for users of diesel and Sh39.16 for users of super petrol.