Nandi Governor Stephen Sang fully supports the EACC crackdown on at least 30 officers suspected to have stolen the county's resources. Sang said this on Tuesday amid an investigation by the anti-graft agency on crimes allegedly committed during his predecessor Cleophas Lagat's tenure. He asked county workers to cooperate with officers so Nandi recovers money and other property. Sang noted that corruption had caused the county to lag behind in development as projects worth more than Sh20 billion either stalled or were never implemented. County Secretary Francis Sang said the Governor asked the commission to quicken the lifestyle audit on former officers in the region as he requested when he took over. "Sang wants stern action against those involved in graft in the region. He has cautioned his staff about the same fate if they engage in graft," the Secretary said in a statement. Meanwhile, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption has intensified the search for more than 20 staff of the former administration. They reportedly went underground after learning that they were being sought. Ten who were arrested will be taken to court. Among those who will be questioned are Lagat and former Secretary Francis Ominde in the probe on tendering and implementation of projects. A team of more than 100 EACC officers and police raided suspects' homes in Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia and took vital documents for scrutiny. Spokesman Yassin Amaro said the investigations were going on well and that all those involved in corruption in the region will be punished. Read: EACC raids Kisii County offices over irregular employment Last week, Sang gave a detailed account of the use of Sh60 million set aside for bursaries and noted that all departments will be required to account for every last coin. Senator Samson Cherargei has also backed the EACC operation in the county. In May, however, Cherargei declined calls to reconcile with Sang after they differed over alleged corruption in the hiring of staff and procurement at the county government. Read: Sang pledges better use of county funds Related: Cherargei rejects calls for truce with Sang, says corruption in Nandi sickening Click here for the latest political news