Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris will on Saturday spend the night at Mama Lucy Hospital for what she calls "an executive check up", being part of her fact finding mission on the nature of services offered at public hospitals. Her plan comes at a time when Kwale woman representative Zuleikha Hassan has proposed changes in law that will make it compulsory for public officers, including the President, to be covered by the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). The end-game is for public officers to use government health facilities unlike the current case where they, together with their families, opt for treatment out of the country - even for minor conditions. Passaris unveiled her plan on Thursday while she went to mourn with a family whose daughter passed on at Mama Lucy Hospital. She later took a tour of the facility. Also read: Mama Lucy Kibaki hospital 'a joke', residents say over poor services The city legislator said she will be offering herself as a guinea pig in order to have a taste of public hospital services and also undertake the same in a private hospital before putting the results in public for comparison. Passaris said she will undergo a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) for the spine - as recommended by her doctor, and also see an Ear,Nose and Throat specialist. She also plans to do a Mammogram. "At the heart of the debate on the importation of Cuban doctors, I want to get the experience of how Kenyan doctors handle patients in our public hospitals," the county MP said. Passaris said the experience will also help her gauge how the equipment given to counties under the Medical Equipment Service Scheme have improved public health service delivery. During the tour, Pasarris lauded the hospital's digital system adding that she was impressed with the number of permanent staffs employed at the facility to the Kenyatta National Hospital where most of then workers are hired as casuals. Read: Is drugs shortage due to theft? Mama Lucy Hospital meds lost She addressed the patients and urged them to be NHIF compliant and also observe family planning citing the high levels of poverty. Mama Lucy hospital CEO Musa Mohammed said that the woman representative will be well received and will get a nurse during her stay in the hospital. "You will have a nurse when you come for the check-up but it is worth noting that they are not enough for every patient," Musa said. Also see: [VIDEO] Ruto launches Sh500m equipment for Mama Lucy hospital Click here for more political news  