Breast augmentation is the most popular plastic surgery for women in the U.S., but breast enhancement doesn't always involve breast implants. According to doctors fat transfer Breast augmentation is a safe, effective and natural way to increase breast size, and the procedure is even scarless. There are a few steps to the fat grafting process. Fatty tissue is the best material to use for breast augmentation because it eradicates the common concerns with breast implants such as capsular contracture, loss of sensation in your nipples, implant deflation and visible rippling. The three main steps of fat transfer breast augmentation include: How Does Fat Transfer Breast Augmentation Work? In the most simplistic terms, a fat transfer is accomplished by a procedure called liposuction. Fat from one part of your body especially thethighs or stomach or buttocks is removed and then injected into the desired area of the body – not just the breasts. The collected fat naturally contains stem cells which are preserved through the use of very fine, needle-like harvesting cannulas. Between the liposuctioning and the injection, the fat is cleaned and filtered in a sterile closed system. This method improves the chances of fat cell survival and prevents contamination prior to reinjection. The Pros and Cons of Fat Transfer Breast Augmentation According to some doctors, this is one of the biggest cons with all fat transfer procedures: fat absorption. Unlike the breast implant whose size is fixed, a fat transfer augmentation cannot guarantee a specific size outcome. Pros: Improves self-esteem, It’s all natural, Reduces risk and has a natural feel Cons: • Outcomes can be hard to determine because the volume injected is not always equal to the final, stable size. May require multiple treatments – because of unanticipated fat absorption, the treatment may need to be repeated to create the desired outcome. Doctors also warn that fat transfer comes with their own risks becasue the technology is still relatively new t