The Directorate of Criminal Investigations suffered a blow yesterday after the court declined to suspend the verification of securities for the release 47 NYS suspects. On Thursday, the DPP asked the court to suspend the verification process of the suspects’ sureties until the DCI personally undertakes the process. However, in his ruling, Anti-Corruption Court chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi said suspending implementation of the High Court ruling for the release of the 47 suspects would be arbitrary. “This court cannot suspend the implantation of the high court, it will be an arbitrary act” Mugambi further ruled that he will examine the sureties and that the court will determine which ones to accept or reject. The magistrate noted that the concerns raised by the DPP are legitimate but should be addressed to specific individuals, not generalized to all 47. “It is the duty of the court to ensure any security tendered or offered is free from foreseeable risk arising from any illegality,” Mugambi ruled.  SECURITIES PRODUCED In his ruling, he also said allowing the application by the DPP would amount to contempt of the High Court ruling that granted them bail. “Should this court suspend the verification, it will be walking on a dangerous path and might be cited for contempt of court”. The court further noted any objection by the DPP must be precise and made on actual basis and by way of an affidavit. The magistrate also asked the DPP to bring to court any evidence he may have on the irregularities of the securities presented in court. He further urged the DPP to bring any evidence he may have on any irregularities in the bond or bail presented to the court. The DPP had asked the court to suspend the verification process arguing some of the securities produced were the subject of investigations by the Asset Recovery Authority. The DPP, through state counsel Daniel Karuri, had raised concerns over some of the securities produced and asked for more time to verify them arguing that some are proceeds of crime.