Senators and MPs from the Rift Valley have called a meeting for this evening to discuss the conduct of Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen whom they call divisive. Last night a group of MPs from the region met in Parliament and resolved to remove Murkomen as chairman of the Rift Valley Senators and MPs Parliamentary Group. They told the Star yesterday they are unhappy with statements the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator has been making about divisions between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. They are particularly upset remarks Murkomen made on Sunday on Citizen TV, where he claimed the people opposed to Ruto's 2022 bid are within the President's Office. “We have a concern about the existence of a small wing of individuals serving within government at the Office of the President, government ministries who are spending most of their time to plant discord in the Jubilee Party,” he said. Murkomen had not responded to the Star's request for a comment by 7.30pm yesterday. The meeting is expected to be held at the Weston Hotel along Langata Road. Yesterday in a press conference, MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Teren (Moiben) and Joshua Kutuny (Cherangany) castigated Murkomen for saying the lifestyle audit ordered by the President was meant to undermine DP Ruto and his quest for the presidency. Kutuny described Murkomen's statements as divisive and demeaning to the President. Read:Ruto’s haters are in Kenyatta’s office, says Senator Murkomen “His statement is unfortunate, reckless and meant to injure the image of the President. I ask him to come out boldly and tell the country what he knows about the ‘cartel’ he purports controls and are arm-twisting the head of state," Kutuny said. The legislators said there was nothing political in Uhuru's call for a thorough lifestyle audit of key public officers. “We support the lifestyle audit as the best way forward to get those who loot public resources telling how they get what they have,” Keter said. “It is not political. Anybody panicking or thinking some communities are being fought [is wrong]. No community is under threat,” Kutuny said. Murkomen also suggested the lifestyle audit was intended to destabilise leadership of the Kalenjin community. However, Keter told Murkomen to stop dragging the whole community into personal scuffles best addressed elsewhere. He said people who steal and loot don’t do it on behalf of their communities or families, but themselves. The MP said no one will be spared in the fight against corruption. “Let nobody start lecturing us that the community is being targeted…Oooh it is like they targeting an individual from our community. No, there no individual under attack,” he said. Moiben MP Tiren said they will not allow ‘individuals’ to tribalise and politicise the lifestyle audit. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wah waded into the controversies, saying the cartels are comprised of powerful individuals in government who have been working with some politicians to ‘scramble’ for power in 2022. “Murkomen was actually referring to some cartels who do not want anyone to draw closer to the President. The few officials in government are busy focusing on blackmail to pursue their interests on where they will be in government in 2022,” Ichung’wa said. “As they source for their positions, they meddle in politics." Ichung’wah said the cartels include some social media activists. Murkomen said some individuals want sour the relationship between Ruto and Uhuru “If the President and Deputy President do not sit down together and say the direction that these things are taking is not useful to Jubilee as a party, the government, Kenya as a nation and in the legacy of the president; if they do not face those issues fairly and squarely and bring those persons within government into account, such small cracks will cause a bigger problem,” Murkomen said. Kenyatta’s directive for lifestyle audit on all public servants in the on the ongoing corruption purge, Mr Murkomen says, has made matters worse. “Unfortunately, because those people (who he alleges are fighting the DP) have responsibility over the policy of the government, we have situations where things like lifestyle audit are now in place without the knowledge of anybody who is governing in Jubilee,” he said. “The lifestyle audit is about 2022 elections, it is a principal called kicking-the-ladder symptom as there are people who want to ascend to those positions of power and they want to curtail other people." He claimed the scrutiny on civil servants’ wealth is targeting Mr Kenyatta's deputy, the self-declared son of a peasant. “Has it ever occurred to you that Raila Odinga who is a hundred times richer than William Ruto, no one asks for his lifestyle audit?” he said. Also Read:Lifestyle audit will 'expose us', Murkomen jokes on Uhuru's call for wealth review 