A clergyman wants corruption declared a national disaster and culprits jailed for life. The National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) Upper Eastern chairman David Ngige said the scale of graft in Kenya is alarming. “We laud the steps being taken by the government to expose corruption. But this is not enough. Perpetrators should face stiff penalties to act a detterent,” Ngige said. The cleric, who is also the PCEA moderator, spoke on Friday at the end of a two-day seminar. The event for NCCK members from Upper Eastern was at Gitoro Conference Centre in Meru county. Ngige said a new approach should be used to used to fight runaway corruption. For Kenya to win the war on corruption we need a change of attitude. “The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission should be disbanded. It's investigative mandate should be transferred to Directorate of Criminal Investigation. Enforcement should be left to police and the Judiciary should speed up corruption cases,” Ngige said. He said people found to have engaged in graft in the past should be given a one-year amnesty from prosecution. Within that period they should return looted cash and name their accomplices. Ngige said there needs be a sustained effort to recover property acquired through proceeds of corruption. He urged police to shun the culture of taking bribes. Kenyans should exercise moral responsibility by resisting the temptation to give bribes, he said. Ngige said there is little to show for devolution from the onset in 2013 owing to corruption. “County governments were created to take services and development closer to the people. However, poverty, high cost of living and poor services are still rampant," he said. Ngige said governors must enhance public participation for devolution to bear fruit. He lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta and Cord leader Raila Odinga for agreeing to foster peace after their March 9 handshake. The NCCK has been pushing for an all-inclusive government to boost unity. Ngige spoke a day after Third Way Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot told the clergy to step up efforts to help fix problems facing the country. Aukot said the church has a role to ensure Kenyans are united, and voters elect good leaders. "The church has made it a responsibility of politicians to fix this country as if they do not have a role to play yet they have very big roles to win people to Christ," he said. He said the church should not glorify thieves and reward them of various political seats. He was accompanied by NCCK Secretary General Reverend Canon Peter Njue said NCCK is concerned about credibility of elections in the country. "We should ask what is electoral land scape and what are the issues that need to be addressed on an ongoing basis," he said. He said the country needs to have a prime minister and two deputies to ensure inclusivity of communities. "The party that wins the election or a coalition of winners even if losers are involved. Some people have opposed saying it is a too bloated executive it seems to make sense but NCCK does not propose that everything else is held constant for this it states it can be reviewed constitutionally," he said.