By Elizabeth Ngigi/ Comedian Felix Odiwour, commonly known as Jalas, is not happy with local gospel artistes and their music. In a recent video, Jalas slammed their content as “shoddy”. He criticised Willy Paul’s collabo with secular Bongo star Harmonize. “We need to talk, and bring back the required content of gospel music,” Jalas said. The comedian gave other examples, lamenting that, “There is no content this year’s music.” He cited Kennon’s song called Kama Pupu, and asked what the message is all about. He said the only song whose content he has understood so far is Chini ya Mwamba, done by Masterpiece. But still, Jalas has a problem with it. “Shida ni ameweka dye mpaka sasa yuko chini ya dye. They no longer mention God in their songs. Mungu anatajwa tu kama producer. Come back and start doing real gospel music with content,” he said. However, the comedian found a few good things to say about some of the productions. “We are happy that Bahati is signing artistes in his record. Rebecca Soki is amazing and his music is also good,” Jalas said. Lastly he addressed Ringtone Apoko and his gift to Zari, a Range Rover. Quoting the Bible, Jalas told him to remember that a good woman comes from the Lord, but what he did revealed to the world that a good man comes from the bank. He urged gospel artistes to reclaim the industry. Word Is reached out to Size 8, a gospel musician, for comment, who defended her fellow artistes, saying: “Jalang’o should not judge people with a few songs because ours is the biggest music industry, and I believe every song has a message. Everyone sings differently, thus it would be wrong to judge them with their content. “Like the new Daddy Owen song, Donjo, is just a way of saying he is enjoying life in Christ. Kula Neno is the word of God, meaning read the word of God. I think the problem is the understanding by people and not the song or perhaps the delivery. But from someone who reads the word, they will understand what every artiste means with their song.” She however said some songs do not sound like gospel music. “Well, some of them I will concur with Jalang’o, but what I can say is he should not judge the whole industry.”