A number of leaders from Central Kenya have gravitated towards Deputy President William Ruto as realignments towards 2022 succession politics. No serious presidential contender should ignore forming an alliance with Central Kenya. The region had 2,912,659 voters listed ahead of the August 8 General Election. With such a huge number of voters, and how helpful they were in the 2013 and last year’s elections the DP cannot gamble. With his financial war chest, Ruto has become a front runner and thus a darling of politicians positioning themselves for the next general election. Therefore, a very politician who cares to survive post-Uhuru Kenyatta tenure has no option than joining what is seen as the 2022 winning team. Last Sunday in Kapsaret, Ruto’s political home turf — where they had attended a church fundraiser — the politicians went a notch higher and introduced former Gatanga MP and Nairobi governor candidate in last year’s election Peter Kenneth to the DP’s camp. The function was attended by, among others, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Kiharu’s Ndindi Nyoro and Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata. They told the DP Mt Kenya would vote for him to a man, at the same time testing waters whether the Ruto-Kenneth ticket could sell in the Rift Valley. In my view, the pair is a sure bet. And why do I say this? Kenneth has a good track record as Gatanga MP. He is also known nationally, having contested for President in 2013 and in Nairobi as governor. Two, has not gotten its fair share of political influence compared to the neighbouring Kiambu and Nyeri. The former has produced two presidents — Jomo Kenyatta and his son, Uhuru, while the latter produced Mwai Kibaki, who served for two terms. Could the pay back time be 2022? Only time will tell. Three, the Kenyatta’s owe Murang’a big time. Unknown to many, Murang’a ‘handed’ the presidency to Mzee Kenyatta after his release from Kapenguria in 196. Someone had to vacate his Legco seat to pave way for Kenyatta to participate in constitutional talks in London in 1962. The then Kigumo (in Murang’a) legislator and son of former colonial Chief Njiri Kigo, Kariuki Njiri, vacated his seat for Kenyatta, who was not able to contest for the 1961 election. It is imperative to note that no other Kanu member was willing to step down for Kenyatta, including his in-law and Kiambu MP Mbiu Koinange. Being a son of the Founding Father, Uhuru could be positioning Kenneth to be Ruto’s DP to settle the political debt his father owes to Murang’a. Four, most successful Nairobi businessmen are from Murang’a and have immensely contributed to election of three Central Kenya presidents. With the 2013 MoU between UhuRuto, Kikuyus have to eat humble pie and play second fiddle. They therefore have to meticulously chose a candidate who can Ruto in 2032.  Ngure comments on current affairs 