Advertising giant McCann Worldgroup, part of the Interpublic Group (IPG), has been recognised as the Most Successful Agency Network in the 2018 Global Effie Effectiveness Index. The Effie award is known by advertisers and agencies globally as the pre-eminent award in the industry. It recognises any and all forms of marketing communication that contribute to a brand’s success. Harris Diamond, Chairman and CEO of McCann Worldgroup, said the Effies recognise the most important issues in marketing, highlighting whether campaigns are effective in driving sales and increasing brand and product recognition. “This is our foremost mission and I am proud that our strategic, creative and business leadership teams are being recognised for delivering ROI and effective creative approaches that build our clients’ businesses and increase their market share.," he said in a stament. McCann is a leading global marketing services company with 24,000 employees in more than 125 countries. In Kenya, it is affiliated with the award-winning Transcend Media Group (TMG). In Sub-Saharan Africa, McCann Worldgroup has over 20 agencies servicing 41 markets. These offices are structured around five regional hubs that service identified regions based on common geography and language. Transcend Media Group is the lead agency for the Anglo East region which includes Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Rwanda and Burundi. TMG is based in Nairobi and has 41 well-trained advertising practitioners who constantly utilise McCann’s global best practices. The Nairobi office handles global brands such as MasterCard, South African Tourism and Facebook. Local brands in its portfolio include Kenya Wine Agencies Limited (KWAL), Basco Paints Limited, Resolution Insurance, Population Services Kenya, Communications Authority and Kenya Reinsurance Corporation. Global affiliations, such as the TMG-McCann partnership, provide the local agency with global strategies, advisories, and first-hand insights on new trends in the advertising spectrum. This puts TMG at the forefront in meeting its clients’ objectives as well as ensuring Return On Investment. “As we develop campaigns, the key driver is the meaningful role that the brand plays in people’s lives. Hence, we apply the ‘Truth to Meaning’ philosophy that is coined from McCann Worldgroup’s Mantra ‘Truth Well Told’ that is over a century old,”  TMG Chief Executive Officer Tony Gatheca said. Gatheca added: “Customer service and attention to detail is core to the agency. We achieve our best results by receiving well, doing well and handing over well. As the local McCann affiliate, we are open to partnering with companies to grow their brands and cement their position in the marketplace both in Kenya and in the Anglo East region.” He also said that TMG will continue to use the synergies drawn from McCann Worldgroup to develop award-winning campaigns so as to transform brands and grow business. An ad agency network affiliation is a partnership of unique, well-equipped ad agencies from various markets that share knowledge and experiences with the aim of strengthening the network. Albert Einstein put it well when he said ‘Union gives strength’. Through the global partnership, the working culture of the local agency is governed by the global policies and more value is accorded to clients. As stated by Amanda Malko on adage.com, awards help brands to differentiate a great agency from a good agency. Brands are finding it harder than ever to select a worthy agency and it is common to find 'list of recent awards' as a common requirement in request for proposals in Kenya and globally. Awards present an opportunity to take a step back, survey what other brands are doing and be both humbled and inspired to be even greater. When agencies come together to share, compete and inspire each other, they have an opportunity to make their teams and clients stronger. Awards help the industry keep the bar high, provided they never lose sight of the real prize: The clients' success. Click here for the latest political news