For more than 43 years, Eamon Mullan has cooked for royalty and celebrities around the world. The former executive chef of the Norfolk Hotel Mullan penned his memoirs in a book called Celebrity Chef in Africa: Food for the Famous. He was born in 1951 to an Irish family living in London. By the age of 13, he was already working part-time. His school prospects were bright but he writes that “moody adolescence” led to him failing most of his exams and leaving school at just 16 years. When an opportunity arose for a low-level hotel kitchen position, he took the job, even though he had never cooked in his life. Young Mullan hated kitchen work but persevered and eventually “got the hang of it and began to like it”. Meantime, he joined a culinary school and, by the age of 17, had won two gold medals at cooking contests. It would be the first of many competition accolades, earning him the nickname name “Goldfingers”. He went on to work in some of the most famous hotels in the world: Gleneagles in Scotland, Hotel Negreso in France, and the Mandarin Oriental in Bangkok.  COMING TO KENYA Mullan first came to Kenya in 1975 and worked for the then Block Hotels, first at the New Stanley Hotel followed by a 28-year stint at the Norfolk Hotel. The book begins with his experience of the tragic bomb blast in 1980 at the Norfolk Hotel, which killed 16 people. Mullan strikes you as a forthright person not afraid to speak out the truth. There are recollections of corporate-level indulgence and heated arguments with bosses over inequalities at work. He writes: “Europeans who come to live and work in Africa and who do not respect the local people are the lowest individuals in my opinion.” He is a natural storyteller, recalling names and events from decades ago, narrating funny stories of involving guests and hotel staff.  COOKED FOR PELE This memoir is like a walk down the memory lane of prominent personalities. He has cooked for ex-president Daniel arap Moi and South Africa’s FW de Klerk, Brazilian soccer legend Pele, Hollywood film stars Meryl Streep, Robert Redford and Angelina Jolie, and Princess Grace Kelly of Monaco. When Queen Elizabeth visited Kenya in 1983, Mullan’s team catered for her at the Treetops Lodge, the place she stayed in February 1952 on the night her father died. He recounts the dishes he prepared for different famous people, and several of the recipes are printed on the back of the book. Mullan represents a generation of classically trained, old-school chefs who worked their way up through long, grinding hours in the kitchen, and expected the same from his team. He had a knack for spotting talent in inexperienced youth with no training. It is admirable to read how many of his Kenyan protégés have gone on to become world-class chefs in some of the best hotels around the world.  Star Rating: 4/5