It will be a while before Kenyans know the exact cause of the Aberdare plane crash that claimed 10 lives. The investigations team, in its preliminary report released on Thursday, said it could not disclose the cause. But the report notes that the 5Y-CAC aircraft had been flying at a speed of 289km/h when a collision took place. “Investigations will determine the facts, conditions and circumstances of the accident in order to establish the probable cause," the 11-page report states. Transport CS James Macharia, PS Paul Maringa and Chief Administrative Secretary Chris Obure released the report in Nairobi. Also present were the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) Director General Gilbert Kibe and KCAA Chief Investigator of Accidents Martin Lunani. The team, said the final report will take long also because laboratory analysis takes time and other countries will be asked to help. Macharia noted that probes into plane crashes sometimes take years so Kenyans should be patient. “The sole objective of the investigation of an accident is for prevention of recurrence. It shall not be the purpose of such as investigation to apportion blame or liability,” he added. Maringa said they will neither apportion blame nor hold anyone accountable since “this is not a court". The team noted that the crew were certified by KCAA and that the pilots informed the authority's Air Traffic Control Unit in Eldoret, of the intention to divert to the JKIA. “The crew was allowed to divert the route to drop three passengers before the aircraft could proceed to Wilson Airport. The aircraft's company informed us about its intention to divert. We had no reason to [turn down] the request,” Kibe said. He added that it is part of international best practices in aviation for aircraft to change routes with valid reasons. More on this: Emotions run high as families come to terms with tragedy Also read: 10 in FlySax plane died from similar head, chest injuries - postmortems Click here for the latest political news