Two KCPE candidates from Ol Kalou have been arrested for allegedly sodomising Standard One pupils. Four victims are undergoing treatment and counselling following the ordeal on Tuesday last week. The abuse came to light on Tuesday this week after a doctor who treated the victims demanded the matter be reported to the police. A parent of one of the victims told police his seven-year-old son reported that he had been assaulted by senior students in school. “I accompanied my son to school the following day but the head teacher was not around,” he said. At a meeting the following day, 15 parents complained that their sons had been molested. Investigations showed that four boys had been sodomised. One victim had serious injuries in the anus and genitals. Doctors at JM Memorial demanded that all victims be taken to them for urgent medical attention. “My son is taking five different drugs and has been attending clinic since then. Six other parents took their children to hospital on Thursday night as the doctor demanded,” the parent said. One parent said his son had difficulty passing urine, while another said her child is yet to resume classes. The parents accused the head teacher, saying he became rude when confronted with the matter. “He reprimanded us for taking the children to a government hospital. He wanted a private facility where the matter could be concealed,” one of the parents said. The head teacher allegedly said the matter could have been resolved in school since all the pupils study at the institution. The Standard One teacher is said to have been away when the abuse happened. The pupils told her about it when she returned the following day. The boys said the senior pupils inserted fingers in their anuses and fondled their genitals. The parents said the matter was reported to the head teacher but he did nothing about it.  INTERDICTION Nyandarua county commissioner Boaz Cherutich said a team comprising the Nyandarua Central deputy county commissioner, education and TSC officials, as well as children’s officer was investigating. The parents have also recorded statements. “We are going to expose this rot. Those responsible must be ready to face the law because nothing will be compromised. We must protect our children at all costs,” Cherutich said on Thursday.  He said disciplinary action will be taken against the head teacher for negligence. “That is a step the Teachers Service Commission will take. You cannot get such an important report and sit on it. I am not talking on behalf of the TSC, but that amounts to outright interdiction,” Cherutich said. Parents have raised fears that the boys might have also defiled girls since it is a mixed school. Cherutich blamed parents for not reporting the matter immediately it happened. Nyandarua TSC director Abubakar Hassan said they will issue a report next Tuesday.