I’ve been visiting Nairobi from Cape Town after an 18-month hiatus, and finding my way around the city of my birth becomes harder every time I visit. The city seems to change and grow faster with every day, and that in itself is not a bad thing, unless you are just a little change-resistant. I must admit that while I eventually adapt to new situations fairly well, I am not a huge fan of change that complicates my existence, but perhaps that’s just me. Sometimes I feel as though the sign makers have taken a leaf from the British anti-invasion preparations of the Second World War. These preparations included the removal of signposts and milestones (some had the carved details obscured with cement) — only here, they have just made them really small. Coming from Cape Town, a city that believes in signposting everything clearly and in BIG print, many of the signs in Nairobi tend to be small and almost shy of being seen. This first hit me at the as-yet unfinished JKIA, where — and perhaps the fact that my eyesight is no longer what it was when I was 20 years old is not helping matters along —  the TV screens that announce flights cannot be read clearly until one is practically sticking his nose into them. But perhaps I’m just used to the extra-large screens to be found at Cape Town International and OR Tambo. When there are legible signposts, they are pure gibberish. Such as the one I saw for a security firm that offers “loss-prevention service”. This didn’t make the least bit of sense to me. Did it mean that there was a facility that would stop you from losing stuff? For instance, you would never misplace your pen or your keys again? If that was what it meant, then I could see why people would pay good money for such a service. If, for a small fee, of course, I could be stopped from ever losing anything again — be it car keys or left socks — I would most certainly consider such an investment thoroughly worthwhile. But before I made up my mind, I thought I’d look into the subject myself. I prefer to Google stuff first, rather than to be bamboozled and irritated in equal measure by an all-too-eager sales rep or marketer. These people are the bane of my life and don’t seem to understand that some people, such as me, don’t appreciate the hard sell. In fact, I’m more likely to be attracted if you are not trying to sell to me. Anyhow, I looked up the loss prevention phrase and believe it or not, it is a “thing”. It does not make the slightest bit of sense to me, but lo and behold, it apparently means: “The elimination or reduction of hazardous conditions with the goal of preventing losses. This is done through inspections and engineering efforts by the insurer or an outside organisation.” I hope that has helped someone. I’m still in the dark.