Kariobangi Sharks became the first Kenyan side to bow out of ongoing Sportpesa Super Cup after losing 3-2 to Tanzanian side Simba on post match penalties following a goal-less draw in regulation time. Pascal Ogweno, Geoffrey Shiveka and skipper Eric Juma squandered their spot kicks with Eric Kipkirui and Harrison Mwendwa converting for Sharks. Rwandan international Haruna Niyonzima and his Tanzanian teammates, Erasto Nyoni and Jonas Mukude converted to send Simba into the last four where they will come up against Kakamega Homeboyz, who had ousted their Dar-es-salaam nemesis, Yanga on Sunday. If Kariobangi Sharks attackers had shown greater composure when presented with chances in front of goal, Simba would have been on the end of a mauling before halftime. Instead, the lottery of penalties had to decide this one-sided SportPesa Super Cup clash dominated by the Kenyans. Eric Kapaito had half a dozen chances to test Tanzanian international goalkeeper, Aisha Manula but he panicked at the most crucial moment. Two opportunities wasted were particularly glaring. First, midway through the opening period, a long ball from Shiveka against all odds left Kapaito eye ball to eye ball with Manula but the headlines flashed in front of him and he feebly passed the ball to the Simba shot stopper. Then 10 minutes before the break, Duke Abuya’s cross took out all the Tanzanian defenders but Kapaito, with the simple task of tapping the ball home from point blank range, missed the ball completely as Sharks dominated their more illustrious and seasoned opponents with vast experience at international competitions. It took Simba 30 minutes to test Sharks custodian, John Oyemba, but neither attempts by Hassan Mohamed caused any fear in the Kenyan international. Simba were so utterly incompetent in attack that they introduced Marcel to take the place of Mohammed five minutes before the break. He even did not make the necessary impact and was later replaced by the diminutive Shiza Kichuya. After the hour mark, Sharks sent on Sydney Lokale for the unfortunate Kapaito. The lanky forward had a chance 10 minutes later to apply a finishing touch to a cross from Mwendwa but he fluffed his lines with the goal gaping. That meant that only penalties would separate the two teams and having rode their luck in 90 minutes Simba could not let a second bite of the cherry slip and they duly prevailed to break the hearts of their youthful opponents. Click here for the latest political news