The death toll in the Huruma building collapse has risen to three, authorities handling the rescue operation have said. Out of those killed is a young man with his pregnant wife. They were retrieved from the same house. The couple's bodies were retrieved from the debris as first responders continued with the rescue mission on Sunday. One person died while being rushed to hospital having sustained injuries after the five-storey residential block crumbled. St Johns Ambulance communication manager Fred Majiwa told the Star on phone that seven people are admitted to several hospitals within the city. Majiwa said those with minor injuries were treated on site and allowed to go. National Disaster Management Unit deputy director Pius Masai said the number of the building's occupants is yet to be ascertained. He said the rescue mission has been hampered by challenges of accessibility. Majiwa said: "The five-storey building was fully occupied. However, a good number of tenants escaped unhurt when the building started carving in." According to him, most of the tenants were asleep when the house collapsed at around 1.30am. "The debris was completely smashed into small particles, a clear indication of use of substandard material and poor workmanship," he said. He said to overcome the challenges of accessing the site, the teams on the ground have been forced to demolish a nursery school which blocked the way. The rescue operation continues. Read: One killed after 5-storey building collapses in Huruma Nairobi Devolution CEC Vesca Kangogo said the ill-fated building was
among those that had been earmarked for demolition by the county
government and the National Construction Authority. Kangogo said the building had cracks and had shown signs of collapsing. "The
county had marked it and given notice to the owner to demolish. The
occupants had been vacated before  the building came down before
3am," Kangogo said. He said the building is situated within several shanties, some of which were destroyed after it came down. In May 2016, some 51 people lost their lives after another building collapsed in the same slum. The building collapsed on April 29, 2016 following a heavy downpour in the capital. Preliminary investigations indicated that the building with 198 rooms, was established on a weak foundation. Only five people were pulled out alive from the rubble. Some five suspects linked to the building appeared in court but were released on a Sh1 million bond each. Read: Huruma death toll rises to 51 Click here for the latest political news