Unedited remarks by Justice William Ouko, President of the Court of Appeal, during a luncheon in honour of Attorney General and immediate former President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Paul Kihara Kariuki. On behalf of the Hon. Justices and staff of the Court of Appeal, I extend a warm welcome to all of you to this modest luncheon in honour one of our own, borrowed by the Executive. Secondly, I would like to thank you, my brother and friend, Mr. Attorney, for honouring us with your presence; and to all of you, distinguished ladies and gentlemen for taking the time to join us this afternoon. I have resisted any suggestion that this is a farewell luncheon for the Hon the Attorney General. Farewell....going where? Reminds me of this Ugandan journalist who was interviewing President Museveni and asked him; “Ugandans are saying that it’s perhaps time to go.” His answer, “Where are they going?” It was during that interview that he remarked that “the bright is very future”. I have also rejected any reference to you, Mr. Attorney, as retired. Because, that is a technical term. It does not apply to the circumstances. Colleagues, today is a rare occasion; the first such occasion; to honour and celebrate the service of the first elected President of the Court of Appeal under the 2010 Constitution; an opportunity to honour a man of outstanding ability, great personal charm and common sense. A decent man; a fair judge; articulate; with an English gentleman’s mannerisms and mien, courteous and well-styled. To talk about such a man requires astute attention to details, lest you miss out on many of his achievements and attributes. As you would expect, in my over 30 years in the Judiciary, I have met some of the meanest people (Judges) you can think of. One in particular told me when I joined the administration side of the Judiciary to ask him for anything I needed, and I asked him for many things. His answer always was the same: "You can't have it." He told me that his office door always was open to me, and it always was. Unfortunately, he never was in his office. A street boy told him that he hadn't tasted food in three days. He said: "Don't worry. It still tastes the same." INNUMERABLE CONTRIBUTIONS Mr. Justice Kihara Kariuki (PK or PKK) has made innumerable contributions to this nation. For this afternoon, I will confine myself to his professional life in the last 15 or so years. In the year 2000, PK (with your permission), was appointed director of the Kenya School of Law, taking over from Mr. Justice Leonard Njagi, who had been appointed a High Court Judge. Justice Kariuki served in this position only briefly as he was also, following in the footsteps of Mr. Justice Njagi, appointed to the High Court as a judge in October 2003. He was instrumental in the acquisition of the present day, Kenya School of Law and its relocation from its historic Valley Road address to Karen. He served as the duty judge (dreaded and powerful DJ;) at the High Court, Nairobi for the two years. In 2006, the Hon Chief Justice Gicheru appointed him to an integrity review committee, coming in the heels of what has been described as the Judiciary holocaust in 2003 (the radical surgery). His approach in conducting integrity inquiry among the Judges and staff earned him admiration in the Judiciary. For any allegations to be considered, the accuser had to present it on oath in the form of affidavit. The main accomplishment of this committee, was its far-reaching recommendations on financial management issues within the Judiciary. In 2009, the Chief Justice appointed Mr. Justice Kariuki to head the newly established Judicial Training Institute (JTI) as its Director. In 2012 Justice Kariuki was appointed a Court of Appeal Judge, and later elected as the Court’s President in 2013. During his five year tenure until his appointment as Attorney General on 13th February, 2018, Mr. Justice Kihara introduced many reform initiatives in the Court that have gone a long way in ensuring the efficient delivery of justice. For example: 1. Decentralization of the Court of Appeal to Malindi, Nyeri, Kisumu. 2. Court of Appeal Court Users Committee. 3. Court of Appeal Practice Directions. 4. Court of Appeal Strategic Plan. 5. Revised Court of Appeal Rules. 6. Court of Appeal (Organization and Administration) Act 2015. 7. Special Sessions – RRI. 8. Pro-bono services. 9. Court of Appeal Registry Manual. 10. The Court of Appeal Case Digest System. Read: AG nominee Paul Kihara pledges to ease access to justice, reduce case backlogs Also read: Prosecute 'big fish' to win corruption war, AG Paul Kihara tells EACC FRIENDSHIP, GOOD HUMOUR One of your priceless contributions to the Court has been the furthering of collegiality and friendship. Your friendship to all and good humour was always present and your generous offering of gifts, bottles of wine, chocolates and a calendar every year for each one of us became a ritual. I cannot describe my predecessor’s attributes adequately. I have to rely on Daily Nation of February 13, 2018. It read; “He is also viewed as possessing a strong and decisive personality, one that would offer solid leadership. His main asset is that he has accomplished tasks that were previously assigned to him with a high measure of efficiency.” As I step in those very large shoes of PK, I want to confirm that the most valuable inheritance you have left to me is the team of dedicated Judges and staff. I have not received a no for an answer to assignment of work. I have an amazing team. I want to promise you that, if God gives us life, in the next 5 years, you will be proud of the stricture we intend together to build on the foundation you have laid. At the moment, it is not smooth sailing; with the incessant collision with the Executive and Legislative branches; constricted cash flow; shortage of Judges. Presently, we are stretched to breaking point. We have not quite taken off. But the engine is running. It may take a few months, or even one year. I am confident this Court is going places. "CHANCE TO DISPENSE JUSTICE" As the Holy Bible teaches us, we must keep our eyes on the prize, on the goal. We have a strategy. In Nairobi, we are focused on clearing all applications by end of month of June, before turning our attention to eradicating the old criminal and civil appeals and be real time. As a Court we are committed to achieving world class standards and have embrace two values; efficiency and integrity. An institution’s honesty and integrity in practice depends upon those in it. Just as it has been throughout the centuries, also at the present time, societies demand judges who not only possess adequate intellectual capabilities, solid knowledge of the law but more importantly, men and women of integrity. In the past year, the courts have had to adjudicate on difficult cases, many of them in public law matters. Public law cases involve, not only topics of immense public importance and interest, but may sometimes also involve testing the demarcation lines between the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary. When we become judges, we take an oath to uphold the Constitution and to do justice without fear affection or ill-will. This is our promise to those who come before us every day - that when they walk into the courtroom, they will come before a fair and neutral judge, who will make his or her ruling based on the law, rather than public opinion, and regardless of any pressure that may be brought to bear. This is the challenge that we, judges, face every day. This, I think, we have done with a great deal of courage. The most popular, the wealthiest, the loudest or the most powerful have no place in our courtrooms, but all sides, irrespective of their status and stations in society, will have equal opportunity before us and will be heard before we make a fair decision based on the law. We are conscious that every decision we make is not only important to the parties before the court but also to the public. We constantly remind ourselves that what we do and how we behave in and out of court have a significant impact on the public confidence in the courts. Whatever decisions we make, we often make someone angry. That should be obvious by simply looking at the social media after any controversial decision; the feedback can be brutal and yet we cannot respond. On 14th April, 2018 at the Court’s first retreat after our elections, we cautioned those who may be tempted to test our integrity that we would use them to make a powerful statement. Give us a chance to dispense justice in accordance with our oath of office. Mr. Attorney, I would like to confess, on behalf of most of us in the Judiciary that we see your crossing over to the Executive Branch as an investment. Having been a Judge for over 15 years, you understand the challenges in the Judiciary better. You are our good-will Ambassador, the peacemaker, bridges builder. Can we see an end to the endless rivalry between the branches of Government? It is completely unhelpful. Once again, on behalf of the Justices and staff of the Court of Appeal, I wish you and your family good health and long life. We particularly would like to thank your dear wife, Mrs. Sarah Kariuki and your children, Andrew, Marion and Zazira for their support that has seen you attain the best in your professional life. As your colleagues, we wish you good luck and God’s speed as you serve this nation in the position of Attorney general. Thank you very much and may the Almighty God bless you. Click here for the latest political news