Two Jubilee MP from Kakamega have promised to woo voters behind Deputy President William Ruto's presidential bid in 2022. Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) and Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani) said Ruto is the best candidate to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The legislators said rallying behind Ruto was the only way to ensure their supporters remain in government. They asked Luhya leaders to unite and seek alliances with Ruto. "We'll ensure those still in the opposition join us so we can peak in one voice,” Shinali said. The two MP's spoke in Sotik on Sunday during a memorial service for former MP Lorna Laboso. The MPs accompanied Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. “We are here to make friendship because we realise we must work together to form the next government,” Shinali said. They were hosted by Governor Joyce Laboso. The governor is the sister to Lorna. Narok Senator Ledama Olekina and Sotik MP Dominic Koskei were present. “In Kakamega, we are two million people with one million votes. We're not going to go separate ways this time round. We'll negotiate as a block so that Oparanya also gets something," Shinali said. Kakamega had a population of 1.6 million people during the 2009 census. Wangwe said they will persuade Oparanya to join Jubilee. Oparanya is the ODM deputy party leader. "We have a good working relationship with him. We hope the spirit of the handshake will sway him to our side," Wangwe said. He asked Oparanya to start campaigning for Ruto and the Jubilee brigade. "He has been marshaling votes for Raila over the years. It is time to change tune," Wangwe said. Wangwe promised to deliver more Jubilee MP seats in Kakamega. The party won four seats out of 13 in the National Assembly in last year's August 8 General Election. “In the last election, 95 per cent of our people voted for Raila. They are now in the opposition. We have told them to join us in government," Wangwe said. Oparanya avoided politics, saying it was time for development. “My friends have talked politics but I am not going that direction because that time will come and we shall talk about that," Oparanya said. "For now, we need to support one another  to ensure the agenda of the Lake Region Economic Bloc succeeds.”