Thika town environs are famous for expansive pineapple plantations that provide a livelihood for 7,000 people. But Kiambu county wants to repossess the land to make room for town expansion, Aerotropolis City and an industrial park. The lease granted to Del Monte Kenya Limited for 2,000 acres — part of the plantations — is to expire next year. The county says it will not be renewed. Del Monte is pushing for renewal and is supported by many residents and businesses. On May 30, Governor Ferdinand Waititu, county secretary Martin Njogu and other Kiambu officials met Del Monte MD Stergios Gkaliamoutsas. They agreed to form a nine-member committee to assess the used and unused land. Waititu later posted on his Facebook page that his administration rejected the company’s request for renewal. He said the parcel will be converted into a county property. “We discussed the county expansion plan, influenced by the high growth rate of our industrial town, Thika. In this regard, my administration has declined to extend a lease to Del Monte for another term. We shall use the land for expansion of Thika town,” he said. The fruit-processing firm is famous for pineapple production. It cultivates 7,803 acres across the county, including the 2,000 acres at the centre of the dispute. Other leased land is unused. More than 7,000 people work for Del Monte and live in Thika subcounty. They fear for their livelihoods if the lease is not renewed. Residents and businesses are calling for public participation forums before any decision is made. Waititu said the spatial plans for Kiambu and the Nairobi Metropolitan area have identified the 2,000 acres as the idea site for Aerotropolis City, in line with Vision 2030. facebook post uproar The development will comprise aviation-intensive businesses, industrial parks and information technology complexes, among other clusters of businesses, the post read. Residents reacted angrily to Waititu’s post. They accused the county boss of plotting to grab land for selfish gain. His post was pulled down. “Somebody faked my Facebook account to give a wrong impression of my meeting with the Del Monte MD where we had a very fruitful meeting,” Waititu posted in a WhatsApp group called Thika Town Today. “We resolved to form a committee of surveyors from both Kiambu county and Del Monte to ascertain the amount of idle land. We shall hold a meeting thereafter to decide on the way forward.” Waititu said he was willing to negotiate and reach an amicable solution in the interests of the county. Del Monte said it is willing to negotiate with Kiambu, but only if the county has reasonable demands that would enable the firm to continue operating viably. In a document seen by the Star, Gkaliamoutsas said the land is cultivated, except forested areas and wetlands. In a letter signed by Del Monte’s legal adviser Harry Odondi and addressed to Njogu, the company named its members to the proposed committee. They are Odondi, research and development manager Davis Thuo, agriculture operations manager Jorge Miranda, and senior head of civil works and engineering Solomon Namisi. The county named Njogu, chief officer James Ndung’u (Lands, Housing, Physical planning and Urban Development), surveyor Isaac Gitau, land valuer Lucy Nyambwengi and senior legal counsel Josephine Muritu. traders speak out Minutes of the meeting say another meeting will be convened once the team completes its assessment. Thika residents opposed to nonrenewal of the lease are led by the Thika District Business Association chairman Alfred Wanyoike and Gladys Chania. Wanyoike said the decision not to renew the lease should not be rushed because residents and workers will be hurt. “We feel there’s a hidden agenda in this whole issue. We are aware most factories and industries in Thika town have closed. Pushing Del Monte to the corner will be suppressing the economy of our town. Where will the locals who’ll be rendered jobless go?” Wanyoike asked. Del Monte troubles This is not the first time the firm has faced problems over lease renewal. In 2015, Murang’a county refused to extend its lease by 49 years. The county, led by Governor Mwangi wa Iria, demanded that Del Monte cede 3,000 acres along the Thika-Kenol highway to enable the county to build an industrial town. Former Senator Kembi Gitura demanded that 200 acres be allocated to private investors to put up a university and a hospital. Former Gatanga MP Humphrey Njuguna demanded 100,000 acres be allotted to residents. Del Monte is Kenya’s largest exporter of fruit products. It is a subsidiary of Fresh Del Monte Produce Company. The parent company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange with a value of about Sh200 billion.