Pupils and parents brought Nyatike to a standstill on Thursday with a demonstration against an AP officer accused of sodomising 13 minors. The learners from several primary schools around Macalder Town accused Nyatike OCPD John Masili and police officers of shielding the suspect. What started as a peaceful march turned chaotic when the officer's colleagues hurled a beehive at the demonstrators. Masili refused to address the crown and left sub-county Commissioner Andrew Mutua in charge. The headteacher of a school in the area earlier said they became suspicious after three boys turned up with a laptop that they said was from the officer. “We grew suspicious as the officer always roamed around the school and asked boys to meet him outside," she said. The head teacher said the school called a special assembly and asked the students to tell their stories. There were consistencies in their stories, she said. “He used laptops and money to entice the boys, some as young as 12. We fear that older boys from nearby secondary schools were involved." The demonstrators claimed that some officers had threatened Nyatike Children's Officer Joyce Anyango against collecting evidence. Mutua said investigations were launched and that the suspect will be placed into custody and punished if found guilty, based on evidence from the victims. “We condemn the incident if it really happened. Police officers should abide by the law. The suspect will be arrested after investigations,” he said. Macalder-Kanyarwanda MCA George Duro and Got Kachola's Willis Okoth asked the National Police Service and the Independent Policing Oversight Authority to ensure the officer is probed and that his colleagues do not interfere with investigations “Demonstrations will not end until the officer is taken to court. We will not have a monster among us. Police officers who threatened the Children's Officer and threw bees at young pupils should be brought to book,” Duro said. Okoth asked the government to investigate all security chiefs and punish those shielding a criminal. "Thirteen victims against a single suspect [warrant] arrest," he said. Click here for the latest political news