Co-operative societies in the country have been urged to focus more on environmental agenda and ensure a sustainable enterprise ecosystems as the world strives to achieve the Global Goal of Climate Action. Commissioner for Co-operatives Mary Mungai on Saturday said Co-operative movement in Kenya can contribute significantly to the achievement of the Global Goal on Climate Action. "Through the use of renewable energy in construction projects, practicing agroforestry and developing unique ways to recycle waste, the Co-operatives help reduce Kenya’s carbon emissions and the adverse effects of climate change,” she said. She was speaking at the ASK Showground where over one thousand trees were planted in commemoration of their Annual Environment Day. Read: WWF and Ahadi Kenya partner to plant trees Also See:90-day ban on logging not PR stunt, says DP Ruto On his part, Ushirika Council Chairman Japheth Magomere reiterated the need for members to ensure sustainable consumption and production of goods and services that also positively impacts on the environment. “Over the last 10 years, we have commemorated our annual Environment Day, having planted over 21,000 trees to build on the country’s tree cover. "We urge members to invest in and sensitize the communities around which they operate to practice activities such as recycling, proper waste management and agroforestry,” Japheth said. The 2018 Economic Survey indicates that Kenya's total forest cover stands at 4.18 million hectares reported in 2016. The government in March imposed a three-month logging ban following widespread destruction of trees which drastically reduced the tree cover in the country. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko however said the ban on timber harvesting was only limited to public and community land. "Harvesting and felling (timber) in private plantation and woodlots is permitted provided there is a joint verification and confirmation of source and origin," Tobiko said in a statement. The government further allowed importation of timber and its products from neighbouring countries as long as there is proper verification at the point of entry. The severe changes in weather patterns and the adverse effects of climate change have necessitated concerted efforts by both the national government and local communities to restore the forest cover. Tobiko extended the ban with another six months saying the bid will allow the appointment of the new board of Kenya Forest Service and implementation of the interim reforms. The Ministry also imposed another ban on use of plastic bags amid efforts to “Beat Plastic Pollution”. See:Government extends ban on logging for six months Click here for the latest political news