Butcheries and slaughter houses in Isiolo have been closed for two weeks as veterinarians conduct a ring vaccination to prevent spread of deadly Rift Valley Fever. The announcement of closure was given by Isiolo county chief officer in charge of livestock Benjamin Lopetet as fear hits the residents who now are scared of consuming meat. His announcement comes after blood samples taken from animals from various parts of the county tested positive for Rift valley fever. Residents of Isiolo are fearing consuming meat after an announcement by the County department of Livestock and fisheries, that blood samples taken from animals from various parts of the County had tested positive of Rift valley fever at the government laboratory. Isiolo County chief officer in charge of livestock and fisheries Benjamin Lopetet said slaughter houses and butcheries within the county will be closed for a period of 14 days, as the department veterinarians conduct a ring vaccination to prevent possible spread of the disease to unaffected animals. "We have also banned any movement of livestock in and out of Isiolo this measures are aimed at preventing spread of the deadly virus to human beings, and livestock in other unaffected areas," he said. He saidout of 106 blood samples taken from livestock in Sericho, Modogashe, Garbatulla, Kinna, Ngaremara, Attan, Merti and Leparua, a good number tested positive hence the move to impose quarantine and closure of facilities dealing with animals and animal products. He said Isiolo now becomes the sixth County to confirm presence of Rift valley fever virus, urging members of public to be on high alert and keep off animal fluids in case any expectant animal miscarries. He also called upon members of public to embrace mosquito control measures as the disease is also spread through the flies. The measures imposed have however been criticized by butchers and livestock traders who argue that they would undergo massive losses due to lack of an appropriate notice prior to the decisions. Isiolo Butchers’ Association Salesio Kiambi said they had already bought many animals to slaughter, only for them to find a notice at the slaughterhouse, informing them that the facility had been shut down as a precautionary measure. He argued that the veterinary doctors and County officials ought to have informed them earlier to enable them cut on their losses by not buying more animals during the last few days. Isiolo livestock market chairman Abdi Halakhe Boru said several livestock buyers who had come from as far as Nyeri, Nkubu, Meru and Timau areas had been greatly inconvenienced on arrival at the market, only to find that the facility was no longer operational Jeremiah Mwenda, the vice chairman, Isiolo butchers association argued that butchers had been dealt a major blow as even the meat currently in refrigerators since Saturday could no longer find buyers following the announcement, as meat consumers keep off. He lamented that they are still expected to pay rent for their butcheries and pay employees despite being unoperational for a period of two weeks, which is still a subject to extension depending on findings by the county veterinarians. Lopetet however called for patience and sobriety from the businessmen, adding that the health of human beings overrides any benefits derived from their businesses. Meat consumers within the County will now have to endure at least two weeks without their favourite delicacy as they hope for a return to normalcy soonest possible.   