Titus Achesa’s lone strike was all Posta Rangers needed to kick off their second leg of the 2018 season with a 1-0 win over Thika United at the Thika Stadium. Achesa struck five minutes to the final whistle to increase their points tally to 23 point. The hosts were the better side in the opening minutes of the game with Eugene Mukangula and Shami Kibwana threatening to break the deadlock with long range shots in the third and sixth minute. Thika bulldozed the midfield and enjoyed possession for long spells as the combination of James Kinyanjui and Michael Mutinda displayed their artistry in passing the ball. The talented Kinyanjui terrorised Rangers midfield with his well rehearsed dribbles and runs which saw Pamzo demand police marking on the Passenga Boys’ alumni. Despite enjoying possession, Thika failed to get the opening goal and their tempo was slowed by a unnecessary substitution in the 24th when Baraka Badi was stretched off with a head injury. The overlapping right back was replaced by Sammy Mejja. The under-pressure Rangers managed to pull a number of counterattacks in the dying minutes of the first half through Dennis Mukaisi and Peter Ng’ang’a but Thika’s custodian Eliud Emase denied them with classic saves. In a bid to strengthen his blunt striking front, Pamzo rested the pale Jared Obwoge forJohn Nairuka at the breather. Five minutes into the final stanza, Thika’s John Njogu withdrew David Agesa for Masakidi Mata and seven minutes later Rangers brought in Gershon Likono for Kennedy Otieno. At the stroke of the 75th minute, Mukangula thought he had given Thika the lead when he notched the ball past the line only for the referee Isaiah Owiti to correctly disallow the goal for offside amid protests from Thika players. After putting a spirited fight in the second half, Rangers efforts paid off in the 85th minute as Titus Achesa plundered home the sole goal of the match after poor clearance by Thika’s backline. Achesa fired from close range to beat Emase—a strike which earned Rangers—their first win of the second leg. Pamzo praised his boys for containing Thika in the opening minutes of the game. “Thika began on high and the boys responded well. I am also happy with our second choice goalkeeper Boniface Barasa who replaced our first choice Petrick Matasi. He is a good cover and generally the boys played.” Exasperated by the home loss, Thika’s tactician Njogu hurled insults to the Rangers technical bench, prompting the officials to intervene.