The much-anticipated pre-trial conference in the NYS fraud case was postponed to June 20. It failed to take off yesterday as lawyers deplored the court’s haste. The conference was meant to clarify certain legal issues before the trial begins next month. On Tuesday, chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti declined to free the accused on bail. He instead ordered their lawyers and the prosecution to convene the following day to settle the issues “to ensure speedy trials”. When they turned up, the lawyers unanimously protested against the manner in which the case has so far been handled. They accused the magistrate of being “hasty”, saying there was a “clear indication our clients’ rights are being trampled on”. They also said they were not ready because the prosecution had not supplied them with witness statements and other evidentiary documents as had been ordered by the court. At one point, they asked the magistrate to direct the prosecution to give their clients biscuits and water. The accused missed supper on Tuesday and did not have breakfast yesterday, they said. The lawyers were apprehensive the accused would be kept for long in court and miss supper for the second day running. “Since their arrest, during the arraignment and after, our clients have been tried in the court of public [opinion], on social media and regular media. They have been tried, found guilty, convicted and sentenced,” Migosi Ogamba said. “Your honour, in your our own comments, you also said this matter has attracted attention from the lowest Wanjiku to the highest in the country. You also indicated in your ruling that a sum of Sh9 billion has been stolen and even took judicial notice of matters circulating in the media.” Kirathe Wandungi said, “The accused persons ought to be shown in advance the evidence against them for purposes of defending themselves. “This haste, although to the public may look like we are doing something out of the ordinary and are going to finalise the matter within the shortest possible time, is opening up a basis of various applications — both in this court and the High Court, which, in the long run, will delay the hearing.” He told the magistrate that the right to receive documents, exhibits and statement is protected under the law and must not be delayed. Lawyer Cliff Ombeta said, “We are, therefore, not ready to proceed.” Ogoti will make a ruling on the matter on June 12. In relation to the witness statements, the magistrate directed lawyers to provide blank papers to the DCI so the evidence can be photocopied and supplied to them. He said the lawyers must take 10 rims of papers for each of the accused persons by Tuesday next week.     