Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company is unable  conduct water works expansion due to encroachment of land. This is according to a report of the auditor general on the financial statement of Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company limited ( NCWSC) for the year ended 30th June 2016. The report which was tabled by chairman of the the Nairobi Assembly Public Investments Committee (PIC) Elijah Stazo, reveals various land parcels belonging to the company meant for expansion, storage and treatment works have been encroached on by private developers. The affected parcels of land include; Loresho water reservoir, Kariobangi North Sewerage treatment works, LRNo.13119/2- Booster Station II situated off Kabete Road, Ruai Dandora Estate Sewegae Treatment Works and Karen Land offices. According to the report, Loresho water reservoir (Nairobi Block 90/587)  was subdivided into six sub plots,currently having one of the blocks occupied by a reservoir and issued out to new owners respectively. "It is irregular as the original block of land was reserved for future water works expansion," read the report. The report further explains that Kariobangi North Sewerage treatment works was allocated to several groups; Kariobangi sewerage farmers self-help group, Provincial administration ( chief's camp), Our lady of Fatima secondary school, Alice Nursing Homes and Kariobangi Catholic Church for the Polytechnic construction. However, allocation and survey records to subdivide the land were not made available despite having been purpoted to have been carried out by surveyors in thr Nairobi City County Government. The Ruai Dandora Estate Sewerage Treatment Works records relating to the Ruai dumpsite dumpsite were not made available for audit review. The information available however indicates there have been encroachment by private developers. From the report, the committee observed that Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company does not have ownership documents to its properties. Also the company's land that has been encroached on poses a great risk of the land being grabbed. The committee also found out that records show that the company's mandate is solely to provide water as Athi Water Services Board (AWSB) is mandated to build and improve the water infrastructure. therefore the claim by the NCWSC Managing Director Nahashon Miguna that the company was ploughing back profits to improve the water infrastructure was not factual. Another observation was that the company did improvements to the water supply system and infrastructure without authority from the Board (AWSB) who are the owners of the same. PIC however came up with various recommendations which includes the need to have a County Corporation bill which will enable Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company to be a parastatal of the county. The committee also recommends  the County Executive to speed up the process of acquiring ownership documents for each property of the company. PIC further suggests the that Nairobi water company should secure all their properties and demolish any illegal structures on their land as they wait for the ownership documents. The company is also requested to write to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the National Lands Commission to investigate on the encroached parcels of land as listed above. In addition , Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company has gone at a loss estimated at Sh 3.12 billion due to illegal water connections. "During the year under review the company produced 200,352,109 cubic metres of water.However, out of this volume only 121,146,603 cubic metres was billed to customers," read the report. "The balance of 79,205,506 cubic meters of the total produced represents unaccounted for Water . The unaccounted for Water is 15 per cent over and above the allowable loss of 25 per cent in accordance with the Water Services Regulatory Board guidelines," read the report. However, The unaccounted for water of 40 per cent may have resulted in loss of estimated revenue of Sh 3,128,172, 734. The report further explains that the significant level of the unaccounted for water may negatively impact on the company's profitability and its long term sustainability. According to the report , NCWSC Managing Director Nahashon Muguna admitted to the audit findings. PIC further observed that there was no clear explanation given by Muguna to show why the level of unaccounted for Water stood at 15 per cent above the allowable normal loss of 25 per cent by Water Services regulatory Board guidelines leading to an apparent loss off sales estimated at Sh 3.12 billion. The committee however recommended that the managment should ensure that the international standard of 25 per cent Unaccounted for Water should be adhered to. Also the management of NCWSW to quicken the process of installing meters that are easily monitored and tamper- proof in order to curb thesituation of water loss through unscrupulous people tampering with metres. In the informal sectors (Slums) PIC recommends the company to install bulk meters and look for innovative measure like having private people to man and operate the water supply to the residents. PIC also suggests the company should deal with issues of illegal connections conclusively and come up with strengthened reinforcement units to deal with the cartels operating water supply business illegally.       