Are some cartels in the import business in a panic mode? The ongoing crackdown on counterfeit goods in the country has not gone well with them. Our mole has told Corridors the cartels who have been cashing in millions of shillings from selling counterfeit products fear the crackdown could see them sink into poverty. Corridors has been told the well-connected cartels operating mostly in Nairobi's Eastleigh were heard pondering on what they should do to block any further crackdown. It is said the tough-talking Interior CS Fred Matiang'i's vow that he and his officers are ready for anything due to the crackdown shook the cartels to the bone. **** Is a top KNUT official from South Nyanza eying the governors seat in 2022? Word has it that the unionist who is blood brother to a senior government official is very keen on taking over the county leadership against veteran politicians who failed to defeat the incumbent governor in 2017 polls. It is said the unionist wants to capitalise on his fight for teachers' welfare to clinch the seat that will be up for grabs in 2022 after the incumbent completes his second term. The man has of late been criss-crossing the county initiating community projects. Whether his dream is valid, only voters will tell come 2022. **** Staff of a city hotel have protested a directive by management to prohibit them from possession of mobile phones during working hours. In a memo issued last week, the staff are now required to deposit their phones at the security office and pick them when leaving the facility situated within the CBD. In cases where the staff want to make urgent calls, head of departments and their assistants have been instructed to give out their phones. A source in the hotel told corridors that they have petitioned the Ministry of Labour to dispatch investigators as the staff are of the opinion that the decision is infringing on their rights. ***** A wife of a reknown businessman has started collecting evidence to nail him after she got wind that he is cheating on her with a female MP. A mole has told corridors that the woman has hired a team of private investigators who are trailing the man and have closely been monitoring their escapades. It is said the evidence so far available is sufficient and fool proof and it is only a matter of time before the woman who is said to be so bitter and frustrated exposes the MP whom she says has destabilised her marriage since she came into picture.