Murang’a has become a hotspot for domestic violence against men, Maendeleo ya Wanaume chairman Nderitu Njoka has said. He said the many incidents of women harming their husbands are worrying. Njoka urged the police to speed up investigations and prosecute suspects. Woman Representative Sabina Chege has also raised concerns over the rising cases of women harming their husbands. The legislator said she will organise seminars for men in all subcounties on how to handle domestic squabbles. Njoka said in many cases, victims who have been killed by their spouses had reported previous attacks. He called for harsh punishment for those convicted. Njoka said tens of domestic violence cases against men are reported in police stations in Murang’a every month. Chege said, “I am asking women to stop hurting their husbands and instead look for amicable solutions. If the issues cannot be solved, then it is better to leave.” She said many children are left with nobody to take care of them after one parent is killed and the other imprisoned. A 22-year-old woman, Dorcas Waigwe, was arrested for allegedly fatally stabbing her husband in their home in Gacharaigu village, Kangema subcounty. Julius Njuguna, 25, died at Murang’a General Hospital. Njoka said, “We should not wait to hear of other murder cases before the previous ones are concluded.” County police commander Mohamed Farah said most couples fight over property and infidelity. “In some cases, you find a man attempting to sell land against his wife’s wishes,” he said. In other cases, women kill their husbands for cheating, he said. Farah said cases of men killing their wives and children are also rampant, and are mostly caused by infidelity. Two years ago, Kiru principal Solomon Mbuthi was murdered and his body dumped in a coffee estate in Kiambu county. It was found weeks after he went missing. His wife Jane Muthoni is facing murder charges in a Kiambu court. Njoka has faulted elders and the church for not giving couples direction and spiritual guidance. He said both parties have not provided an atmosphere that encourages people to approach them for help. In another incident, Gatunguru principal Samuel Mbogo was murdered at his home in Gakurwe village, Murang’a East subcounty, and his body dragged into his car, which was then abandoned near his home. His wife Alice Mugechi was arrested and charged with his murder, which she denied before Justice Kanyi Kimondo.