   The cost of power will drop by eight
per cent from next month, Kenya Power and the Energy Regulatory Commission announced yesterday. The announcement was made by Kenya Power managing director Ken Tarus
and his ERC boss Pavel Oimeke when they appeared before senators. They told the Senate’s Committee on Energy a multi-agency team was reviewing
tariffs for harmonisation. “The tariff review process is scheduled for completion by end of June and proposed commencement date is July 1. Billing is to be done in August based on July consumption,” Tarus said. “Kenya Power and ERC are working on a harmonised tariff to create uniform charges on all units as directed by CS Charles Keter. This is expected to be in place by July." Oimeke
said ERC has removed the demand charge for all commercial and industrial customers as part of reducing the high cost of power. Monthly fixed charges for all consumer categories have also been removed, he said. Oimeke
said small commercial consumers have been split into two categories based on their capacity. Those with a consumption of between zero and 1,000kWh have been classified into small consumption while those with 1,001kWh to 15,000kWh put in the small and medium enterprises category. “The
changes will ensure tariffs are predictable and that
consumers are not charged for any fixed cost when they are not consuming power at any point,” Oimeke said. “Consumers on prepaid will get the same units for the
same amount of money for all purchases within the billing month." The announcement is good news for consumers who have been receiving varied tokens depending on the time of the purchase. Tarus said Kenya Power has improved its mobile phone vending process to ensure customers promptly get their tokens. He said they have a tracking tool at all call centres to fast track resolutions of customer queries. He said there have been increased transactions over the last three months.     “Recently Kenya
Power was allowed by Communication Authority to have a license enabling
it to transact directly with mobile network operators on the mobile
money transfer platform instead of going through an  aggregator,” he
said. “The transactions on Kenya Power
business number 888880 are now faster than the MPesa messages. This has
resulted to the increased transaction over the last three months,” he
added.