Opposition leader Raila Odinga has refuted claims he has a hand in a looming Cabinet reshuffle by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Raila said such reports, as carried by a local daily, linking him to the said reshuffle are nothing but malicious, retrogressive, and diversionary. He said the allegations are "meant to undermine the war on graft while failing to take cognisance of the interests of the Kenyan republic." This followed media reports that Uhuru is mulling reshuffling the Cabinet to "tame runaway corruption." The report said Uhuru is planning a major reshuffle that could affect a number of Cabinet and Principal Secretaries whose ministries have been adversely mentioned in corruption. In their place, the newspaper said the Head of State could replace them with individuals agreed upon in consultation with Raila as well as other arms of government. Also read: More heads to roll as purge on corrupt officers hots up But Raila, in his response, said: "The story is an attempt to put the country back on the tired path of personalising and politicising the war on theft of public resources by public officers and private business people." "The Building Bridges Initiative, to which I am a signatory, has identified that path to have been the biggest impediment to Kenya’s war on corruption as it enables crooks to hide under political parties, communities and behind individuals to get away with their loot." Raila reiterated that he remains committed to aiding the war on corruption from a wide and common front so as to 'remove any sanctuary where perpetrators can seek refuge' as spelled out in the Building Bridges plan. "I fully back the current crackdown on individual State officers and business people over the loss of billions of public funds and fully supports the tough stand by President Uhuru Kenyatta on this matter," he added. Raila echoed President Uhuru's sentiments that that communities and parties don’t steal, only individuals do and appeals to the Kenyan public to disregard such diversionary reports and remain focused on rejecting the lords of corruption. This comes after the government intensified its crackdown on officials mentioned in graft that has seen more than 40 NYS officials including the director general Richard Ndubai arrested. The President while addressing the public during Madaraka Day celebrations said his government will use lie detectors to nab any corrupt officers in his government. "Those who fail the vetting will stand suspended. I expect this exercise to be concluded before the start of the new financial year. You will hear of other tougher actions in the days to come," he said. Click here for the latest political news