Title: Ye Artiste: Kanye West Genre: Hip hop/ Rap Release: June 1  Always expect anything from Kanye West. He’s probably the most-talked about artiste in 2018, and this will continue for a while now, considering he just dropped his eighth studio album ,‘Ye’, produced and premiered in the rugged plains of Wyoming. According to a tweet from his wife Kim Kardashian, the album cover art, which has already become a meme, was actually shot on their way to the album listening party. The seven-track album kicks off with a deep, emotional spoken word section, which depicts Kanye’s dissociative identity disorder, bringing out his suicidal thoughts. It’s a track that brings out his current mental state, especially when it come to things he associates with and how it influences conversations around the world. “Yikes” explores his addiction to prescription oploids and gives a vivid description of what these drugs can do to somebody. Songwriting credits are given to Kenyan artistes Ayub Ogada and James Achieng after Kanye samples their popular tune “Kothbiro”. Also credited on the same track are Drake and Mike Dean. Joined by Jeremih and Ty Dolla $ign on “All Mine,” Kanye explores infidelity. The trio is then joined by PartyNextDoor on “Wouldn’t Leave”, a song dedicated to Kim Kardashian who has been with Kanye no matter the incidents he has undergone in the past. Slick Rick’s “Hey, Young World” is sampled on “No Mistakes,” a track that features both Charlie Wilson and Kid Cudi. On “Ghost Town”, which samples Shirley Ann Lee’s “Someday”, Kanye hints on his collaborative project with Kid Cudi, which is set to be released anytime. The project closes with “Violent Crimes,” a tune that reflects on the importance of the women in a man’s life. Kanye has a daughter and now understands the importance of nurturing and not acting reckless towards women. It was mentioned that Kanye’s “insensitive” comments on slavery and his endless rants would affect his record sales, but that hasn’t been the case. According to projections and the charts, he is doing pretty well. However, when it comes to the aesthetics, the album dashes all hopes of reviving the Kanye we knew back when ‘College Dropout’ and ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy’ dominated.  Star Rating: 3/5