The Sh59 million case against former IEBC Chief Executive James Oswago and two two others will be heard from July 17 to September 18. Milimani Anti- Corruption Senior Principal Magistrate Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi fixed the dates after the parties agree by consent to proceed to full hearing. Oswago, Trevy Oyombra and Hamida Ali Kibwana are alleged to have been paid Sh50 million by a UK firm, Smith & Ouzman, as inducement for the award of a tender for printing of Independent Electoral Commission (IIEC) and Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) papers. Oswago alone is accused of failing to comply with procurement laws on May 7, 2010, by awarding a contract for the supply of 57,000 ballot papers for the South Mugirango by election to Smith and Ouzman Ltd in contravention of the public procurement and disposal regulations. He faces another charge of receiving Sh 2 million from Hamida Ali Kibwana as an inducement to have the IEBC to award a contract for the printing of OMR corrections forms to the same company. Oswago and Hamida were released on cash bails of Sh600,000 each and Oyombra one million. Oyombra was charged with nine counts, among them soliciting for a benefit and receiving it. They were arrested by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) detectives nearly four years ago. Kibwana is alleged to have received over Sh2.2 million on June 21,2010, from Oyumbra, the local agent of Smith and Ouzman as inducement for the contract for the printing of OMR correction forms. Last year Oswago said that he should not be investigated over what is commonly known as the Chickengate scandal, claiming that EACC was discriminating against him. EACC cleared former IEBC chairman Ahmed Issack Hassan but recommended the prosecution of Oyombra, Oswago, and two former procurement officials. Also Read:Kenya not keen to claim Chickengate cash, says UK court In January 2016, Britain’s Serious Fraud Office (SFO) handed documents detailing the scandal to the Attorney General. The dossier included the data used by British authorities to jail and fine directors of Smith & Ouzman, for paying out bribes, code-named chicken, totaling Sh59 million to electoral and examination officials. The two directors of the British firm, Christopher Smith and Nicholas Smith, were found guilty two years ago at the Southwark Crown Court for corruptly agreeing to make payments to Kenyan officials between October 1, 2008, and December 2010. Click here for more political news