Police yesterday killed an Embu county staff who failed to identify himself as he tried to get into the governor’s office compound. AP officers on night duty gunned down 25-year-old fire engine driver Martin Muchangi when he ignored their order. Muchangi died on the spot after he was shot six times. The officers said they saw him enter the compound through an opening in the perimeter wall at around 2am on Monday night. They realised he was a county employee when he was already dead. Embu West AP commandant Daudi Mohamed said preliminary investigations showed Muchangi was to be on standby duty at the offices. He had gone out of the compound without alerting the officers and was on his way back when he met his end, he said. It was drizzling and Muchangi had covered his head with a cloth, making it difficult to identify him, he said. Mohamed absolved the officers of blame, saying they unsuccessfully tried their best to have Muchangi surrender and identify himself. They did not know whether the ‘intruder’ had a sinister motive, Mohamed said. He urged the staff at the offices to inform the officers whenever they leave and return so such an “unfortunate incident does not recur”. A small security lapse can be costly and employees must help the police to secure the offices, Mohamed said. He said crime has been rampant in the region and police are on high alert. Residents are robbed, mugged and houses and business premises burgled, especially in Embu town and Lunda estate where county workers live, he said. He said the officers could not take chances and had to act decisively to avert a possible crime. Mohamed said robbers recently murdered a watchman. At the weekend, police arrested six suspects and recovered stolen phones and household appliances, he said. Embu Governor Martin Wambora has been in Nyeri for the hearing of a poll petition against his victory. He appealed a High Court ruling that annulled his election. Mohamed said he would visit him when he arrives to brief him on what transpired. He sent his condolences to Muchangi’s family and colleagues. He said the death was accidental and urged residents to take precautions at night.