Zero plus zero is zero. That’s what the new zeal to slay the corruption dragon amounts to. We know how, who and when theft was organised and executed, but we refuse to confront the truth. This little truth has emerged in NYS II in Ngiritas versus the top sleuth investigating them. Finally we know investigations and court appearances are just parts of the corruption hydra. We know you are stealing so we enter into the protection business with you. If that fails, the extortion opportunity moves to investigations, arrest and court appearances, all for show, until you pay. After which we switch the evidence around until acquittal. The court becomes the last refuge of the scoundrel. If you remain adamant, well, there are many ways to skin a cat. But wisdom is seeping in; that we should not attack sleaze downstream but rather upstream. Understanding that corruption in government is processed by meticulous planning. Cutting the hydra from budget formulation rather than at implementation is acknowledging that what is stolen in embedded in the budget under supervision of bureaucrats and tenderers in the Executive, then moved to Parliament for affirmation. When you see billions being shifted around via parliamentary committees, deals are being struck on what to steal. Public hearings are routine, but the real pudding is done behind closed doors, or why else are MPs desperate for ‘accessible’ ministers?  We have heard it all — distilled wealth declaration forms, lifestyle audits and the new fad of lie detectors. How then do you catch someone lying who ‘believes’ that he has not stolen, but did brisk business supplying air to the Last Mile project? Why should it occur to those Kenya Power employees that it was wrong to register dud companies that ripped off their employer if that is the done deal the higher you go? And who told you those fake companies belong to employees and are not holding brief for Mheshimiwa or boss? Who, indeed, told you they are thieves? We are industrious in lying to ourselves. That’s why the lie detectors and lifestyle audits are meant to distract you from the mushroom of looting sprouting everywhere, every day. It’s a magician’s trick out of our self-imposed exile in amnesia. We would stop the merry-go-round of dribbling the corruption ball between the culprits, DCI, EACC, DPP and the courts. If we can’t stop corruption upstream, let’s give it an honest try downstream. Nasa founder Musalia Mudavadi has nuggets of ingenuity that go unnoticed quite often by our avarice for the sensational. Had the media picked it up, a Sunday Church of God service at Mariakani, Nairobi, two weeks ago could be the defining benchmark for a relentless anti-graft war. After nitpicking the edges, Mudavadi went for the jugular. To paraphrase his homily on ‘Kenya is facing an integrity deficit at all levels’ is to demean his brilliance. “We ought to do ourselves a favour. Government is complicit. When the employer permits theft without fear of consequences, pillaging is then official policy. Mr President, the Office of the Auditor General’s (OAG) long list of wanton theft is embarrassing, at least the spiralling public debt for which we borrow to steal. Government is guilty of grand larceny in overborrowing expensively for frivolous spending”, he paused long enough; “It’s becoming obvious we’re exposing Kenyans to multiple jeopardies augmenting theft through layers of institutional bureaucracy under guise of investigations and oversight. Let’s strengthen the mandate for the OAG to audit the budget formulation and expenditure in real time. The AOG isn’t useful auditing accounts three years late. “It is time to amend the law (Article 229 ) on the OAG to make its findings mandatory de facto evidence that forces culprits to vacate office and the DPP to commence prosecution.” That blew my mind. He had lit the little improvised explosive device in the fight against corruption. For it’s a charade for the OAG and Parliament to pursue the thief four years down the line. Kabatesi is a communications, publications and conflict management specialist, UoN