Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria have said bad laws and an incompetent City Hall is to blame for the Huruma building tragedy that claimed three lives on Sunday. The duo also blamed the National Disaster Operation Center and the Nairobi county government for laxity and failure to prevent the deaths. Read: Pregnant woman among three killed in Huruma tragedy Sakaja said the Ministry of Education failed to implement recommendations on security measures at Moi Girls’ High School after last year’s fire incident, and now, rape cases have been reported at the institution. "The two events of this past week are really frustrating and a sign of our failure as leaders. We can’t keep doing the same thing and expect different results," Sakaja said in a tweet. The rescue operation at the site was closed at around 2pm after the disaster team ascertained that all the occupants had been accounted for. "Even as we offer our sympathies and support to those affected in Huruma and Moi Girls School, we must be outraged at the lethargy of the agencies charged with sorting out these issues. We will not relent in pushing for accountability. Those in charge must take responsibility." A student was allegedly raped last Friday at the girls’ school and two others said they were assaulted. Read: Did Moi Girls' School attempt to cover up rape incident? On September 2 last year, a fire broke out at a dormitory in the school leading to the deaths of 11 students. A number of security measures were formulated to prevent similar incidents and improve safety in schools. However, not much seems to have been done following Friday’s incident. About the Huruma incident, it wasn’t the first time lives were lost after a building collapsed. On April 29, 2016, a six-storey building collapsed in the estate killing close to 50 people. Kuria said the Disaster Operation Centre was solely to blame over the death of six people who perished in Nyatike after a mine caved in on them on May 8. "When 6 miners were trapped in a mine in Nyatike, after receiving a distress call from area MP, I called the DG of the National Disaster Ops Centre. He respectfully informed me that was the work of county government. They all died in the mine." "Terrible. These multiple authorities have been the biggest disaster in disaster management. Hence the action we’ve taken with @SenMutula to harmonise and create order," Sakaja said. Kuria backed Sakaja’s quest to push for the enactment of the Disaster Management Bill in the Senate to address the ills. "I welcome that. Twende Kazi [let's go]," he said. Sakaja expressed concern that several buildings in the city have been marked for demolition but they are still inhabited, pointing to the ineffectiveness of the concerned departments at City Hall. He dismissed assertions that there are already enough legal frameworks to handle disasters in the country. This was after a Twitter user @_Mwaahs said: "We have enough laws. What exactly are you doing?" "It’s easy to rehash popular phrases like “we have enough laws” without much thinking. Tell me then, what framework exists right now for handling and coordinating disaster response, early warning and mapping and funding between and within National and County Govts?" Sakaja posed. @mMwangij responded to this and said: "Lol. There are laws about how to build and where to build. Implement those and need for disaster mgt frameworks reduces. Pretty simple really.” The Senator further said Courts were being an impediment in preventing some of these disasters by issuing injunctions against the demolition of illegal buildings. He suggested that such orders should be ignored and the condemned buildings demolished to save lives. This was after Robert Ajuang [@robert_ajuang] said the reason most of the buildings were still standing. "Our court had been an obstacle ! Landlord's of this run to court get Court order that stop demolition of theirs," he said. "Until people die? Bring them down. Kesi baadaye," Sakaja said. Click here for the latest political news 