Is Governor Mike Sonko and his head of traffic department aware of the double standards City Hall traffic marshals are applying on city motorist? A number of motorists in private cars have told Corridors marshals at the junction of Kenyatta Avenue and Moi Avenue, a point described as notorious, in blatant disregard of the traffic rules “look the other way” when Public Service Vehicles jump the traffic lights. But when it is a private car, they are ruthless and at times claim falsely that a motorist has jumped the lights just so they can extract a bribe. The marshals are reported to be active on Fridays and Saturdays as these are the days the City Court is on recess. Mr Governor, may be it is time to conduct your own investigation. ***** Amidst the ongoing crackdown on second generation liquor, Kisumu folk are a worried lot. A senior administrator, responsible for fighting the alcohol, runs a bar only metres from Central Police station. To add insult to injury, the administrator sells second-generation alcohol and uses official government vehicles to transport his stock to the bar. It is so brazen that the public servant even doubles up as a waiter and serves customers at night. Residents are concerned and want Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to take action against the civil servant. ***** A legislator in Embu is said to be running away from any barking dog. The lawmaker is facing serious opposition after his political credentials were soiled by residents. They contributed cash to repair and upgrade a road the MP had promised to repair. The lawmaker is making enemies with anyone or any organisation that questions him. His close associates hinted to our mole that the legislator is petty and immature as he responds to any social media post and comment. His advisers have been heard saying it is hard to control the MP as he listens and responds to every Tom, Dick and Harry. “It is this pettiness that will cost him, we consider changing camps if he doesn’t change,” one of his footsoldiers has been heard saying. ***** It was drama galore during a fundraiser in Uasin Gishu county hosted by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi yesterday. Whereas Peter Kenneth had been invited as the chief guest marking a thawing of relations between him and Deputy President William Ruto, two other Mt Kenya heavyweights Tharaka Nithi Senator and Deputy Senate Speaker Kindiki Kithure and Gatundu South Moses Kuria turned up unannounced with Kuria representing the DP with a contribution. It will be interesting watching the three titans as we head to 2022.