Due process was followed before a decision was reached to allow an access road linking the Nairobi Inland Container Depot to pass through the Nairobi National Park, the Kenya Railways has said. The proposed road will go through the park. Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina denied claims the decision spells doom for the park. The 4.153km access road will run from the Nairobi Inland Container Deport, altering the park boundaries on the east and join the Southern Bypass near Wilson Airport. Maina on Friday told the Star the decision was arrived at after all requisite laws had been followed. “We followed due process and we are waiting for a decision by the National Environment Management Authority,” Maina said on the sidelines of the first anniversary of Madaraka Express at Syokimau station. Conservationists have been up in arms, saying the access road is bad for the park. In March, Nema sent a 30-day notice for submission of public comments about the proposed project. The deadline was April 28. Among those who raised objection is the Ole Sereni Hotel group general manager Karl Hala, who said allowing the project to go on spells doom for the park. “The particular area of the park that the Kenya Railways plans on utilising is filled with game, particularly dik-diks, ostriches, antelope and gazelle. It is popular with individuals and groups visiting to enjoy the abundance and diversity of game and bird life,” Hala said in his letter to Nema. His objection letter is one of the many that Nema said it was compiling. It has yet to release the names of those opposed. The objection letter was copied to Tourism CS Najib Balala, the Kenya Tourism Board, East African Wildlife Society, Nature Kenya, Friends of the Nairobi National Park and the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers. Maina said all mitigation measures will be put in place if the project proceeds. He hopes the road will hasten the movement of cargo. Some 600 huge trucks have been kicked out of Kenyan roads as more cargo has been handled by the train.