Residents of Githunguri and Mugumo villages on Saturday had
a big party after a female hippopotamus which strayed to the area was short by
Kenya Wildlife Officers. The landed on the animal with axes and pangas, each cutting
enough for themselves and families. They did not care if the animal was fit for
human consumption, or the information that they could get Rift valley fever
some cut and ate raw meat. “The meat does not pose any healthy risk as the hippo feeds
purely on fresh vegetation.Riftvalley fever means nothing to us. It cannot even
have anthrax”, they said The hippo, which strayed from Lake Ol bolo sat, was spotted
by residents at Kiganjo dam, which is at the edge of Ol kalou town along Ol
kalou-Kipipiri road on Friday. KWS officers from Nyahururu were notified, and they camped
at the dam for a whole day to keep away residents who were throwing anything
they could find at the animal. They said they will wait for it to come out once
it got dark so they could scare it to go back to the lake. But instead, it strayed further west, 5km from Ol kalou town
to Mugumo village where it was noticed by residents at 5am Saturday. The residents mobilized and chased it down across Mbichu’s
valley that divides Mugumo and Githunguri villages, shouting “meat, meat…!” On the other side of
the valley, along Mbichu-Rakeri road, it met other residents who chased it with
dogs through the farms and back to the stream at Mbichu’s valley. The already scared and injured animal hid its head inside a
bush in the stream where KWS officers shot it as it could not move. It was not
possible to pull the animal from the deep forested stream. “We have done all we could. To us, the animal is now
disposed of, but no resident should go near or even eat its meat”, a KWS
officer told hundreds of residents who thronged Mbichu’s valley But the residents could not listen as they landed on the
animal even before the officers who were accompanied by police officers from Ol
kalou police station left the scene. The residents thanked KWS officers for quick response once
they were notified and also for killing the animal making it easy for them to
get free meat. “They killed it in the right way and left us to eat. Some of
us are very excited and that is why they are eating raw meat to feel the
taste”, Lucas Mbugua said “I don’t know whether those eating raw meat are normal. But
again, some of them work in slaughter houses where they eat raw meat”, Wangari
Nyoike said. The wildlife officers regretted that they killed the animal
saying it was unfair, given the stream where it was killed was bushy and posed
no danger to human. “Where it is now, it would be easy to trace its way to the
nearby dams and eventually to Lake Ol bolo sat. It did not deserve to die”,
said an officer who requested anonymity as he is not authorized to speak for
KWS He said the residents need to be educated to care for such
stray hippos instead of killing them of meat because if this trend continues
they will “eventually finish their animals”. Resident John Gitimu,however said it is the fault of KWS that the animal strayed to Githunguri area.If they cared enough about its life,they would have ensured it returned to Lake Ol bolosat the moment it was reported at Kiganjo dam,he said.  