The government has
been ordered to pay Sh3.1 billion to a contractor who repaired 26
major roads in Nairobi's CBD
following the 1997El Niño floods. High Court judge
Joseph Sergon has awarded Kabuito Construction the amount as
compensation, following a 20-year battle between the firm and
government over works done on 13 roads in Nairobi during former President Daniel Moi's regime. Kabuito sued the
government in 2008 after the the Ministry of Local Government
refused to pay it for the works. The ministry
insisted that verbal instructions given to Kabuito by its permanent
secretary could not stand as a valid contract. Kabuito, owned by
tycoon Amip Rajendra Patel, insisted that the ministry owed it Sh115
million, but the amount ballooned to Sh1.12 billion when it sued
owing to interest. The amount stood at
Sh3.17 billion when Justice Sergon delivered his judgment. The judge's landmark
decision has reaffirmed that verbal agreements can stand as valid
contracts recognised by law. He also ruled that
the government cannot refuse to settle a contract sum on grounds that
procurement procedures were not followed, after benefiting from
fruits of the same arrangement. The judge said the
repair works done can be construed to be extensions of the original
contract which was for the repair of the 9.5 kilometres covering 13
roads. “In my humble
view, the defendant is estopped from denying to settle the
plaintiff’s claim for non-compliance of public procurement
processes after benefitting from the services rendered by the
plaintiff upon its inducement.” “There is no
evidence tendered by the defendant to sow that the plaintiff was an
accomplice to any breach of the internal Government Regulatory
Procedures that might have taken place, therefore the defendant is
barred from relying on such shortcomings. In the end I am satisfied
that there was a valid contract for works between the plaintiff and
the defendant,” Justice Sergon held. Patel's firm was
initially contracted to recarpet a total of 9.5 kilometre cutting
across Biashara Street, City Hall Way, Harambee Avenue, Kaunda
Street, Kimathi Street, Koinange Street, Mama Ngina Street, Muindi
Mbingu Street, Murang’a road, Parliament road, Ring road, Taifa
Road and University way. But following floods
after the 1997 El Nino rains, the roads were destroyed and Kabuito
was hired to do repairs. The repair works
were then extended to include Monrovia, Moktar Dadar, Utalii, General
Kago, Short, Bank, Central, Maketer streets, Kigali road, Tubman
road, Banda Street, Posta road and Harry Thuku road. When Kabuito sought
payment, the Local Government ministry said it was unable to assess
the works done on the strength of verbal instructions issued by the
PS. Patel in his court
filings said that it was then normal for a PS to issue verbal
instructions even in public procurement, because the government
bureaucrats at the time were very powerful. Justice Sergon said
evidence before him showed that Kabuito did not solicit for the
extensions, and was contracted under urgency as there was
insufficient time to invite new bids for the repairs. “It is not in
dispute that the plaintiff received the instructions and accepted to
perform the extended contract in good faith believing that the
defendant was committed to pay. I am convinced that the defendant
should not be allowed to deny liability by applying the doctrine of
Estoppel,” the judge added. Click here for the latest political news