President Kenyatta on Friday ordered polygraph tests for government procurement officers. He said all heads of procurement will undergo fresh vetting and lie detection tests to be concluded by end of June 30. This came as the President intensified the war against corruption in the country. In his Madaraka Day speech in Meru, Uhuru said that the vetting is part of the governments' effort to rid the public service of graft. The President also faulted the moral decay in the society saying it is the root cause of corruption among professionals in the country. He took a swipe at all professionals, including journalists, saying they must all seize the moment and play an individual role for the country to overcome the evil. "We know of teachers who impregnate students. Preachers who swindle their flocks. Lawyers who defraud clients. Architects building houses using shortcuts leading to collapse of such buildings. Doctors giving false diagnoses to increase their fees." "Pharmacies selling fake medicine. Journalists who blackmail people. Unfortunately, these crooks have become heroes. Too often, some of the worst rogues are welcomed back home like conquering celebrities," Uhuru said during the Madaraka Day celebrations held in Meru on Friday. See: Expect arrests of senior officials implicated in graft - Uhuru He said leaders, parents, corporates, and individual citizens all have a role to instil honour among themselves for the country's prosperity. The President further urged members of the public to provide information to help nail perpetrators of corruption. "Your resolve to withdraw respect and deny any honour to those guilty will be the most powerful blow to preventing this vice," he said. The Head of State said that it is unfortunate that some of those trusted to run and manage institutions, resources, and safeguard the public interest have turned predators. "Our forefathers' resolve to destroy the yoke of colonialism is what gave
birth to our beloved nation. I have resolved to lead this nation in
getting rid of corruption and division." He lauded investigative agencies for the bold decision they have taken to escalate the war against corruption. He said the multi-agency team comprising of the EACC, DPP, and the Police are making decisive steps to build strong cases for the prosecution of corrupt officials. "Their work will bear fruit when the Judiciary responds by ensuring that the frivolous and obstructive use of the court system to avoid responsibility will not be allowed." Uhuru welcomed the Judiciary's assurance to help the rest of the government, and all Kenyans, in the war to restore integrity in the public service. "I am glad that arrests of senior officials have been made. There are more on the way." "I want officials, particularly senior ones, who are directly implicated in corruption to have no place in my administration and for them to go to jail," Uhuru added. He said that through their selfishness, greed and misuse of authorities, Kenyans have been denied critical public services and development. "Today, I want to address myself to these enemies, who must be boldly confronted by all Kenyans of goodwill in the same manner our forefathers resolved to join hands in the fight against colonialism." He appealed to all Kenyans to join him in the war which will see an end to corruption. Also read: Mutua to Uhuru: Order lifestyle audit of state officers, freeze assets of graft culprits Click here for the latest political news