Brand Kenya are on the verge of reinstating their sponsorship to the Kenya Rugby Union following a series of meetings between Tourism Cabinet Secretary and stakeholders in the sport. Yesterday, Balala met KRU officials and players, separately, where sources privy to the discussions said the talks are headed towards a Brand Kenya return to the sport. However, the source said Balala has directed that the players apologise to Brand Kenya and the country in general before the Sh32m sponsorship deal can be reworked. Balala canceled the deal after Kenya Sevens blocked Brand Kenya’s ‘Make It Kenya’ logo on their jerseys during the Paris Sevens earlier this month, owing to a pay dispute. The aftermath saw Sevens coach Innocent Simiyu suspended and later reinstated and stakeholders are hopeful that the deal will also be restored. Meanwhile, the Kenya Sevens players resumed training at the RFUEA ground yesterday as they prepare for the Rugby Sevens World Cup in San Francisco next month. The squad was put through their paces by strength and conditioning coach Geoffrey Kimani as the race to be on top shape hots up ahead of the American event. The players were due to resume training last week but downed their tools citing unpaid salaries and allowances. Team, manager Eric Ogweno said despite the challenges they have had recently, the team is ready to do the country proud at next month’s extravaganza. “We have had solid showing in the World Sevens Series and we hope to carry the momentum to the World Cup,” said Ogweno. Shujaa reached the semifinals in the past two World Cups in Dubai in 2009 and Russia in 2013 and will be looking to go one step further this time round. Physiotherapist Lameck Bogonko said they will check on the recovery of Nelson Oyoo, Jeff Oluoch and Billy Odhiambo next week. “The trio have been recovering from injury since we jetted back a fortnight ago so by next week, we will know their progress and ascertain if they will be part the World Cup squad,” said Bogonko.