President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected in Turkana today for the flagging off the first batch of crude oil from Lokichar oil fields. State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu confirmed the trip via a tweet from the Sagana State Lodge on Sunday morning. "From a Kenyan treasure, heading to treasure. Mt Kenya looms large in the background as we head to Turkana to catch a glimpse of our oil," he stated. The president is expected to address revenue sharing concerns among residents who are not comfortable with the 5 per cent share of proceeds from the mineral. Following a meeting with Turkana leaders at State House last month, Uhuru announced that the public will get 75 per cent through the national government. The county would get 20 per cent while the local community will be guaranteed five per cent of the proceeds if the pilot succeeds. It is the first time Kenya is extracting oil resources in the northern part of the country. Also read: Land battles, tender wars and cost secrets: Did Kenya bite off too much with energy projects? Tullow Oil Plc, the company exploring the resource, says an estimated 60,000 barrels of crude oil will be produced from the Ngamia and Amosing fields per day. The president is also expected to address infrastructure challenges as the region is reeling under the effects of flooding which has rendered most roads impassable. The bad state of Kainuk bridge, which is the main link to Turkana, poses threats to the smooth movement of trucks ferrying oil from the mine fields. The mineral will be hauled by road in wait for a 900km export pipeline whose construction is underway. Tullow Oil Plc, according to Business Daily, has hired WorleyParsons - an Australia based firm, and UK's Wood companies, to offer services for the foundation phase of the project. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok has urged locals to allow the first crude to be transported and tested for the market. This followed resistance by locals led by rights activist Simeon Ricardo who termed the deal of oil revenue share as about "self-interests" and one that didn't involve the community. "Our leaders need to know they serve our interests. If anything concerns the community, they should consult us first," Ricardo said. Turkana is the poorest county in Kenya. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics says 88 per cent of the people live below the poverty level, compared to 45 per cent nationally. Oil was discovered in Lokichar, 90 kilometres from Lodwar, in 2012, and most locals hope the start of output will accelerate development. Read: Poverty-stricken Turkana dreams of oil wealth Click here for the latest political news 