Four counties in Rift valley and Eastern have come together to end perennial cattle rustling. Isiolo, Baringo, Samburu and Laikipia have also agreed to form a regional economic bloc to spur development. The counties have come together under the Amaya Triangle Initiative (ATI). Laikipia Governor Nderitu Muriithi yesterday said persistent insecurity had stifled development. He said ending cattle rustling was the bloc’s main objective. The bloc is also expected to come up with ways of ending food insecurity, fighting perennial drought and managing natural resources. Muriithi told a press conference in Nairobi that talks for the formation of the bloc began in April.  FIVE YEAR - PLAN Four meetings were held before the deal was struck. “As leaders, we are going to join hands and work together. We want to undertake many programmes because when we work together we can achieve a lot. Anybody who wants to partner with us is welcome,” Muriithi said. He was with governors Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu) and Isiolo’s Mohammed Kuti. Most counties have previously formed blocs to champion their economic, social and political interests. In March, 14 counties formed the Lake Basin Economic Bloc. “Our mission is to find long-lasting peace by bringing to an end killings, rape and all forms of insecurity to realise development,” Laikipia Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru said. The four governors have appointed representatives to the ATI secretariat. “We have never worked together before but we think it is important for our region to develop together. We expect rapid change and we’ll invite stakeholders to join us,” Isiolo Deputy Governor Abdi Isaa said. The Kenya Commercial Bank Foundation has partnered with the bloc. It donated Sh2.4 million to facilitate public participation as the secretariat develops a five-year strategic plan. MPs, MCAs and professionals from the four counties have already been informed about the partnership. More meetings have been scheduled to raise awareness among residents. Communities will be given a chance to make proposals. The counties have resolved to align their budgets with the bloc’s development objectives.