Kenya’s healthcare system has been a headache for successive governments since Independence. The founding fathers identified it as one of the major challenges facing the nation. They thus sought to eradicate all the major diseases, alongside poverty and ignorance. However, as the country celebrated its golden anniversary in 2013, which coincided with the first government under the 2010 Constitution, the incoming Jubilee administration found health to stick out like a sore thumb in their quest to establish a modern and prosperous economy run on a digital public service platform. The leadership, therefore, made it a top priority and pledged to provide healthcare that was easily accessible and affordable. They were inheriting a system that had been riddled with gross inadequacy in terms of available personnel as well as weak infrastructural support. Supplies of medical requirements were irregular, compounded by high costs that made the service unaffordable. These inefficiencies compromised the delivery structure and led to incessant strikes by medical staff led by doctors. The last medics’ strike last year was almost the worst in the history of industrial tension in this country, lasting almost the whole year. It was like the straw that broke the camel’s back. There had been earlier attempts to address the national health system, which was for all intents and purposes, ineffective. Various ministers had made varied approaches to solving the decline in health service provision. The decline was now becomiing malignant and a stop had to be made. The first bold step was contained in the Strategy Paper for the Eradication of Poverty of 2005. It was then envisaged the government would increase access to quality and affordable healthcare by increasing points of service and volume of medical supplies. There would also be an increase in the number of paramedical staff to offer support to doctors in remote villages. The Kenya Medical Supplies Agency or Kemsa was created to centralise procurement of drugs and equipment, as well as the Community Health Workers volunteer programme. The government was bringing the twin approaches of curative and preventive medicine closer to the people. Later under the Grand Coalition government, the Ministry of Health was split into two — Public Health and Medical Services. This was expected to deepen preventive services to ease the burden on the health facilities. Unfortunately, these grand efforts produced little if any tangible successes. The Jubilee administration reorganised the ministry to bring the two split dockets under one umbrella. This was buttressed by the First Lady’s nationwide lobby of the Beyond Zero campaign. However, these drives suffered a big blow when mega corruption was unearthed at Afya House last year. The doctors were on the streets once again demanding better remuneration alongside other public servants. The country was approaching the general election and the labour environment became the poisoned chalice of our politics. The government became intransigent as opposition forces sought to hijack the doctors’ grievances for political capital. Patients were removed from public hospitals to seek assistance in private facilities or alternative medicine in ‘miti ni dawa’. All the while, inquisitive Kenyans had found out that across the ocean in India, one would access quality healthcare at affordable costs. Kenyans in droves flew to India for specialist treatment, as cancer became a national calamity overrunning our local doctors and facilities. The National Hospital Insurance Fund, which had been rebooted, came in handy to support those on medical tourism. Soon enough, it was not only cancer but also other ailments, including orthopaedic cases being referred to Indian hospitals. The most popular being Apollo Navi Mumbai. There were pleasant stories by returnees of excellent medical services in India that appeared almost like fairy tales. People wondered how it was cost-effective to get quality healthcare in India while, Kenya boasted of world-class medical personnel. Clearly something was amiss and it was more than the corrupt system. A solution had to be found. The people soon forgot doctors were on strike and ordinary Kenyans died of curable and preventable diseases. The county governments closed ranks with the national leaders against the doctors’ union demands and the country was on the verge of overhauling the medical system. Both the Council of Governors and Ministry of Health remembered Prof Anyang’ Nyong’os earlier proposal of the Cuban approach to medical services. As the government was considering the Cuban option, Kenyans had a better understanding of the Indian experience than anywhere else abroad. The consolation was that information being issued by the government appeared to mirror the two countries’ systems. However, little or no attempts were made to make Kenyans understand why the Cuban and Indian systems worked and not ours. The answer appear to be in the environmental context of the three countries in question. While Cuba and India are culturally different, they share a political ideology. Linguistically, Cuba is Spanish while India is English but they both espouse socialist approach to political organisation. Kenya and India are both English-speaking but unlike India, we are capitalists. It is in the ideological grounding that we find the difference in work output between the Kenyan medical systems on the one hand and the Cuban and Indian systems on the other. It should be understood from the outset that Kenyan doctors are operating in a free market economy, where prices of commodities and services are not controlled. This economy also emphasises individual accumulation above the general community good. It is more prone to manipulation, where it lorded by entrenched corrupt cartels. Kenyan doctors have thus been seeking to reap the maximum from their expertise and have become the crème de la crème of our society. They tried to retain their top-tier position in the social pecking order by withdrawing their labour where the system has attempted to promote any cadre above them. This situation cannot obtain in a socialist economy, where there are controls for cost of goods and services. The level of commitment to common good and public service is far much higher than private aggrandisement. The system is not prone to market distortions and manipulations,the bane of corruption. It is in this dichotomy of diametrically different political and economic environments that the Cuban doctors find themselves once they start working here. They are expected to work closely and alongside their local Kenyan counterparts. This is tricky as the local staff view them with suspicion and hatred. The locals may deliberately undermine them, even if to prove that they brought nothing substantive. Cuban doctors may also discover by themselves that working in a capitalist economy is cumbersome and frustrating, especially with their socialist background. While motivation is noble and public-service driven, there are cartels whose sole interest is what is privately pocketed. There are legitimate fears that the Cubans may not deliver much during their tour of duty. The government, therefore, should consider borrowing experiences from countries that are capitalist in ideology but with effective healthcare systems. Most of these are in continental Europe and Britain. In these countries, healthcare is slightly delinked from the mainstream economic system and run on a social market model. There exists compulsory universal health insurance irrespective of one’s class status. The governments devote a sizable portion of the public taxes to finance the bracket of the population that cannot afford the health insurance. The infrastructure is modern and investment in health research is enormous. This would be the easier route since changing the political ideology is herculean and almost impossible. Cuban doctors deliver because they are acculturated in a community service system with diminished appetite for personal agrandisement. Their Kenyan counterparts work in a primitive capitalist system embedded with predatory instincts. The two may clash bitterly and deny the ordinary citizens the benefits of both.  