Coast leaders have demanded that the government end forced disappearances and extrajudicial killings. They said the problems have surged and outrage is mounting among residents. During ODM’s two-day NEC-PG retreat in Mombasa, the leaders urged the government to act swiftly. The party made this one of its seven resolutions. On Sunday, local MPs said those behind the forced disappearances and killings had gone overboard. They want action or there will be dire consequences, they said. Read : Extrajudicial killings spree should be stopped Their position threatens the newfound love between party leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. They warned that for the March 9 handshake to be meaningful culprits must be arrested and prosecuted. “Our silence will echo as betrayal,” Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said during the annual Eid Baraza attended by Raila. On Monday, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said abduction was a ploy by some state agencies to instil fear. “We demand an immediate stop to this and call for an investigation into past disappearances,” he said. Before last year’s election, such disappearances and killings were said to be political. Leaders argued it was meant to scare away voters so they could not take part in the vote. Police dismissed the claims. Nassir on Sunday tasked Raila to use his relationship with Uhuru to bring back the abductees. “We can’t live as squatters in our own land for purported injustices caused by the state,” he said. As the push gained momentum, Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri) changed tack. It has been taking the government head-on over the killings, but now wants suspects charged. Also read  :  Fears of forced disappearances after four go missing in Tana River Muhuri is training civic educators to be deployed to Coast counties and Garissa. They will be documenting disappearances and killings and following up cases to ensure prosecution. “The right to life is absolute and cannot be taken away. If it does, it will be the greatest form of injustice,” executive director Hassan Abdille said. “How can people just disappear in their country and not be found? How can that happen?” He said Muhuri has recorded seven deaths since last year. “If one is suspected to be a criminal, he must be taken through the due process. The rule of law must apply, else there will be anarchy,” Abdille said. The Star has learnt that the ODM will sponsor necessary amendments to relevant laws and have Interior CS held responsible for crimes committed by security officers. “Those entrusted with the country’s security must be answerable to the people of this republic,” Nassir said. The leaders warned that if answers are not given, “solutions will be found by the people”. In their nine-point agenda, Uhuru and Raila have promised to tackle insecurity at the Coast. “When we started the war, we were foot soldiers, you upgraded us to be generals and tomorrow you’ll make us brigadier,” Nassir said, referring to people-driven solutions to their problems. Killings persist despite a direct message to Uhuru by former US President Barrack Obama, who called for an end to extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances. Husni Mbarak, Abubakar Abdulkadir — alias Shebe — Mohamed Avukame and Surus Nasoor are the latest to disappear without a trace, allegedly in the hands of police. Samini Karisa, 37, Kombo Gude, 53, Hussein Nduke, 35, Modi Shume, 26, Abdi Dahir Mire, 22, Fumo Abdi, and Benny Thomas, 22, were allegedly shot dead by police. Muhuri rapid response officer Fahad Changi said the abductions are all executed in an almost-identical manner. “The abductors are usually four. They usually try to persuade their victim into a waiting vehicle, but when they resist, they draw their guns. It happened the same way to Shebe,” he said. Police have said those killed were dangerous criminals. Likoni police boss Benjamin Rotich said Shume was a member of a criminal gang called Wajuku wa Bibi operating in Likoni. Shume’s family denied this. Click here for the latest political news