The prosecution of persons alleged to be the brains behind the ‘grand heist’ at the National Youth Service commenced in earnest last week. Amongst the high-profile personalities dramatically arrested and indicted in a midnight raid are NYS director general Richard Ndubai and Youth Affairs PS Lillian Omollo. President Uhuru Kenyatta, in all public pronouncements in the last week, has been spitting fire against public officials involved in pilfering public funds. An almost resigned and inured citizenry cautiously watches events with a sense of de ja vu! This is because corruption scandals in this country follow a particular script. Outrage, hard-line speeches, theatrical arrests, release of suspects on bail, then an impotent silence followed by a release or acquittal. Law enforcement agencies then commence a blame game in a game of musical chairs. The investigating teams are blamed for shoddy investigations by the prosecutors and eventually the buck is passed on to the Judiciary for setting suspects free. The NYS1 scandal and the current one have introduced a new angle into the modus operandi of current fraud. They have deliberately chosen to include seemingly clueless dumb blondes and youth in the conspiracy. First it was Josephine Kabura, hitherto a nondescript businesswoman cum hairdresser, and last week it was public lipstick applier Anne Ngirita. Their innocent appearance is part of a smokescreen used as a decoy to deflect/derail both the investigators and the general public from the real suspects. It is part of the ‘hustler philosophy’ and intended to appease or mollify and calm down the poor and underprivileged that they too are beneficiaries of mega-corruption. It is a dangerous and treacherous trend and its end game does not augur well for Kenyans. As writer XN Iraki has stated, this philosophy has elevated corruption. “The most popular currency in Kenya currently is corruption...No country in the world is corruption free, but we have elevated it to a goddess...[It has sucked] in the youth, the next generation. This will ensure that corruption has able inheritors and will surely become a way of life...The values of hard work and integrity have been openly devalued and derided...Corruption has now entered its romantic age, an object of admiration and a route to fame.” In many parts of Kenya, political bad boys in the last general election were elected governors, senators and MPs. President Kenyatta may mean well in the current war on corruption and many are willing to give him the benefit of the doubt. He however has to do a whole lot more to inspire the confidence of Kenyans. Many were surprised when two legislators, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale (Garissa Town MP) and Senator Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet Senator) — mentioned in NYS1­— called a press conference requesting a free hand to oversight corruption in the Senate and Parliament. This seriously dampened the spirits of Kenyans. Is it some kind of cruel joke or smokescreen? It is an insult to the collective intelligence of Kenyans. They should be amongst the first to face the polygraph test if government is serious in the war on corruption. The polygraph test, if indeed it will be introduced, ought to be administered by independent persons, preferably non-Kenyans, otherwise it may be corrupted. Finally, there ought to be no sacred cows in the battle against corruption. There has been reluctance in the past to touch powerful individuals, which removes the teeth from anti-corruption crusades. The President must be prepared to take on friend and foe head-on. There must be no exceptions to the rule. Uhuru must understand that it is his legacy that is at stake and not that of his colleagues or government officials. When all is said and done, the buck will stop at his desk. All has to be completed within the limited time frame of 1,460 days. The good news is that it can be done. Decisively dealing with corruption is in itself a great legacy. Over to you, Mr President!