Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo has differed with Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi over a proposal to scrap off governors’ nominations in ODM. Otiende said the proposal will deny residents the right to choose their preferred candidate to battle it out with candidates in rival parties. Addressing journalists in Rarieda on Monday, Otiende said it is important that citizens participate in electing their leaders, whether during nominations or general election. The MP said part of devolution is to bring governance closer to the people. He said there is great advantage in the electorate voting for their governors. “How will the residents tell the governor he has failed when they didn’t participate in electing them during nominations?” Otiende said. “I will not support any move that denies the people the role of electing their representative,” the lawmaker said. He added that the presidential election is the most divisive, but since citizens take part in it, there is a sense of having played a role in setting up the government. The legislator said there is no tangible reason to elect the governor in a roundtable vetting when even the President is subjected to nomination. Otiende said the only thing the party needs to work on is to smoothen the process and boost residents’ confidence in the party. He admitted that in some regions, nomination is like the actual election and when it is bungled, the electorate ends up with a leader it did not prefer. Otiende asked the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to supervise all nominations of political parties. Wandayi had petitioned ODM to change the governor nomination laws so that aspirants are vetted for their competencies. He said subjecting governor aspirants to party nominations is the reason a number of counties have failed to get competent people for the job. Wandayi is the ODM Political Affairs secretary. He said the governor position is managerial, and those interested should not be subjected to a political process. Speaking at a meeting in Siaya town on Sunday, the lawmaker said the move will make county governments engines of development. “There is a need to have competent managers as governors who should be identified through a round-table vetting with less political rhetoric,” Wandayi said.