MPs on Friday questioned why Petroleum CS John Munyes issued a directive for a fresh audit on the Sh18.9 billion claim demand by the Mombasa-Nairobi pipeline contractor. This follows revelations that he had directed the Kenya Pipeline Company to hire a new firm to reevaluate the claims at the taxpayers’ cost. The Public Investments Committee raised concerns that Munyes’s order to the KPC does not guarantee an automatic reduction of the claims from the Sh4.4 billion arrived at by an independent arbiter. The fresh process would amount to disregarding a job already done by another firm, which has pocketed a professional fee of Sh31 million, they said. “Tell this committee why you want another scheduler. It doesn’t make sense at all. After the so-called scheduler you want has done its job, will the management of KPC be under any legal obligation to adopt it? What if KPC disregards it?” Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala asked. Read:There was fraud in Sh660 million KPC procurement - EACC Kinangop MP Stephen Kinyanjui asked the CS what would happen to the amount already paid out. “Which of the reports will take precedence?” he asked. But the CS defended his decision, saying a new audit of the claims would safeguard Kenyans from loss of public funds. Munyes said the decision to ask KPC to contract another consultant was arrived at after an inter-ministerial meeting. “We decided that KPC engages another scheduler to look at the whole process because as we speak, we are certain that more claims will be put forward and that would lead to loss of funds if we don’t look at these issues properly,” he told the team chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. Munyes wrote to the KPC directing it to get a second opinion from another independent arbiter after the firm sought his approval to pay Sh4.4 billion, being the deal struck with Zakhem International Construction. Also Read:[VIDEO] Kenya Pipeline MD Joe Sang denies loss of Sh95bn in alleged scam The KPC management had agreed to pay the Lebanese firm the scaled-down amount from a claim of Sh13.9 billion to cover the four-year delay that hit construction of the 450km pipeline The management of KPC had contested Zakhem’s claim as exorbitantly high before engaging an independent negotiator who reduced the claim to Sh4.4 billion. They raised the red flag over what they said would amount to double expenditure should the ministry insist on a parallel audit since the KPC had paid the initial independent negotiator Sh31 million. Click here for more political news  