At least 645 gaming machines have been impounded in markets and towns in Western as the government intensifies the war against illegal gaming. Western regional deputy police commander Leonard Omollo said Kakamega has the highest number of betting machines impounded at 318, followed by Bungoma at 222, Busia ( 59 ) and Vihiga ( 46 ). “The government has outlawed illegal betting and anyone found engaging in it will be arrested and prosecuted, including the machine owners,” Omollo warned. He said police have discovered that traders have devised a new way of getting the machines into the country without being noticed. They are said to dismantle the machines and smuggle them in pieces and later reassemble them once they arrive at their destination. During Madaraka Day celebrations in Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega Central deputy commissioner Dennis Ogolla raised the alarm about traders running betting machines business. He said the government has banned import of betting machines but they are still smuggled into the country by unscrupulous businessmen. “We shall not tolerate the Mickey Mouse games played by these traders. Whenever we confiscate the machines, you sneak in others,” Ogolla said. Kakamega Central police boss Joseph Chebii said a crackdown is underway and anybody found engaging in the business or the game will be arrested. “Gambling has adversely affected schoolchildren. Adults get addicted to gambling and end up being desperate after losing all their cash. This desperation leads them to petty crime,” he said. Last month, the government suspended imports of gambling machines. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i ordered the Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Bureau of Standards not to allow gaming machines into the country. He directed regional and county security teams to seize unlicensed gambling machines. Gambling has contributed to student dropouts, immorality and crime, Matiang’i said. Head teachers and parents have been complaining about the increased number of gaming machines. “Some students drop out of school due to gambling addiction. It has destroyed families and security teams must take personal responsibility in eradicating this vices,” the CS said. Matiang’i said foreigners without work permits have been flocking into Kenya to trade in the machines.