Truth be told. The sugar barons are not new creatures in Kenya's political scene.
Their robbing the farmer of his or her birthright to ensure the Big Man gets
his way in politics is nothing new. You name it: Miwani, Nzoia, Mumias,
Muhoroni, Chemelil and now Sony sugar companies have all gone down the drain
because of this very evil creature: the sugar baron. 
Truth be told again: The President should be brave enough to ban sugar imports
and the barons will be starved of their lifeline. The sugar industry will then
thrive in Kenya because we shall be compelled to produce to meet our domestic
needs. The myth of the need to import to meet the so-called shortage of 200 to
300 tonnes of sugar will be put to shame. I will tell you why.
When I was chairman of the Public Investments Committee in Parliament in
1994-95, 1995-96, we handled a case of corruption involving the management of
Nzoia Sugar Company and an American firm called Arkel International. Nzoia had
entered into an ambitious expansion programme of its factory that was to
involve almost everything. In this package was the modernisation of the
crashing capacity of the factory, the expansion of infrastructure, the purchase
of new tractors, etc. The expansion process, dabbed Phase II, came a cropper. A
lot of money was spent on junk equipment, which never added an iota to Nzoia's
capacity. To add insult to injury, the tractors Nzoia bought from Arkel had
tyres and wheels too large and too big to be used on the small feeder roads on
which the cane was transported to the factory. The end result was a cemetery of
abandoned equipment in the factory yards because once sold Arkel could not take
them back. The contract Nzoia management had signed with Arkel stank like 10
dead skunks at the bottom of an abandoned pit latrine!
Our report compelled the government to take Arkel to the International Court of
Arbitration, when Kenya refused some of Arkel's pending bills, whose veracity
the government doubted. Attorney General Amos Wak, lost the case miserably.
Why? Because the former CEO of Nzoia, a Kenyan to boot, decided to testify in
favour of Arkel against his own motherland! Apart from honouring the pending
bills, Kenya had to pay another $5 million for whatever it was! But the sugar
barons, in cahoots with the American cowboys, had taken the Kenyan farmers to
the cleaners. They were laughing all the way to the bank.
Nzoia was engaged in an expansion process so that we could bridge the gap
between our domestic demand for sugar and how much we produced per year. At
that point in time, the gap was 200,000-300,000 tonnes of sugar per year. We
needed to import this annually to make ends meet. After the expansion of Nzoia
failed came another ambitious project to develop and expand Mumias. In retrospect Mumias was a big success
until privatisation came in. For some reason, the management gradually became
disinterested in improving cane production, both in the nucleus estate as well
as among out growers. Although sugar was appearing in our supermarket chains
marked "Mumias Sugar", it was quite obvious it was not coming from
the fields of Mumias. This was imported cheap sugar packaged as Mumias sugar,
with money going to the pockets of the sugar barons and their political
godfathers.
Both Nzoia and Mumias had been "failed" deliberately by the barons so
that they could make money from cheap imports of sugar.
In the meantime, all other sugar companies, notwithstanding the terrible
management that bedevilled them, were doing pretty well: At least cane was
grown, harvested and delivered to the factory and paid for. Even with the
increased acreage over time, that mythical gap remained constant: we had to
import 200,000-300,00 tonnes of sugar every year no matter how high our
domestic production could go. Any attempt to be self-sufficient was met by a
subtle sabotage by the sugar barons, who were hell-bent on supplying cheap
sugar into the domestic market, which they sold to the consumer for an arm and
a leg, making windfall profits from mere speculative behaviour and not
production.
Karl Marx once said primitive accumulation pursues capitalist development in
all its phases. After the Industrial Revolution in Europe, the European
capitalists engaged in a most bestial form of plunder of the Third World turned
into colonies. After 50 years of Independence, and following a period of import
substitution industrialisation that gave birth to an emergent Kenyan capitalist
class, this class has not let go its primitive instinct that compels it to
squeeze from the labouring poor — peasant and worker — the last cent from the
products of his labour through the most barbaric forms of plunder such as is
currently featuring in the sugar industry. Domestic production of sugar has been
ground to a standstill so that these primitive accumulators can get the easy
money by selling to us adulterated cheap sugar to purchase their helicopters,
bribe law enforcement agencies, purchase gullible legislators, ruin the freedom
of the press and turn Kenya into a banana republic that they intend to rule
like the late Papa Doc of Haiti.
But will we allow them? We could if our government does not relent on the war
on corruption. If it becomes business as usual we shall certainly be done in.
In the sugar sector we must begin by examining how the privately owned sugar
industries have been getting their raw materials. It is said they have
benefited from the removal of the zoning rules, hence they often raid the sugarcane
within the catchment area of the government owned sugar industries. They also
do not have substantial nucleus estates; hence they must depend on the sugar
cane from outside their zones. Chaos has rained in the sugar industry ever
since these private owned sugar mills came into the scene. The cat is now out
of the bag: West Kenya sugar mill has been caught with its pants down. Tell us:
For how long have you been bagging imported sugar and selling it as your own?
Mheshimiwa Jakoyo Midiwo and I went to court to stop the privatisation of the
sugar factories because we knew it was not the answer to the woes in the sugar
industry. Even Mumias was privatised and it never went far. Some of the actions
the government took to rationalise the parastatals in the agriculture sector
have even made things worse. Let us retrace our steps and understand where the
rain started to beat us in this sector. There was no need, for example, to
abolish the Sugar Board when we had no idea how to perform its functions
through another body. It was absolutely nonsensical to remove the sugar levy
and continue with the road maintenance levy. What was going to maintain sugar production
in the same way as the road maintenance levy was maintaining the repair of
roads? 
I do not want to overlook the issue of the mismanagement and corruption in the
sugar industry, but this could have been dealt with through other measures. I
do not want to belittle the injecting of capital into the factories and hence
transforming the structure of ownership; this would substantially change the
management culture and lead to better performance. But all this can be done
through a better approach and a culture of developmental governance in the
whole agricultural sector.