When Kenyans passed a new Constitution to create 47 governing units they did not contemplate that these would be breeding ground for warmongers. Their desire was to decentralise power and resources. Decentralisation is the transfer of planning, decision-making, or administrative authority from the central government to county governments by the Constitution. It is the dispersal of authority and responsibility and the allocation of powers and functions from the center or top level of government to regional bodies or special purpose authorities, or from the national to the sub-national levels of government. The devolved units are special-purpose vehicles for development by the people of Kenya. The devolved government, proposed during the making of the Constitution, is primarily geared towards achieving two main objectives: Involving the people in governance, and allowing better supervision and implementation of policies at the grassroots. Some governors have forgotten or have deliberately ignored these functions are now engaged in issues that are liking to create ethnic conflagration and division. A little over a week ago Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, while addressing his countymen, claimed half of Kisumu county. He said the county will present a formal petition to the National Land Commission to adjust the current Nandi-Kisumu administrative border and return Nandi's ancestral homes along Chemelil, Kopere, Koru, Kibos, Kibigori, Miwani, Muhoroni and all surrounding areas near these towns. He claimed that these areas belonged to Nandi county before 1895, when Kenya was declared a protectorate by the British. The claim is not just ridiculous but reeks of ignorance and warmongering. Nandi county was created on August 27, 2010. No such county existed in 1895. Under the Constitution a county's boundaries may be altered only by a resolution recommended by an independent commission set up for that purpose by Parliament; and passed by the National Assembly, with the support of at least two-thirds of all the members of the Assembly and the Senate, with the support of at least two-thirds of all of the county delegations. The Constitution further states a county's boundaries may be altered to take into account population density and demographic trends, physical and human infrastructure, historical and cultural ties, the cost of administration, the views of the communities affected, the objects of devolution of government and geographical features. The NLC has no constitutional authority to alter, amend or interfere with a county's boundaries. The process of altering or changing the boundary are clearly defined in the Constitution. The governor's legal advisers need to advise him accordingly. Needless to say Sang seems to be in good company. Many years ago Idi Amin Dada, faced with a growing population in Uganda, poor economic growth and general opposition to his regime, decided to divert attention. In a bid to rally his countrymen behind his regime he decided he would wage war against Kenya. He threatened to march to within 32km of Nairobi to reclaim parts of Nyanza and Rift Valley, which he insisted belonged to Uganda. The reaction of the Kenyan government was swift and ruthless. It engaged in one of the most powerful military mobilisation ever seen in the history of the republic. The message to the Ugandan government was clear: This is war. The rest is history. Amin changed tune and said he had been misquoted. Sang must be told in no uncertain terms that he is courting ethnic mobilisation at the time when the national government is engaged in reconciliation and healing. He may be doing this to rally the people of Nandi behind his struggling administration, but his actions are going to breed ethnic animosity and divide Kenya further. He must never politicise issues. His utterances are likely to trigger actions that could lead to death and destruction. It was reported that he is gathering lawyers to assist him in his ill-fated mission. Those lawyers must be warned that participating in acts that incite ethnic hatred and animosity is a criminal offence. There is a likelihood of preference of criminal charges for participating in the promotion of such nefarious activities. Advocate of the High Court and former president, East Africa Law Society  