NASA co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka has turned down calls by Wiper lawmakers to take over as the official opposition leader following President Uhuru Kenyatta and Rala Odinga’s handshake. Kalonzo yesterday said NASA is still intact and Raila is the official opposition leader. He added that unity between the two leaders does not mean the opposition has ended. The Wiper leader said it is early to criticise the pact. “The country has for long been ethnically divided. I support the handshake between Uhuru and Raila because for a lasting solution, people have to sacrifice themselves. Let us give them the benefit of doubt,” Kalonzo said. “NASA is under the constitution as the official Opposition. We are still in the opposition and will continue criticising Jubilee, especially on corruption.” Read : Kalonzo and Mudavadi are 'irredeemable cowards', Atwoli says on Raila oath Kalonzo spoke at the AIC Church in Athi River, Machakos county. He was with co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya ). Kalonzo was responding to calls by some Wiper MPs to take over as the opposition leader. Matungulu MP Stephen Mule said, “Uhuru and Raila should focus on uniting Kenyans to move the country forward and be ready to be questioned by us, led by Kalonzo as the official opposition leader.” Mule said Raila should support the President in the fight against corruption and let Kalonzo lead the opposition. “You should let Kalonzo be the official opposition leader since you are already intimate with the Jubilee government,” he said. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau said the country cannot stay without a vibrant opposition. “Raila has joined the government. We cannot all join the government,” he said. “We must leave others to oversee the government, Kalonzo should take the role.” Makau, however, said they support the handshake since Kalonzo had, for a long time, been advocating for national dialogue. Former Machakos Senator Johnston Muthama said Kalonzo, Wetang’ula and Mudavadi are still focused on NASA’s initial objective to liberate the country from poor leadership. “We want Kalonzo, Wetang’ula and Mudavadi to come together so we can take Kenya to where NASA wanted it to be. We are still committed to taking Kenyans to Canaan.” Muthama said the three leaders do not have any problem with Uhuru, but will push for unity while in the opposition. Also read : Kalonzo a traitor who doesn't deserve to lead - Alfred Mutua Click here for the latest political news