Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali's silence on the sugar affair has become very loud that some of the MPs from the larger Kakamega county are wondering why. Washialiw who comes from Mumias area where sugarcane is the main stay, has previously been very vocal on matters sugar. At some point he was enaged in public exchanges with former Mumias CEO Evans Kidero over farmers issues. But since the crackdown on controband sugar began, the man whose arm was once broken because of sugar issues, has been low like an envelope! ***** A businessman linked to the impounded poisonous sugar has been hiding in the house belonging to a jubilee politician. The man, a boyfreind of a senator moved to the house a few days ago after word went round that police were looking to arrest him for importing and distributing brown sugar. The businessman is known to have allies at KRA who apparently facilitate most of his transactions and when they are unable, the man invokes the name of the jubilee policitian. ***** A female ODM politician from the Coast is the talk of town. The woman was heard bragging that she has won tenders over millions of shillings from various state parastatals courtssy of her newly found business partners. The woman and her "freinds" have suddenly become so tight that many are suspecting that they have eaten the bibilical forbiden fruit. The ***** A long-serving cashier at NTSA could be in an eye of a storm following the presidential directive for lifestyle audit for all government procurement and finance officers. The lady who had worked at the state agency for over the years is said to have surprised friends and foes by putting up several commercial and residential buildings in and around the city. Detectives are now perusing how the cashier has joined league of real estate billionaires by acquiring a house in Lavington, flats in Parklands, flats in Kahawa West, office block on Ngong Road and houses in Ngong. ***** An influential ODM MP from Nyanza who has previously been critical of the Jubilee administration is unusually silent the wake of the state crackdown on illegal sugar. Reason? The MP has connection with some of the powerful individuals around the presidency dealing in contraband sugar. The lawmaker could occasionally throe jibes and barbs at the government, but the MP known to be wealthy, had maintained studious silence in the recent past. A small bird told corridors of power that the MP has been in partnership with an influential Jubilee party figure in importing thousands of tonnes of sugar from outside Comesa countries. A fellow lawmaker has threatened to expose the underworld racket soon. ***** Has president Uhuru Kenyatta forgotten some of his key campaigners in the grueling 2017 polls? At a popular Hotel in Nairobi, top politicians from Muranga County were heard complaining how Uhuru has neglected a lady who sold his land to spearhead his campaigns. Its said that the woman was Uhuru's chief campaigner in the county. It’s reported that she ferried more than 2000 old and sick people to polling station.