This time, the recipient
of Trump’s wrath was a conservative Republican Congress member seeking
reelection in a predominantly Republican district. He, however, had to secure
his party’s nomination, which Trump torpedoed with a tweet, urging his
cult-like followers in the district to reject the conservative in favour of a
sycophant, who has been singing his praises. The incumbent conservative’s only
sin having been daring to being critical of Trump, a man who’s so vindictive
and narcissistic, he’s perfectly willing to commit crimes to sooth the ego
driving both. Having become President
against all odds, Trump left behind political carcasses — figuratively speaking
— that still can’t believe the man sits in the White House. Their followers are even more
astounded with the outcome, yet there’s a large swath of America that simply
hears no evil, sees no evil and says no evil about Trump, giving him perfect
ammunition to torment his political opponents as he did in the South Carolina. Trump’s holding captive
these cult-like followers is something he has in common with dictators: Use of
state instruments of power to intimate, coerce or downright force even grown
and intelligent men to behave like small children, even as the man himself is
seen by many as worse than a child prone to throwing tantrums every time it
doesn’t get what they want. It is with this in mind a
highly respected man, General Michael Hayden, reached the conclusion and
declared Trump would be “very dangerous indeed” for the country’s national
security. Yes, take a moment to process the irony of that: A president deemed
to be a danger to the national security of the country he leads. That’s surreal but America
is living through a surreal moment of her history. We have had our share of
presidents exercising dictatorial powers and we certainly don’t wish to have a
return to those days. However, this writer argues that what we need is a benevolent
dictator, who can use state power to nyorosha the country, starting with its
political leaders, who are at the forefront in either actively inflicting the
country with these ills, or simply doing nothing to rid the country of same.
This has made is hard to liberate our people from the bondage of poverty,
making them live below acceptable standards My objective is to have
those not prewired to tow the tribal line in terms of what should happen in the
country, engage in discourse to first determine whether such is a good idea
and, second, if it is, who should that be? Does Gideon Moi fit the
bill? We know William Ruto doesn’t for reasons anyone other than someone living
in a cave wouldn’t know. In the event the consensus
is it’s not a good idea, then we need and must have a JM Kariuki, as we head to
2020 and get on our knees and pray he doesn’t get assassinated. The dynamics in the
country are such that either of these — having a benevolent dictator or a JM
Kariuki — is the only path forward to a more peaceful, more united and
prosperous nation: Where social and economic justice are not just aspirations
in the dreams of progressives, but a reality experienced by our long-suffering
people. We deserve nothing less
and we can certainly uproot the entrenched systems of injustice and corruption
using either of these vehicles.  Samuel
Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States