Poor parenting, weak security systems and high-handedness among teachers are major causes of unrest in schools, police said yesterday. Operations staff officer at the police headquarters Dominic Kisavi said a poor diet, lack of entertainment and animosity between school principals and teachers are also catalysts of unrest. Unhealthy relationships between teachers and students have also been blamed. “Failure to listen to students, especially on diet and entertainment is dangerous. Diet is a major issue in schools,” Kisavi said. He spoke during the second day of the 43rd annual Kenya Secondary School Heads Association conference in Mombasa. Kisavi represented Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. He said parents are abdicating their duties and sometimes use police to threaten their “indisciplined children”. “You hear parents telling their children; stop that or I call the police. That is wrong. Police should not be used as a source of fear,” Kisavi said. Cases of school unrest, he said however, have declined since 2016. In 2016, police recorded 300 cases of school unrest countrywide; 48 buildings were razed. Some 435 students were arrested and seven prosecuted alongside five civilians. In 2017, 235 cases of unrest were recorded with 32 buildings razed. A total of 108 students were arrested, but only 32 were prosecuted alongside a non-student. This year 53 cases have been reported, 12 buildings have been razed. Some 23 students were arrested and seven prosecuted alongside one non-student. Kisavi said some schools do not report drugs and alcohol abuse. “That means we need to up our game in taking care of the students,” he said. Kisavi said poor parenting leads to poor mentorship and children end up becoming indisciplined. Poor security systems, he said, allow easy access to drugs among students and teachers, who mostly use security guards as conduits. “We are aware some teachers usedrugs in schools and using students to transport them,” Kisavi said. Arrogant, heavy-handed teachers do not listen to the concerns of students, who sometimes have genuine complaints that need to be addressed, he said. The security expert said failing to include students in decision-making processes on matters that affect the students usually lead to unrest, especially when they feel oppressed. Lack of water and electricity in schools is a recipe for trouble as students, who have to walk long distances to fetch water, are exposed to security risks. “Animosity between principals and teachers leads to some teachers inciting the students,” he said.