Wiper party has asked the Orange Democratic Movement to make public its plans for the 2022 presidential elections. Chairman Kivutha Kibwana on Tuesday said the party was concerned about plans by ODM to field a presidential candidate. The Makueni governor said Wiper was not taking lightly comments by ODM deputy party leader Hassan Joho that they will front a candidate. Kibwana asked Joho to state whether what he said was his personal opinion or the party’s political position. Wiper and ODM are NASA affiliates. The parties signed an MoU in which ODM reportedly agreed not to field a presidential candidate in 2022. ODM leader Raila Odinga allegedly agreed to support a Wiper candidate in reciprocation for the support in 2013 and 2017 general elections. “Our agreement was serious and that’s why we need to know whether Joho was speaking on his own behalf or for the ODM party,” Kibwana said. He spoke when he opened a new office block for Wiper Party in Nairobi. Kibwana said it would be a fundamental breach of the NASA coalition agreement if Raila runs for presidency in 2022 or if his party fields a candidate. Wiper party expects ODM to support its leader Kalonzo Musyoka in the 2022 presidential race. Kalonzo was Raila’s running mate in both 2013 and 2017. The former VP is under pressure by Ukambani leaders who want him to declare whether he will be vying for the presidency or become Raila’s running mate again. The leaders also want to know what Kalonzo discussed with Deputy President William Ruto during an Iftar dinner hosted by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko at Charter Hall on June 13. Sources said the leaders discussed how to deal with Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader Alfred Mutua. The Machakos governor has declared he will vie for presidency in 2022. That declaration has not been welcome in both Kalonzo and Ruto camps. During the meeting, Ruto and Kalonzo agreed to work together irrespective of their political differences. Ruto has already declared he wants to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kalonzo’s supporters want him to make a second attempt for the presidency after his unsuccessful bid in 2007. They say the former Mwingi North MP should not accept to be another candidate’s running mate. Kibwana said Wiper and ODM had an agreement that was deposited in New York by law scholar Makau Mutua. The agreement binds ODM to support Kalonzo for president in 2022. Mutua was among Wiper party big shots who brokered the deal for Kalonzo to deputise Raila in last year’s presidential race. Kibwana said they expect ODM to honour the agreement. Raila has kept his supporters guessing whether he will make another stab for the presidency in 2022. Last week, he said premature campaigns will hurt development. Kibwana said Wiper was prepared to tour all regions to mobilise support for Kalonzo’s 2022 presidential campaigns. “From now if you see any of our party members, including MPs, engaging anyone in the political scene, do not get surprised because that is how it should be. Going for the presidency means talking to everyone and there is no joke about it,” Kibwana said.