   Residents of Bungoma have been urged to report those selling drugs to students in a bid to boost security around schools. County commissioner James Kianda asked those in school neighbourhoods to report students who sneak out of schools. Kianda said he has met with more than 300 principals and Education ministry officials to discuss ways of strengthening security of students. Speaking at Friends School Kamusing on Tuesday, Kianda said most schools do not have proper fences, making students prone to attacks. Concerns about learners' safety have heightened following the rape of a students at Moi Girls School in Nairobi. "We will ensure students don't sneak out of schools to watch the World Cup," Kianda said.   Safety of students especially in girl’s schools across the
country has been worrying parents after incidents of strangers sneaking into
several girls’ schools dormitories at night and raping girls were recently reported
to be on increase. Kianda said that most of the boy’s schools across the county
do not have good security and proper fences that make students prone to the attacks. He said the poor security in schools has contributed to students
sneaking out of schools especially on weekends and going to practice bad
virtues something that must be addressed keenly. ‘We have been meeting with over three hundred school heads
across the county’s nine constituencies to discuss on how we can have our students
learning in a serene environment without fear of attacks,’ he said. The county chief said that his security teams are going to
work with all stakeholders to ensure incidents of indiscipline and unruliness
are not witnessed in Bungoma schools. ‘We will work closely with ministry of education to curb
cases of students fighting with other students from rival schools, curb school
fires, pupils refusing to attend classes and roaming in towns will not be accepted,’
he said. He said that cases of pupils engaging in drug abuse by sneaking
and going out to discos , to smoke bang and take illicit brew will not be tolerated. He said that cases of indiscipline have contributed to
dwindling education standards across the county and will soon be tamed by
efforts from the stakeholders. Kianda urged local leaders and community that surrounds schools
to work with management of schools to ensure cases of indiscipline are not
being witnessed in pupils. ‘We want those residents living close to schools to report
anyone selling drugs to pupils and unruly students who sneak out of school to
school heads for action to be taken against them,’ he added.     is about to begin we do not want students being indiscipline
and sneaking out of school to go and watch football,’ he added. Kianda said that his officers have arrested over two hundred
lotto games and burned them as they have been corrupting school going students especially
those in day schools. Ends…