The Nyeri county assembly yesterday deplored rising crime and said police were lax. The hours-long discussion follows the raid by gangsters on the speaker John Kaguchia’s residence on Monday night. Nothing was stolen, attackers left after realising he and his family were gone. There have been increased reports of violent deaths and crimes. The gang held the night guard hostage and damaged property. MCAs called for security for the speaker. They also called for intensified police patrols to protect residents. MCAs suggested that CCTV cameras and security lighting be installed in major town streets and highways. Chinga MCA Kiruga Thuku called for thorough investigations into Kaguchia’s house break-in. He said the night guard ought to be questioned. “We do not want to give instructions on how to investigate but the guard should explain why he opened the gate to strangers,” Thuku said. On Wednesday, politicians called for thorough investigations into the raid, saying it was politically motivated. Governor Mutahi Kahiga and Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu said there is more than meets the eye in the attack. Majority leader James Kanyugo said the attack was politically instigated. Kahiga questioned why raiders left after realising the speaker and his family were not at home. Nothing was stolen. He said the gang could have been after the speaker or his family. “When they realised he wasn’t there, they bundled the watchman into the vehicle and left with him. That tells us there is something to it,” Kahiga said. Thuku questioned how safe Wanjiku is if a speaker can be an easy target for criminals. “Just the other day, a body of a man was retrieved from a cattle dip at Karima in Othaya,” he added. Kiruga accused the police of laxity. In Chinga, all the officers spend their time chasing petty offenders riding boda bodas to get something from them, Thuku said. Kabaru MCA Joseph Njiri said people have been killed during violent robberies, adding that insecurity hurts the county’s economy. He said the 24-hour economy touted by the county will remain a dream if people cannot work beyond 9pm for fear of attacks. Njiri said CCTV cameras should be installed on Gakere Road. Aguthi Gaaki MCA Stanley Wakibia said Nyumba Kumi groups should be allowed to question new faces in villages. He also proposed reshuffling police officers who have overstayed in one area. “The police have not been taking their mandate seriously,” Wakibia said. 