Now that the only safe sugar in Kenya is sugar mummy/daddy and cats are not only pets but also a delicacy thanks to my peeps from NaksVegas...it’s seriously hard to predict anything anymore, with all the unexpected happenings and the abnormal becoming the new normal...All #TheRaverend would like to know is how mercury and copper mixes with sugar...when did mercury and copper become cheaper than sugarcane? Or is there some rich guy on a mission to finish poor Kenyans so he decided to poison us with toxic sugar? Hawa wanaotuuzia sukari iko na mercury, si watuuzie unga iko na nyama, hiyo hatuwezi mind...Plus samosa nyama should be banned in Kenya. It’s a high time we all eat healthy, so we should all stick to samosa ndegu or samosa madondo...It’s a sad day to be Kenyan because if the fat cats are not stealing public funds, they are killing us with toxic sweetness as real pussycats are being skinned alive and sold as samosa. Speaking of fat cats, the President has ordered a lifestyle audit and for once poor hardworking Kenyans can crack poor man jokes and taxpayers can laugh now that the fat cats have been caught in a trap...Here is one of the fat cat jokes doing the rounds on social media; *_Police officer: we are here to investigate the source of your wealth..._* *_Me: When I was poor, did you investigate the source of my poverty* For fat cat jokes follow #TheRaverend on social media...  ION, the #TheRaverend came across a toxic thread that I need to share my opinion on...The thread was done by a concerned boy child, Mariga Thoithi. In it he talks about how the girl child is taking advantage of the boy child when it comes to going Dutch...Kenyan chics don’t believe in buying their own drinks/meals, not too mention paying any bill when with a man. For the longest time the boy child has been conditioned to believe that he is the breadwinner. That men are the hunters and gatherers and women are the spenders...That worked back in the days, we are now living in different times...The girl child needs to understand that when you go on a date or get that invitation, you must carry your own cash yo! The days when a man automatically picked up the tab are long gone...No more freebies. Everyone pays for whatever they take...So order wisely, don’t expect to order expensive stuff just because you are next to a dude who looks rich...“Utachonga viazi”. For the boy child still living in captivity it’s time to wake up and smell more than the coffee...It’s not prestigious to pick up the tab just because you carry two balls.The fact that you wear pants does not mean you must pay the bill! That’s a myth and it needs to end...So unless you feel you have to make that move and you have extra cash, don’t ever pay the bill if you are with her and the bill is 5K, or even 500 bob. Proudly pay for what you consumed and walk away like a king, that’s how real men do it! In fact if the girl decided to come with her friends so they can take advantage of your wallet, don’t sweat it. Just let everyone enjoy, let everyone order whatever they want but at the end of the date/night make sure the waiter gives each person their bill, and before they know what’s cutting pay your share and leave very quick...Unless you are a sponsor or have won the jackpot, never sweat about drinks/food you never consumed. It’s not savage to walk a chic to her bus stop and hail a taxi for yourself, life is expensive and unfair. ‘Kila msee ajipange’. It’s not the boy child’s fault that you live in Zimmerman and you agreed to go on a date with only 40 bob...It’s time women carried more that make-up in their bags...The only way society will change and dudes will start respecting women is if women start acting independent and not assume they are independent just because Neyo/Beyoncé sang it in a song! Acting independent and assuming you are independent are two different things. So all the girls reading this had better be ready to pay their bills and stop being leeches...I know chics will be quick to call #TheRaverend stingy or broke because I have decided I’m not going to be shamed into paying bills after some mama orders expensive stuff, but that’s the reality. It’s the 21st Century, let’s understand we are all the same and stop categorising each other along gender lines...That said, if you are a hot chic in the club and you have worked hard for your cash, if you spot #TheRaverend it’s only fair you throw me a round for all the times I bought you a drink when I was young and foolish! This weekend should be the truth and reconciliation weekend. Ladies buy that dude you have taken advantage of for so long a drink and trust me your night will be super fantastic...You might even be the one who will chill the boy child in return and wake him up before the sun rises and give him 50 bob for ‘Ferrari’. 