Land, which has
always been a prickly issue in Kenya's history, has now emerged as
one of the biggest challenges facing state corporations and agencies,
if the Auditor General's latest reports are anything to go by. Auditor General Edward Ouko's probes
on state firms and agencies for the 2015-16 financial year has
revealed that land-related problems stick out like a sore thumb in at
least 61 state firms and agencies. From land grabbing
by private and public entities, mysterious allocation to both
prominent and nondescript individuals, missing titles,
questionable dealings with prime parcels to secret compensations and
contradicting ownership documents, state firms are at risk of losing
billions of shillings worth of prime land. Land measuring at
least 100,000 acres allocated to the 61 cited state firms and
agencies either has no ownership documents, or has been taken over
mysteriously by private developers, squatters, churches and other
government institutions according to Ouko's report. At least 38 state
firms do not have titles for the land they own. Some government
firms without title deeds for vast or prime land parcels whose value
has been included are Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (25 parcels
worth Sh6.1 billion), the Kenya Ports Authority (34 parcels worth
Sh3.474 billion), Kenya Pipeline Company (Sh1.9 billion), New KCC (49
parcels worth Sh1.9 billion), Kenya Water Institute (3 parcels worth
Sh1.01 billion) and the Kenya Medical Training College (22 parcels
worth Sh502 million). Others firms whose
land values have not been included in the report are the National
Irrigation Board (75,509 acres), Tana and Athi Rivers Development
Authority (2,285 acres), Kenya Ordnance Factories Corporation, Kenya
Veterinary Vaccines Production Institute (500 acres) and National
Housing Corporation (242 acres). Land Development and
Governance chairman Ibrahim Mwathane says state corporations and
agencies need to enlist the help of the National Land Commission and
other agencies to recover land questionably snatched from
them over the years. “We all need to
respect public property and when made custodians of public property
like land, we need to treat it the way we treat financial assets
because land translates to money. The land these institutions
are holding offers a chance for expansion plans in future. Even if they are not to expand, it's better
that the land goes to other government institutions, especially
schools but not be privatised.” “We are yet to
expand our institutions. Where will the land come from? They need to
seek expert advice on what can be done, seek the support of the
National Land Commission, then get your board to support that kind of
recovery,” Mwathane said in an interview with the Star. Ouko's report has
brought to question the unique and irregular land situation at the
Kenya Broadcasting Corporation. Even stranger, is a
debt repayment arrangement between the national broadcaster and its
pension scheme. Following a long
standing debt of Sh225 million owed to its retirement benefits
scheme, KBC agreed to transfer four pieces of land in Thika, Meru,
Kitale and Siaya. But the value of the
four parcels given to KBC Pension Fund was Sh2 billion,
nearly 10 times the size of the debt. “It is not clear
and the management has not explained why land worth Sh2,036,250,000
is being exchanged with a pension debt of Sh225,111,000 resulting to
a possible loss of corporation land valued at Sh1,811,139,000. In the
circumstances it has not been possible to confirm that the above
transfer of four corporation parcels of land to the KBC Pension Fund
is in the best interest of the stakeholders,” the report says. The loss making
national broadcaster, that Ouko describes as technically insolvent,
appears to have taken illegal acquisition of its land across the
country with laxity. Ouko holds that
mortgage lender Housing Finance, the Ministry of Mining and a group
of squatters have all invaded KBC's land in Mombasa and Voi have been
encroached on with no action taken. A piece of land KBC
owns in Kajiado has also come under scrutiny. While the allotment
letter in KBC's possession indicates the property measures
33.4 acres, Ouko insists information he has shows the
land is actually 124.7 acres. But the national
broadcaster is just one of many state-owned firms dogged by dodgy
land ownership and transaction issues. The Kenya Medical
Research Institute, for instance, does not have titles for four
vast, prime pieces of land it owns valued at Sh4.3 billion,
including the six acre parcel in Nairobi that hosts its headquarters. Kemri's Nairobi land
along Mbagathi way is valued at Sh4.1 billion. The research institution
also lacks titles for a 100 acres in Busia worth
Sh88 million, a 6.6 acre parcel in Kilifi county worth
Sh27.2 million and 15 acres worth Sh8.4 million in
Voi. “In the absence of
budget documents, it has not been possible to confirm the ownership
status of the parcels of land and whether the property, plant and
equipment balance of Sh19,973,768,392 is fairly stated,” Ouko says
in his report. Kemri has also been
put on the spot over a residential staff housing project on its
Mbagathi Way land. The institution
awarded a Sh476 million tender for the project to a contractor who
used the title as collateral for a loan from National Bank to get funds for construction. The government, in an
effort to release the title from National Bank, was forced to
settle the developer's loan account by paying Sh283 million in 1993
and Sh142 million in 2000. “However, in spite
of payments totaling Sh422 million having been made thus settling the
debt in full, the documents had not been discharged to Kemri as at
June 30, 2016,” Ouko adds. Curiously, titles to two parcels in Nairobi and Mombasa hosting Kenya
Pipeline's depots are in the name of Kenya Airports Authority. KPC
has allotment letters for the two pieces valued at Sh1
billion, but the Ministry of Lands records recognise KAA as the
registered owner.