Dealing with the estate of a
deceased person is an emotive and complex matter; yet persons going through
this process are expected to engage with the legal system from a point of
understanding of the law and court procedures despite the raw emotions of
having lost a loved one. To
help Kenyans understand matters pertaining to inheritance, the Family Division
of the High Court of Kenya, under the leadership of Justice Aggrey Muchelule, has
come up with a booklet. Simplified Resource Tool on Inheritance
and Related Family Law Practice in Kenya answers frequently asked questions on
inheritance while giving step by step guidelines on the execution of succession
cases. Inheritance is deemed to be
significant means of transferring, or excluding from transfer, wealth from one
generation to the next. And as such, it can have positive or negative effects
on family or individual fortunes. An already complex and emotive
process, inheritance is becoming more intricate with emergent forms of property
such as intellectual property, digital property and other intangible but high-value assets. The
development of family law and the pluralism of laws in the family sector as a
result of the application of religious and customary laws further complicate
inheritance processes, often intimidating many court users. The booklet
focuses on issues such as gender, current legal and policy framework, jurisdiction
of courts, procedures and current practice for various court engagements on
inheritance and succession matters. Long family feuds over inheritance are
not new in Kenya. A
case in point, which has protracted for over 35 years, is that of the Mbiyu Koinange
family that has been battling over the vast wealth left behind by the deceased.
Regrettably, the long-drawn-out dispute has even dragged in the grandchildren
and great-grandchildren of the deceased, thereby demonstrating how protracted
inheritance matters can get. Some of these cases of inheritance would be executed
swiftly and peacefully if a will was left on how the deceased's property should
be distributed, hence preventing prolonged court disputes. The book
defines a will as a legal expression by a person
outlining how they wish to distribute their property after death. The will may
be oral or written. An oral will
is valid if it is made in the presence of two or more witnesses and is only
valid for three months from the date of making the will. A written will
needs to have been validly signed by the deceased or by some other person in the presence of and by the direction of the testator (the person who makes the will). When someone dies, there are rules on who
inherits the assets he or she leaves. Here you will learn the essentials on
inheritance, who you can contact for more information and what you have to bear
in mind. The
administration of the estate of the deceased undergoes probate, which is the
process of proving the validity of the will. Under Kenyan law, no specific form of a will is required. You can write your will on any type of material and
it shall be considered valid as long as it has your signature and it is duly
confirmed by two competent witnesses. Court regards a will as valid irrespective of the material
used so long as the will is clear and legible. The guide also uses various real-life cases of
family fights to explain how succession cases are directed. The booklet cites
some cases that border on the hilarious. One such case happened in the Commonwealth
jurisdiction where a court ruled as valid a will that was written on an eggshell! When it comes to signing the will,
the guide explains that a thumb print, initials, assumed name, or mark by a
rubber stamp with the testator’s name are valid signatures A signature need not even consist of
a name at all; the
words “your loving mother” placed at the end of the document were held to be a
valid signature by one court Part of a signature may in some
cases be sufficient to validate a signature. In one case, a woman at the point of
death started to sign her normal signature “E. Chalcraft” but after
writing “E. Chal” she became too weak to continue. It was held that the
signature was valid. The signature can also be placed
anywhere on the document so long as it is apparent from the position that it is
intended to give effect to the will. Where a person dies without making a will, the court has wide discretion in appointing an administrator but is
guided by order of preference of surviving spouse(s) and children, public
trustees and even creditors. These
simplified and standardised procedures increase efficiency and at the same time
guide members of the bar-bench and court users in
matters regarding succession. The easily adaptable and systematic guidelines which had input from
lawyers shall also be an excellent guiding tool to assist laymen pursue their claims in court. The entire process is
clearly laid down from filing to the final distribution of the estate, including
laid out formats of how the originating court document looks like and at what
point they are issued. The booklet helps Family Court
registries realign their operations to the aspirations of the Sustaining
Judiciary Transformation in enhancing access to justice and improve services to all court users while reducing
knowledge barriers. The booklet also
contains a list of cases on inheritance and related family law matters from
both local and comparable Commonwealth jurisdictions, besides a bibliography of
articles on the law of inheritance, succession and contemporary issues in
inheritance. The best of all is that the booklet and forms can be found on the
Judiciary website: judiciary.go.ke  Assistant director, Public Affairs and Communication Jerusha.gichohi@court.go.ke