US President Donald Trump has said he had given Kim Jong Un a direct phone number
and suggested he might call the North Korean leader on Sunday,
following their summit in Singapore this week. "I'm going to be actually calling North Korea," Trump told
Fox News in an interview on Friday when asked what he planned to do on
Father's Day, without saying who he would be speaking to. Trump, who has hailed his meeting with Kim on Tuesday as a
success that removed the North Korean nuclear threat, told
reporters later that he had given Kim a phone number to allow
him to reach him directly. "I can now call him. I can now say, 'Well, we have a
problem.' I gave him a very direct number. He can now call me if
he has any difficulties, I can call him," Trump said during an
impromptu news conference on the White House lawn. Asked about who he would speak to on Sunday, Trump said:
"Well, I'm going to speak to people in North Korea, and I'm
going to speak to my people who are over in North Korea." He did
not elaborate. Trump and Kim issued a joint statement after their meeting
that reaffirmed the North's commitment to "work toward complete
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula," while the United
States undertook to provide security guarantees. Democratic critics in the United States said the agreement
was short on detail and the Republican president had made too
many concessions to Kim, whose country is under UN sanctions
for its nuclear and weapons programs and is widely condemned for
human rights abuses. Trump has said he trusts Kim to follow through as the two
countries negotiate dismantling North Korea's nuclear program. Critics have assailed Trump for talking warmly of Kim after
their meeting. In response to a reporter who suggested on Friday
that he was defending Kim's human rights record, Trump said,
"You know why, I don't want to see a nuclear weapon destroy you
and your family ... I want to have a good relationship with
North Korea." US Defense Secretary Mattis said Trump's summit with Kim,
the first between a sitting US president and a North Korean
leader, showed that the past did not have to define the future,
but that the US military remained vigilant. "While a possible new avenue to peace now exists with North
Korea, we remain vigilant regarding pursuit of nuclear weapons
anywhere in the world," Mattis said, speaking at a US Naval
War College graduation. Click here for the latest political news