Heads of Procurement and Accounting Units in all ministries, departments and State agencies and corporations are the first category of officers to undergo fresh vetting as ordered by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The President gave the directive as part of the governments' war on corruption blamed for the loss of billions of shillings in state cash. The officers have been ordered to hand over their duties to their deputies and proceed on compulsory leave from Wednesday. This is as the government begins to clean its house in a bid to stem the theft of public funds. The vetting was ordered by the President during the Madaraka Day celebrations on June 1 following revelations that up to Sh8 billion may have been lost at NYS through flawed procurement processes. Read: Uhuru orders lie-detection test for state procurement officers Details: What does a polygraph test do? Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, in a circular, said the officers have until Friday, June 8 to submit several personal documents in sealed envelopes to Harambee House, 3rd Floor by 5pm. "Affected officers may be required to present themselves for oral interviews. All information submitted will be treated with utmost confidentiality," Kinyua said in the circular, warning that non-compliance will lead to disciplinary action. The notice is copied to clerks of the National Assembly and the Senate, Auditor general, Controller of Budget, NIS Director General, Registrar of Judiciary and independent offices and Commissions. Among the documents sought from the civil servants include full names, KRA PIN, ID card number, passport number, email address, and mobile phone number. The officers are also required to submit certified copies of mobile money statements, including that for their spouse, for the last six months as well as driving license number. They are also required to submit personal Income Tax Returns and those for the companies or businesses they own for the past three years. Other information being sought includes social media accounts (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram), club memberships, and a list of their liabilities. These include loans, mortgages, cumulative insurance policies, school fees and school accounts, chattels, and guarantees. Certified copies of bank statements of the officer and their spouse for the last six months are also needed. Also read: NIS dossiers drive Uhuru's war on graft "Whereas this exercise is geared towards determining suitability to continue holding public office in the public trust, and promote confidence in the public service, the same will be undertaken in fair and objective manner and due care and regard to officers’ rights," Kinyua assured. He said officers are also expected to reveal all the physical and monetary assists they own or have interests in. These include stocks, vehicles, machinery, shares and partnerships in investment groups where the officer or spouse has interests. Companies and businesses owned or controlled by the officer or immediate family members that have had commercial dealings with the department where the officer works. The officers are also required to reveal their residential addresses and that of their spouse for the last five years and indicate ownership status – owner occupier or rental. Similar details on immovable assets like land – including acreage, location and status and dates of acquisition must also be submitted. Other details that should be revealed in full are the full names and identity card numbers of their spouse, children, dependants, parents, siblings, business associates, agents or associates with which the officer may have directly or indirectly had monetary dealings with. Finally, officers are required to state their current place of work, Job Group, personal number, list of previous postings and number of years served per deployment, promotions applied for, those received and disciplinary cases if any. Kinyua said all the officers affected by the directive will continue to earn their salaries during the period they will be undergoing vetting. "During the leave period, officers are not allowed to leave the country without requisite clearance by the Head of Public Service," he said. Read: Uhuru orders procurement heads in all ministries to step aside Click here for more political news 