A CEO of a parastatal under the Health Ministry has panicked following President Uhuru Kenyatta’s renewed anti-graft war. The parastatal chief whose agency was recently hit by tendering scandals has tensed that the ongoing corruption war would catch up with him owing to his fishy operations at the helm of the institution. Some of his close friends have alleged that he looks a worried man and cuts an image of a lonely man of late. He also picks calls, including those by his allies, selectively as reality over the fight against graft sinks in. Could be on his way out as Uhuru smashes graft masterminds? ***** They say one man’s meat is another man’s poison. While some
Kenyans are celebrating the handshake for returning peace and unity in Kenya,
there are a few who are bitter the truce has abruptly ended their income taps.
How? The answer is bizarre. There is no longer anyone to attack politically.
Some political hirelings who frequented picking cash from a senior Jubilee
leader are said to be the most affected. Even some MPs are broke. It’s
whispered that a foreign political mercenary, known to defend Jubilee with his
blood, has gone quiet. He is said to be waiting for Kenya's next round of
confrontation. So a deal meant to create peace has also created joblessness!! ***** An MP from Nyanza is a worried man. The flamboyant lawmaker
has had a bad experience in the last three weeks. Thinking that after being elected
he would escape settling a Sh4M debt owed to a tycoon businessman in his
constituency, the MP has been having surprise guests. Call them debt collectors
or auctioneers. With firm instruction to recover the money, they waylaid the MP
and attempted to confiscate his Prado TX at a parking within Nairobi CBD.
However, their attempt flopped after the MP’s bodyguard swung into action and
shot in the air sending the auctioneers into scampering for safety. Frustrated,
the creditor has threatened to spill the beans if his money is not repaid in a
week’s time. ***** A rich woman MP who is said to also own a chopper is under
siege after her opponents threatened to make public the uncouth means she used to
rig the last general election. The lawmaker who is fond of threatening her opponents
with her money, recently clashed with some of her former opponents after she
allegedly called them poor and toothless to match her political machinery.  At a hotel in her Central Kenya county, the MP
was overheard telling her opponents who had gathered to discuss an unknown
political issue that they could as well go drying. “I am above you guys, excuse
me!” she said as she exited into a private room. Is she drunken of too much
power? ***** Click here for
the latest political news