Former Voi MP and veteran politician Eliud Timothy Mwamunga is dead. Mwamunga,83, died on Saturday morning while undergoing treatment at a Mombasa hospital. The wealthy landowner served as Voi legislator for 20 consecutive years between 1969 and 1988 during the one-party system. Over the period, he served in both founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta's and his successor Daniel Moi's cabinets. He held the Water Development and Commerce and Industry dockets under Kenyatta and the Information and Broadcasting docket under Moi. His downfall came in January 1988 when he was sacked from Cabinet and later dethroned by Adiel Kachila as Voi MP during the infamous 1988 mlolongo election. Mwamunga joined retired President Mwai Kibaki in January, 1992, to launch the Democratic Party after the Constitution was changed in 1991 to allow multiparty politics. Mwamunga was named DP Coast representative and played an active role in popularising the party in the region ahead of the first multi-party elections in 1992. President Uhuru Kenyatta mourned the late legislator as an astute politician who greatly contributed to the growth of a modern Kenya. He said Mwamunga served the country with commitment and devotion and he was a key contributor to some of the most influential policies which contributed to Kenya being an economic power house in the East African region. “In 1969, at the age of 34, the late Mwamunga contested and won the Voi parliamentary seat. In his first term in Parliament, Mwamunga initiated numerous development projects, made useful connections with agriculturalists, wildlife conservationists and mineral prospectors who exploited natural resources for the benefit of the country,” the President said. Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja eulogized the late politician as ‘a pragmatic leader who immensely contributed to the growth of Kenya's economy. "Today we mourn with the famiy of a great man, an astute politician of his time. His scholarly wisdom helped shape Kenya and Taita Taveta at large during his time of service as member of parliament." Samboja said in a statement. He said the late Mwamunga not only played a major role in promoting trade, but also his promoting Africanisation of commerce. Mwamunga was born on July 21, 1935, at Ishamba at the foot of the Taita Hills. He attended Ishamba Primary School and later joined Shimo-la-Tewa Secondary and Alliance. He went for higher education at Makerere and then the University of Dar-es-Salaam in to study law. After graduating in law, Mwamunga taught in various schools in Coast Province and later became the Taita-Taveta County Clerk. In 1969, at the age of 34, he contested and won the Taita-Taveta parliamentary seat which he held until 1988. Click here for the latest political news