960 ex-employees of Kenya Airways are still battling their 28 year case in court following a compensation dispute of Sh2.6billion for early retrenchment. Through their representatives Tobias Auma, Aaron Mwailu, John Owili, Walter Awich, Fidelis Nthuanthi and Henry Munene, they sued KQ in 1992 for wrongful dismissal in 1990 and a judgement was delivered in their favour in 2001. Justice Msagha Mbogholi gave the ex employees an award of being paid their initial salary plus the years of their retirement from the year KQ rendered them redundant. They claim that they were sacked when at age of between 35-40 years. The company however appealed Justice Mbogholi's decision and in 2007 the court of appeal entered the judgement in favour of KQ by dismissing the ex staff's award.The case however did not end there as the aggrieved ex workers moved to the Supreme court to have the appeal decision set aside. Court documents show that after KQ had won the case against the ex staff, they filed a bill of costs in September 2009 in the first civil case and a civil appeal that was taxed at Sh10.4million against the six representatives.The company further lodged a notice to show cause against the applicants and further obtained a warrant of arrest against them basing on the High court ruling on execution delivered on September 2017. The six however wrote a letter to the Chief Justice David Maraga following their warrants over the orders by the court to have them arrested for failing to appear in court and for not paying the Sh10.4 million taxed costs. In a letter dated January 16, 2018, the applicants were seeking for urgent intervention of the CJ and claimed that the matter had been in court since 1992.They explained to Justice Maraga that they were awarded a judgement in their favour and the cost given to Kenya airways but it was appealed in 2002 and the award was reversed. "The defendant KQ went for taxation in 2009 which the aggrieved ex staff appealed to be heard by the Supreme court through court of appeal on April 11, 2014 and then 2016 but since certification to Supreme court is required, our matter has not reached your chamber and this is what is delaying our case", the six representatives said in the letter. They requested the CJ to intervene as they claimed they filed an application to stop their arrests and obtained orders and their matter is of public interest. "It is injustice to put the six in civil jail in an illegal manner and our reason to write the letter to your office is for your intervention and direction as the 960 ex staff are sickly starving and old to the extent that the litigation must come to an end for them to enjoy the fruits of the judgement which is 17 years old", the letter reads. They urged the CJ to certify their application and ensure justice is done to the ex employees as it is the key mandate of judiciary. The case in court will be mentioned on July 26 for highlighting of submissions.