The government’s Big Four agenda is likely to suffer if a raft of proposed tax changes are enacted, tax experts have said. The changes, included in the Income Tax Bill 2018 and The Tax Laws amendment Bill 2018 are aimed at addressing the budget deficit and reducing the national debt. The Income Tax Bill seeks to increase tax rates for companies earning a profit above Sh500 million and individuals earning at least Sh750,000 a month. The Tax Laws Amendment Bill seeks to move some items from zero rate to exempt in order to limit zero rating to exports. The latter also seeks to enhance tax incentive for home ownership. PKF Kenya has, however, said the proposed tax Bills require changes to meet the development agenda of the government which is pegged on attaining universal healthcare, increasing the manufacturing bracket, providing affordable housing and attaining food security. “The bill is relatively progressive and points to the right direction, however, it has failed to recognise that the Big 4 Agenda is transient in nature,” Michael Mburugu, a partner with PKF said on the Income Tax Bill. HIGH FOOD COST Specifically, under the agenda on food and nutrition security, Mburugu said exempting tax on zero-rated products will automatically lead to an increase in the cost of food. “When you make goods exempt, the manufacturers cannot claim their input VAT which will see them put it in the pricing mechanism. That means an exempt item is going to be more expensive than a zero-rated item”. He said the same will be reflected in the fourth agenda which aims at attaining universal healthcare. In a letter to the clerk of the National Assembly, Kenya Association of Pharmaceutical Industry said proposals by the bill to exempt pharmaceutical products that are zero-rated will adversely affect the cost of healthcare in Kenya. The lobby said VAT exemptions will lead to an increase in cost of medicine by almost 40 to 60 per cent thus negatively impacting the agenda on affordable healthcare. PKF said introduction of a 35 per cent corporate tax on all firms with annual income of more than Sh500 million is scaring away investors. It said this is a threat to the achievement of the manufacturing agenda.