Nairobi County Assembly Clerk will now be grilled by the City MCAs over some expenditures and financial transactions at the assembly which have been flagged by the Auditor General. On Wednesday, Ngwele failed to appear before the the Public Accounts Committee and was instead represented by an accounting officer ,Fred Macharia. Macharia told the committee the clerk was on leave and he could not attend the scheduled meeting. However, the Committee requested to be provided the letter indicating that the clerk was on leave , but was not issued out. According to Wilfred Odalo, who is the PAC chairman, the committee wants to question the clerk over irregular transfer of sh 45 million under the car loan scheme fund to various accounts for for unexplained purposes. The transfer was done without the approval of the executive member for Finance and against Section 116 (3) and (4) of the Public Finance Management Act. The cash was transferred on various dates between August 8, 2016 and May 26 2017. Odalo also pointed out that the watchdog committee had queries on the payment of the MCAs allowance for the financial year 2016/2017. " It is alleged that around Sh 780,000 was actually paid to member of the county assembly and yet there was no supporting documents of the allowance," said Odalo. The clerk first appeared before the committee last week by but he was not well prepared according to the PAC chair. "It was a bit disappointing that he was supplying members his submission at the meeting, so we decided to postpone the meeting ," said Odalo. On Wednesday, the chairman warned that the committee will prepare its final report on the Auditor General's findings without the Clerk's input if he fails to show up next week. On Monday The Nairobi County Public Service Board asked speaker Beatrice Elachi and the clerk to step aside following issues in the procurement of the speaker’s house. The board resolved that since both the speaker and clerk were involved in the matter being investigated by the Director of Criminal Investigations, they should step aside until the probe is over. The two have fallen out over the purchase of the Speaker's residence in Karen. The clerk has accused the Speaker of trying to influence on who the assembly should buy the house from, claims vehemently denied by Elachi. The speaker on the other hand invited DCI office to investigate what she has described as suspicious expenditures at the assembly.