The first time I met a good
writer was back in primary school. This was decades ago so I’m a little fuzzy as
to whether I was in standard five or six. The good writer I’m referring to was a
classmate, who for legal reasons we’ll refer to as Sam, which is of course not
his real name. Sam was way ahead of his time
as far as writing fiction is concerned, and nobody in that class knew it; not
me, not the English teacher, not even Sam himself. So this is what happened. Our
English teacher comes to class one day and tells us we’re going to write a
composition (an essay). The assignment was one of those where the teacher
writes an opening sentence on the blackboard, and then the students take it
from there; writing a story that is related to the sentence on the board. On
this occasion, the output that was expected from us was three full pages of
story, starting with the sentence… ‘It was raining cats and dogs.’ A few days go by, and in
enters the English teacher with our compositions. She was livid. It turns out
that everyone in the class, except for one student, wrote the story that was
expected. That one exception, the reason the teacher was simmering with fury,
was Sam. Apparently, Sam had taken the idiom ‘it was raining cats and dogs’ literally,
and following that thought process, he had gone on to fill, not three, but five
pages of story. Back then, mollycoddling young
students wasn’t something teachers did, and so to correct Sam by embarrassing
him, the English teacher read out Sam’s composition, to the laughter of the
entire classroom. It was vicious, and to this day, I can still see that boy
wilting at his desk. What I realise now, years
later, is Sam had stumbled onto what a good story looks like. The rest of us,
the crowd, thinking we were oh so clever, we laughed. Compared to Sam’s story,
everyone else’s story was rubbish. We wrote crap about umbrellas, gumboots, and
mud. There was slipping and falling and the loss of favourite umbrellas, yanked
from our grip by the gale. But Sam’s story, here’s an abridged version: Cats and dogs are falling
from the sky. The downpour of pets is so heavy it gets into the house through
the roof and in every window. Cats hissing and dogs growling everywhere, Sam’s
family is in a panic. Sam’s dad though steps forward as protector, he gets a
panga, the rest of family following his lead, grab a utensil or a home
appliance to fight off the attacking animals. Injuries are sustained in the
fight for survival – a dog bite here, a scratch there that cuts so deep it will
need stitches later, when it stops raining dogs and cats. And finally, a family
victory over the feral mutts and felines from the sky. That story had everything going
for it; blood, guts, action, terror, and even a hero – Sam’s dad. It was exciting,
different; a fresh perspective on what was, even back then, an overused phrase,
a cliché. But here’s the thing that
impresses me most about Sam now that I’m older, wiser, and I write. At that
young age, Sam did what good writers do. He made his words evocative, and
that’s what words in a story are supposed do – bring to mind strong images and
feelings.   