The county government has put on hold market projects worth Sh293 million for lack of funds. The suspended projects are the Sh20 million reconstruction of burnt market stalls in Karen, rebuilding burnt stalls at City Park market costing Sh251 million and the rehabilitation of Shauri Moyo- Burma market at Sh21.9 million. A report tabled by the county committee on Trade says the development budget is limited. The decision will affect the livelihoods of many traders who rely on the markets and deny the city revenue. Trade executive Allan Igambi told the Star yesterday the contractors would be paid for work already done in the markets. “We are aware that some of the contractors in the financial year 2016-2017 were not fully paid but in the coming 2018-2019 year and the county will ensure all contractors will be paid,” said Igambi. “All these have been considered in the 2018-2019 budget,” he added. Chairman of the Trade committee Charles Thuo said funds allocated for development are small and this is a major challenge for markets. “If the sector does not have sufficient funds to cater for development, not much can be achieved, “ Thuo said. “We are looking forward to the new financial year and hoping funds allocated will be enough for various development projects,” he added. However, some projects under trade are going on, like the Kangundo Road market and New Wakulima market in Embakasi West. Kangundo Road market is a Sh800 million project which will accommodate over 4,000 traders to help decongest county markets and increase city residents’ access to quality and affordable food. City Hall intends to have an additional 20 large retail markets in the next two years to ease pressure on existing facilities. The move is expected to provide extra trading space to get rid of hawkers in the city centre. The cost of the proposed markets will become clear once tendering begins. The new facilities will be constructed by the county government in partnership with the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Partnership between the chamber’s Nairobi chapter and the Business Advocacy Fund led to drafting of the Markets and Infrastructure Bill to address the problem of shortage of retail space in the capital. According to the draft 2018-2022 County Integrated Development Plan, Nairobi has 20 open-air markets and 23 large markets. Physical planning statistics show there should be a market for every 25,000 people. Based on this, Nairobi needs 126 more markets. Development of the sector in the next financial year targets better enforcement of by-laws prohibiting hawking in undesignated areas, rehabilitation of existing markets and reduction of license fees.   