Governors have blamed Treasury for their failure to fulfill the public participation requirement in their decision making and governance activities. Due to lack of funds, most counties have been unable to comply with the mandatory public participation, leading to litigation against county governments. "The Commission on Revenue Allocation has recommended, for the last two financial years, inclusion of funds for public participation in the equal share for county governments through the Division of Revenue Bill," Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said yesterday. Presenting the fifth Status of Devolution report flanked by 21 governors, Nanok said the proposal has been frustrated by Treasury. "Citizen engagement efforts have been hindered by a lack of dedicated county resources and has resulted in unnecessary litigations,"  he said. Public participation is mandatory in many county government processes, without which they are invalid. They include budget making, initiation and implementation of projects, legislation, appointment to officers, procurement of goods and services among others. Most counties have only conducted cosmetic sittings to comply, while the public has largely shunned the processes for lack of incentives. The 47 county assemblies represented by the Society of Clerks at the Table last month requested the Senate to increase their Sh31 billion allocation by another Sh2.1 billion in the 2018-19 financial year starting July 1. Of the sum, Sh225 million was to be spent on public participation activities. The Senate Finance and Budget Committee chaired by Senator Mohamed Mohamud (Mandera), however, slashed the amount to Sh1.7 billion included in the County Revenue Allocation Bill 2018 passed by the House last week. Busia Senator Amos Wako is also sponsoring a Bill in the Senate that could see county residents involved in the management of county governments through public participation. The Public Participation Bill, 2018, seeks to provide a mechanism to facilitate effective and coordinated public participation. "Public participation processes are different in all institutions and therefore the Bill recognizes these differences and designates responsible authorities for purposes of developing the specific guidelines and offering oversight for public participation," reads part of the Bill. The governors were presenting to the country the report of the milestones of devolution in the past five years. Nanok, also the Turkana county governor, said a comprehensive and coherent policy setting standards and coordination mechanisms for public participation between the county and national governments should be put in place. "The policy should clarify the respective roles of the national and county governments in regards to civic education, the implementation framework of public participation on concurrent functions and how counties and citizens engage the statutory intergovernmental structures," Nanok said. The intergovernmental bodies include the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee, the Summit, the Council of Governors, and the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council chaired by Deputy President William Ruto. Involving the public in decision making by both levels of governments is a constitutional requirement and, the governors proposed, the process be conducted separately, in a collaborative manner, while adhering to the principle of separation of power. The chairman noted that the adoption of the Participatory Budgeting Framework by counties has led to an increase in members of the public taking part in decision making. "We have seen an increase in in the participation of persons with disabilities in the counties while women's participation in West Pokot county has increased from a meagre 11 per cent to now 35 per cent of the participants," Nanok said. The counties have received Sh1.25 trillion from the state since 2013, which the governors say counties have used to realise tremendous achievements despite growing challenges. "We can categorically say county governments have continued to prioritize service delivery even though we still experience challenges with the high wage bill," Nanok said. The bloated workforce has meant counties spend more on recurrent costs such as salaries and personnel emoluments at the expense of development. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich was put on the spot over delayed release of county funds, hence affecting implementation of projects. Instituting measures to cut overspending on recurrent expenditure and adopting innovative strategies to increase counties' local revenue collection will increase the budget allocation for development programmes, according to Nanok. He expressed optimism that allocation for development by all counties will be about 40 per cent on grounds that the funding has been on a “positive trajectory” since devolution. County governments still lack parent legislation on the revenues they intend to collect as well as identifying fully their revenue potential,” he said. However, Nanok noted that counties have improved in their local revenue collections to supplement allocations they receive from state ministries and departments as national shareable revenues to fund various programmes. He revealed that governors are holding talks with the Treasury on a draft County Enhancement Revenue Policy to help counties enhance local revenue collection once implemented. The governors also flagged poor connectivity in using the state's Integrated Finance Management and Information System (IFMIS) when carrying out transactions as a contributor to huge pending bills. "Problems associated with the IFMIS and e-procurement systems have contributed to huge pending bills in counties and we hope they will be addressed for us to continue discharging our duties well," Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said. THREAT The governors also complained about failure by some state institutions to implement decisions by the intergovernmental relations forums, which they said is a threat to the relationship between the national and county governments. They demanded that the national government involve counties tackle insecurity in counties. "Governors cannot be left out on some security issues affecting the counties such as banditry. There is no way we are going to discuss security and the Nyumba Kumi initiative in this country without involving governors," Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia said. The State of Devolution report covers all devolved functions. On the health sector, the governors moaned about shortage of health workers, which is far below the World Health Organisation's minimum ratio of 23 doctors, nurses and midwives per 10,000 population in delivery of maternal and child health services. The county governments intend to carry out a survey to establish the exact number of health workers. "There is need to ascertain the correct number of doctors employed by county governments, and indeed the correct status of the total health workforce in counties," Nanok said. The debt counties owe medical services suppliers should be cleared to avoid a possible crisis in the health sector, he said. Click here for more political news