One day, I visited Kibera. I had gone with a group of friends for community service. Then, I live in Kilimani. When I got home, I thought of the severe poverty I saw at Kibera. My Kibera experience reminded me of a key wealth principle. And it started with a simple thought: the difference between Kibera and Kilimani is Ngong road. Ngong road separates two different ways of thinking. On one side is poverty and on the other is wealth. And all you have to do is cross the road. Kibera is a way of thinking; Kilimani is a way of thinking. Someone in Kibera can decide to cross over and it’s possible for someone in Kilimani to cross over into Kibera. It depends on how you decide to think. In their bestselling book, The Millionaire Next Door: The Surprising Secrets of America’s Wealthy, Thomas Stanley and William Danko, wrote about the thinking and habits of American millionaires. They researched how these wealthy people think. They found three top characteristics. Let me explain. The wealthy lived well below their means: Naturally, when people start making more money, their expenses quickly rise to meet their income. Some of these people feel that they must display their change of status by instantly changing their lifestyle. Eventually, they find themselves struggling financially after a short while. But the wealthy maintain a healthy gap between what they earn and what they spend. This thinking and discipline helps them build and sustain wealth. The wealthy prioritize financial independence over high social status: Do you want to look rich or be wealthy? Poverty mentality focuses on looking good and rich while the reality says otherwise. Social media encourages this thinking. So, you can look great on Instagram with a poor bank balance and still give a ‘rich’ impression. The wealthy think differently. They have more value for being wealthy than looking rich. They have the substance and they’re satisfied. Looking rich isn’t the goal. Being wealth is. The wealthy put in the time and effort into building wealth: It is your responsibility to build wealth; you don’t leave it to someone else. The wealthy find the principles that ensure wealth creation and apply them. One of such principles is value for time. Wealth is easy. It’s thinking. You can decide to move from poverty by changing the way you think. Plug into wealth thoughts and you will begin to see wealth results. It’s that simple. You can cross Ngong road any time. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com   