Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said he is ready for a lifestyle audit, days after President Uhuru Kenyatta declared that state officials must undergo this. Raila noted on Tuesday that audits are good for his ODM party and Kenya. "I am ready for it. We are no longer whistle-blowers. We will work with the government to execute the war against corruption," he told a delegates meeting in Mombasa County on Monday. He added: "We remain in the Opposition and take the position that what is good for Kenya is good for ODM. A lifestyle audit is good for Kenya. We are in it fully." Uhuru ordered the National Intelligence Service to audit public servants, including him and Deputy President William Ruto. He said all state officers will be asked to explain the sources of their wealth and that all those found to have plundered public coffers will be punished. More on this: Uhuru orders lifestyle audit of state officers, says will take lead, Ruto to follow Also read: Kenyatta: Ruto and I to face lifestyle audit Raila asked the government to hire international audit firms and experts to boost the war on graft. ODM is apprehensive that local authorities might be compromised. Raila noted that a foreign firm helped unearth the Anglo Leasing scam. "Corruption is on the rise, figures are mind-boggling, suspects are high and mighty," he said. The Opposition leader also pointed out that corruption cartels are using alarm bells to shield themselves from prosecution. "They politicise the war on corruption and scare the government [by claiming] we are agents of foreign masters," he said. "ODM GROWING STRONGER" Raila further allayed fears of a crisis in his party, following reports that the meeting was called urgently to discuss its future. There had been confusion about its cohesion, the handshake', Raila's plans for 2022 and what to do about Ruto's inroads in opposition turfs. More on this: Raila calls urgent meeting over ODM's future plans Also read: Expert comment: Raila’s 2022 run would ruin the handshake At the gathering, the party leader told delegates that there was no need to panic as the gathering had been overdue. "This is not an emergency meeting called to respond to some imaginary issues. It is a normal meeting. This party is not in panic mode. ODM is strong and growing stronger," he said. The ODM boss, however, touched on the elections, noting the meeting came after they campaigned but refused to take part in the repeat presidential poll that the Supreme Court ordered. "[IEBC] had refused to level the playing field and deal with irregularities and illegalities pointed out by the Supreme Court. The servers were open ... we saw the result of the the elections," he said. As a result, he explained, they had three options - to take part in the repeat poll, go for mass action or choose dialogue. "There were threats for my arrest and treason charges. There were two issues - treason and declaring sovereignty. Because of this, I thought it better to begin dialogue," he said. NO 2022 TALK The party leader further said that if anyone in the party wants to talk, it should not be about 2022 but the Big Four agenda on affordable housing, manufacturing, food security and universal healthcare. Kenyans are tired of the type of politics that gives room for corruption, he said, adding: "Kenyans should refuse to be distracted by politics of succession." Raila told the public not to worry about those politicking now as "they will find themselves behind" when the election period begins. He noted that his MoU with Uhuru was aimed at ending the divisive politics that gripped the country after the August 8, 2017 polls. Regarding opponents of the handshake, he said they are out to create confusion. "They embrace the handshake, fight against corruption and unite in the morning while at night they oppose it. ODM is not in that league," he said. At the meeting, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho also assured that the party was strong. He said ODM will field a candidate the 2022 presidential race and that it will form the government. “We have a lot of work [to do] to galvanise the party at mashinani level,” Joho said. Related: Miguna rebukes preachers of 'artificial peace', says Raila a coward Also read: Alfred Mutua to spend Sh18 billion on 2022 race against 'big boys like Ruto' Click here for the latest political news