The Kikuyu have a proverb that says, “GÅ©tirÄ© nyoni njega mwere-inÄ©”, which literally means no bird can be trusted near millet. Millet is one of the staple crops of the Kikuyu and is used to make fermented porridge. Porridge was a very important drink, especially for Kikuyu warriors and hunters. Therefore, millet would not be left to dry without someone watching over it because of the birds – both domestic and wild. Even when it was out in the field before it was harvested, Kikuyus would watch it closely so it would not be destroyed by the birds. So the Kikuyu, to date, protect millet from birds by building pulpit-like huts in which boys or women stand to frighten away birds as it ripens. I know many are asking themselves why this matters. Well, our taxes are our millet that needs to be safeguarded if we are to prosper as a country. If we are to get better roads, better healthcare, a better education for our children, jobs for our youth and eradicate poverty, we should ensure that our taxes are safe and being well utilised. In the last month, our focus has been on the national government, with the National Youth Service scandal that has seen at least 30 people arraigned in court, and the investigations at Kenya Power and the National Cereals and Produce Board. We must laud the President and all the investigative and prosecutorial agencies for working together to ensure that the suspects face the legal justice system, even as we wait to recover what was lost. We wait for the Judiciary to play its part as various other state agencies and parastatals continue to clean up their houses by disciplining staff who may have acted in any improper way. However corruption seems to have been devolved as reports from most counties point to a fleecing frenzy, despite annual audit queries to check this blatant looting of the public purse. There is hardly a county assembly left that has not had a stand-off over looting in some form or other. Surely, this is not the covenant we as leaders made with the Kenyan voter! Focus should now start to shift to the counties and the President himself must lead this purge. The counties have become dens of corruption; with some Finance departments said to be in an eating spree. All this is because there has not been as much scrutiny at the counties as has been with the national government. County audits get forgotten at times due to the fact that at any one time, we have to deal with all 47 of them. The Auditor General must do more impromptu audits aimed at ensuring that the counties hold their end of the bargain in protecting the millet from being eaten by birds. Senators must also enhance their oversight role and ensure that no money is lost or wasted at the counties. Residents in each county must also be able to ask their governments how they are utilising the billions received from National Treasury as well as the county revenue collected locally. Some county officials, especially those whose governors are in their first term, are focused on enriching themselves using public funds. Some governors are colluding with MCAs to pass budgets that are not easy to scrutinise. They must be stopped. The President should now lead the charge to the counties to end corruption. He should remember what he said in his State of Nation address in March 2015, “Corruption is to the economy and the nation at large what cancer is to the human body. It disgraces and debases a nation. Therefore, corruption must go.” A few birds that do not work hard for the harvest cannot eat our millet. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda   