Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday defended President Uhuru Kenyatta's brother Muhoho against claims that he imported sugar into the country. Muhoho Kenyatta didn't import a single grain of sugar, he said. Without naming names, Kiunjuri said Aldai MP Cornelius Serem appeared to be acting on behalf of someone on Tuesday when he singled out Muhoho in the sugar saga. Serem sensationally picked out Protech Investment Limited owned by Muhoho Kenyatta from a list of companies tabled before Parliament in connection with massive sugar imports. He said the company of importing more than 180,000 tonnes. "He thinks drawing in the name of the President or his family members will intimidate and weaken the resolve we have in the fight against corruption. Hata asimame juu ya miti ama mlima (Even if he shouts from the rooftop), the war is on and we will remain emboldened. What we see is corruption fighting back and he might be acting on behalf of someone," Kiunjuri said. Deputy President William Ruto's allies, including Leader of Majority Kipchumba Murkomen and Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi, have opposed President Kenyatta's calls for a lifestyle audit of major public officers, starting with him and Ruto. The DP has accepted the audit but says it must be fair and not selective. Yesterday Kiunjuri, who was accompanied by top ministry officials, dismissed Serem's claims and said Muhoho did not import any sugar. He said invoking or dragging the names of members of the First Family into ongoing saga was a ploy to derail the fight against contraband goods and contaminated goods. Read:Uhuru's brother did not import any sugar, says CS Kiunjuri "In this war against corruption, which we all support, we must avoid politicising it, settling scores, maligning others, misrepresenting reports, and misleading Kenyans by deliberately distorting information by misusing the privileges of the offices we hold," Kiunjuri said. The war on corruption has opened cracks between the President's and Ruto's allies. The DP's lieutenants are getting jittery and suspicious that the corruption war and purge are targetting the DP and designed to undermine him and his bid for State House in 2022. According to documents tabled in the National Assembly by the Cabinet Secretary, Protech was listed among 370 companies licensed to import sugar. "In fact, the sensational claims by the Member for Aldai that the company he chose to single out of the list of 370 registered for brown and mill/white sugar importation as having imported under investigation is not only false, misleading, malicious but also mischievous. "At no time did the company mentioned import a single grain of sugar. In fact, the company Protech Investment Limited has never imported any type of sugar," Kiunjuri said. The CS expressed surprise that Protech was appearing in the list, though the owner had applied for registration to import sugar in 2011 and had not received any communication. But he could not satisfactorily explain why then the list was submitted to Parliament with the Protech as one of the companies even though it was not fully registered and had not imported any sugar. He blamed the mix-up on the Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) whose sugar directorate vets and registers sugar importers. "I will not leave the office today (Wednesday) until the authority explains and clarifies why the name of the company was on the list, whereas the company had applied for registration in 2011 and had not received any communication from the authority," he said. His comments were in answer to questions about why he they handed over the list without perusing and verifying its contents. Kiunjuri pledged to protest to Parliament over what he termed an attempt by some members to abuse House privileges. Of the companies registered to import sugar, Kiunjuri said 48 were registered as importers of white refined sugar for industrial use. The companies included Kenya Breweries Limited, Nairobi Bottlers Ltd, GlaxoSmithKline and Wrigley Co East Africa Limited, among others. Those registered to import brown sugar for confectioneries and cattle feed included Jambo Biscuits Ltd, Premier Cookies Ltd, Kenblest Ltd and Kifaru Feeds Limited. The CS appeared evasive when asked where Brookside Dairies, a company owned by the President's family, sources its sugar. Kiunjuri was also not clear on reports of sugar contaminated with mercury, how the sugar came to contain mercury and if unbagged sugar was contaminated during transport in unclean open vessels also transporting fertiliser and coal from Brazil. Also Read:CSs Rotich, Adan, Kiunjuri, in blame game over bad sugar Click here for the latest political news  