A Zambian parliamentary delegation is in Kenya to learn how to effectively fight corruption. The committee on Privileges, Absences and Support Services visited EACC commissioners at Integrity Centre in Nairobi to learn how the agency has been spearheading the war on graft. The delegation of eight MPs arrived over the weekend and held its first meeting with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission on Monday. "This is a study tour by our colleagues from the Zambian National Assembly. We are sharing experiences on fighting corruption and promoting ethics," EACC commissioner Mwaniki Gachoka said. "We are fighting corruption through many strategies. One of the is law enforcement - investigating cases and recommending them to the DPP." Garry Nkombo, who is leading the foreign delegation, said they were studying best practices in managing corruption in governance. Nkombo said they will also share their experiences and the problems they have encountered in the fight against the vice and processes in whistle-blowing and prosecution of suspects. "We recognise the fact that corruption does exist and want to learn how Kenya has been dealing with it. It is generally agreed that corruption cannot be fought with kids' gloves," Nkombo said. "We are here to learn how the EACC is managing it, bearing in mind that those who engage in corruption remain very powerful and with the mandate to look after the aspirations of the people they govern." Kenyan officials and anti-corruption agencies have been on the spot over corruption scandals in organisations including the National Youth Service (Sj9 billion), the National Cereals and Produce Board (Sh1.9 billion), Kenya Pipeline Company (Sh95 billion), and the National Irrigation Board. President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned that nobody who is found guilty will go unpunished while the Judiciary has asked agencies and investigators to provide evidence sufficient for convictions. More on this: [VIDEO] Corruption cases a priority, evidence must be watertight - Maraga Also read: Expert comment: EACC must make cases water-tight Related: NYS lead investigator Julius Muia dropped after damning affidavit Click here for the latest political news