Disbanding the EACC will not help the war on corruption, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has said, amid calls for this to be done as Kenya haemorrhages cash. Wandayi, who is also Public Accounts Committee chairman, wants the government to take steps to recharge the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. He differed with a section of legislators who said they will push for the disbandment of the agency for failure to tame the vice. "An institution is as good as its leadership. If the leader fails, it's good to consider another person, not to disband the institution." The Ugunja MP said that now that Auditor General Edward Ouko's tenure will end in a year, he might be right person to head the EACC. "EACC chair Eliud Wabukala was my archbishop. He is a good man in spiritual nourishment but perhaps he was given a responsibility way above his capacity," the MP said. Wandayi said new tactics are needed for the war on graft to be successful. "It is time to support all institutions constituted to fight corruption," he said on Saturday and asked parliamentarians to allocate more moneyto the EACC, the Attorney Genera's office and other such organisations. "Leaders must make concerted efforts in the war against graft and tame divisive politics of defending culprits in the pretext of 'this belongs to our tribe'." He spoke at the funeral of Ouko's mother in Ugunja, flanked by Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo. Wandayi further asked leaders to fight corruption with no regard for personal interests. He and Odhiambo pledged to ensure the 12th parliament goes down in history as the house that combated corruption in totality. Odhiambo said President Uhuru Kenyatta should continue taking bold steps in the the fight on graft "by asking people like [Health Cabinet Secretary] Sicily Kairukito step aside". "There should be no selective approach in the fight against graft," the Gem legislator noted. Kariuki's impeachment motion was dropped in March. Majority Leader Aden Duale said the House leadership resolved to handle the matter internally as the issues raised against the CS did not amount to gross violations of the Constitution. The MPs had accused the CS of unprocedural suspension of KNH CEO Lilly Koros, arrogance and disrespecting them. Details: Health CS Sicily Kariuki survives censure motion Also read: Uhuru moves to shield Sicily Kariuki from impeachment Corruption probes that are underway include the Sh6.8 billion Hazina Towers project with inflated construction costs, the Sh55.6 billion irregular tendering for Jomo Kenyatta International Airport's new terminal through the Kenya Airports Authority and the Sh15 billion police CCTV system. Public entities in focus include the National Social Security Fund, Kenya Pipeline Company, National Cereals and Produce Board, Geothermal Development Company, Kenya Power and KenGen. Uhuru told those found guilty that they will pay the price. More on this: Parasatals in eye of a storm as Uhuru escalates war on corruption Also read: You'll rot in jail, Uhuru tells corrupt public servants Click here for the latest political news  