Over
the years, Father’s Day has carried so much hope for me: to know my father,
understand him, learn from him and love him. This hope has since been
shattered and this year, I am packing it away. In
March, family and friends gathered to celebrate my father’s 46th birthday and short visit to Kenya from the United States, where he
lives. He treated his guests to a frivolous surprise: his 22-year-old
concubine. On
that day, mother drove me and my younger sister to my grandmother’s house in
Ngong Hills. This was the venue of the party. Following closely was my mother’s
cousin, let us call her aunt Jane, and her husband. Earlier on, I had told my
mother how every time I met my grandmother, she complained about us forgetting her.
Consequently, we stopped by Karen shopping centre and bought gifts for her and
the birthday man. We
arrived in the evening and found all my father’s sisters and their children
present. None live in Kenya but them flying in for the party was no surprise
since my father was the last born. My mother had not seen some of them ever
since her relationship with my father ended 17 years ago, but smiles were
managed and hugs extended. The party was everything father had promised: plenty
of food, club bangers from the 90s, variety of beverages and a grand reunion.
A stranger would have found it hard to believe that some of us were meeting for
the first time. Towards 11pm, some of the guests had long transmuted into
dancers and musicians, flowing off-tune and singing absolutely misplaced
lyrics. Sitting on the only couch in the house next to my 22-year-old sister,
let’s call her Diana, looking across the room, I spotted this odd young girl. “Whose
daughter could that be?” I asked myself. Seconds
later, she stood up and approached my father and laid her left hand on his arm then
whispered into his ear. Now she had my full attention! For the next 30 minutes
or so, I watched her like a hawk, noticing her guzzle whiskey, shot after shot. “It
cannot be what I’m thinking. She appears younger than Diana,” I thought to
myself in distress. A
few drinks later, their fondness for each other was what I would call ‘a city
on a hilltop’: it could not be ignored. Anxiety set in. Everyone else was
noticing their theatrics. I
went over to my mother to check temperature. “Enjoying
the party, mum?” I probed, praying she would not ask me a question I would be
too embarrassed to answer. “I’m
okay! If I may ask, who is that girl?” she leaned in and whispered. “I’m
asking myself the same question!” I responded, folding my arms across my chest.
Mother waved at Aunt Rita, my father’s eldest sister, signalling her to head
over. She staggered her way to us and bundled herself next to my mother. “Whose
daughter is that?” mum asked. “That’s
Wendy’s friend, called Judy,” Aunt Rita said. Wendy is my father’s second-born
sister. This
version of the story was believable until a few minutes later, when my father and
Judy disappeared into the corridor that led to the bedrooms. A few minutes
later she appeared wearing his oversize T-shirt. “Is
she that much of a friend to the family?” I asked myself, clutching at my flickering
hope for decency. I
looked across the room to check for Aunt Wendy, only to spot her seated at the furthest
corner of the room alone, fixated on her phone. This is when I knew that Aunt
Rita had fed me and mother a cock and bull story. I recalled a conversation
father had brought up the previous weekend over a nyama choma session about what I would think of him dating a campus
girl. I dismissed him, thinking he had taken one too many. I remembered asking
him why in the world he would want to do that. “A
friend of mine told me it’s the in-thing
now in Kenya,” he said. “You
need new friends,” I responded. He
complemented his question by showing me videos of campus girls wiggling their
behinds like they were auditioning for a dancehall music video. The clips were
taken while at a popular night club in Ngong town. “Siz,
we shouldn’t have come here,” said Diana, interrupting my flashback. I
went over to my mother and told her we were ready to leave. We signalled Aunt
Jane and her husband. My father requested us to drop him and Judy in Ngong
town. My mother refused to give Judy a lift and asked for her to be directed to
Aunt Jane’s car. The next stop was at a lodging in Ngong town, where we dropped
my father and left. A few minutes later, Aunt Jane called my mother to gossip
that they had dropped the girl there as well. Judy had also told them that she
was a university student who had been in a relationship with my father for a
while and had met him at a club in Ngong town. “She
must have been one of the dancers in the video!” I growled within myself,
feeling disgraced and dishonoured. Well,
having a sugar daddy is a big part of the society now, and even settling
comfortably amidst our conversations. I have been one of the master enablers of
this unacceptable social behaviour, enjoying it at conversation level on the
radio shows on my way to work, until it was my turn. This is the harsh reality
of our society today and it has trickled into successive generations. I
call to people of my generation, as we slide into choosing life partners,
pairing for parenthood and preparing to raise men and women of the next
generation, we should know what to stand and advocate for. We must plant the seeds
of wisdom, self-respect and honour needed to find and follow the righteous paths
in life. I
carried the shame with me for a good number of days that followed, but I have
been freed by the power of forgiveness. I believe that this is not an isolated
case, so for me and my ilk, may forgiveness grant you freedom on this Father’s
Day. With
that said, I celebrate all the decent fathers in the world. You are the first
man your daughter ever loved and by your fervent love, every other man has been
chosen in the image of what you taught love to be. The unique lessons that only
you could teach her remain the light through which she guides herself and her
children away from self-sabotaging paths. Kings, Happy Father’s Day!  Whitney
Mwangi is a published author and runs The
Story Book
blog.