Three victims
of a fake AIDS cure created by Gambia's ex-president sued for
damages on Thursday in the first case against Yahya Jammeh to
reach national courts since the former leader fled into exile. The three filed a lawsuit at the High Court in the capital
of Banjul on Thursday, said US-based charity AIDS-Free World,
which helped them gather evidence. Jammeh, whose 22-year rule over the tiny West African
country was marked by accusations of human rights abuses, fled
to Equatorial Guinea last year after losing an election. Ousman Sowe, Lamin Ceesay and Fatou Jatta were among the
first Gambians who joined his HIV/AIDS treatment programme in
2007, where they were forced to give up anti-retroviral drugs
and drink home-made potions that made them vomit. Their health worsened, while others in the programme died. "I believe it is my responsibility to hold Jammeh to
account," said Sowe, a former university lecturer in his 60s. "I knew that one day the real story would be told." People were afraid to criticise the president when he was in
power, the victims said, so doctors and patients publicly
declared that his medicines were working. The programme hampered real HIV/AIDS work in Gambia, which
trails behind other African countries in treatment rates,
according to the UN agency UNAIDS. It also worsened stigma against people with HIV and stripped
them of dignity, said survivors. Sometimes Jammeh would rub
ointment on their bodies in sessions that were broadcast on
television, they told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Afterwards, they lost their jobs and struggled to rent
houses since their faces were recognisable, they said. "Jammeh must pay for what he has done to us," said Ceesay. The victims are seeking financial damages for harm suffered
and a declaration that their human rights were violated, said
Saramba Kandeh, a legal associate at AIDS-Free World. Jammeh will be tried in absentia and can be represented if
he wants, she said. "We want to send a clear message that people living with HIV
are people like us," Kandeh told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The Gambia-based Institute for Human Rights and Development
in Africa and a Gambian attorney are also working on the case. Click here for the latest political news