With corruption increasing in leaps and bounds, reaching a point of bringing down the country, no measure however extreme, should be left untried in eradicating it. The most honest persons must be mobilised to fight it. Given that corruption was partly legitimised through the Ndegwa Commission and public presidential endorsement, never again should a President tell leaders and top civil servants what President Jomo Kenyatta told them: My bird, hide, If you are caught, You are not mine. Since we must apply extreme solutions to extreme problems, let us learn from South Korea on how to eliminate the corruption at the presidential level. To begin with, no person, however highly placed in society and government, should be above the law. As we subject common people to economic crimes laws, so should we subject leaders and top civil servants. If President Uhuru Kenyatta is serious in ending corruption, the people to be investigated should begin with the head of state, the Deputy President, ex-Presidents, cabinet secretaries and other leaders downwards. President Uhuru must fight graft, even if he has benefited from it, not only because it is the moral and right thing to do but also because if allowed, corruption will wipe out his legacy. Like the seven lean cows that ate up seven fat cows in the Bible, President Uhuru’s Big Four of manufacturing, housing, food and healthcare will be eaten up by the big four problems of bad leadership, bad system, corruption and negative ethnicity, to which we only give scant attention. So far, power and high office have granted Kenyan leaders, top civil servants and the rich impunity that guarantees them safety and protection against whatever corruption they commit. In turn, this impunity has created a class of powerful people, who are guaranteed that whatever corruption they perpetrate, they are above arrest and prosecution. This clique not only enjoys impunity but also has power to protect their protégés against accountability. These then are the men and women who live and become billionaires through corruption. They include Presidents, ex-Presidents, ministers, top executives and parastatal chiefs, who are not usually brought to book, other than a few, when they are exposed. The others are protected by their communities and even elected to office. How then can corruption ever end? Tragically, it is impossible to end this menace with the protection of negative ethnicity, which will always protect our own, even when they ruin us. South Korea teaches us that if you do not arrest, investigate and prosecute this class of people, corruption will never stop. Unfortunately for us, even for those we arrest and take to court, we look for ways of setting free. It is, however, important to note that arresting the top brass is not enough. To ensure we hold suspects to account, we must ensure they are investigated, not by those who intend to set them free because they are comrades in graft, but by those who have been vetted and found committed to fighting corruption. Otherwise arresting hyenas to be investigated by other hyenas will certainly guarantee that they are found innocent and set free. To stop graft, those implicated in corruption and arrested should be properly prosecuted and jailed, and whatever monies, lands and property they have stolen are given back to society and to those from whom they had been stolen. Unfortunately, we have problems with judges who have not declared war against corruption like the Italian magistrate, who risked his own life to put the Mafia under lock and key. If Kenyans fight their turf and ethnic wars by letting off corruption, by the time we change course, graft will have wiped out this country. Corruption must be fought when it is old or new. Letting old corruption be because it is not well remembered, will only give incentive to the new corruption. Graft is smelly, whether old or new, to its victims. Only beneficiaries can call corruption old. Finally, we are hardly serious with this war, if traffic officers are collecting bribes in daylight without fear or shame. If we cannot stop traffic corruption, how then will we handle grand graft?   