The High Court in Migori has ordered the police IG to appear before it after an officer failed to produce a suspect in court. Judge Anthony Murima on Thursday said Joseph Boinnet or his representative should appear in court on June 27. Kehancha police chief Kipsaina Serem failed to produce a missing suspect from the station as ordered by the court on Monday. Daniel Nyamohanga disappeared from the station on January 16 last year. Murima said Boinnet must take responsibility as Serem failed to effect a May 31 order to produce the suspect, either dead or alive, on June 4. Nyamohanga’s wife Rebecca Mwita filed a petition at the court to have him produced. Delivering the contempt of court ruling against Serem, Justice Murima said there is every reason for Boinnet to take the matter seriously. “I am persuaded that the IG must take an active role in this case. This order shall be extracted and be served on the IG personally,” Murima said. Speaking outside the court, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights officer Victor Kamau said Nyamohanga’s disappearance should be explained. The court heard that the suspect was arrested with five others on January 12 last year. Nyamohanga called is wife the same day at around 6pm to tell her he had been booked at Kehancha police station. Rebecca went to see her husband the following day but was not allowed. She, however, saw him on January 14 at around 10am. Nyamohanga was then taken to Kehancha law courts on January 16 but was not arraigned with the others. He was taken back to the cells for reasons that still remain unclear. Rebecca followed him to Kehancha police station where she saw him but was not allowed to speak to him. She again visited the station the following day and saw those arrested alongside her husband. They were taken to court and released but Nyamohanga was not with them. The last time they spoke Nyamohanga mentioned that he had been separated from the rest after he asked the police to give him back the Sh35,000 they took from him when he was arrested. There have been cases in the past of witnesses and suspects going missing while in police custody. In March, security personnel and court staff at the High Court in Kisumu were left puzzled after a woman disappeared moments after being convicted of murdering her husband Martha Auma was found guilty of murdering Jared Ochieng at Kanyakwar village in Kisumu East district in May, 2014.     