If the Pope can accept a gay man, who is anyone else to judge? These are Wanuri Kahiu's sentiments, when expressing her disappointment following the ban in Kenya of the film Rafiki, which she directed. The film revolves around two teenage girls in a relationship. Wanuri was referring to Pope Francis's reported extension of compassion weeks ago towards a gay man, Juan Carlos, who is a survivor of clerical abuse. Carlos said the Pope told him, "God made you like this". The Guardian website quoted Carlos as saying the Pope said, “He told me, ‘Juan Carlos, that you are gay does not matter. God made you like this and loves you like this and I don’t care. The pope loves you like this. You have to be happy with who you are.’” A Catholic from birth, Wanuri says the Church has been receptive, adding that she has had conversations with priests about the reality of LGBT in society. "I had a conversation with a priest who reflected on the words of the Pope who said 'God made you the way you are and God loves you the way you are'." Wanuri's life is governed by three principles - compassion, joy and hope. This is a sharp contrast from the reception Rafiki has received in Kenya. The movie was banned by the Kenya Film Classification Board because of its LGBTQ theme. Rafiki is a film adaptation of the prize-winning short story Jambula Tree by Ugandan writer Monica Arac de Nyeko. The film also depicts political themes. Wanuri says she does not understand why the KFCB banned the film, despite CEO Ezekiel Mutua being the first to speak positively about it after watching it. During an interview on the Jeff and Jalas show on Hot96 FM, Mutua spoke highly of Wanuri and applauded the nomination of Rafiki at the Cannes festival, saying the film was a great story of the realities of life and the challenges young people face with their sexuality. "There is no nudity, cursing, underage drinking or violence in the film," Wanuri says, as she tries to figure out why the film would be banned. She expected the film to be given an 18+ rating because she says adults have the right to watch what they want and make sound decisions. Although Rafiki received no love locally, it has been celebrated abroad and is the first Kenyan film to be screened at the Cannes film festival. It got a standing ovation. Wanuri says Cannes was a wonderful experience. "To have people whose work I have admired in the audience watching my film was a blessing," she says. The people include Ava Duverney - an African American director famous for her work on movies such as Selma and A Wrinkle in Time – Ryan Coogler, Guillermo del Toro, Cate Blanchett and Raoul Peck, who directed I am not your Negro, which was nominated for an Oscar. Some of those against Rafiki have argued that what you consume - physically or mentally (through film or music) - can influence behaviour either negatively or positively. But Wanuri says, "How many cases of violence have there been as a result of watching a movie on violence?" She says the problem with critics is some are quick to pass judgment without facts. Wanuri says there are films depicting themes not prescribed in law - such as treason - but they are still works of art. Wanuri says 18+ year-olds are mature and discerning people able to make decisions on their own. A crusader for inclusion, she says it is wrong to discriminate against anyone on the basis of his or her background, race and likes. She says ignoring issues such as lesbianism does not make them go away. Her belief in compassion comes to the fore again as she talks about the importance of accepting all people as they are. Wanuri points to the stigma people living with HIV-Aids faced in the '90s when no one understood the disease. With information and conversation, people have come to understand it is not a death sentence and people living with the condition should not be discriminated against. "Things started to change when we started to show compassion," she says. In the same way, Wanuri suggests, with information through film and other creative media, people can get to understand what issues LGBTs face. "Everyone has rights." She says her parents are supportive of her although they have not watched Rafiki. When I express surprise that her parents have been unable to get their hands on the film, Wanuri is categorical that because it is banned, she will not give them access to the film illegally. "I have never broken the law and I never will," she says. On making a living out of film and the creative industry, Wanuri laughs off the fallacy that creatives cannot live off their trade. "The third-largest contributor to Nigeria's GDP is film and TV. They have oil, but the third-largest contributor to the economy is film. Hollywood is a whole city whose success is based on the creation of content. There has been a long history and empirical demonstration that film not only brings money as a form of expression, but promotes a country," she says. Wanuri adds film also opens up opportunities to other industries such as fashion design, music and exposes a country as a tourist destination. She says many people who have watched Rafiki abroad have been asking where to get the costumes worn on set. There are some critics who say it is easy to get NGO funding for controversial projects such as LGBTQ rights, but Wanuri dismisses this line of thinking, saying she searched for funding for seven years (the time she took to make the film).  WANGARI MAATHAI One of Wanuri's previous projects is From our Land in 2008, a documentary about Wangari Maathai. She says she was honoured to be part of the project as Maathai had been her hero since childhood. Wanuri says one of the lessons Maathai left her with was we should always fight for compassion and love as well as have a heart of service. Wanuri says her purpose is to serve humanity through film. She also learnt from Maathai that although women can be good supporters of their own, some can be their biggest adversaries. Wanuri is working on her next project, a film adaptation of a book she wrote with Nigerian writer Nnedi Okorafor's called Rusties. It's about a robot traffic cop.  COLONIAL LAWS On being a woman in a male-dominated field, Wanuri says it is a daily battle she faces to be given the respect she deserves. "Women have the right and ability as much as any man to work and live in pursuit of happiness. We should be guaranteeing spaces for women to excel without trying to suppress and belittle them and without being condescending. One of the biggest battles is patriarchy," Wanuri says. "Sometimes men feel they should speak on behalf of women as if they cannot speak for themselves. That, to me, is completely unacceptable." Wanuri says some people in the industry sometimes fail to see her worth, while some men feel threatened by women. A mother of two - a five-year-old girl and three-year-old boy - Wanuri says she has been able to juggle being a career woman, filmmaker and mother because she has a very supportive husband. To the young filmmakers and creatives starting out, Wanuri's message is "just create". She concludes by referring to Cap222 Films and Stage Plays Act and saying it was a colonial law made to suppress Kenyans and should not be the tool used to enforce rules in a democratic nation years later. She said the KFCB should stick within its mandate to classify films. Cap222 provides for controlling the making and exhibition of cinematograph films, for the licensing of stage plays, theatres and cinema.  FACT BOX Wanuri, 38, is an award-winning director, producer and author. Her film - Rafiki - is the first work by a Kenyan to be screened at the Cannes film festival. Cannes is an annual festival held in Cannes, France, which previews new films of all genres, including documentaries from around the world. Founded in 1946, the invitation-only festival is held at the Palais des Festivals et des Congrès. Wanuri is the co-founder of Afrobubblegum, a media company that supports, creates and commissions fun, fierce and frivolous African art. Some of her other work includes the films Pumzi, From a Whisper and The Spark that Unites. From a Whisper fictionalises the terrorist attack on the US Embassy in Nairobi in 1998. Pumzi uses Afrofuturism to demonstrate African-led creativity.