Kenya’s youth stand at 20 per cent of the population, nearly a quarter higher than the global average. The demographic faces tough odds. The 2017 Youth Employment in Kenya Report found that Kenya’s youth unemployment rate is 42 per cent higher than it was in 2000, which is concerning given the overall rate of youth unemployment in sub-Saharan African has decreased by nine per cent in the same period. In any country, the causes of unemployment are complex and multi-faced. In Kenya, it is clear that a significant contributing factor has been the 8-4-4 education system, and inadequate youth programming. When considering the shortcomings of the 8-4-4 system, it is not puzzling that Kenyan youth are facing such high rates of unemployment, as the education system has been wholly inadequate to equip them with the skills the market demands. This is illustrated in the fact that Kenyan youth who only finished primary school are more likely to be employed than those who finished secondary school. When former Education CS Fred Matiang’i implemented a government crackdown on exam cheating in primary and secondary schools, 90 per cent of the 600,000 students who took the KCSE exam scored too low to qualify for university. Fifty per cent of the students that took these exams failed altogether. As Matiang’i said in a speech in December last year, these results reflected the true performance of the students. Before the crackdown, rampant cheating inflated the number of students scoring As and Bs. He referenced students who supposedly scored As in the KCSE, but were failing their courses in university, as an example of this. The education system needed an overhaul. With the implementation of new 2-6-6-3 curriculum and its focus on competency-based education, the number of students struggling to apply what they learned in school to the demands of a real job should reduce. While it is positive that Kenya is already implementing this new curriculum that could change the prospects of the next generation of Kenyan children for the better, a plan needs to be created to address the current generation of Kenyan youth without the skills needed by the market. A good start could be courses teaching basic literacy in areas such as accounting and law so that they can bring something to the table when applying for jobs . Youth programmes that respond to these needs will have the greatest impact on reducing high levels of unemployment. If youth programming is to truly serve Kenya’s youth, it needs to be participatory. Instead of only identifying existing market gaps or tweaking programmes that have already failed, efforts should be made to ask youth what they want. For example, due to its importance in the Kenyan economy, training and jobs in agriculture is often emphasized and heavily funded. This is despite the fact that the Next Generation Kenya 2018 report found unless they own the land themselves, youth do not aspire to work in that field, and view it as a last resort. These same youth instead identified jobs such as starting apps, opening boutiques, and setting up recording studios as work they aspired to do. What they are less sure of, is if they will ever be given a chance. For youth programming to achieve its purpose, it must also be equitable. In the same report, youth cited favouritism and corruption in existing programmes that sidelined them from participation. Ensuring equity requires full transparency in programming, and accountability to all stakeholders. In particular, transparency and accountability to the youth themselves, who also happen to be the most vulnerable, is essential if these programs are to truly show lasting improvements. For youth programming to be equitable, more efforts need to be made to ensure there is equitable access to information. As it stands now many Kenyans are excluded from youth programming simply because they lacked the information required to participate and benefit from programs. Public spaces such as libraries and community centers are essential to providing this platform for Kenyans to fully exercise their rights to access information, which is essential for successful programming. They also provide ideal spaces for youth to access digital training, which is essential for them to compete in the current market space. More courses and programmes that allow them to access training free of charge, and progress at their own pace, are needed. An example of this with tremendous potential is Google’s Digital Skills for Africa, which trains job seekers and business owners on digital skills. There are more than 100 online lessons, which can be accessed online or offline, and after the completion of a session, the user earns a certificate from Google, endorsed by the European Advertising Board. Programmes such as this have the potential to provide youth with much needed skills training, however, if they do not have access to spaces to access this information, such as libraries, many will continue to be excluded.  The writer is a development consultant    