Residents have accused the Nakuru county government of neglecting public cemeteries. They cited Nakuru North and Nakuru South cemeteries, which have not been maintained despite allocations for the works. The Nakuru North Cemetery is overgrown with bushes. Cows and goats graze in the graveyard. Its perimetre wall has collapsed. Rift Valley Council of Elders chairman Gilbert Kabage said it was unfortunate that the county has neglected the cemeteries. “A cemetery is supposed to be the final resting place for the dead. But many bodies are no longer at ease. There should be maintenance and landscaping in the cemeteries,” Kabage said. Thousands of bodies have been buried at the cemetery, which is running out of space. Among the prominent people buried at the cemetery is Lord Egerton, who died on January 30, 1958. He was the fourth and last baron of the Egertons of Tatton. Lord Egerton was the son of Alan de Tatton and Lady Anna Louisia Taylor. He was a pioneer aviator, photographer and filmmaker. He was a frequent traveller and agriculturist who loved architecture. Veteran politician Mark Mwithaga was buried at the cemetery in August 2016. Freedom fighters and former MPs have also been buried at the graveyard. Babu Wood, Nakuru’s first MP,was also buried at the cemetery in 1976. Most of the World War I burials in the cemetery were made in November 1918. There have been 27 Commonwealth burials of World War I and 45 World War II. The Gilgil War Cemetery contains 224 Commonwealth burials from World War II. There is also one World War I burial and 30 non-war graves which are properly maintained. Unlike the other graves, those World war I and II are taken care of by the British government. “It is shameful that the county has neglected the souls in the graves. Years ago, relatives of the World War victims used to come to pay their respects to their loved ones. They decorated the graves before flying back. They no longer come probably due to the county’s neglect of the cemetery,” Kabage said. Youths have asked to be con- tracted to maintain the cemeteries. “The county should contract us because we’re capable,” 21-year-old entrepreneur John Kirogo said. County public health officer Samuel Kingori said the tendering for the construction of the perimeter wall and landscaping was on. “Bush clearing has already started. We will have a contractor to put up a strong perimeter wall and do the landscaping,” Kingori said. Residents have also decried increased crime They said the cemetery has become a forest. Relatives are afraid to visit the graves of their loved one. There are no wardens either. People are often mugged. With space running out, graves are being recycled. “The grave diggers are abusing the rights of the dead because the cemetery was closed two years ago,” Kabage said. The old Nakuru Municipal Ccouncil started the search for a new cemetery in 2011. That search continues. The Naivasha Town Cemetery is already full. Residents are now burying their loved ones at the Longonot and Gilgil cemeteries, which are also running out of space, Kingori said. The cemeteries in Elburgon, Molo and Njoro, are also full. Private developers have put up residential houses around the Nakuru South Cemetery. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the county is seeking 65 acres in Nakuru for a new cemetery. The county has allocated Sh40 million in each of the last three financial years for cemetery land. In 2011, Nakuru was cited by the UN Habitat as one of the fastest- growing and cleanest towns in East Africa.