Gikomba fire survivors on Friday narrated how they survived the blaze as they waited for hours to get help. Peter Angwenyi said he rescued his family from the inferno. He is admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital. “I got startled when I heard my wife scream. I opened the door and saw a fire at my neighbour’s house on the third floor. I live on the fourth floor. There was a lot of smoke coming to my house due to strong wind,” he said. “My family panicked. They wanted to get out of the house. I took my two-and-a-half-year-old son and ran downstairs to look for a way out. I was met with fire so I went back to the house. I could not escape.” Angwenyi said he told his wife to pour some water on the floor to “diffuse smoke”. Read:What ails Gikomba market? Speculation reignited by yet another fire Mattresses from a shop on the third floor caught fire and as the blaze flared it produced a thick black smoke, he said. “I thought of keeping my family safe by pouring water from the containers in the house as we waited for help — or for the worst to happen. But by God’s help, the smoke reduced and my family was out of danger. Unfortunately, I fell unconscious and later found myself in hospital,” Angwenyi said. His three children were treated and discharged, but his wife Winnie and two daughters are still in hospital. Angwenyi said rescuers took their belongings away and he is not sure they will get them back. damp cloth Winnie said they were alerted by her neighbour who woke up early to go to the market. “When she woke up, she saw the fire and started screaming. We woke up. The fire had spread to the first and second floors,” she said. Winnie used a damp cloth to cover her children. “My family and I survived. We were able to stay low in the house from 2am to about 5am when we got help,” she said. Read:Gikomba fires must end, Uhuru says in condolence message Charles Kioko woke up to a house filled with smoke so he ran downstairs. “I ran through the fire from the second floor. I managed to get to the ground floor where I was rescued by good Samaritans. It took about two hours before an ambulance brought me to hospital,” he said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja said the government will foot their medical bill and, where possible, help the victims to reconstruct their lives. Also See:Sonko's unusual silence after Gikomba fire Click here for the latest political news