The Miritini-Mwache-Kipevu road commissioned on Thursday will open up Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties to increased investment. President Uhuru Kenyatta said the road will contribute to the Big Four and help transform lives, especially those of of the youth. Economist Joe Marete said the benefits are already being felt. “Women, youths and persons with disability are now able to put food on the table, thanks to jobs created by the infrastructure projects for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers,” he said. The 10km road cost Sh11.5 billion. It is 22km from Mombasa town and will ease cargo transfer to inland points. This will reduce congestion at the port, making it more competitive. The project was jointly funded by the government and the Japan International Cooperation Agency. Construction began in 2015. The route links the Mombasa port, Moi International Airport, the SGR Mombasa Terminal and the Mombasa-Nairobi highway — to the upcoming Mombasa Northern By-pass.  TRAFFIC JAMS Trucks from the port will no longer use the Changamwe-Jomvu-Miritini, Changamwe-Moi International Airport and Changamwe-Port reitz roads. This will reduce traffic jams that have hurt trade, tourism and economic growth of the Coast region and the country. In May 2016, the World Bank said traffic snarl-ups cost Kenya’s capital Nairobi between $800,000 (about Sh80.89 million) and $4 million (about Sh400 million) in productivity daily.  TOURISM HUB The road is part of the Mombasa Port Area Road Development project, commonly called the Dongo Kundu Bypass. It will link the South Coast to Mombasa and Kilifi counties. Travellers will no longer have to pass through the Likoni Ferry Chanel. “It will facilitate setting up a free trade zone hosting 6,200 sites and accommodating more than 10,000 business units,” Kenya National Highways Authority communications officer Charles Njogu said on Thursday. “The road projects are being hailed by tourism and transport sector players.” The route will also encourage the growth of warehousing and light industries. This is expected to establish the country as a regional trade and tourism hub, he said. Phase two of the project will begin in August and involve construction of the Mwache-Dongo Kundu road. “As we open up Mombasa, we will also be opening up business between us and Japan and other nations,” the President said. In Phase Three, the Dongo Kundu-Kibundani road will be completed to link Mombasa West to the South Coast.