So, who is behind the current push to remove a Cabinet Secretary through a petition in the National Assembly? We are reliably informed that a Jubilee MP from Mt Kenya East, also the chairperson of a departmental committee, is in cahoots with disgraced senior officers at the Kenya Forest Service to bankroll the push. This, after the CS recently plugged their money minting ventures using national natural resources. The CS’s actions reportedly enjoy support from the highest office and the public and, save for it’s nuisance value, the petition is unlikely to see the light of day. AN MP from a county in the former Nyanza province has caused a storm in his constituency over the management of the NG-CDF. The lawmaker, famous for addressing Parliament in ‘broken’ English, recently ordered all headteachers to hand over their school cheque books to the CDF office to confirm if some briefcase companies he had appointed to carry out projects had benefitted. The legislator appointed his close associates as contractors. Owners of the briefcase companies are said to be paying back in kind for the favours. Heavily funded projects valued at more than Sh5 million have been awarded without tendering, raising eyebrows on the integrity of the fund’s management. There have been several complaints against a senior police officer in Makuyu. On Sunday night a Mekina Sacco matatu almost crashed after the man hit and shattered the windscreen of the vehicle with a club. The driver had to struggle to control the vehicle. The policeman went on to break the driver’s window, injuring the driver in the process. Irate passengers restrained themselves and opted to proceed to Makuyu station to report, but police refused to record their statement. After some intervention, the passengers recorded the statement — OB No 40/03/05/18 — and the driver filled a P3 Form. They left the station at 10pm. Now commuters want to know if the police boss, who was using GKB 036C police Land Cruiser, is above the law. A governor from Central Kenya facing an appeal in a petition has gone slow on ferocious attacks against his hitherto opponents. Does he smell trouble ahead of the major ruling later this month? Well, Corridors is aware the governor has been holding a series of nocturnal meetings with various politicians across the county at his official residence in what is now being interpreted as a strategy to neutralise his opponents and shore up his prospects in case of a by-election. Talk of political somersaulting in the face of a looming storm.