This is a clear sign that we have a total collapse of the state. You cannot import poison to kill innocent Kenyans and walk around bragging. As a farmer, those in power should resign so that we can get good people to lead this country. Kenyans want an opportunity to elect leaders who can serve their interests. Worse, we know those in government use the board of management of sugar companies to push for selfish interests. As a result, the boards are killing the same sector they are supposed to defend. As farmers, we suspect that the government wants to use Mumias Sugar Company to bring sugar into the country. It has happened at Webuye with Panpaper and now top officials want to bring in sugar, repackage and sell using Mumias facilities. We are facing state capture of institutions. Cartels have hijacked the state for personal interests. They bankrolled campaigns to compromise voters. They supported presidential candidates to have their way after the polls. As a result, Kenyans elected people with dubious characters. Now the cartels are using their closeness to those in power to steal from Kenyans. They are running businesses in the country and don’t care about government services to the people. The same cartels are confidently smuggling in sugar to recover the money they invested on those they sponsored. The leaders in government should have resigned yesterday for allowing poisonous sugar into the country. They don't have any moral authority to lead us. The confusion by Trade CS Adan Mohamed and Interior CS Fred Matiangi shows the kind of government we have. It seems the Jubilee government has a deliberate policy to impoverish the people of western Kenya. It is hard to explain how a government can exploit a deficit of 300,000 metric tonnes and sanction duty-free imports of more than a million tonnes. They also gave permits to people who are not producers of sugar to import. And furthermore, they allowed them to import sugar laced with poisonous substances not fit for human consumption. They want us in western to remain poor voting robots for people from other parts of the country. They want us to run to them for handouts. We are living in total poverty. We can’t educate our children or treat ourselves. They are now telling us to pay Sh500 to get the NHIF cards and yet they have destroyed our sole livelihood. It is sad. The Rt Reverend (Bishop Emeritus of the Diocese of Mumias) Salalah Okumu spoke to the Star