Lucy Ngirita, one of the suspects in the NYS scandal, was taken to Kenyatta National Hospital yesterday for urgent medical attention. Anti–Corruption Court magistrate Douglas Ogoti gave the orders following an application by lawyer Cliff Ombeta. Lucy is the mother of Ann Ngirita, Jeremiah Gichina and Phyllis Njeri who are all accused of defrauding the National Youth Service in excess of Sh100 million. She is accused of having been paid Sh5.4 million for supposedly supplying canned beans to the NYS. Gichina has sworn an affidavit claiming they were framed by the chief investigating officer. The officer was dropped from the case yesterday. Ombeta said Lucy’s condition deteriorated due to the cold conditions in her remand cell. She has been in remand at Lang’ata Women’s Prison together with other suspects since the night of May 29. “One of the accused persons is actually totally unwell and you can see even from the hands, they are now swelling. She needs urgent medical attention,” Ombeta said. “The kind of treatment she is getting right now at the dispensary at the women’s prison is not sufficient. Her situation is getting worse.” Lucy is the second accused person in the NYS case to be taken to KNH. On the night of May 29, Public Service PS Lillian Omollo was rushed to KNH after she fainted in the middle of court proceedings. She is still admitted at the hospital, although questions have arisen over her prolonged stay. On Sunday, DCI director George Kinoti engaged a private doctor to evaluate her condition. MPs have questioned why prominent suspects always end up in hospital under the pretext of being unwell. They say the suspects collude with hospitals to avoid staying in prison. Kinoti said legal action will be taken against the hospital management and Omollo if the evaluation proves that she is well.  Life in danger Ogoti also ordered prison authorities to provide maximum security to all the suspects in remand over the Sh486 million scam. Gichina on Sunday accused lead investigator inspector Mike Muia of being involved in the scam and asked for protection. Ombeta told Ogoti his client was afraid for his life after “some people”, whom he did not name, informed him that Muia is not “happy with him”. The lawyer made the application a few hours after Muia, in an affidavit, admitted to having a relationship with the Ngiritas. In the affidavit filed at the DPP’s office, Muia denied links to the loss of billions of shillings at the NYS but said he and Gichina   have been friends since 2003. He denied being a signatory to any of the Ngiritas’ business accounts but said he and Gichina on many occasions “would borrow money from each other”. Gichina in his affidavit said Muia is his business partner and they have traded together through his company Jerricathy Enterprises. He asked why the officer is investigating the scam, yet he is deeply involved. Gichina’s affidavit further alleges that Muia has been making sexual advances at her sister Ann and that they fell out after their business dealings went sour. But Muia, who for the first time since May 28, when the suspects were first charged, did not show up in court, said the only time he met Ann was on May 21 at the DCI headquarters. He said he recorded her statement in the presence of four police officers, including two policewomen. “There was no given time that I was alone with Ann Wambere Ngirita, throughout the interrogation and l have never ever made any sexual advances towards her,” Muia said.