The war on corruption has become a disaster; a big letdown. Grand corruption has continued to thrive in our midst, despite the establishment of robust anti-corruption legal frameworks; we have numerous anti-corruption institutions, laws and policies to tackle the vice. However, we cannot speak of instances where the prevalence of graft in public institutions has scaled down. Kenya seems to overly rely on the old ‘catch me if you can’ way of dealing with graft. While this has been known to work in other countries, and even served as a deterrent, it seems to have outlived its time in Kenya. This method, which is anchored in an agent-principal modality, has in fact forged a ‘working relationship’ that has conveniently suffocated the logic behind it. And as a result it has created an environment where corruption is a way of life. In fact, it seems better, easier and safer to be corrupt; corruption exists as a profitable enterprise. In our society it is hard to find someone who is not corrupt. It’s harder to report and investigate corruption. Even worse, corruption is fighting back more viciously than before. We are at a point where corruption is solving most of our problems. This is a position argued for by Dr Maquette and Dr Peiffer, two scholars at the Developmental Leadership Program in the US, who opine that corruption sometimes provide ways of dealing with our deep-rooted social, economic and political problems. At this point it is safe to say that no one, not even the President, can fight corruption. So should we recline in defeat or keep digging? Just recently, in a morning TV talk show, renowned psychiatrist Dr Njenga pressed the need for good behaviour reinforcement. He emphasised the importance of rewarding to reinforce certain actions to influence behaviour. That punishment and reward stimuli can reduce and reinforce behavior respectively. Since punishing graft lords and actors seems near impossible, it is only prudent therefore to reward “clean citizen”. Behaviour reinforcement through rewards is not a new practice but modern-day policymakers seem to have turned a blind eye to it. Today most Kenyan laws and policies, if not all, are focused on punishing the bad and not recognising or even uplifting the ‘good’. Some multinational corporations are recognising the need to reward partners based on good ethical values and integrity. Some have gone ahead to create anti-corruption and ethical compliance programmes that recognise and reward ‘clean enterprises’. These organisations have been instrumental in supporting small and medium enterprises in creating the Anti-Corruption Collective Action (AC-CA) initiative to promote ethical business environment. The underlying objective being to bring companies together, motivating them with business partnerships and networks if they conduct business ethically. So far, the response has been positive. Can this be replicated across the country? I do not know! But it is evident, from the various corruption reports and surveys, that although Kenya has adequate anti-corruption measures, most fall short on the reward scheme component. The measures have not been designed to promote and/or encourage “clean citizenship”, since most, if not all, rely on the old retrogressive penal philosophy of utilitarianism. Utilitarianism advocates punishing offenders for the good of all and to discourage future wrongdoing. A good case is the new Computer and Cybercrimes Act, which stipulates very high penalties and sanctions, running the risk of going the way of all the other laws. Before it was the Bribery Act, 2016, which borrows heavily from the Bribery Act of the United Kingdom, but which only redefined bribery and extended its legal scope. Borrowing from the business sector, we should introduce a reward system for “clean citizens”. Kenyans are eager to reward "clean citizens". Recently, a matatu tout returned Sh30,000 to its owner. For this good deed he has been recognised and has received financial rewards from well-wishers and corporate organisations. The national government should adopt such an idea as opposed to the performance-based strategy. Let us have a “clean county” model where the county that is most anti-corruption compliant gets more national revenue than the others. Economic crimes lecturer at Dedan Kimathi University of Technology and a risk and forensic consultant