National Lands Commission chairman Muhamed Swazuri
has absolved himself from any wrongdoing over the controversial Shs 1.5 billion
Ruaraka land saga.  Swazuri yesterday said due process was followed in
compulsory acquisition of the land where Shs 1.5 billion was paid out to a
private firm.  Speaking at their offices,  the chairman confirmed that the Ethics and
Anti corruption commission (EACC)  has
investigated them over the case and he is ready to defend himself as he poseses
all the facts that will prove their innocence.  "There is nothing to hide.  An investigation is not murder.  We are ready. 
We will give them all the facts, " he said. Six days ago, 
the National Assembly Lands Committee recommended that Swazuri be
investigated over there he case. The committee observed that NLC failed to
conduct public participation that should have e included the two schools that
occupy the disputed parcel of land. "NLC failed to secure the interests of the
government on the land in terms of ensuring that the title documentation in
respect of the land being acquired were delivered to the Registrar and
registered," the report reads in part. But Swazuri yesterday said the money has been paid
out to the person they believe is the rightful owner of the land and they have
seven sources who can confirm the same. 
The owner he said had presented his own claim in which he sought Shs 368
million per acre but after due diligence the commission found it fit to pay Shs
206 million per acre which translates to Shs 3.2 billion.  "I don't understand where the problem is.  We have paid the money to the rightful
owner.  Who is this other invisible  person claiming ownership of the land?.  I challenge you to bring that person here, "
said an angry Swazuri.  Swazuri said the office of the Attorney General also
instructed them to pay the amount as there was no doubt that the land is
privately owned.  So far,  the
commission has paid Shs 1.5 billion to Addison Limited owned by one Francis
Mburu as part of the Shs 3.3 billion compensation. Mburu is to be paid the
amount in full before he surrenders the 13.8 acres of land on which Ruaraka
Secondary and Drive in Primary schools sit.  "There is a perception that this commission
holds Shs 100 billion in a safe somewhere within the building and it dishes out
money to anyone without due diligence. That is not true, "  said Swazuri . "No collusion could have occurred.  We have the records.  I don't see how we will carry a cross thats
not even there, " he added.