Fishermen in Nyanza want President Uhuru Kenyatta to address the row concerning Migingo and other islands when he tours Migori on July 6. Several, who believe the islands belong to Kenya, have complained of harassment by Ugandan security officers. Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town on Wednesday, Lake Victoria Beach Management Unit Chairman Tom Guda said the boundary dispute has cost Kenya a lot of revenue. Guda said frequent arrests of Kenyan fishermen by Ugandan security officials keep the community from fishing. “Fishing contributes a lot to the economic growth of people around Lake Victoria," he noted. Kenya and Uganda have being at loggerheads over the ownership of Migingo Island. Several reports of harassment have been made, one concerning the arrest of several APs and another the closure of a nursery school. The security personnel argue Migingo is within Uganda's waters. Read: Three Kenyan APs arrested by Ugandan police over Lake Victoria fishing Guda said: “The President should use the opportunity to address the matter so the relationship between Kenya and Uganda is not weakened." The chairman also asked Uhuru to consider opening a farm for fishing communities in counties bordering Lake Victoria. “Homa Bay had Capital fish processing factory but it collapsed. Fishermen also want roads for easy transportation of fish from beaches,” he said. Uhuru is expected to tour with Opposition leader Raila Odinga and his Tanzanian counterpart John Magufuli. They are to meet fishermen from Mihuru Bay in Nyatike, Migori County. Read: Uhuru to make maiden Nyanza visit on Friday The fishermen also appealed to the President for a lasting solution on the resurgent water hyacinth. “The weed impede transport in the lake. It also lowers volumes,” Guda said. The chair said that his meeting with BMU leaders resolved to look into ways of resolving conflicts between Kenyan fishermen and Ugandan officers. “We thought it unwise to continue having conflicts with our neighbors. We resolved to establish a hotline for complaints. Guda added that they will keep records of fishing boats and gear for easy identification. Click here for the latest political news