More than 20 former and current senior Nandi county staff sought in a corruption probe have gone into hiding since their colleagues were arrested. Anti-coruption detectives and police are hunting for them and raided homes in Nandi and other counties. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is targetting more than 30 officers alleged to have looted county resources during the administratinon of former Governor Cleophas Lagat. Governor Stephen Sang yesterday directed all staff to cooperate with the EACC. He called for fast-tracking lifestyle audits So far, 10 officials fron the previous government have been arrested and are expected to be arraigned soon. They include former Finance Chief Henry Koech, former Finance Executive Charles Muge and former head of Revenue Hellen Katam. Also on the spot are former principal Finance Officer Emmanuel Wanjala and ex-Kapsabet town administrator Josephat Meli. Alleged corruption cases in the area have been linked to delayed projects in the county such as the construction of a governor’s office and sports stadium. The EACC is looking into suspect dealings in tendering and implementation of projects by the targeted officers. This week, more than 100 EACC officers and police raided homes of the targetted officials in Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia where they took away vital for scrutiny. Spokesman of the EACC Yassin Amaro said the investigations were going on well and all those involved in graft in the region would be brought to book. Last week, Governor Sang gave a detailed account of how Sh60 million set aside for bursaries had been utilised. He said all departments will be required to account for funds to the last coin. He said corruption has caused the county to lag behind in development after projects worth billions either stalled or were never implemented. Sang also urged the EACC to fast-track the process of lifestyle audits of the former officers, as he had requested when he took over. County secretary Francis Sang told employees they risk arrest if they engage in graft. Senator Samson Cherargei has backed the EACC operation in the county.