AFC Leopards will be targeting to scale at least two places on the SportPesa Premier League standings when they face Chemelil Sugar this weekend. Leopards are sixth on 28 points and could ultimately go second, behind Gor Mahia, should they win their two games in hand starting with today’s 3pm kick off at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Leopards will be bubling with confidence following their mid-week victory over fellow contenders Sofapaka. Coach Rodolfo Zapata will get an extra boost following the return of no nonsense centre half, Michael Kibwage, who missed out on the 1-0 win against Sofapaka taking a day off following his involvement with Harambee Stars at the Hero International Cup in India last week. However Leopards will be without captain Duncan Otieno and lethal forward Ezekiel Odera due to illness. They face a side which has had their share of challenges be it financial and the recent departure of seven of their senior players. The Awasi-based millers are placed 12th with 20 points. In spite of all these, Leopards assistant coach, Tom ‘Gaza’ Juma said they will accord their opponents maximum respect. “We are ready for the match. The boys did well against Sofapaka and they are inspired to go after another set of points. Every opponent is a worth competitor and we are going to give the match the serious it deserves. We want to reduce the gap between us and Gor Mahia and create more competition,” said Juma. “I am happy Kibwage has returned to the team and his presence will solidify our defence. Odera and Otieno have not recovered and we wish them a quick recovery.” A win for Ingwe will see them topple Ulinzi Stars and Bandari who are not in action this weekend. The return of Mathare United head coach Francis Kimanzi is set to motivate the former champions when they play Vihiga United at Camp Toyoyo. Kimanzi missed his side’s last three matches while on national duty but will be on the touchline this afternoon. Mathare are second with 32 points, five behind Gor Mahia and will aim to reduce the deficit. Vihiga head coach Edward Manoah will make do without the services of suspended speedy winger Vincent Wonder. It will not be business as usual when Zoo Kericho host Sony Sugar at Kericho Green Stadium as the battle on the other of the table intensify. Zoo are just two points off the drop zone with 19 while Sony occupy one of the dangerous slots with 17 points. Zoo head coach Sammy Okoth will be without the suspended top marksman, Nicholas Kipkirui, who was sent off during their midweek clash against Vihiga United. Tomorrow, three Gor Mahia players will face their former employers when the defending champions host Nzoia Sugar at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Fresh from bagging a brace against Wazito three days ago at the same venue, Boniface Omondi will lead Joachim Oluoch and Lawrence Juma in facing their former side, who will be seeking answers to their recent 2-1 loss to Kariobangi Sharks. Nzoia will have to worry of the danger posed by Gor’s attacking front which has drawn a line of class of its own lately raking in goals at will. With Gor enjoying a five-point gap at the top, Dylan Kerr will rally his charges to safeguard their unbeaten run as well as widen the gap should the chasing pack falter. However the presence of current league top scorer, Elvis Rupia, may be inspiration enough for Nzoia as his 15 goals in 17 matches has kept them afloat in the league. Relegation threatened Wazito visit Tusker at Ruaraka while Sofapaka will aim to rekindle their fading hopes against Thika United at Narok Stadium. Posta Rangers and Kariobangi Sharks will clash at Camp Toyoyo while Nakumatt will host Kakamega Homeboyz at the same venue. Nakumatt will miss the services of the suspended Eugene Ambulwa.