Is there a split in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government split? The recent happenings within the government that involves some senior leaders have raised questions about collective resposibility. While Interiror CS Fred Matiang’i (pictured) has claimed the sugar being impounded has mercury, his Trade counterpart Adan Mohammed has dismissed the claim. Leader of Majority Aden Duale, a big supporter of the government, has thrown the spanner into the works by claiming Matiang’i is protecting the real culprits. Now, yesterday, the agency accused of clearing the poisonous sugar, Kenya Bureau of Standards, disowned Matiangi’s results. Question is, whose interests are these leaders serving? ***** An outspoken Jubilee leader known for his arrogance is the talk of town. Though he pretends to be clean and would speak loudly about it, it’s whispered the man’s companies have won fictitious tenders worth billions of shillings since the Jubilee administration took over. He is said to have gotten lucrative tenders at the airport, in the road sector, in irrigation and at the energy sector, just to mention a few. His firms have been singled out by aduditors for shoddy jobs. Corridors has established some people are digging into the man’s past and all his dirty deals will soon be laid bare. ***** Business interests are believed to be the root of all evil in Kenya. An MP sitting in the National Assembly Energy committee shocked followers of the committee’s proceedings by his behaviour. The MP protested against investigations at Kenya Pipeline and appeared to suggest the EACC probe involving millions of shillings of taxpayers’ money is pure witchhunt. However, Corridors has established the MP is doing booming business with the KPC. It’s said he is paid Sh11 million every month. Corridors will soon reveal the name of the lawmaker. ***** Things seem to be grounding at the National Youth Service after genuine suppliers allegedly went on a go-slow. It’s whispered that after learning the youth service is unwilling to pay them millions of shillings in debt while fictious suppliers are paid promptly, the suppliers are now fighting back. Corridors has learnt that the service is now facing acute food shortage after attempts by the directors to plead with the food suppliers fell on deaf ears. Some suppliers claim they have not been paid for four years. The genuine suppliers are now appealing to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and help them get paid.