One person died at Wajir Referral Hospital on Monday from suspected Rift Valley Fever. Another person is admitted in critical condition. According to a medic, the deceased is from Basir and the patient is from Lakoley in Eldas constituency. This has raised fears of an outbreak. Samples have been taken to Nairobi to determine if it is RVF. Yesterday Agriculture executive Yusuf Abdi said that two days ago five camels died of suspected RVF in the two areas of Eldas. He said they have sent their samples to Nairobi and results are expected on Friday. Fears of an outbreak forced MCAs to convene an urgent special sitting to approve a Sh300 million supplementary budget for emergencies. The budget was passed in a record 10 minutes. This time, there were no interruptions, objections or the usual chaos. The biggest beneficiaries of the supplementary budget are health, veterinary services and roads departments. Speaking outside the assembly chambers, Elben MCA Shiekey Ahmed said they had no option but to pass the budget since the county was financially constrained. “As we all know, prevention is better than cure. We would rather control this highly contagious disease before it spreads,” Ahmed said. The virus was first reported in 1931 among sheep on a farm in Rift Valley. Since then, outbreaks have been reported in sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa, Saudi Arabia and Yemen. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, RVF is an acute, fever-causing viral disease most commonly observed in domesticated animals with the ability to infect and cause illness in humans. Outbreaks of RVF can have major societal impacts, including significant economic losses and trade reductions. The virus most commonly affects livestock, causing disease and abortion in domesticated animals it says on its website. Yesterday Wargadud MCA Issa Ahmed thanked his colleagues for “sobering up and showing maturity” and helping the people who voted for them. Abdi Farah, chairman of people living with disability, praised the MCAs and urged them to put their differences aside. On Monday, MCAs promised to work together since wrangles have disrupted business.. They said they were following in the footsteps of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga who shook hands.  