Miss Lang'ata Prison 2016 was yesterday found guilty of murdering her boyfriend. High Court judge Jessie Lesiit ruled that Ruth Kamande, 25, killed Farid Mohammed in cold blood after stabbing him 22 times following a domestic dispute. Kamande has been in custody since 2015 when she was arrested. She will be sentenced on July 11. Last year, she sat the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination at the prison and scored an A-. She is now a trained paralegal. Lesiit ruled that her actions proved that she had malice when she killed her boyfriend. She said the prosecution had proven beyond all reasonable doubt that Kamande committed murder. "It is clear from the prosecution's evidence that the stabbing was not done at a go. It was done at intervals," Lesiit said. Kamande said she stabbed Mohammed in self defence. However, a key witness who was present when she killed him discredited her claims. The witness told the court he heard Mohammed screaming for help. He went near a window, but Kamande followed him and stabbed him again, he said. Justice Lesiit said the rape allegations made by Kamande were false. The doctor's report showed she had not been raped, the judge said. The prison beauty queen told the court she had discovered her boyfriend was undergoing HIV treatment. When she confronted him, he threatened her, Kamande said. She had told the court Mohammed said they both rather die, lest she expose his status. Kamande said the knife fell on her boyfriend when they were struggling on the ground. Mohammed’s uncle Edward Gatonye said Kamande’s claims about his nephew's HIV status being the reason for their fight were untrue. Gatonye had told court Kamande had fits of rage a day before killing his nephew because of old high school love letters she had found in Mohammed’s house. The uncle said when he went to visit Mohammed, he found angry over the letters. She locked herself up in the bedroom for the better part of the day, he said. The court was told she demanded to know why Mohammed still kept the high school love letters.