Kapchemutwa forest in Elgeyo Marakwet county was once characterised by insects chirping and buzzing, birds tweeting and singing, and antelopes snorting. It lost its charm with the planting of exotic trees in forest plantations, which have been harvested by sawmillers since 2014. Driven by a strong desire to restore its glory, a community forest association has begun planting indigenous trees. The Kapkogo Forest Association says Kapchemutwa has been depleted at an alarming rate. Chairman David Kuto says large trucks carrying logs and sounds of tree-cutting machines were unbearable before tree harvesting was suspended in March. But the wanton destruction was not as disturbing as a forest losing its natural state. This prompted their desire to rehabilitate a large section of Kapchemutwa forest with indigenous trees. They have so far planted 10 acres of indigenous trees, but they have an ambitious plan of eliminating exotic trees in the long run. “This is a classic example of how communities can spearhead rehabilitation of forests. Planting of indigenous trees will reduce demand for timber that is sourced from exotic trees, including cypress and blue gam trees,” he says as he shows a plantation of indigenous trees in Sing’ore area, adjacent to the forest. Kuto says the association began the indigenous trees planting programme in 2014, as a pilot programme to rehabilitate Emsoo dam in the forest. The dam supplies water to hundreds of homes on the drier areas of Kerio escarpments. Kuto says the group was supported by Nature Kenya and Kenya Forest Service in sourcing seedlings and protecting the forest plantation. “Nature Kenya provided nails, while KFS supplied posts to fence the plantation,” he says. SHAMBA SYSTEM The rehabilitation programme was suggested by the community. Kuto says farmers were allocated sections of the depleted forest under Plantation Establishment Livelihood Improvement Scheme (Pelis), a programme popularly known as shamba system. Kuto says farmers planted maize and beans on the allocated farms as they took responsibility of the seedlings. “This year, most farmers have abandoned the farms because the trees they have been nurturing under the shamba system have grown and there there is no longer any room to grow crops,” Kuto says. “In allowing local communities to take charge of forest conservation while benefitting from natural resources, such as honey and mushrooms, forests will no longer be solely a government property but a community asset.” Christopher Chebii is another advocate of indigenous tree growing. He is optimistic that community participation in forest conservation will see Kenya attain the 10 per cent UN-recommended forest cover. “No one among local communities wanted deforestation. We failed to regulate tree harvesting and ignored locals,” Chebii says. He calls on the state to roll out policies that centralise local communities in allocation and sharing of forest resources. Chebii wants locals to be awarded 70 per cent, while non-locals get 30 per cent of tree plantations when trees are ready for harvesting. “Indigenous trees will also restore our wetlands that almost dried up after exotic trees were planted around them,” Chebii says. He says forests will be conserved if communities are allowed to drive the conservation agenda and compensated through a bigger share of resources. TASK FORCE OPPOSITION Chebii criticises a task force formed to assess the impact of deforestation for proposing the abolishment of CFAs in forest management, saying the team failed to look into the successes of the associations in forest conservation. CFAs were created under Forest Act 2005 to represent communities in forest conservation. “The task force did its job well but did not come here to see what we are doing. They would have captured the success of CFAs in rehabilitating forests,” Chebii says. He says KFS uses Sh50,000 to plant trees in one hectare of forest land, while CFAs use Sh15,000. The task force revealed that the state lost about Sh200 million worth of trees in Elgeyo Marakwet alone. “Why then does the task force recommend the phasing out of CFAs, when they can rehabilitate forests at lower costs than state agencies?” Chebii asks. CFA members in Keiyo North describe how unscrupulous sawmillers edged out timber merchants. A local sawmiller said: “We have nurseries with adequate seedlings. We hoped to be get allocation of mature trees, but powerful sawmillers who secured permits in Nairobi came in,” he says. “They harvested trees and left the forest bare. They didn’t plant even a single tree.” A research by Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology indicates that forest cover was at its lowest in 2016. The research was published by American journal of forestry and agriculture in September 2016. It attributed the decimation to mismanagement of the Pelis programme. According to the study, increased population around the forest and the need for more space for development, for instance, expansion of the schools around, greatly contributed to the low forest cover. Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich said during a national tree planting earlier in May that the task force collected views in major towns and failed to visit forests affected by logging. Rotich said the task force did not tour Elgeyo Marakwet, despite the county having the second-largest forest cover in the country after Nyeri. “We want to tell the national government that the taskforce did not come to Elgeyo Marakwet. It instead collected views in Eldoret town,” Rotich said. He said: “Our County has 37 per cent forest cover and the taskforce should have come to take views from community forest associations, sawmillers and the county government.” Elgeyo Marakwet was among the counties whose forests, including Kapchemutwa, Embobut and Cherangany, were decimated by illegal loggers. Rotich asked the Environment ministry to tour the county forests and talk to all stakeholders before implementing the task force report. According to government open data, Elgeyo Marakwet had 37.49 per cent forest cover in 2015, second only to Nyeri, which had 38.03 per cent. Other counties with forest covers above 10 per cent include Baringo ( 25 per cent), Kericho ( 23.55 per cent), Kirinyaga ( 20.68 per cent) and Bungoma ( 14.86 per cent). BUFFER ZONES Elgeyo Marakwet county ecosystem conservator Anthony Musyoka praises CFAs, saying they play a pivotal role in restoring forests. Musyoka says KFS has created buffer zones stretching 100m to conserve rivers and dams in forests. He says he is counting on local CFAs to protect the buffer zones. “We have sat down with saw millers and CFAs and addressed differences that resulted from tree harvesting. The three teams can now join hands in restoring forests,” Musyoka says, adding that at least 1.3 million trees have been planted in Elgeyo Marakwet forests since March. KFS took advantage of the heavy rains to plant trees in its major forest, Musyoka says. “Tree planting will be extended to farmlands. Residents will be encouraged to plant more trees on their farms,” he says. The government extended the ban on logging in public and community forests for six months after the 90-day moratorium expired on May 23. The Environment ministry said the extension will facilitate the appointment of a new KFS board and the formation of an interim reform implementation committee. It will also allow the government to streamline the operations of KFS and the management of the forest sector.