Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has moved to the Supreme Court to appeal the decision of the appeal court that nullified his election saying that he was legally elected and won the elections fairly. In the appeal filed in court, Mutua says the learned judges of the Court of Appeal erred in law in misapplying the provisions of Article 81 of the Constitution to the evidence on record thereby reaching a perverse verdict. “The learned judges of the Court of Appeal erred in law in failing to balance competing constitutional rights, namely the right to vote and be elected under Article 38 of the Constitution and the right to have a verifiable election where the results are accurately collated under Articles 81 and 86 of the Constitution,” court documents read. The Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader claims the judges erred in law in not applying the constitutional nullification test spelt out in Section 83 of the Elections Act as a derivative of the Constitution and by nullifying his election in the absence of substantive noncompliance with the Constitution or irregularities of such a magnitude as to affect the outcome of the election. He says the judges of the Court of Appeal erred in law in paying undue regard to forms and procedural technicalities thereby subverting substantive justice contrary to Article 159 (2)(d) of the Constitution. He argues that the judges while appreciating the quasi-criminal jurisdiction of an election court, misapplied the standard of proof applicable to allegations of election offences in contravention of Article 50(2) of the Constitution. “The learned judges of the Court of Appeal contradicted themselves by admitting the Appeal for the hearing based on the need for substantive justice under Article 159(2) of the Constitution and proceeding to nullify the election based on technicalities”, Mutua says. The learned judges of the Court of Appeal misapplied and/or disregarded the principles set out in section 83 of the Elections Act by nullifying the election based on alleged non-conformity of form 37C to regulation 87(2) of the Elections (General) Regulations, 2012 contrary to express provisions of the cited provision of the Elections Act and jurisprudence thereof. He adds that the judges erred in law by failing to consider or make a finding on matters raised by the Appellant on the impact of the alleged illegalities and irregularities not proved before the Election Court on the outcome of the elections contrary to express law He says they also erred by failing to make a determination on whether or not the alleged illegalities and/or irregularities affected the outcome of the elections for the Governor of Machakos County. IEBC lawyers, however, dismissed claims that IEBC had withdrawn its appeal and said the commission has notice of appeal. “We will not file our written responses but will make oral submissions”, IEBC lawyer said. The parties are expected to be a notice for hearing by Deputy chief justice Philomena Mwilu. On June 8, the Court of Appeal nullified Mutua's election after his arch-rival Wavinya Ndeti appealed High Court ruling that had upheld his August 8, 2017 election win. While quashing the win, the judges said the election results declared by the county returning officer for Machakos County failed the constitutional test of verifiability, and that the declaration made announcing Dr Mutua the winner, had no legal basis. Read: [VIDEO] Alfred Mutua loses Machakos seat, Appeals court orders fresh vote  Click here for the latest political news 