“Everything I know about morality and the obligations of men, I owe it to
football,”
Albert Camus famously wrote, and
perhaps he was onto something. As the World Cup kicks off in Russia
there are surely lessons to be gleaned from the beautiful game. From the
sublime
fluidity of the Brazil’s team-goal against Italy in 1970 to the ridiculous
mendacity
of Maradona’s Hand of God in 1986; from the pathos of Gascoigne’s tears
at Italia ’90 to the mindless violence of Zidane’s head-butt in 2006,
mankind
could do worse than use football to reflect on our individual and
collective responsibilities to one another. Football
teaches us about team work and camaraderie, about courage and fair play
but, most importantly, it teaches us that some things are more important
than winning. Indeed, the lessons
of football extend beyond our individual and collective behaviour and -
at the risk of stretching an analogy way too far – I invite you to
imagine that the world is like a football stadium. Just
as Fifa sets the rules of the game on the pitch, so countries, through
organisations such as the United Nations, have set out the rules of the
game
on the world stage. Through documents such as the
Universal
Declaration of Human Rights that marks its 70th anniversary this year, we have created a framework of
international law
designed to promote and protect our rights. Human
rights are about respect, fairness, justice and equality. Just as
footballers should be free to express themselves on the football
pitch, so all people should have the right to express their views and
practice their religion. In the same way that footballers should be able
to move around the pitch so long as the don’t stray off-side, so people
should enjoy freedom of assembly. Just
as footballers should not be shown the red card for no reason, so no
one should be arbitrarily arrested, abused or detained without a
fair trial. Like
the rules of football, human rights are well established and
internationally agreed. In the same way that football teams are required
to respect the rules of the game, so nations
are expected to uphold international human rights laws. Just as
referees are there to ensure that the rules of the game are not broken,
so organisations such as Amnesty International are there to blow the
whistle on countries that violate human rights. If
there is a breach, bodies such as the UN Security Council and the
International Criminal Court are there to ensure there is no impunity. In
the same way that video technology is now being used to help football
referees, so sophisticated digital tools are helping human rights
organisations to identify rights abuses and end
impunity. The
ubiquity of mobile phones and increased access to the internet has
facilitated
sharing videos or images that can serve as evidence of war crimes,
violations of human rights and abuse. In addition, satellite technology
helps expose crimes in isolated places that might have remained hidden
in the past. Amid
the seemingly unrelenting tide of horror that fills our headlines, it is
legitimate to ask why so many countries refuse to play by the rules. Imagine
the chaos in Russia if one team ignored the rules of the game and were
allowed to get away with it. Other teams would be encouraged to do the
same. Players would be handling the ball and fouling each other all over
the pitch, ignoring the referee's whistles and the incandescent rage of the crowd. Some
government leaders have attempted to justify human rights violations
with talk of national security and the need to keep their citizens safe.
But the truth is, there can be no genuine security without human
rights. Other
leaders, including the likes of Presidents Trump, al-Sisi, Duterte,
Maduro, Putin, and Xi, do not even attempt to justify undermining the
rights
of their citizens. This cannot be allowed to go on. It
is time for collective action. It will take commitment, vision and
cooperation but it is important to recognise that we are not powerless. A
football
team at the World Cup that egregiously and repeatedly breaches Fifa’s rules would face fines, points deductions or even suspension. In the same way, it is time for the world to come together and show rights abusing governments the red card.  Stefan Simanowitz is a journalist,
football fan and human rights defender at Amnesty International.