An Embu man who sodomised three boys in separate attacks over three days has been sentenced to 105 years in Jail — 35 years for each offence. Farmhand Paul Karuga, 36, waylaid and grabbed his victims aged from nine to 12 in Makengi, Embu East, in May last year. He carried  them to nearby bushes and raped them. He had denied the charges. All three children testified in graphic detail about the attacks. Senior resident magistrate Vincent Nyakundi yesterday said the offences were “very serious” and the long sentence should serve as a lesson and deterrent. The magistrate ordered that Karuga be imprisoned for 35 years sequentially — bringing the total prison term to 105 years. Karuga was arrested by residents after the third attack. Nyakundi said five prosecution witnesses, including the victims, proved beyond reasonable doubt that Karuga was guilty. The court heard that on May 20 last year in Kanjau village, Makengi, Karuga sodomised one boy aged 12. He raped another boy, 9, on May 21 the same year, and yet another nine-year-old on May 22. The first charge said Karuga tried to lure the boy with Sh10. He refused and tried to flee, but the Karuga pursued and caught him. He abused and released him. The boy had been on his way home from church. He was left dazed and struggled to reach home. His screams attracted passersby who helped him and informed his parents. The following day, Karuga ambushed another boy. He had been sent to a shop by his grandmother during the early hours of the night. The convict snatched his torch and sodomised him. The rapist did not stop. The following day, he was back on the road. He assaulted another boy, who was driving an ox cart. He told him to get out of the cart, grabbed and pulled him to a nearby thicket. He fled. The boy went home and reported to his parents. Parents raised the alarm, prompting an uproar.  Police officers mobilised residents and launched a manhunt. Residents arrested Karuga and turned him over to Manyatta police. Yesterday, Nyakundi said the victims presented their evidence “very well” and “narrated vividly” how Karuga assaulted them. A medical examination report  had returned positive results for sodomy — corroborating the statements recorded by the complainants.