The first two athletes across the line during tomorrow’s national championships cum trials will make the cut to the Africa Championships set for Asaba, Nigeria in August. Athletics Kenya president (Rtd) Lt. Gen Jackson Tuwei said the third athlete will be picked by selection panel comprising technical officials. Sprints coach Stephen Mwaniki will head the side with Abraham Mutai, AK Central Rift chairman Abraham ‘Solo’ Mutai traveling as team manager. Tuwei said they will pick a strong team of 60 -70 athletes to fly Kenya’s flag at the event. “We want to send a very strong squad to the event and win as many medals as possible. We want to dominate the short, middle and long distances races alongside field events,” added Tuwei. Tuwei expressed confident that the team selected will do the country proud and top the medal standings. “I believe we have a very good crop of athletes and we can improve on our performance two years ago in South Africa,” he said. Tuwei asked athletes who have the capability to double up in their races. “We are encouraging athletes to double up and give themselves a chance of winning,” added Tuwei. The AK boss noted that athletes who were selected for the World Under-20 Championship last week will also participate at the three-day event. “The athletes will use this as build up to the world event in Finland and get much needed competition before they jet out early next month,” added Tuwei. He added that the Africa event will also act as a trials to select athletes who will represent the continent at the World Cup in July in London. “We expect our elite athletes to turn up in large numbers because the event in Nigeria will be used to pick the continental squad,” he added. Tuwei said he expects competitive trials considering the crop of athletes invited from the Kenya Defence Forces, Kenya Police, Prisons and counties. “ The track meetings held so far have been competitive and I expect the championship to be tough. I am confident we will pick a very formidable team to fly Kenya’s flag,” added Tuwei. Kenya finished second at the last Africa event in Durban, South Africa two years ago, winning 24 medals with eight gold, eight silver and eight bronzes. Kenya’s gold medallists were Douglas Kipserem(5000m) , Boniface Mucheru (400m-H) ,Samuel Ireri (20km walk), Matthew Sawe (high jump), Sheila Chepkirui (5,000m), Alice Aprot (10,000m), Norah Jeruto (3000m SC) and Grace Wanjiru (20km walk).