Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has been accused of propagating county disunity and infighting. In the run-up to the 2017 elections, he promised o unite Nyandarua politicians and residents once elected. Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau and Senator Githiomi Mwangi, together with the governor made the promise. But they accused Kimemia of disrespecting other politicians. Giving their victory speeches at ACK Hall, Ol Kalou, on August 11 last year, the three affirmed their commitment to work for unity. “We are not going to engage in vendetta or witchhunting,” Kimemia said. Mwangi said, “I know I have a duty both at the national and county levels. You can rest assured that what you expect of me will be given. I will deliver.” Gitau added, “Together with other leaders we shall give you all servant leadership. Together we shall create a brighter future for women, men and the youth.” However, the leaders have stayed disunited, with some accusing Kimemia of running a one-man show. All Nyandarua MPs snubbed Madaraka Day celebrations at Ol Kalou Stadium on Friday, except Gitau and Mwangi. Gitau said they sent apologies, but did not say where they were. Speaker Wahome Ndegwa sent apologies, saying he was attending a workshop in Arusha,Tanzania. Out of the 39 Nyandarua MCAs, only four attended the fete. Gitau said Nyandarua politicians must learn to respect each other and work together. She urged Kimemia to meet all the politicians so they can agree to work together. “If you are a leader, call all of us so we agree on how to work without conflicts,” the woman representative said. Gitau said voters are checking if politicians keep their promises. She said it is time to show what they are doing and what they have done, not make more promises. Senator Mwangi said time has come to ensure there is unity among the politicians. “This should be genuine unity. We should not talk here and when we live we continue infighting,” he said. Kimemia said he agreed with the two about the need for unity as it was one of the pillars on which his campaign was pegged. He said there is no war in Nyandarua as some people want to put it. See : Governor Kimemia forms team to probe troubled Midlands firm Click here for the latest political news