City Hall building and the adjacent annex have been in ‘darkness’ for three days after the supplier pulled the plug over a Sh732 million debt. The city says generators are being used in the executive and assembly wings and services have not been disrupted. A spot check by the Star showed, however, that most offices and corridors did not have lights. The power cut comes three weeks after the county lost a court case to stop Kenya Power from disconnecting its facilities. City Hall struck back yesterday, clamping and towing all Kenya Power vehicles parked in the city. They were clamped although they were parked legally and Kenya Power had paid for three months’ parking, the Star has established. The vehicles, bearing blue number plates, were towed away by the county around the city. A vehicle with plate number KBG 859C was towed, despite its valid sticker. Governor Mike Sonko and other officials were in a day-long crisis meeting. Late yesterday, county secretary Peter Kariuki and acting Finance executive Charles Kerich said the utility firm violated an agreement. They told a press conference that Kenya Power’s disconnection was in bad faith. Kariuki said a joint task force is yet to report on the exact amount owed by each party and how the city was to offset debt. “As we speak now, the amount they claim we owe is an estimation,” he said. The county says the debt is inherited from the old City Council and it should not have to pay. However, it has agreed to do so and has already released Sh15 million, Kariuki says. The county has been feuding with the utility firm since 2014. The county says the supplier owes it more than Sh600 million in way leave and rent arrears for electricity poles. Kariuki said the county owes Sh990 million, of which it has disputed Sh543 million in court. He said Kenya Power owes City Hall Sh816 million for way leaves for its distribution networks and installations. In 2016, the county obtained a temporary restraining order blocking the company from disconnecting power. The company had threatened to disconnect power at City Hall Annex, Pumwani Hospital, Mama Lucy Hospital, public primary and nursery schools, county depots — and to turn off street lights. According to court papers, the county said it should not be required to pay the debt inherited from the old City Council. However, in a May 17 ruling, Justice John Mativo said issuing an order against Kenya Power would amount to stopping a lawful process. He said the county failed to demonstrate it is under no obligation to pay the debt and failed to offer evidence that Kenya Power’s demand was illegal.