Since oil discoveries were made in the East
Africa region in the early 2010’s, the expectation has largely been that East
Africa will soon join the league of oil producing regions – a seemingly highly
lucrative league. However, years have gone by without sight of first oil, let
alone the expected petrodollars. This is largely chocked down to the dynamics
of the oil industry – which we seem to have misunderstood from the very
beginning. The gestation period from the discovery of oil reserves to
production of first oil is quite lengthy – taking up to well over ten years in
some instances. This period of waiting seems to be coming
to a close, with the flagging off of Kenya’s first oil (and indeed East Africa’s)
from Lokichar basin in Turkana County under the Early Oil Pilot Scheme (EOPS).
Long touted as a political move, and marred by delays, EOPS finally came to
fruition with the first trucks leaving Turkana on Sunday 03 June 2018, flagged
off by H.E. Uhuru Kenyatta. The underpinning tenant of the EOPS scheme,
i.e. testing the viability of our crude oil on the global markets, has
attracted nationalist criticisms from all fronts. Particularly, many question
why we are opting to export crude oil to international markets, rather than
value add in-country and subsequently export a refined product. As with our
expectation of quick petrodollars from the discovery of oil reserves back in
2012, this misconception stems from a lack of understanding of the technical
aspects of the oil industry. Given the high cost factors involved in the
refinery process, economics of scale dictate that the higher the capacity of
the refinery, the lower costs involved per barrel of oil refined. With this in
mind, new investments in refineries world over are resulting in larger
refineries so as to benefit from the economics of scale – case in point being
the Al Zour Refinery in Kuwait, with an estimated price tag of USD 16 Billion,
capable of refining 615,000 barrels per day (bpd). In contrast, Kenya is eyeing an optimum
production output of 150,000 bpd. To refine such a relatively low capacity, we
would either have to construct a small refinery, which leads to high operational
costs per barrel of oil, or expend a similar amount to modernise our existing
refinery and slightly increase its capacity from the current 90,000 bpd.
However, in both instances, the refinery would be operating at lower
efficiencies than globally established refineries capable of refining higher
capacities. Consequently, our refined product will be higher priced on the
international markets and therefore uncompetitive with cheaper refined products
from the Middle East and Asia. Given these cost factors, it is more
beneficial for Kenya, in both the medium term and long term, to export
unrefined crude oil than attempt to enter the oil refining business with an
uncompetitively priced product.