As it is, we have two types of theft — one by leaders, civil servants
and the haves and the other by the poor ordinary people. While the poor who
engage in theft are easy to arrest, investigate, prosecute and incarcerate, it
has been impossible to arrest and prosecute leaders, top civil servants, the
rich and their accomplices when they steal. It is the theft by the rich and corrupt leaders is what is pushing Kenya
to total ruin and destruction, not by the poor. After Uhuru, Raila has also offered to subject himself to scrutiny for
graft, a move that I also fully support. I believe Raila supported scrutiny for
graft because his reform agenda cannot succeed without the war against
corruption, while with Uhuru, they cannot drive the handshake in different
directions. After Raila, Deputy President William Ruto also declared on Wednesday
that he is also ready for a lifestyle audit, which will reveal to the country
whether the great wealth he has was corruptly or legitimately earned. Should
investigations give Ruto a clean bill of health, it will be his best qualification
to vie and get elected President come 2022. But should be be found culpable of
corruption, it will his outright disqualification. Given the gravity of the war against graft, I also declare that I am
ready for scrutiny against graft as I did in 2003, when four MPs —Kivutha
Kibwana, Danson Mungatana, Kalembe Ndile and myself — declared our wealth and
gave those declarations to the media for publication. We were convinced only
such publications of wealth can allow people to gauge whether leaders are
accumulating their wealth legitimately and legally or not when in power. To our surprise, Kenyan media, which had been calling for leaders to
declare their wealth, attacked our declarations with passion, sarcastically
calling the four of us “poor millionaires”, who had nothing to contribute to
the war against graft. After the media attack, no other publication of wealth
declarations was made by MPs or anyone else. Surprisingly, what happened in 2003
is happening again this year. With corruption growing by leaps and bounds,
threatening to destroy the country, media and other patriots have been calling
for immediate action. But given the nation’s anger, I did not expect that on
June 16, the Saturday Nation would boldly oppose leaders and rich people being lifestyle
audited: “He (Uhuru) wants to root out corruption and he feels public anger and
outrage. But these directives, nay approaches (of fighting corruption), are
rather simplistic and hardly productive. For starters, vetting procurement and
accounting officers is not a novel idea. It was tried in the early years of the
Narc administration in 2003 but never achieved anything. Now, the question of
lifestyle audit sounds fanciful but impractical. How for example would one
conduct an audit of the lifestyle of a President or Deputy President?” The implication here is that
investigating the President, his deputy and public officers is futile and need
not be tried. How then shall we eradicate graft? If the Nation Media Group maintains
there are no means by which Uhuru, William Ruto and their ministers can have
their lifestyles audited, investigated and prosecuted, if found guilt, how were
presidents and ex-presidents of South Korea, South Africa, Brazil and many
European countries investigated, prosecuted and jailed? If they think investigating a President
is fanciful, who will investigate Uhuru and former heads of state Mwai Kibaki,
Daniel Moi and the late Jomo Kenyatta?  Or
will Kenyans continue making allegations of corruption against our leaders
without grabbing rare opportunities to investigate them when they offer
themselves for audit? We know this year’s budget  — “handshake budget” — will amount to naught
if money for Uhuru’s Big Four agenda and other projects will not be protected
against cartels, who are pouring cold water against any efforts to fight
corruption. There is no better means of fighting
corruption than when a President offers to be investigated. When we can audit
the lifestyle of a President, whom else can we not investigate? 