  The Kogelo community has called on the government
and stakeholders working towards the establishment of Barrack Obama university
to have its main campus in Nyang'oma, a stone throw from former United States
of America president's ancestral home in Siaya county.
According to community leader, Councillor Vitalis Ondewe, they are unanimous
that the headquarters and main campus be put up at Katuda village where,
already, facilities were being developed.
He was speaking to the media in Siaya town on Friday.  Ondewe who in 2005 was hosted by Barrack Obama in
Washington DC, said that the community was aware of attempts by some people to
have the facility outside Kogelo.
He said that whereas talks about the university named after their famous son
has been around for years and even a sign board erected at the Siaya
agricultural training centre in Siaya town, none of the brains behind it has
ever contacted the community.
"The community has never been involved. We only see the sign board
whenever we visit Siaya town" said Ondewe who appealed to the ministry of
education and the Siaya county government which has been pushing for its
establishment to have dialogue with the community.
"We are appealing to our son, Barrack and the government to step in and
have the facility in our midst and other campuses elsewhere" he said.
Ondewe said that by locating the facility in Kogelo, the government will help
boost education and the economy of the area as local children will be save d
the agony of travelling long distances for higher education.
He said that the planned visit by the former US president to the land of his
father should help the community resolve the matter.
According to reports, Obama is scheduled to visit the country this month and
part of his itinerary is a visit to his grandmother, Mama Sarah Obama and
family members at Kogelo.  His sentiments come barely three weeks after Siaya governor Cornel Rasanga
revealed that 24 acres piece of land has been allocated by the County
government to construct Barack Obama University at Kogelo village, Siaya
County.  Rasanga said that plans were underway to construct a main campus at
Kogelo, in honor of President Barack Obama who traces his routes from the once
a sleepy village.  The governor said that the institution would play a major role in
providing unique programmes targeting the 14 counties that share the lake basin
region with a common goal of alleviating wanton poverty.  The governor said that the planned education conference comprising the
14 counties would be hosted in Siaya County in honor of Obama, whom he
described as a great scholar.  “When I recently visited Harvard University and the mention of Obama’s
name elicited a lot of anxiety hence the need to kick off the project earnestly,”
added Rasanga.  He added that existing technical institutions like the Siaya institute
of technology would not be phased out saying they are key in provision of
technical skills to the youths at middle level courses.  Rasanga was speaking at his office after meeting a US based Professor
Michael Mwiga,a renowned civil engineer professor.  Professor
Muiga who was the Policy Staff Member of President Barack Obama,re-election
campaign 2012 said it was disheartening that the project had not been completed
during Obama’s second term in office.  Mwiga
pointed that the University will be offering unique courses adding that some
are currently not offered in most of the Universities in the Country.  He added
that school of Government will offer degree on County government and governance
adding that democracy and Institutions management will also be offered.  The
academician added that the University will also provide Institutional
management, infrastructure management aimed at changing the dilapidated
infrastructure in Siaya County.  “We will
offer industrial, material, foundation, petroleum and irrigation engineering at
the school of engineering,” he added.  Muiga
added that already he has engaged former US senator Bob Graham who has
expressed willingness to support the university achieve its academic status.  The
professor said once the University starts providing the programmes, retired US
professors will be engaged in teaching courses which lacks local lecturers.  He added
that the establishment of the University will put president Obama’s name in the
education circles just like George Washington University in US named after the
former President.  Rasanga added that the key programmes to be rolled out once the
institution kicks off would include irrigation, tropical medicine and law given
that Obama is a lawyer by profession.  He added that artifacts including president Obama’s childhood history and
speeches would be collected and assembled in an archive for historic purposes.  Rasanga added that they are currently collaborating with Maseno
University to ensure other parallel programmes are undertaken at the Siaya
Agricultural Training Institute in preparation for the main campus to be
completed.  He regretted that the process of establishing the University while Obama
was still in the helm as the president was met by a myriad of hitches ranging
from family feuds  on its naming to political interference.  Rasanga assured that with the new found relationship between President
Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga, the yet to be established
institution would receive massive support from both National and county
governments.  The governor was accompanied by Professor Achola Waw, the chairman of
the committee on the construction of Barack Obama University and area MCA
Joseph Mboha among others.  Waw said that the constituent college seeks to enroll the first batch of
students in September this year as they push in earnest for the establishment
of the main campus in Kogelo.  “We intend to start with three flagship programmes that include school
of agricultrure, commerce and education as we seek to expand gradually,” added
Waw.  The academician added that already the renovation of lecture halls,
laboratory, abolition block and computer libraries have been completed.  He added that they are currently waiting for the commission for the
University education to visit the site and approve the workmanship before
kicking off the parallel programmes.  Waw said that already a draft paper has been crafted seeking to be
adopted by the Siaya County government and Maseno university that will mentor
the institution from its infancy stages.  “We have already developed a master plan and the only thing remaining is
to open a bank account,” added Waw saying they seek to synchronize with the
other university in September.  Area MCA Joseph Mboha said that he will rally the assembly in ensuring
that the institution enjoys political goodwill that has since been lacking.  Mboha added that the project would open up the economy of the region
including providing unique courses that are not provided by other rival higher
institutions of learning. Others in attendance included County secretary George Anyona, chief of
staff Walter Okello and Red Cross regional representative Kevin Dosso.  ENDS 