The High Court will rule next Tuesday on whether persons implicated in the Sh9 billion NYS scam will be released on bail. This was announced on Tuesday after their lawyers renewed their fight saying the decision to deny them bail was against their constitutional right. The Director of Public Prosecution has opposed this saying the reasons were compelling. Among the suspects who number at least 43 are Youth and Gender Affairs PS Lilian Omollo and former NYS Director General Richard Ndubai, who are currently in remand. They are to remain there until the trial ends. Read: NYS suspects denied bail, to remain in remand until end of trial Arguing before justice Hedwig Ongudi today, the lawyers said due process must be followed. "We understand the pressure but this is not a court of public opinion. The Judiciary is required to operate independently," said lawyer  Migos Ogamba. "Notwithstanding the belief that this is a crime that should be punished instantly, this court must confine itself to the provisions of law." The lawyer further told justice Ongudi that the fight against corruption must be waged within the law. "We cannot start a fight against corruption by subverting the Constitution," he noted. Assa Nyakundi said the accused are regarded innocent until proven guilty and that there is no evidence to show they will interfere with witnesses. The prosecution also said that some of the accused are junior officers who might
be intimidated by their seniors. The ODPP believes their release will interfere with the trial process. The suspects have filed applications for release at the court. In his response, DPP Noordin Haji asked the court to dismiss them as their freedom might be detrimental to the case. Top police officials
have denied ever making deals with the Ngirita family or any of the
NYS suspects. It was confirmed on Monday, however, that lead investigator Julius Muia was dropped from the case over these claims. Muia swore the affidavit that saw 43 suspects denied bail and remanded by Anti-Corruption court magistrate Douglas Ogoti. He was supposed to have disqualified himself from the probe. More on this: NYS lead investigator Julius Muia dropped after damning affidavit Meanwhile, Health CS
Sicily Kariuki and Public Service CS Margaret Kobia snubbed the Public
Accounts Committee which they were to face earlier today. Kariuki is on an
official US trip with First Lady Margaret Kenyatta while Kobia is attending the launch of the National Land use Policy at the KICC in Nairobi. Read: MPs push NYS probe after no-show by CSs Sicily Kariuki, Kobia More on this: NYS scandal: 113 accounts in 13 banks frozen for six months Click here for the latest political news