Deputy President William Ruto on Friday acknowledged former Prime Minister Raila Odinga signalling an end to the perceived hostility between the two leaders. The DP invited the Opposition leader to address hundreds of people who attended the Madaraka Day celebrations at the Kinoru Stadium in Meru. During the 2017 Madaraka Day fete in Nyeri, the DP as well as President Uhuru Kenyatta did not recognise Raila, a move that irked many Kenyans, especially the ODM leader's supporters. Read: Uhuru, Ruto snub Raila at Madaraka Day ceremony The invite to address the gathering came hot on the heels after Ruto and Raila embraced one another at the National Prayer Breakfast meeting in Nairobi on Thursday. See: How Uhuru broke ice between Raila, Ruto In his message, Ruto cited the spirit of working together as the reason for the invite. Members of the public attending the ceremony cheered as he called Raila. "I humbly ask for your permission Mr President to invite the former Prime Minister. Since we are in the period of unifying Kenyans, let me welcome Raila Odinga," Ruto said. As he rose to speak, Raila referred the deputy president as his friend and brother as the crowd cheered on. He gave a brief history of events during pre-colonial period citing the inhumane treatment of Africans by the British colony. Raila stirred the crowd by singing a song that was sung by those who fought for independence and for the release of Kenya's founding father Jomo Kenyatta. He added that Madaraka (Kiswahili for independence) was not achieved easily and added that enemy of progress, namely poverty, inequality, and illiteracy still remain a challenge to be tackled by Kenyans. "That’s why we decided to come together so we can fight corruption, poverty, equality for the country's prosperity, hence the handshake," Raila said. He said his attendance at the event was on the spirit of uniting the country, being a deviation from the pre-2017 practice where the Opposition held parallel national day celebrations. Click here for the latest political news    