The Capital Market Authority
yesterday gave minority shareholders in Unga Group Plc 10 more days to take up Seaboard Corporation’s buyout offer, after the initial on
expired on Wednesday.  In media statement, the American conglomerate said, Unga Plc’s minority shareholders will now have the
opportunity to take up Seaboard’s offer and realize the value of their shares
before the offer closes 5:00pm, Thursday June 28, 2018.  ‘’Seaboard Corporation has received regulatory approval from the
Capital Markets Authority (CMA) to extend its offer to buy the minority shares
in Unga Plc by another 10 days,’’ said Hennie Combrink, Seaboard vice
president international business development.  The offer extension is coming on the backdrop of poor
response from minority shareholders who clinging on stake, hoping for a higher
offer.  Seaboard has proposed an offer price of Sh40 - which represents a
premium of Sh31.75 per cent to Sh30.36 being the 250-day volume weighted
average price of a share in Unga Plc as of the value date - in a bellwether
transaction that offers minority shareholders a timely opportunity to realize
the value of their shares in Unga Plc.  On Monday, Seaboard had expressed confidence
that its offer to buy the minority shares in Unga Group will result in it
achieving a sufficient level of support from shareholders.  “Our offer price offers an attractive
value proposition for minority shareholders and offers them liquidity, but of
course Seaboard respects that not every shareholder has to accept this offer,” said
Combrink.  Yesterday, the firm attributed offer
extension to a documents delivery hitch that led to relocation
of shareholders whose new details are not updated with the Central Depository
and Settlement Corporation  “During the offer period, Seaboard received numerous queries
from Unga Plc shareholders with requests for resubmission of the offer
documents that were originally dispatched to them via post.  Through
the buyout, Seaboard will have a 49 percent stake in the firm up from 2.92
percent currently.  Upon successful acquisition, Seaboard plans to delist
Unga from the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), paving the way for the company’s
future as a privately held firm.  Minority shareholders have been asked to submit their original
Form of Acceptance to their respective stock broker or to CBA Capital Limited,
the Lead Transaction Advisor and Sponsoring Broker.  During the extension period, trading of Unga Group shares will not
be suspended from the Nairobi Securities Exchange.