On Sunday night Vera invited the who is who for the launch of her beauty parlour, named after herself. Vera Sidika Beauty Parlour is modelled after parlours in Beverly Hills. The parlour is located in Western Heights, Westlands. "Every successful businessperson has actually failed before and so this is my right time. I am very optimistic about this business and it's gonna be a very successful one," she said. So who designed the whole thing? "I'm an interior designer...I designed [everything] from the scratch. I would spent nights there to ensure that I got the correct setup. "There is everything in my beauty parlour, from pedicures to manicures. It's more of beauty and glamour but for Veetox [weight-loss tea], it is all about healthy eating and staying fit. It is just different thing but same arena." Well, who does her parlour target? "To be honest, this is a setup for the more [affluent] in society. It all came about from my travels. [When I visited] spas in New York [I] thought 'this kind of beauty needs to be introduced in Kenya'. We have so many beauty shops in Kenya, but I feel they are still not there yet. I think this is just a way to make people experience New York in Kenya," Sidika said. "There are so many services that Kenyans have not experienced and therefore I'm gonna provide that in my salon. We gonna have champagne, pedicure, milk pedicure. I want people to feel very relaxed when they visit us, have bridal showers and that is why I chose a parlour and not a salon." Sidika said she had to rebrand and change her public image to realise her dream. "I am focussed on building this empire that I have started so that in 10 years people will say, 'Vera was a video vixen but now she is an entrepreneur'. That is the kind of growth I want. [For instance] I used to travel a lot but I have not been traveling for the past six months and people have started saying that I am broke, but it is not the case. It is just that I have learnt to put my money in the right place. So this is what I have been doing for the past few months." Sidika says she is not in a competition with any other beauty house in Kenya. "There is enough money for everyone and if invited to a new salon, I would go because I do not have bad blood with anyone." Vera Sidika Beauty Parlour will officially open its doors to clients on June 29.   