 A principal has asked the government to deploy administration police officers to guard schools with sniffer dogs to curb insecurity. Cardinal Otunga Girls principal Imelda Oyombe said police presence will discourage strangers from sneaking into schools and raping girls. The institution is surrounded by Kibabii University, Kibabii Teachers College, St Mary's Kibabii Boys High School and other secondary schools. "The girls are always worried. Reports of rape and beastly actions meted on their colleagues elsewhere only heightens their worry," Oyombe said. Protection of schoolgirls is a responsibility of all stakeholders including parents and the community, she said. "There are many social distractions in this digital age. Parents must guide their daughters appropriately during the holidays," Oyombe said.   The government has been urged to ensure public schools are well secured by administration police officers with sniffer dogs to curb escalating incidents of insecurity being witnessed across schools in the country. Cardinal Otunga girls in Kanduyi constituency Bungoma county principal Imelda Oyombe has said that by deploying police officers in schools it will reduce incidents of strangers sneaking in schools and raping girls in dormitories. She said the move will tighten school’s security and prevent school fires and theft that have been reported to occur mostly at night in various schools across the country. Several girls schools including Moi girls Nairobi have heard students being defiled by strangers after they made their way in the schools compound at night creating a lot of fear to parents about their girls safety while in schools. Oyombe noted that the government due to the current insecurity incidents in schools should move with speed and post at least two police officers with sniffer dogs in public schools. She said that her school is one of those that are in area that are prone to attacks and funny incidents bearing in mind it’s is a stone throw away from Kibabi university, Kibabi teachers diploma college, St Mary’s Kibabi boys and several boys schools. Oyombe said that it’s the sole responsibility of all stakeholders to ensure the girl’s safety is prioritized. ‘We are having our girls in various schools being done beastly things by people who have not been arrested and making the girls scared to learn we need the state to protect our schools,’ she said. ‘I want to call upon parents and community at large to guide  our students when they come home for holidays bearing in mind that a lot of distracters in this digital world and era has taken over them ,’ she added. She urged parents to guide and counsel their children in spiritual and God fearing manner so as to have the right focus when they are in school. Oyombe also called upon the general public and community at large to share good moral virtues that are necessary in the community and give intelligence reports to schools on any danger to pupils She urged parents to support teachers to ensure they overcome in correcting and molding the students in youthful stages. Oyombe who is barely five months in the school after she was transferred from her previous school in Homabay county was addressing parents teachers and students on Saturday during the school’s Annual general meeting. Ends...