Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion said members reject all policies formed by the TSC from 2015. On Thursday, Sossion said the policies are null and void because teachers were not involved. “We reject those policies. We do not recognise them,” he said. Curtains came down on the 43rd Kenya Secondary School Heads Association (Kessha) annual conference on Friday. Principals want the Teachers Service Commission to implement the resolutions passed. The commission is under pressure from MPs and the union to change the contentious policies touching on teachers. On Friday, the 8,000 principals who had gathered at Wild Waters Complex said they have been operating in the dark. Many said they are unsure of their working boundaries because of added responsibilities. They said they have more pressure but with no capacity to handle the new responsibilities, especially on security. “The heads manual that was published in 1976 should be reviewed,” states one of the resolutions read by outgoing Kessha secretary Grace Wanjiku. The principals also want the TSC to review safety standards to include emerging issues like radicalisation, gender-violence and sexual harassment in schools. The commission’s chairperson Lydia Nzomo said the TSC is willing to support the principals in implementing the resolutions made. However, she said the teachers must be proactive. Kessha chair Indimuli Kahi said principals will uphold the highest standards of integrity and will not shield any of their own who goes wayward. National Assembly Committee on Education vice chair Amos Kimunya on Friday said Parliament will work with the principals and the TSC to ensure all the issues raised are addressed. The Education ministry should find ways to inculcate integrity into the students at the formative years of education, the Kipipiri MP said. He said integrity should be introduced as a unit in the education curriculum and be taught from as early as primary school. “Even as we talk about fighting corruption and all that, it cannot succeed unless it is integrated within the education system at the formative years when kids are being nurtured, cultured and given values,” the former Cabinet minister said. Kimunya said all the court cases and jailing of suspects is a kneejerk reaction to corruption and it is not a solution to the vice. President Uhuru Kenyatta last week ordered a lifestyle audit for all public servants starting with himself and Deputy President William Ruto. Already, a team of experts is currently working on the rules to guide the lifestyle audit.