More than 60 people, including former NCPB boss Newton Terer, will be questioned over the Sh1.9 billion maize scandal, the anti-graft agency has said. Others to be quizzed in the next two weeks include board managers and senior grain depot staff. Traders will also be questioned. Jackson Mue, the EACC deputy director in charge of the North Rift, told the Star on Saturday that investigators were targetting Terer and more than 60 other people. The EACC has camped at depots of the National Cereals and Produce Board and taken away files. Terer resigned two weeks ago and declined to give details of his exit. “I was not suspended but I just decided to resign”, he said. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said on Wednesday the manner in which the former CEO left office was suspect. “I raised concerns on the manner in which he resigned. I didn’t find the reason why he hurriedly resigned. But we would still have suspended him and called for his investigation,” he said. The government plans to use lie detectors to aid the war on graft, focussing on top accounting and procurement officials in key ministries. About Sh1.9 billion was paid to about 10 traders, while more than 3,500 farmers have yet to be paid Sh5 billion since December. Lounjuri has said they will be paid by the end of this week. Detectives have camped at depots in Kisumu, Bungoma, Kitale, Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge and Nakuru to investigate. They have seized files on payments for maize and distribution of subsidised fertiliser. The government says its will ensure cartels and brokers in the scam are arrested and prosecuted. Yesterday, Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan said investigations are going well. He said the war on graft will cover all government departments. “We should give the government time to investigate. All those involved will be dealt with as per the law,” Hassan said. On Thursday, Mue said files will be scrutinised to establish the depth of fraud in purchase of maize and distribution of fertiliser. “The investigations are still at an early stage, but we are progressing very well,” he said at the EACC regional offices in Eldoret. Forensics experts are analysing the documents, Mue said. “We want to know if genuine farmers were deliberately denied the opportunity to deliver maize and if there was bribery in the process, among other issues,” he said. The EACC also seeks to establish if some suppliers were paid more money for their maize than others.