The East African Community is enjoined by Chapter 19 of the Treaty for the Partner States to co-operate in all issues of environmental and natural resources management. The East African Community is a regional intergovernmental organisation of six partner states, comprising Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda, with its headquarters in Arusha, Tanzania. The EAC Polythene Materials Control Bill, 2016 provides legal framework for preservation of a clean and healthy environment through prohibition of manufacturing, sale,importation and use of polythene materials. Only Rwanda has succeeded in banning plastics. EAC CS Peter Munya,told the Star that the Bill was passed but has never been assented to by member states. “We are working with partner states to have a ban since it is the most ideal because we cannot police all the borders. We will revive the initiative ourselves because common market will not work without a standardized packaging of goods,” Munya said. Nema chief enforcement officer Robert Orina said they recently nabbed banned plastics in Busia border that came from a firm in Uganda. “Early this month, a bus conductor was arrested at the Uganda border with 432,000 pieces of plastics. Another person was arrested in the same place with 300,000 plastics,” Orina said adding that a lot of plastics from a firm in Uganda had been nabbed in Mombasa. He blamed the lack of proper laws between East African Community countries. “We have EAC legislative assembly bill on plastics ban. The problem is that apart from Rwanda that has clear polices and enforcement strategies, other countries do not have,”Orina told the Star. #CLEANSEAS CAMPAIGN As some of the efforts aimed at reducing plastics, UN Environment has launcheed major global #CleanSeas campaign to end marine litter UN estimates that more than 8 million tonnes of plastic leaks into the ocean each year – equal to dumping a garbage truck of plastic every minute UN Environment launched the unprecedented global campaign to eliminate major sources of marine litter such as microplastics in cosmetics and the excessive, wasteful usage of single-use plastic by the year 2022. Launched at the Economist World Ocean Summit in Bali, the #CleanSeas campaign is urging governments to pass plastic reduction policies; targeting industry to minimize plastic packaging and redesign products; and calling on consumers to change their throwaway habits – before irreversible damage is done to our seas. Erik Solheim, Head of UN Environment, said, “It is past time that we tackle the plastic problem that blights our oceans. Plastic pollution is surfing onto Indonesian beaches, settling onto the ocean floor at the North Pole, and rising through the food chain onto our dinner tables. We’ve stood by too long as the problem has gotten worse. It must stop.” Throughout the year, the #CleanSeas campaign will be announcing ambitious measures by countries and businesses to eliminate microplastics from personal care products, ban or tax single-use bags, and dramatically reduce other disposable plastic items. Ten countries have already joined the campaign with far-reaching pledges to turn the plastic tide. Indonesia has committed to slash its marine litter by a massive 70 per cent by 2025; Uruguay will tax single-use plastic bags later this year and Costa Rica will take measures to dramatically reduce single-use plastic through better waste management and education. Click here for the latest political news