Teachers Service commission has been put on the spotlight for pending salary arrears of some 4000 teachers. The arrears backdate to 1996 and were supposed to be paid in 2010 when the government released Sh1.4 billion to grade and pay teachers. Speaking to the Star, the groups Secretary David Thagwambi says they feel cheated and short changed in their efforts for a just system in their teaching profession. “Despite numerous efforts to have the commission pay the arrears, it has gone quiet and want to remind it to honor the agreement,” David said. The teachers are part of A-Level graduates employed by the TSC in the early ‘90s, as untrained teachers to meet the teacher shortage in the country at the time. However, TSC required the teachers to undergo in service training in the course of their service. The training was to be done in two forms, first there are those who went to a primary teacher training college to train as P1 teachers, a course that took about two years to complete. While others there are those who went for two-week training either at Kagumo or Bondo Teacher Training Colleges, under a World Bank initiative. Besides taking a longer duration, in the first instance, they paid more fees compared to those who went for the two-week training. However, upon completing their studies, those who went for the two year training were awarded a certificate compared to those who went for the two weeks, who were awarded a diploma. Besides, the diploma holders were on a higher job group compared to those with certificates hence salary disparities exists. “The commission did not consider all factors as those with P1, despite making more efforts to go for training were given a raw deal,” Thagwambi said. However, the push for new grades bore fruits in 2010 when majority of the teachers received better job groups backdated to 1996. However, they have not been able to get the improved salary packages that accompany promotions within that period hence the salary arrears. The teachers, whose number has reduced greatly over the years due to natural attrition say though some of their colleagues have been fast-tracked to higher job groups, a majority are still languishing in inferior grades despite possessing prerequisite qualifications for upgrading. “We call on the Commission to honour our demands promptly and should also press the Treasury to clear the arrears without further delay,” said Thagwambi. Efforts to reach the commission for a comment were unsuccessful as TSC officials did not respond to texts or calls.