The medical superintendent of Mbagathi hospital, Loice Mutai, has been sacked over alleged incompetence. Mutua was sent home by county health executive Hitan Majevdia who cited complaints by patients and medial staff about poor management. The facility has been in the spotlight since April when the new Sh120 million maternity wing was condemned. Two weeks ago, fire broke out at the maternity block causing panic among pregnant women and mothers of newborns. The wing was evacuated. Pregnant woman avoid the hospital. The number of deliveries there has dropped dramatically, from 60 to 80 per day to 12 to and 20 daily. Majevda said Mutai, who was appointed to the position last December, exhibited poor management skills and incompetence. “She never used to call me to brief me on anything including the recent fire incident that happened there,” Majevda said. “I used to read about the happenings at the hospital on social media. That is not the way this hospital should be run. This is the biggest public hospital in Nairobi after KNH and it must be run with professionalism.” Majevda said he has received complaints from junior medics and patients about poor services offered. “One day I was called by a young doctor at night because they did not have some basic drugs to help a patient, yet this hospital generates income every day,” he said. Majevda said Mutai has been spending most of her time at her private clinic and at no time did he find her at Mbagathi whenever he made impromptu visits. Mutua could not be reached for comment. Majevdia said that Mutai would continue to provide consultancy services to Mbagathi Hospital. On May 23, fire broke out at the main electricity meter box at the postnatal ward, causing a blackout throughout the maternity block. The fire disrupted services at the maternity, postnatal and labour units and the baby care room. The Kenya National Union of Nurses asked its members to stay away from the maternity block until their safety was guaranteed. In April, county engineers condemned the building after it was found to be structurally unsafe for occupation following an audit. The block, built in 2014, developed cracks on the walls and ceilings. KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako said their call for the county to renovate the building fell on deaf ears. Former Health chief officer Thomas Ogaro wrote to Public Works chief officer Fredrick Karanja to assess the building’s structural integrity soon after the cracks emerged. Karanja recommended the closure of the maternity wing and evacuation of all patients. He suggested a team of professionals carry out another audit to establish the building’s safety status. “Inadequate strength of the structural elements is evidenced by the appearance of the cracks on the walls, slabs and beams,” Karanja said. The team found deformation and sagging of the beams and leaks on the walls, floors and roof.