 I’m happy to
learn the Kenya Editors’ Guild has made a conscious and collective choice
to promote democracy and constitutionalism. The institutional
objectives of the Editors’ Guild, which include monitoring legislation and
policies on media freedom and independence, improving the quality of journalism
through training and education, and provision of a forum for networking and
sharing between professionals in the media industry, among other objectives, render
you a formidable organisation for great change. Why do I say so? These specific
objectives seek to enhance the role of the media in promoting and sustaining
our developing constitutional democracy. Indeed, these objectives will, if pursued single-mindedly,
contribute to the promotion of the core principles of democracy,
constitutionalism and the rule of law in this country. In a free or growing democracy
(such as ours), the media plays an important “watchdog role” on behalf of the
people and thus contributes to core constitutional concepts of transparency and
accountability. The concept of constitutionalism binds
state organs to exercise power within constitutional confines and boundaries
defined in the Constitution. Whenever an institution oversteps its mandate or
acts contrary to the laid down order, it is the duty of the media to highlight
these transgressions and inform the public. Furthermore, the media should lead
in calling such institutions and persons to account in the manner in which they
exercise powers bestowed upon them. In this way, the media transforms itself
into an important tool for promotion of constitutionalism. Democracy, constitutionalism and
media freedom are inextricably intertwined concepts. Indeed, one of the
critical yardsticks for evaluating an effective or struggling democracy is the
presence or absence of a vibrant media that can hold the wielders of powers to
account. In situations where the media is silenced or controlled, it is highly
unlikely such a system can claim any political or constitutional legitimacy. The
concept of democracy generally requires the government, or people in positions
of public decision-making to reflect the general will of the people. It is the
duty of the media to report on the incongruence between the wishes of the
people and actions of leaders. Thomas Jefferson, one of America’s
Founding Fathers and the third US President, illustrated this
clearly when he said:"The basis of our governments being the
opinion of the people, the very first object should be to keep that right; and
were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without
newspapers or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment
to prefer the latter. But I should mean that every man should receive those
papers and be capable of reading them.” Indeed, the
experience journalists go through in carrying out their work demonstrates
the important role  media plays to augment democracy. In Kenya and beyond,
journalists and reporters risk their lives to bring us stories that usually
assist us to change our worldview and bring positive change to the World. For
instance, the International Journalists Federation Report of 2017 indicated that 82 journalists and media staff were killed in last year in the course of duty. To quote the
report, risks range from “opposition to the media as a crucial
pillar in democracy in certain parts of Africa, to the failure of holding
accountable those who kill journalists in some European countries, to the reign
of terror by organised crime in Latin America, terror attacks in Asia
Pacific and the Middle East and Arab World and frontline violence in the
latter.” Indeed, while the narratives about the struggle for
democratic and political reforms in this country exalt the role of opposition
politicians, church leaders, and civil society organisations, the media (and
specifically persons who courageously reported on these stories) are not given
equal prominence in the mainstream discourses on constitutional and political reforms. The media played an important role in highlighting and informing the
country about events such as the infamous ethnic clashes and stories of ethnic
cleansing during the 1992, 1997 and 2007 violent clashes. The media, thus,
contributed to awareness and later sacrifices the country undertook to ensure peace and political stability. The example of Wallace Gichere
is one of the photojournalist-turned social activist, who sought to challenge
the Kanu regime, whose ills affronted basic freedoms, including media freedom. As a result of the experience during the one-party state and pre-2010
patterns of abuse of media freedom, Kenyans sought to entrench media freedom in
the 2010 Constitution. As you go about your work as news editors and media
professionals, there are many challenges and obstacles  you will continue
to face. You will be vilified, insulted, and even threatened because of the
stories and reports you bring to us. Not everyone will appreciate your work and
honest effort to live up to the highest standards and ethics of journalism.
However, I urge you to see your work as a service to patriotism and sacrifice
to this great country. The fight for media freedoms and other rights has been a
long and tortuous journey but we have made progress. 