The Muslim community in Thika has asked the government to reintroduce the death penalty as a measure towards ending corruption. They said anyone found guilty of corruption should face death and all their property gained through such illegal means confiscated. Supkem central region chairman Al Haji Shaban Bakari said there is need for the authorities to be tough on culprits as a deterrent to the vice. He addressed the press at the Thika sub-county stadium after the Eid prayers on Friday. Bakari said corruption in Kenya is rampant since criminals were let off lightly and the death penalty was the best option. "If there is no severe punishment, corruption will get out of control. We need to safeguard national interests by recovering money and property embezzled from the public," he said. Also read: Lifestyle audit will 'expose us', Murkomen jokes on Uhuru's call for wealth review He suggested an amendment to the law, further asking MPs to borrow a leaf from China whose death penalty has yielded positive results. "Our MPs should enact laws to the effect that anyone found guilty of corruption be hanged. We should emulate China who are among our biggest financiers." The Supreme Court in December last year ruled that the mandatory death sentence is unconstitutional. Section 204 of the penal code states that any person found
guilty of murder, robbery with violence, treason and other capital
offences shall be sentenced to death by hanging. But Justice Njoki Ndung'u said the section "is out of sync and cannot stand as it is inconsistent with the constitution". The court made the landmark ruling after a petition by two death row convicts Francis Murwatetu and Wilson Thrombus. More on this: Supreme Court make landmark ruling on death sentence Earlier this month, Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo rooted for a referendum to reintroduce death penalty. "Corruption in Kenya is at levels it cannot be fought without the death penalty," he said. Separately, the Muslims lauded the government for providing security during the month of Ramadhan stating that they felt safe and ended their fast without any reported incidents. The lot also praised the government for what they termed as a friendly budget which was read by Treasury CS Henry Rotich on Thursday. Bakari singled out provision of enough funds to cater for the elderly, introduction of NHIF cover to students, and enough funds for electrification of villages across the country. Read: Kenya's 'budget for the rich' pushes poor to the brink - campaigners Click here for the latest political news