Coast regional coordinator Bernard Leparmarai and Nacada have raised the red flag over increasing abuse of Rohypnol in Mombasa. Rohypnol, locally known as bugizi, is a tranquiliser about 10 times more potent than Valium, according to drugfreeworld.org. “The drug is available as a white or olive-green pill, sold in the manufacturer’s bubble packaging,” the website says. Users’ tongues turn blue upon taking the drug. Its effects cause the victims to partly lose muscle control. Leparmarai on Saturday said bugizi, alongside bhang and heroin, are the most abused at the Coast. National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse chairman Maj (Rtd) Julius Ayub said the agency is compiling statistics on the number of addicts at the Coast.  NUMBERS NOT GOOD Nationally, 12.5 per cent of the population, which translates to about 3.5 million people, are hooked on drugs. Ayub said schoolchildren are increasingly hooked on drugs. “The numbers are not good,” he said at Uwanja wa Mbuzi. The two spoke at a pre-Idada (International Day Against Drug Abuse) football tournament in Mombasa. Leparmarai said the government has a protection programme for whistleblowers. Taib Abdulrahman, executive director at ReachOut Centre, an organisation that deals with drug addicts at the Coast, said records show 150,000 people are hooked on drugs at the Coast. “At least 10,000 of these are in Mombasa,” he said. Abdulrahman said the drug-abusing age bracket keeps reducing. It stands at between 11-20, from 18-25 three years ago. Ayub said this year’s Idada will be marked in Mombasa tomorrow, a decision he says aims to tackle the drugs menace in Mombasa and the Coast. Leparmarai said, “If the society is sick because of drugs, then the country is sick. And if the country is sick, productivity is lowered.” “We want to partner with Nacada and other private partners to help the addicts and protect the youth.” Most drugs are sold at night in Bamburi. Leparmarai appealed to the community to speak out against peddlers and barons without fear. “We will support you. Do not fear.” Leparmarai put drug barons and chemists selling bugizi on notice, saying they will not be spared. “The focus this time will not be on the users, but the sellers.”