Three national police reservists were killed and one injured by suspected Pokot bandits in Lokori, Turkana County, on Monday. Residents said the attackers took advantage of the absence of herders and morans who had not returned from Nakukulas village, where they went on Sunday for the flagging off of oil trucks by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Inspector John Mwire confirmed the numbers of those killed and injured, adding at least 1,000 goats and three guns were stolen. "After the shoot-to-kill orders from Uhuru, suspected bandits from Pokot West attacked Lokori centre," he said, when reached for comment by phone. Tension rose in the area as gunfire was heard in a confrontation between police and the attackers. Turkana East MP Ali Lokiru said the animals and firearms were stolen from four kraals. "Turkana people have been attacked on their own land. Police should take action immediately so the culprits face the law," he said. Lokori resident Celina Abenyo said: "The attacked place has a lot of pasture where thousands of herders graze their animals. The attackers knew residents were attending the [ceremony] in Nakukulas. They stole the animals as they did not face any resistance." Jana Naperit, who reported losing all her animals, asked for air surveys before the thieves cross over to West Pokot with their animals. Turkana Woman Representative Joyce Emanikor said: "It's sad that just after Kenya made history, we lost people in primitive killings." She urged calm and peace as police investigate. Kenya is using the Early Oil Pilot Scheme, which will soon be followed by the Full Field Development phase, to establish itself as a crude oil exporter in the region and provide valuable information for future exploration and development. The President said the production of petroleum products will strengthen economic partnerships and enhance opportunities for growth and investment in the country. More on this: Historic moment as Uhuru flags off Kenya's first crude oil exports Click here for more political news