Four children and a man yesterday succumbed to injuries at the Kenyatta National Hospital where they had been taken for treatment after the mysterious Gikomba market fire. They were among the 70 victims of the 2.30am fire who had been taken in for treatment. According to acting CEO Thomas Mutie, five of the patients suffered fire burns and were undergoing specialised treatment in the Intensive Care Unit. Four others had fractures of the lower limbs. He said the patients are being managed for shock, burns and smoke inhalation burns while others were receiving attention for anxiety, burns and soft tissue injuries. The hospital has established an information centre for relatives of the 41 patients admitted for various injuries to enhance reunion with their relatives. According to the management, 24 patients who suffered minor injuries were treated and discharged. "We are happy that we have managed to stabilize all the patients and now they are under the care of a multi-disciplinary team of specialists," Mutie said. Relatives and friends of the patients trooped to the facility to establish if their loved ones were among those who survived the incident and were admitted there. Related: 15 dead, 60 injured in Gikomba market fire Betty Kaveke broke down in tears when she realised that three of the four children she left in the house at about 2am when she went to the market were not in the list of the patients released by the hospital. "They are my sister's children. I was staying with them and I fear they died there because only one boy has been found. I lost everything," she said and broke down in tears. Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja, his nominated counterpart Millicent Omanga and Starehe MP Charles Njagua in whose constituency the market is located, visited the patients. They appealed to the public to donate food and other utilities to help the victims. "I must say KNH has tried and we have to commend them for that. But there are some items like the blood that we appeal to Kenyans to come and donate so that lives can be saved," Omanga said. Njagua said the CDF kitty will help the victims. He, however, called on the government to probe the incident and bring to an end the perennial fires at the market. "The are many theories on the ground about the cause of the fire. Some say it is a business rivalry, others say there are land issues there. We want these issues investigated so that the truth can be established and the culprits brought to book," he said. Read: What ails Gikomba market? Speculation reignited by yet another fire 