Police officers in Kapenguria  West Pokot county have nabbed a village elder impersonating to be an assistant chief of Mwotot sub location after he extorted residents in the name of helping them to process their births and death certificates. A number of people had recorded statement at the police station citing that their documents had been missing from the registrar of persons office that’s is when the police officers started their investigation. Following several complaints from wananchi on disappearance of birth certificates for residents of Mwotot sub location in West Pokot sub county the police officers led by Kapenguria police station officer commanding police division OCPD  Athony Wanjuu conducted raids at the house of Madda Santos a village elder at Saint Mary’s village in  Makutano township on Thursday. The OCPD  Wanjuu said  that the suspect owned rubber stamps of  chiefs from Trans nzoia and West Pokot county locations and he could use them to extort residents. “People used to pay for the services, he used to go to the office of registrar of parsons  and collect the births and deaths certificates that were ready to be dispatched  saying that he has been sent by the area chief.” He said. He pointed out that the former assistant chief of Mwotot sub location didn’t hand over the rubber stamps and they are suspecting the culprit could have taken advantage of the rubber stamps and impersonate as the assistant chief. “The assistant chief retired last year and he lives in Trans nzoia county. We are looking for him to help us in investigation . He could ask for transport from residents before he could sign or stamp any document.” He said. The police officers managed to get 77 original birth certificates, application forms for births and other accountable documents. Wanjuu added that the suspect 4O years old  is in  police custody pending investigation. “This is a syndicate of extortionist involving officials of the department of births and deaths. We are still going on with our investigation to establish if their was a collaboration between the suspect and the  registry of persons officials.” He said. He noted that the county registrar of births and deaths have recorded statements to assist in the investigations.