Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi and clerk Jacob Ngwele have fallen out over investigations at the assembly. The purchase of a Sh150 Karen residence for the speaker has also put them at odds. Last week, Elachi asked the DCI to investigate what she said were suspicious financial transactions for which she blamedNgwele. The county Public Service Board, which includes Elachi and Ngwele, is to meet this morning to discuss the clerk's position. On Thursday evening, Elachi and Ngwele argued bitterly in the assembly corridors. “Why are you destroying my career? Why do you want to ruin my life? Why should you try to embarrass me?” Ngwele asked Elachi in full earshot of journalists. “Don’t raise your voice to me. We shall give you time to defend yourself," Elachi shot back. After that verbal clash, Ngwele invited journalists to his office and said Elachi wanted to influence purchase of the Speaker's residence. He said he had rejected some of her proposals on whom the residence should be purchased from. “This is purely because of a failed business scheme, she is now trying to find ways to fight back and believes that having me out will help her," Ngwele said. The speaker responded that she has nothing to do with purchase of the residence and challenged Ngwele to institute investigations.. “The process of tendering ... was made public and I'm not afraid of being investigated on this. Let him involve even the DCI, he can as well take the media there to see for themselves,” Elachi said. In the 2017-18 budget, the assembly approved purchase of a residence, ending the current system of renting. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission directed all 47 counties to stop pay rent for speakers' residences. Elachi has said her sole interest is ensuring prudent financial management. She said she wrote to the DCI after she discovered many financial malpractices, including irregular procurement by the clerk's office. “Everyone
will carry their own cross, as the President said. There is a lot of
double payment; some issues were raised by  members way back and nobody could
answer those questions,” Elachi said. Meanwhile, Ngwele is under fire from other quarters. On Thursday, Nairobi West MCA Maurice Gari moved a motion to invalidate his appointment. Gari said Ngwele's name was not tabled before the assembly for approval, calling the appointment an "illegality". He cited the County Assembly Services Act, Article 18 (2) on process of approving a clerk. Speaker Elachi did not allow debate on the impeachment motion and instead ordered that it be brought back to the house after two weeks.