Title: Daytona Artiste: Pusha T Genre: Hip hop Release: May 25  The last time Pusha T gave the world a full length album was back in 2015, when he released his sophomore King Push – Darkest Before Dawn: The Prelude. Years later, King Push is still considered one the top rap names alive. His latest major project was certainly top of every hip hop head's most-anticipated-albums-2018 list.  His third studio album Daytona is indeed spectacular. In fact, it's the best we've heard from King Push since his days in the hip hop duo Clipse. Fittingly, the entire project is Kanye West-produced - and in all truth, it's easy to single out Ye's ingenuity. Already, there's controversy gathering force around the fact that the album cover art is an image of Whitney Houston's drug-strewn bathroom. When you listen to the album, you almost get the artistic sense that informed that decision.  With Kanye West, expect a show and good music. Daytona is a seven-track compilation of boastful tunes. It's a effort that represents "the luxury of time" and kicks off with If You Know You Know, in which Pusha brags about being at the top of the game. The Games we Play celebrates his success in the game as he recognises some of those who have influenced his career.  Rick Ross, who recently delivered a run-of-the-mill performance in the country, features in the album's third song Hard Piano. Pusha T's adoration for cocaine is eminently felt on Come Back Baby, which starts by sampling The Mighty Hannibal's The Truth Shall Make you Free and also samples George Jackson's I Can't Do Without You on the chorus.  Pusha T addresses the murder of his friend and road manager in Santeria. Kanye West's contribution in What Would Meek Do? is an excellent point of entry into a track that is hitting hard at their critics. It also makes reference to Meek Mill's recent incarceration. The artist calls out fellow rap artiste Drake, reigniting an already existing beef, in the last track Infrared.  The concept behind Daytona is bolder and brilliant, the lyrics and delivery are more striking and well thought out - probably not so deep. But what actually does it for this project is the skill that goes into its production. For any Pusha fan, this is a record you will want to listen to the entire year. And maybe it might be competing for top spot with Kanye's seven-track album.  Star rating: 4 out of 5