Voi High Court has ordered the Coast Water Services Board to immediately restore supply to Taita Taveta County. The order was issued on Friday ahead of the hearing and determination of a case filed by Tavevo Water and Sewerage Company.. Tavevo filed the case under certificate of urgency after CWSB disconnected supply in Voi town and its environs last Friday due to an unpaid debt of Sh411 million. Justice Farah Amin also ordered the board to file and serve a replying affidavit by July 3. The court further directed CWSB to set out clearly how and when the sums demanded arose. “The Chief Executive Officer of [the CWSB] is ordered to allow supply of water to the areas of Voi, Maungu, Miasenyi, Taita Village, Itinyi, Manyani Prison, Ndii, Mbololo, Canaan with immediate effect," Farah said. Taita Taveta and the Water Resource Management Authority are interested parties in the case. Addressing journalists outside the court, Taita Taveta legal adviser Edwin Ayiro said the suit will provide level ground for both parties to agree on debts payable by the county water company. “We hope that before Wednesday, both parties will have come together for a way forward because innocent citizens are the ones aggrieved," he said. "We know Tavevo has its own issues but it is a constitutional right for residents to enjoy clean, cheaper and affordable water.” Elpidah Mwakamba, acting Chief Officer in charge of Water department, said the unpaid bills will be settled upon an agreement with the CWSB. “The department is not trying to evade payment of the debt. We want Coast Water to produce documents showing how they settled on Sh411 million," she said. "A forensic audit of Tavevo showed there were irregularities. These are some of the issues to be solved before payments are made." Tavevo had sought a waiver by the National Treasury through the county. Water executive Jasper Kabaka said the debt had accumulated since 2013 but that only Sh280 million was payable. Read: Water agencies differ on supply Also see: [VIDEO] Mombasa, Kilifi taps run dry after water board disconnects supply over Sh40m debt Click here for the latest political news