Forget about the Court of Appeal ruling that would seem to end Alfred Mutua's reign as governor of Machakos county. The real story here is Mutua's battles with Wiper supremo Kalonzo Musyoka and lately DP William Ruto. Mutua branded his party Chap Chap to chastise Kalonzo for his so-called lukewarm approach to development in Ukambani. Stung by Mutua's forays onto his turf, Kalonzo galvanised support for Wavinya Ndeti. Mutua triumphed. Buoyed, the Chap Chap man announced he will run for President against Ruto and others in 2022. Lately, Mutua sends a bolder message and even tours other counties to preach the Chap Chap Gospel. Last Saturday, he hurled stones at unnamed leaders over graft and suggested only untainted leaders will succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. First things first. Unless the Supreme Court rules in his favour, there will be a by-election in Machakos. Mutua will easily win unless Kalonzo himself or Raila Odinga decides to run. Mutua's 2022 shot at the presidency will depend on how he manages the relationship he has initiated with the Gema community as a neutral candidate who can succeed Uhuru. Should the Gema community support Mutua, he will become an overnight political giant. A look at the appointments gazetted on Wednesday by the President is proof of Mutua's growing influence in the corridors of power. A number of Mutua friends became directors. The ruling is a major setback for Mutua, but it could also propel him to stardom. Should he win the by-election, Mutua will have vanquished Kalonzo for the second and probably final term. For DP Ruto's advisers, Mutua's problems are an early Christmas from a gadfly that was beginning to irritate. Mutua has to contend with Wavinya, or whoever has sent her, spend considerable cash and sell himself to the wheeler dealers. Make no mistake. This by-election will shape the career of Dr Alfred Nganga Mutua. The earlier, the better. Unless his stated ambitions are a bluff or red herring, Dr Mutua could lay the perfect foundation for 2022. The political analyst spoke to the Star 