Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has agreed to work with politicians who lost in last year’s governor race. Tolgos shook hands with his archrival – former Sasini Tea MD Moses Changwony. They met publicly for the first time during the homecoming ceremony of Environment executive Abraham Barsosio and nominated MCA Lorna Tanui in Turesia, Keiyo South, on Sunday. Tolgos said the handshake was in the spirit of President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga’s Building Bridges initiative. He said he is looking forward to a handshake with another key political rival – former Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui. Tolgos, Changwony and Kiptanui ran vigorous campaigns that almost divided the Keiyo and Marakwet communities in last year’s general election. “I am pleased to have shaken hands with my former rival Changwony, but I also need to have one with Kiptanui,” Tolgos said. He continued, “I have never met him [Kiptanui] since the end of the campaigns. I need to shake hands with him as I pursue unity and healing the county after divisive politics.” The Tolgos-Changwony handshake was witnessed by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago. Others are MPs Daniel Rono (Keiyo South), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) and William Kisang (Marakwet West). Tolgos said he recently involved Changwony in a development meeting with partners in Nairobi to incorporate his ideas. There was a light moment when Raila’s pointman in Elgeyo Marakwet, Micah Kigen, hesitated to shake hands with MP Rono, whom he accused of stealing his votes. “He shortchanged me last year but let me just shake his hand because my party leader Raila has led the way, “ Kigen said. Tolgos said, “We have embraced everyone for the sake of development of our county. That is why we are inviting Kiptanui and others to follow suit.” Changwony praised the governor for the gesture, saying there is a need to recognise his leadership skills so that the governor can deliver his development agenda.