National assembly majority leader Aden Duale has challenged education stakeholders in Garissa to regulate private schools that are mushrooming all over the constituency. He noted that in the past one year there has been upsurge in the number of private schools. According to Duale there a total of 20 secondary schools and close to 40 primary schools. Duale claims that some of the schools do not follow proper educational procedures. Speaking at a function in Garissa town, Duale said he was concern over the increase of private institutions ran without considering amenities such as playing field, safety and security of learners. “People driven by the urge to make money just put up two rooms where they name a school and parents without knowing the condition where their children are going to learn take their children,” he said. Duale said all private schools should be regulated and made to comply set up rules for schools in order to protect the welfare of learners. But speaking to the star separately, Garissa KNUT secretary general Abdirizak Hussein said that there was no school in the area that was operating without being registered. “To the best of my knowledge all the private schools operating within have been registered by the relevant bodies after meeting all the required standard. if anything they are doing very well in national exams,” said Abdirizak. He said that most of the best performers have always come from the private school adding that ‘even the no so good private schools outshine the public ones’ He added: “currently we have acute shortage of personnel that is being followed by the private school. remove them and there will be a very big crisis,”. Abdirizak instead blamed the politicians whom he accused of being behind the creating of many schools 'becasue they insist on having a school in every small village' The Garissa Township MP oversaw the disbursement of sh22.8million shilling to students from needy background in his constituency, he urged students to use the opportunity to work hard in school. He urge teachers to ensure their leaders perform in school saying the world is competing in terms of education.