Threats to peace and national security took centre stage in the court's decision to deny the NYS suspects bail on Tuesday. Milimani chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti cited this when remanding the 51 people accused of graft at the youth agency. The accused persons, among them Gender PS Lillian Omollo and NYS director general Richard
Ndubai, will be in custody until their trial. Ogoti said he found that the charges facing the accused persons are grave offences affecting the country's economy. Read: NYS suspects denied bail, to remain in remand until end of trial He said the offences pose a serious threat to the financial health of
the country, hence can lead to anarchy, are a threat to peace and national security. "This, in itself, is a compelling reason why bail should and is hereby denied," Ogoti said in his ruling. "Even though they are deemed innocent until proven otherwise, offences
of economic crimes should be taken with the seriousness they deserve as
they can lead to loss of financial health of a country." The ruling was received with mixed reactions after some quarters argued that the suspects should have been granted the right to continue with their trial out of remand. But the judge maintained that the charges involved in the case gives the court compelling reasons to deny the suspects the prayer. Article 49 (1) says that a suspect has the right to be released on bond or bail, on reasonable conditions, pending a charge or trial, "unless there are compelling reasons not to be released." And in quoting the same, the judge held that the charges bear a sentence that exceeds the limits allowed by Article 49 (2) of the Constitution of Kenya. The article says a person shall not be remanded in custody for an offence if the
offence is punishable by a fine only or by imprisonment for not more
than six months. However, this is not the case of the suspects who are jointly charged with conspiracy to defraud the National Youth Service of Sh468 million in flawed tendering processes. The sentences from the charge range from Sh1 million fine or a jail term of not more than 10 years or both. There is also a provision for the court to order the suspects to pay half of the money involved. Read: Bond or Bail is not an absolute right As a relief to the suspects, the magistrate said the court has put in place elaborate measures, by way of Pre-Trial Conferencing, to ensure speedy trials in the cases. "For this reason also, bail is denied as the trials will not delay. All parties are encouraged to participate fully in the Pre-Trial Conferences and allow the trials to hit the road as soon as possible," he said adding that there are hearing dates available as early as July. Ogoti said plunder of public resources can lead to a suspect being denied fundamental rights as the same denies citizens "good health, food, and shelter; leading to death". The ruling was given after the suspects put up a spirited fight to be released on bail saying it was their right. But the magistrate said the court has taken judicial notice of the fact that there has been a social media outcry over the corruption cases. He said the charges border on proliferation and theft of the public funds meant for the provision of services to the communities by the state. Also see: Parasatals in eye of a storm as Uhuru escalates war on corruption On the principal of being presumed innocent till proved guilty, the judge held that the same does not mean that one may commit grave offences at will and "brag that he is innocent until the contrary is proved." "Every person is equal before the law and has the right to equal protection and equal benefit of the law. Any finding of this court must benefit or not benefit all the accused in equal measure(s)," read part of the judgement. Ogoti further argued, on the basis of suspects' ease in meeting bond terms, saying that it was evident from the proceedings that all the accused are people of different means. "There are those who will meet stringent bond terms and there are those who will not. How can the court then exercise Article 27(1) without being accused of bias?" "They all face a joint charge in all the case files opened against them," he said. He said there is a challenge in reaching a reasonable bond then when some are bound to afford while others cannot. "Can it be staggered without the court being accused of discrimination?" he asked. The ruling came as a major win for the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji who had opposed the release of suspects on bail. The DPP, through his assistants, told the court the suspects are a flight risk and are likely to interfere with evidence if freed on bail. Among the suspects sent to custody are Nicholas Ochieng - senior deputy director at NYS, and acting finance officer Wellington Lubira. They are facing abuse of office charges. Others are four members of the Ngirita family, whose companies were allegedly paid more than a half of the Sh468 million. Related: Corruption cases a priority, evidence must be watertight - Maraga Click here for the latest political news