Kenya Simbas head coach, Ian Snook, has named five uncapped players for Saturday’s Africa Gold Cup-cum-World Cup qualifier against Morocco in Casablanca. Kenya U20 international Edmund Anya starts at the wing with Kabras Sugar’s Colman Were starting at hooker. The Homeboyz trio of Mohammed Omollo, Zedden Marrow and Max Kang’eri all start from the bench. Overall, there are four changes to the side that started last month’s 34-16 Elgon Cup away win over Uganda with Were slotting in ahead of Peter Karia, who has been relegated to the bench while Philip Ikambili, normally deployed as a hooker starts at open-side flank, taking the place of Elkeans Musonye, who is out of the squad entirely. Biko Adema starts at fullback. Jacob Ojee, Martin Owilah, Vincent Mose and Isaac Adimo are unavailable due to academic and work commitments while Oscar Simiyu misses out through injury, his place on the bench taken up by Moses Amusala. Erick Kerre has also been recalled to the squad after missing out on the Uganda fixture. Snook expects a tough match against the North Africans, who drew 23-23 with Zimbabwe last weekend in Harare. “We watched their match last weeken and established that they are a very physical side and have some very big forwards whom we will have to match if we are to get a win,” said Snook. Snook lamented the lack of friendly matches ahead of the qualifiers. Kenya was due to play Western Province and Boland this month in South Africa but the trip fell through due to lack of funds. “I am not happy that we have not played any build up matches. It’s out of our control but the boys are more than prepared for Saturday’s match,” observed Snook. He observed that there is room for improvement in the side going by their performance against Uganda. “We played well in the opening 20 minutes but our performance dipped and gave away penalties we cannot afford against Morocco. We have will have to showcase intensive rugby for 80 minutes to get a good result,” added The team departs today morning and are expected back on Sunday.  Team Biko Adema (Nondies), Edmund Anya (Strathmore), Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Leo Seje (Impala), Tony Onyango (Homeboyz), Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Samson Onsomu (Impala), Patrick Ouko (Homeboyz), Colman Were (Kabras), Joseph Odero (Kabras), Andrew Chogo (Kabras), Oliver Mang’eni (KCB), George Nyambua (Kabras), Philip Ikambili (Homeboyz), Davis Chenge (KCB, — captain), Replacements: Peter Karia (KCB), Moses Amusala (KCB), Curtis Lilako (KCB), Malcolm Onsando (Harlequin), Erick Kerre (Impala), Mohammed Omollo (Homeboyz), Zeden Marrow (Homeboyz), Max Kang’eri (Homeboyz) Management: Ian Snook (Head Coach), Murray Roulston, Charles Ngovi, Dominique Habimana (assistant coaches), Richard Ochieng’ (conditioning coach), Chris Makachia (physio), Simiyu Wangila (team manager)