Have two Jubilee senior politicians been slapped with huge Kenya Revenue Authority tax demands? The talk in town is that one of the two has already received a letter from the taxman asking him to pay Sh1.9 billion tax. A mole told corridors the two politicians have already protested the decision reading malice and claim a senior government official could be behind the move to silence them because they have expressed strong opinions regarding the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga.   A source in one of the 47 counties has told Corridors a governor recently directed the accounts department to pay his wife Sh200 million so she can collect garbage in all subcounties. In full disregard of the Procurement law, the governor is said to have told the chief finance officer that he will know how to defend the decision to have the cash paid out to his wife. Already, the county boss is in trouble with garbage collectors after he refused to renew contracts signed before he got elected.   AS the fight against corruption that has made President Uhuru Kenyatta take a lead role in the war gains momentum, concerned Kenyans at the National Youth Service have raised concerns about how individuals who are suspected to have played a key role in the second NYS scandal were spared in the recent arrests. It is said the officials are mainly in the procurement department and the workers at NYS were shocked when their names were not included in the list of the culprits who have already been charged with the theft of Sh468 million. Could the individuals be enjoying protection from a powerful office?   A county executive committee member from a South Rift Valley county is a worried man. Reason? It is said that investigators from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption are pursuing him after it emerged his lifestyle has changed overnight. Before he was appointed to the position, the man had nothing to his name worth writing home about, but of late he is rolling in cash. The executive recently bought a huge parcel of land in Kajiado’s Kitengela area and put up a multimillion-shilling maisonette. He is also building a bungalow in his rural farm among other residential buildings. Due to his latest flashy lifestyle, it has not passed the attention of the county residents who have started challenging the governor on social media platforms to kick out the man.   