The state has folded fi ve kitties to form Biashara Kenya
Fund, which will give loans to special groups for as low
as six per cent interest. Money borrowed from Biashara Fund will be used
for business only, with applicants expected to prove
they have established enterprises, Treasury CS Henry
Rotich said in his budget speech yesterday. The combined kitties are Kenya Industrial Estates,
Development Bank of Kenya, Industrial Development
Bank of Kenya, Uwezo Fund, Youth Enterprise Development
Fund and Women Enterprise Development
Fund. The fund will also lend to intermediaries such as
commercial banks, which will in turn lend to the
special groups at a maximum rate of 10 per cent. Not
more than 25 per cent of the fund’s cash will be lent to
intermediaries. The CS tabled the controversial Financial Market
Conduct Bill, 2018, which proposes introduction of
other three other authorities to assist CBK in regulating
activities the banking sector. The Treasury CS proposed a repeal of the interest cap,
saying it has not achieved the intended purpose. “In order to enhance access to credit and minimise
the adverse impact of the interest rate capping on
credit growth while strengthening financial access
and monetary policy effectiveness, I propose to amend
the Banking (Amendment) Act, 2016 by repealing section
33B of the said Act. This is to enable banks and
other lenders to provide more credit especially to borrowers
they consider riskier,” he said. Rotich said this while presenting the Sh3 trillion
budget for 2018-19, which is anchored on President
Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Introduced in 2016, the law that cap lenders’ interest
to borrowers at four per cent above CBK rate has
led banks to significantly cut credit to risker profiles,
leading to slow growth in credit to the private sector,
and especially to micro, small and- medium enterprises
in the agriculture and trade sectors. Rotich said although the amendment intended was
to expand access to financial services and increase
return on savings, this has not been achieved since
banks have shied away from borrowers they consider
riskier and have priced above the maximum lending
rate.
“Banks have concentrated on either building
non-interest earning deposit accounts or reclassifying
interest earning deposit accounts to transaction accounts
which do not earn interest. As a result, financial
access and economic growth have been adversely
impacted,” said Rotich. The Bill intends to prevent
lenders from exploiting borrowers.