President Uhuru Kenyatta has said manufacturers will receive new incentives in order to encourage them produce cheaper but quality goods. He said the country is in competition with other nations and needs to be productive and innovative enough to produce better and cheaper goods than the rest for it to have an edge in the current global business environment. “As government, we have offered new incentives to manufacturers, from cheaper power to reforms making it easier to do business,” he said. The President spoke when he addressed the nation from Kinoru stadium, in Meru County during this year’s Madaraka Day celebrations. Also see: Uhuru reaffirms stand against changes to Constitution He pointed out that apart from his ‘Big Four’ agenda, the most important pillar is the productivity and investment of Kenyans. Uhuru said Kenyan business people need to focus more on the expansion and growth of their ventures as they are a key contribution to the country. “Building value and paying salaries and taxes is building the nation. I urge you to redouble your efforts, and to invest in ambitious expansion. I urge workers and their trade unions to invest in growing the cake so that we can all have more to divide,” the President said. Assuring the business community of his government’s support, President Kenyatta, however, said the incentives being offered are to encourage growth that would offer Kenyans opportunities and not merely to increase their profits. “That said, I want every Kenyan to know that political stability based on unity, and honest government and people, are the crucial factors in building real and lasting prosperity that changes all our families.” The Head of State said as Kenyans build trust in one another, the government would ensure it helps in resolving some of the pressing problems. He said it is due to this fact that he is working tirelessly to implement the ‘Big Four” agenda. He said the ‘Big Four’ seeks to directly benefit all Kenyans particularly those facing tough challenges. Read: Kenyatta’s Big Four could be life changing Click here for the latest political news