Public Service CS Margaret Kobia and her predecessor and current Health CS Sicily Kariuki yesterday snubbed, for the second time, a parliamentary watchdog over the Sh9 billion NYS scandal. On May 25, the two also failed to appear before the Public Accounts Committee, saying they were on official duty. Yesterday, lawmakers castigated Kobia and Kariuki who excused themselves from the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi. Wandayi said matters being investigated were weighty and the public  expected the ministers to shed more light. Kariuki said she accompanied First Lady Margaret Kenyatta on a four-day visit to the US, while Kobia accompanied DP William Ruto to the launch of the Land Use Policy at Kenyatta International Convention Centre, Nairobi. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said the Cabinet Secretaries were dodging the committee by requesting for frequent postponements. “Whereas we have received communication about their absence, it is clear they have refused to appear before this committee. I wonder whether they are attached to the Foreign Affairs ministry. They seem not concerned about the matters before them,” he said. Nyoro told Planning PS Julius Muia, who had appeared before PAC, to “advise the CSs to avail themselves”. “You may run away from this committee but may not run away from other state agencies and the people of Kenya.” Muia said, “Where matters relate to public service, I will submit, with your guidance, that it’s difficult for me to argue the case and give appropriate answers.” On May 29, Kobia suspended all procurement, finance and accounting officers under investigation at the NYS. “I direct these officers to proceed on compulsory leave immediately to allow investigators to complete their work,” she said in a memo. The alleged fraudulent payments were made when Kariuki was the CS for Youth and Public Service. The committee adjourned the hearings to a later date. “These are the orders. You will go back and put your house in order, prepare adequately and ensure that when you are called to appear here next time, you have answers to all the queries raised by the Auditor General in his reports for financial year 2014-15,” Wandayi said. “On that day, there should be no excuses on why you should not respond to even a single question. We shall deal separately with the other matters with the CSs.”