President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to visit Nyanza for the first time since he won elections in October last year. The President will fly to Migori county on Friday for a meeting with his Tanzanian counterpart John Magufuli. They will be joined by ODM leader Raila Odinga. The two will head to the common border in Nyatike where they will meet to resolve some of the border issues affecting residents on both sides. Once completed, the three leaders will addresss a public rally in Migori town. Yesterday, Raila met Governor Okoth Obado, Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang, Nyatike MP Tom Odege, Seme MP James Nyikal and former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno. He briefed them on the meeting. They also dicussed preparations for the upcoming visit by former US President Barack Obama. When reached for comment, State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said he is unaware of the visit and did not have information on Magufuli’s visit. “We have no details on the visit and we cannot speculate on the president’s itinerary. The only planned visit the president has is that to Mauritania which is in the public domain,” he said. The tour will be the first for Uhuru since he ascended to power after the disputed 2017 election that saw the region boycott the repeat polls. Read:[VIDEO] Kisumu gives Uhuru rousing welcome, Wandayi says visit half-hearted, pointless At least 50 people were killed after residents fought the police and denied the IEBC staff a chance to conduct repeat presidential elections, which Raila boycotted. Uhuru and Raila are planning an extensive tour of the region later in the year to explain the Building Bridges initiative. Yesterday, the Star learnt Migori leaders made a request to the President to consider attending the burial of their Senator. Sorrow engulfed Kanyimach village in Rongo on June 19 after news of the death of Migori Senator Ben Oluoch reached home. Oluoch succumbed to throat cancer at the MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi. Mourners streamed into his home as early of 5am as family members struggled to come to terms with the demise of the former radio journalist. The mourners included religious leaders, businessmen and ODM supporters. Click here for the latest political news