The President may soon have a hand in picking chairperson of public university councils and other educational institutions. In a presentation before the parliamentary Education committee to give her proposals on the Statute Law Miscellaneous Amendment Bill (2018), Education CS Amina Mohamed proposed that some of the powers delegated to her in appointing heads council heads be transferred to the President. Among the boards in the proposal include the Higher Education Loans Board and the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. "The proposal is in line with 'Mwongozo', the  presidential circular that outlines the composition and regulation of those operating in boards, and we want to adhere to it," Amina said. Also read: State reviews VCs hiring law The Mwongozo code was launched in 2014 by President Uhuru Kenyatta and gives a code of governance for state corporations. The Ministry also proposed changes in the Basic Education act to allow the Attorney General to sit in the Kenya National Examination board. The proposal also seeks to trim county education boards from the current 17 members to nine. The change will also make county commissioners chairpersons of CEBs, while the remaining eight members of the board will be appointed by the Cabinet Secretary. This will revert to the previous District Education Board, where the county commissioner chaired the CEB. Speaking on Wednesday, before the parliamentary Education committee  PS Belio Kipsang said the decision was to ensure easy operation between the national government management role in schools as education remains un-devolved. Kipsang further said the number in the boards were too high, and this has led to disagreements. "The boards as they currently are, are too bloated to allow the management of functions in schools to run smoothly.The trimming will align with the law that requires boards to have a maximum of nine members and a minimum of seven," Kipsang said. Master's degree qualification The ministry further proposes the chairperson of the councils in public universities be graduates of Master's degree. This will be a step down from the previous requirement where the chairs were required to have a phD. According to the ministry, the proposal seeks to tone down conflicts that arose between the councils and Vice Chancellors as most of them had the same academic qualifications. See: University councils to work with CUE to better learning Click here for
the latest political news