Was Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday undiplomatic in responding to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ridicule of his countrywide tours? The DP, in response to Uhuru’s “kutangatanga” jibe, said he is conducting the tours because he is usually delivering the President’s messages. What a counter-attack, a day after his boss’s remarks caused a storm on social media? Well, could the DP and the President be taking Kenyans for a ride through stage-managed outbursts to distract the public from Jubilee’s 2022 succession plans? It is only a matter of time before things crystallise. ***** A flashy politician from Central Kenya is under siege from his online henchmen after reportedly failing to pay them their two-month dues. The politician who has often been critical of Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 succession plan, is under pressure after online warriors threatened to take him head-on, unless he settles the debt said to be about Sh1 million. It is reported the bloggers are gleaning a dangerous dossier targetting the politician in the coming days, including one scandal linking him to the NYS saga. His brother’s company is said to be among those supplying cereals to the institution and could be among those being pursued by investigators. ***** A top executive in one of the banks said to have transacted NYS billions without adhering to prudential regulations is in panic. The CEO, who was grilled last week by the multi-agency team investigating the scandal, has been spending a lot of time with his lawyers in the last one week. While his juniors, who processed the money, are the ones to be held to account, his case is different. Sleuths probing the scandal are said to have been informed that his sister-in-law owns one of the firms hastily paid millions through the bank. Given that bank CEOs have taken an oath with CBK to stick to the guidelines, it would be interesting to watch how things unfold in the coming weeks as investigations enter crucial stages. ***** An insurance firm said to be defrauding clients of their money by rejecting claims is on the spot. The company, with links to small-scale investors, is said to have been caught in a major scam involving its independent investigators. One of the detectives dispatched by the firm to authenticate a car accident in Nyanza last year is said to have drafted an unfavourable report to the client after his demand of ‘facilitation’ was rejected. The client, who is said to have evidence, is preparing a legal battle to be lodged in court soon in a major suit that could shake up the industry.