This Illegal sugar business is
greatly hurting farmers in addition to lowering community morale. Our people's income is disappearing because they no longer can depend on sugarcane as a staple cash crop. In the face of uncontrolled imports,
our people are suffering greatly because of this sugar, [some of] which has been found to contain mercury. Kenya is an agricultural country yet the
farming we do to eke out a living is now dying. We must urgently stop imports because Kenyans can produce their own
sugar. We have the land, we are blessed with rain. If you look at this
properly, comparing Kenya with other Comesa countries, our production costs are more
or less the same, yet people are feeding us a lot of propaganda that we are a high-cost producer. But from Egypt all the way to Uganda, there's little difference. South Sudan is being fed by our own sugar. Kenyan sugar has found it is way to Saudi Arabia. We
should never condemn our farmers in this way. They are not  part of the problem. There are some things we as a system have refused to do right, yet
we keen on condemning farmers. When farmers are given fertiliser, for instance,
they have no capacity to determine the cost. We must get our
policies right so we serve wananchi. We are doing a disservice
to our people. Just pick a single crop and tell me where Kenya is not very competitive. Every time we are competing with our rivals. We are killing our farmers
instead of nurturing them. We are trying to revamp the agricultural sector. Counties are making some interventions, offering extension services,
being closer to farmers, offering quality seeds. But some things are beyond us as the Council of Governors. We are progressing
well to address cane poaching, delayed and under-payments. Factories should have been
allowed to import the deficit from their projected production against actual production.
But they have now imported 200 per cent of the projected production. The Migori governor spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news