As part of the Philippines National Day celebration on June 12, the embassy in Kenya invited renowned Philippine artist Emmanuel Garibay for a cultural exchange. “Art unites people and creates bonds without frontiers,” said event organiser Myrna Bolay, a long-time Filipino resident in Kenya. Garibay spoke at an event in the chancery, giving a run-down of his art and how he comes up with ideas for his work. He observed that ‘art imitates life’, giving examples from liturgical art, when art gave shape and form to organised religion. Concerning modern times, Garibay believes that consumer goods and celebrities take prominence over religion in artwork. “Accumulated goods set our importance, cater to our ego, appetites and desires,” he said. Garibay studied sociology before obtaining a Fine Arts degree at the University of Philippines, followed later by a Master of Arts in Divinity. His faith and activism background is frequently reflected in his paintings. He uses art to address controversial issues of politics, social justice and religious insincerity, all the while encouraging viewers to take a candid look at their cultural and belief systems. His art depicts people and everyday events, presented in a straightforward expressionist style with narrative elements. There are scenes of densely populated urban settings, the countryside, families, politicians, religious figures and allegorical interpretations of Bible stories. Through his work, he sympathises with the marginalised and daily realities of ordinary people. A group of people sits around a banquet table in the painting Surrounded by Ordinary Saints. But there is a clear separation between the poor people in the foreground and upper class people on the other side of the table, highlighting the divides between haves and have-nots. Saranggola ni Neneng (meaning Neneng’s kite) illustrates a farmer’s daughter being whisked away from her father by a kite with Japanese symbols. Here, Garibay takes issue with the lot of young Filipina women from disadvantaged backgrounds, who go to Japan as entertainers but end up as sex workers. Many of Garibay’s faces and figures do not immediately strike you as Asian, adding to the universality of his paintings. The painting of dancing figures celebrating a last crop harvest is called Indakan. It is an ode to a disappearing way of life, where Garibay laments the conversion of agricultural land for commercial and industrial use, which leaves farmers without a source of income. State of Nature shows a pot-bellied policeman riding a bicycle on a busy street, blatantly ignoring the traffic lights. “The rule is, as long as you don’t get caught,” said Garibay of how society deals with the law. Garibay has exhibited widely in Asia, Europe and North America. This is his first visit to Kenya and he took some time to engage with Kenyan artists. At the new Philippines Embassy chancery, Garibay and six local painters created a wall mural, showing a multi-cultural group of people sharing a meal, with various African animals in the background. He said one role of art is to bring communities together.