Some Wajir leaders yesterday urged residents to remain calm and wait for the Supreme Court’s direction on the nullification of Mohamed Abdi’s election. The court is slated to give direction on Friday. The leaders included former Governor Ahmed Abdullahi, Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi, Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh and former governor candidate Ahmed Muhumed. Abdullahi and Muhumed promised to front one candidate in the event of a repeat election. “We want to assure our people that this time we are united. We have learnt our lessons and we will only front one candidate,” Abdullahi said. Muhumed said they felt aggrieved after the August 8 election and went to court to contest the results. “We now have a second chance and we will ensure residents get the leader they deserve,” Muhumed, who came third, said. They spoke at Barwako market in Wajir town on Sunday during the distribution of Iftar food to 3,000 households. Abdi’s election was nullified on January 12 on grounds it was not conducted according to the law. Justice Alfred Mabeya said his academic papers were not complete since he doesn’t have a genuine degree. Mabeya also said Abdi was not validly cleared to vie for the seat and noted many discrepancies in forms 37B. These were used to declare him winner after the vote. The court also found some forms had alterations yet there were no counter-signatures as required by the law. Mabeya further said many forms were not genuine as they were photocopies without watermarks. He said there were no printouts explaining where the originals were. But Abdi quickly moved to the Court of Appeal, which upheld the decision of the High Court. Judges Philip Waki, Milton Makhandia and Patrick Kiage said Abdi was not qualified to contest as he did not have a degree. In a judgement read by Justice Kathurima M’inoti, the three added that Abdi wasted a chance to tell his side of the story, when he failed to respond to the allegations raised against him. But Abdi said, “I am dissatisfied with the entire judgement of the court.” He moved to the Court of Appeal last month.