The Lake Region Economic Bloc could run on a unified digital platform to improve revenue collection and enhance services. Chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said he will lobby for the idea to address common challenges like revenue shortfalls, management, collection and billing. The bloc comprise of Kisii, Nyamira, Siaya, Migori, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Kakamega, Busia, Vihiga, Bungoma, Trans-Nzoia, Nandi, Kericho and Bomet counties. “As of today, only 10 per cent of the counties have achieved their revenue targets,” Oparanya said. He spoke during the launch of a digital connectivity platform for Kakamega at the Bukhungu Stadium on Thursday. Kakamega is among 31 counties that missed out on the sharing of Sh6.8 billion from the Commission on Revenue Allocation for improved revenue collection. “I've focused my priorities on fixing the existing the non-integrated revenue collection system of the defunct local authorities by replacing it with an end-to-end integrated Oracle ERP System platform,” Oparanya said. The platform will be implemented through a consortium of Technology System Integration firm, Sybyl Kenya, Oracle Kenya and Kenya Commercial Bank. Residents will make all payments through a pay-bill number. Oparanya said adoption of ICT will create smart counties. Kakamega is implementing a county connectivity project in a programme that is supported by the World Bank. He said ICT is key to the second medium term plans of Vision 2030 which is aimed at trengthening the foundation for a knowledge-based economy. “This will truly be one of the cornerstones of the legacy I will bequeath residents of Kakamega at the end of my term. I urge all citizens to embrace this paradigm shift for greater efficiency and better management of our resources,” the governor said. Oparanya said the county had put in place a system to address gaps that led to the loss of revenue. "A migration to the digital platform will seal all loopholes that existed," he said. He said that handling cash is one of the major loopholes we have identified in the system and digital migration will help to improve collections.