Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday told a joint Parliamentary committee that apart from contraband sugar that may contain toxic mercury, other goods have also been impounded. He said fertiliser, cooking oil, fruit juices and tomato ketchup in the market could be containing heavy metals that are harmful to human beings. Matiang’i spoke when he appeared before the National Assembly’s joint committee on Trade and Agriculture probing the importation of contraband sugar, . The CS told the committee co- chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega and his Mandera South counterpart Adan Haji he was hesitant to commit himself to a conclusive test that the sugar had no mercury. Matiang’i said his previous remarks that some of the sugar has mercury were a precautionary measure to the public, based on investigations done by the Directorate of Criminal Investigation. “Any sugar that is in the market has been released by the Kenya Bureau of Standards, Kenya Revenue Authority and the Anti-Counterfeit Agency. I cannot vouch for sugar that is still in police custody,” Matiang’i said. He was accompanied by Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and senior ministry officials at County Hall. The CS said the police are holding about 1.4 million bags of sugar across the country, which is unfit for human consumption. Matiang’i said the ministry will soon be destroying Sh1.2 billion contraband goods. They include fertiliser, sugar and alcohol impounded from the market by Kenya Bureau of Standards officials. He said  72 people have been arrested and charged in court in the crackdown against contraband products. Matiang’i refused to give details on the extent of the investigation “due to the sensitivity of the matter”. He said he can only do that in camera. “When we have the in-camera proceedings I will tell you the work that the DCI and security officials have been doing. I trust the work they have done,” Matiang’i said. He told the committee the impounded goods were smuggled into the country through the port of Mombasa because of porous border points. He linked the illicit imports to funding terrorism and insecurity within the borders.