A lobby group is seeking to block Mombasa county’s Sh13.5 billion budget, claiming there was not proper public participation. The NGO Local Empowerment for Good Governance moved to court on Monday, seeking to bar the county assembly from tabling or approving the budget estimates for 2018-19. It said budget making was a “charade”. The umbrella lobby includes more than 15 NGOs. Even as the organisations prepared to serve the assembly, MCAs appeared likely to pass the Sh13,591,771,891 budget as is. Last year the budget was Sh12.5 billion. Mohammed Hatimy, chairman of the powerful Finance, Budget and Appropriations committee. He said there had been enough consultations and that civil society groups had attended the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP) validation meeting at Tononoka on Monday. But the NGOs had said claimed the County Government has no approved CIDP, which is the primary document in all development planning, budgeting and spending. “We have no reason to delay the process any further,” Hatimy told the Star. He denied reports that some civil society officials were threatened with dire consequences during the meeting. Haki Yetu’s John Paul Obonyo, was to record a statement at Makupa Police Station on Tuesday afternoon, over what he calle threats to his life during the validation meeting. He claimed Hatimy had accused NGOs of being ‘outsiders’ spoiling development for Mombasa people, when they raised accountability concerns in the meeting. He said some people known to him, had threatened to “skin him alive”. But Hatimy told The Star that he never interacted with Obonyo beyond the open session, saying he was free to make truthful reports. In the suit, the Local Empowerment for Good Governance is demanding transparency in the county’s budgeting processes. The group accused the county government of having “charade budget estimates” of unknown origin. They say this is the third year that the county is denying residents their constitutional rights to determine development priorities and participatory budget processes. “It is a charade because it is not based on any legal document. Further, it has budget lines that are exaggerated like building an Early Childhood Development establishment for Sh25 million. It budgets for some non-existent projects like Makupa Market, which has been allocated Sh20 million,” NGO network chairman Lucas Fondo said. The suit was filed against the County Executive Commitee members, the Finance and Economic Planning committee, and the clerk of the county assembly. No orders were issued on Monday when they appeared in court, but parties were instructed to return to court tomorrow.