The flood disaster hasn’t ended in the flat Tana Delta, where floodwaters are still rising, many areas are cut off and residents are begging for food, medicine and assistance. One of the worst-hit areas is isolated Kipini West, where more than 5,000 residents are marooned without food and health services since roads were destroyed. Diarrhoea cases are increasing and residents fear a cholera outbreak because floods have destroyed all latrines and sanitation facilities. The Star visited Odole, Samicha, Mwanja and Kikono villages on Saturday. The visit revealed health facilities in the area have no drugs and some people use neem tree leaves as alternative medicine. Tana River Health executive Mwanajuma Hiribae on Thursday had said the county plans to buy drugs. A consignment was received in April, but was used up because of many people falling ill during the floods. On Saturday when journalists visited Madingo dispensary, there were no drugs. Another facility in Odole is also without medicine and supplies. A number of victims living in camps had to return to their homes, which are surrounded by water, as camps lacked tents, blankets and other facilities and supplies. Journalists touring Odole and Handaraku areas were told they have not received support from the county or national governments in two months. Only the Kenya Red Cross Society provided supplies, and they are not enough for everyone. They had to move from the camps and build temporary shelters near their flooded homes. Bakari Sangale said residents are suffering and have no support. “We have not received any relief food, there is no intervention and we need food and drugs as dispensaries are empty,” he said. Handaraku village, elder Ari Iyesa said they have been neglected, yet they live in the area, which is hard-hit by floods as it is not far from where River Tana meets the Indian Ocean. Kipini West MCA Musa Wario asked how the Sh1 billion allocated by the government to assist victims of floods in Tana River, Kilifi and Solai Dam tragedy had been spent. “There is an outbreak of malaria and typhoid. One has to travel to Oda, 20km away at a cost of Sh1,600,” he said. Wario urged the county and national government to distribute relief food and drugs to the area to prevent loss of lives.