Mike seems to be in a hurry to get rid of me. I remember that just this morning, he left me at his place to go for a meeting. And a few days before, he had done the same. He’s never asked me to leave because he needed to go somewhere. What has changed? I gather my stuff up quickly. I never make it a habit to stay where I’m not wanted. He kisses me goodbye. “I’ll see you tomorrow,” he says. That was five months ago. The next day, he had an excuse. And the day after, a different one. And it went on and on until months have gone by. Always trust your instincts, ladies. If something feels off, it usually is. I have no idea what happened there. And it wasn’t a clean break. There were calls and text messages but he was always ‘too busy’ to meet up again. Men can be strange that way. If they’re done with you, why not just say so? Why let it drag out? Did he just want to get laid? Then why trip out when I suggested a booty call arrangement? And also, why insist on hitting it raw? Did he give/pass something onto me? Was that his plan? To spread whatever he has to as many women as possible? At five months, I can get tested and know for sure but for some reason, I haven’t gone in yet. I grab my diary and make a note. ‘Go in for blood work!’ I’m not the type to bury my head in the sand; I like to know what I’m dealing with. The strangest thing about Mike was that he wasn’t my type. I went home with him because I had bumped into Eric that night. No other reason. I stayed with him because he gives the best cunnilingus I have ever received. No other reason. I don’t remember him being particularly funny or nice or anything really, but I remember that. And I remember his Johnson. Well, everybody has a talent! I put thoughts of Mike out of my head as I focus on the man who is the total opposite of him sitting across from me as we share a meal. His name is Luke. He is good-looking. He stays in shape, he is rich, he is funny, he is clever, he is everything that Mike is not. I’m having a great time with him at dinner. He is very charming. The only problem is that ‘everything Mike is not’ extends to the bedroom as well. Our meal will be the highlight of my evening. Once he takes me home, it will go downhill. First, you have to beg Luke to go down on you and when he does, he half-heartedly kisses you and does some strange tongue action for all of three minutes before he comes up looking expectantly at you like a dog that thinks he deserves a treat for performing a neat trick. You encourage him to give it another go but his solution to being stuck down there is turning his body around and placing his groin in your face in a weak attempt at position 69. Hell no! I don’t need you down there that badly! Happy that he has been let off the hook, he eagerly enters you for all of two minutes and it’s over. Lovemaking plus foreplay over in five minutes flat. Sometimes less. (It takes him at least 45 seconds to get a rubber on). Then he has the audacity to turn to you and ask: “Did you come?”