Kenya's private sector operations slowed marginally in May, a monthly index released yesterday shows. The Stanbic Kenya Bank Purchasing Managers' Index is down to 55.4 in May from 56.4 in April but remained above the average of 52.8 which overall paints a positive picture. The index is based on economic indicators drawn from monthly surveys of private sector companies. The survey is based on data compiled from replies to questionnaires sent to purchasing executives in approximately 400 private sector companies. It covers agriculture, mining, manufacturing, construction, retail and service sectors. Any reading above 50 shows growth in business activity while any index below this indicates a reduction in activities carried out by private sector firms. Favourable economic conditions and strong underlying demand were the key factors that sustained the performance. New business in private sector rose for the sixth month in May with this being attributed to new client wins and stronger market demand. Demand from international markets and growth in new export orders also remained strong. Firms raised staffing levels in response to greater output requirements in May although jobs growth was marginal. Firms continued to face higher input costs mainly due to higher demand and a limited supply of raw materials. Wages also rose at a modest pace. Average selling prices rose for the sixth consecutive month driven by a rise in inflation which increased to 3.95 percent in May from 3.73 per cent in April “Private sector activity in May rose, although at a slightly slower pace. Recovery in business activity over the past five months is notable,” said Jibran Qureishi, regional economist East Africa at Stanbic Bank. He said the market will be waiting for the national budget set for next Thursday to see the measures the government will apply to consolidate its public finances. Qureishi said the markets are also keenly eyeing outcomes of the Financial Market Conduct Bill which may result in a less favourable environment for credit extension to the private sector.   