I read, with a great deal of interest, Martin Andati's "expert
comment" in this newspaper on Wednesday, June 13.
The comment was entitled “Raila's run would ruin the handshake." On the other hand it may build the
handshake, depending on what assumptions one makes of the likely behaviour of
the Kenyan voter in 2022, and within which parameters the voter will make his
or her decisions.
A careful reading of the piece comes to one conclusion. That as Raila Odinga is
busy implementing the aims and goals of the handshake, William Ruto is busy
"invading his strongholds" and converting his political foot soldiers
into the DP’s campaigners. Raila, however, cannot run in 2022 because doing so
would mean doing exactly what Ruto is doing, hence abandoning the pursuit of
the handshake goals: Quad drum demonstrandum. Not quite so. For, as Karl Marx
once noted, "If appearances coincided with reality, science would be
superfluous.
On the same page, James Orengo, the ODM Minority leader in the Senate, is
quoted to have said: "Some people are saying Raila should retire, but we
firmly believe he has not accomplished his goal." ODM chairman John Mbadi on the other
hand contends, "There is nothing to worry so much about. We are focussed
as a party on the Building Bridges initiative." As far as ODM treasurer
Timothy Bosire is concerned, some people are misunderstanding the handshake; it
does not mean the party has to abandon its programmes. Presumably, part of the
programme is to present a presidential candidate in 2022 and the party leader
could easily be the candidate, handshake or no handshake. Whether age matters
is a something that is now dubitable and depends on circumstances after Mahathir
Mohamad was recently elected by the Malaysians to be Prime Minister at 92.
So, what do we make of all this from Andati's insistence a Raila candidature
would ruin the handshake goals to the views by ODM leaders that party plans
will have to be realised, including a Raila candidature, notwithstanding the
handshake?
Let me repeat once more: If appearances coincided with reality, science would
be superfluous. It appears Ruto is vigorously campaigning for 2022. Hardly a
year has gone since the last elections were held. To what extent does that
prejudice a Raila candidature and a Raila win should he run in the next
election? This question is difficult to answer since reality tells us there are
many other variables or factors we need to take into account beyond the two
Andati dealt with. He noted that Ruto is "invading Raila strongholds",
while also converting Raila foot soldiers into his own. Fair enough. Must we
take it for granted that what people say in public is what they sincerely
believe in their hearts? Alternatively, is it equally possible that the aura of
being a Deputy President loaded with the largesse can easily attract political
opportunists, or political opportunistic behaviour, leading to confessions of
support not sincerely meant?
Wikipedia defines political opportunism as "the attempt to maintain
political support, or increase political influence, in a way which disregards
relevant ethical or political principles." Now, in the
"analysis" Andati gives, who are the political opportunists? 
If my memory serves me right, I do recollect that at the National Prayer
Breakfast recently, Deputy President Ruto did pledge he would reconstruct his
political calendar and join in the Building Bridges exercise. Fair enough. But
Andati's analysis tells a different story and concludes that although Ruto
himself has not said he is busy preparing for the race in 2022, all his
movements and forays; nay, all the utterances of the men and women in his
entourage, show clearly he is busy campaigning. In other words, behind the
appearance that he is "randarandaring" across the nation to
distribute development goodies, there is the reality that he is actually
campaigning. 
Now, let me now introduce another factor to this argument, which may help
unravel the relationship between the handshake phenomenon and what is likely to
happen in 2022. This factor relates to the people of Kenya. What are Kenyans
likely to consider as important in choosing leaders in 2022: the usual tribal
and "eating" factors or things other than these? Will Kenyans
consider a candidate's principles and history rather than the opportunistic
acts of suddenly opening wallets to buy voters as has always happened? Is the
handshake likely to change the factors that voters take into consideration if the
framework of political competition it comes up with makes it very difficult for
political opportunism to shape voter behaviour? 
Of all the people, who are currently mentioned as the likely candidates for the
presidency in 2022, Raila is the only person with a consistent history of
sticking to his principles and always championing the cause of the common
wananchi. But that does not mean he inflexible and "purist." As one
political scientist has observed, if political principles were imposed in a
completely inflexible and non-negotiable way, a likely result would be
sectarianism or factionalism, since few people beyond "true
believers" could support a political practice based on such rigid
positions. While sticking to his principles, Raila has been always adept at
coalition building. It is still too early to tell which coalition may emerge
out of his magic political "ndai" by 2022.
We could easily have a parliamentary system of government in 2022, depending on
what recommendations come out of the work of the Building Bridges Technical
Committee. If that be the case, then political parties and coalitions will
produce this nation's leadership, depending on how many votes they get at the
election. In this regard, judging by the past experience in Kenya's coalition
politics, early individual campaigns may not necessarily determine which party,
or which coalition of parties, forms the government. What will Kenyans look for
in this nation's leadership then?
In the event we adopt a parliamentary system, the weight of the ethnic factor
will be significantly reduced in national politics. While political party
formation may, of course, still be influenced by ethnicity, the need to gain
majorities during elections so as to form government will inevitably burst the
ethnic shells and force issues and principles to pay more pronounced roles. In
this regard, any current campaigning based on individual appeal to voters, and
at times using largesse and monetary bribery, may not hold as much sway as some
people may think. This transition is indeed subtle and may not be visible to
analysts who are overwhelmed by political appearances. 
Given the overwhelming support Kenyans have given the handshake, and given the
tangible results it has given in terms of promoting national cohesion, it would
be foolhardy to assume the handshake will not be an important campaign tool in
2022. It may appear going around the country "campaigning" is the
best way to prepare for clinching the presidential votes in 2022, but that, as
Karl Marx observed, is a mere appearance: It may not coincide with reality.