The sugar impounded in Nairobi’s Eastleigh estate contained unsafe levels of copper and lead, but no mercury, the Kenya Bureau of Standards boss told Parliament yesterday. MD Charles Ongwae said the government should urgently trace and withdraw sugar already in the market. He contradicted the statements by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i concerning the metals in sugar samples. He testified before the National Assembly Committee on Trade, Industry and Cooperatives chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega. Read : Sugar has no mercury but contains copper, lead - KEBS Ongwae said the sugar tested was found to contain 20.7 per cent milligrams of copper per kilo, far above the recommended two per cent limit. “Copper and lead were detected and were beyond the safe levels,” Ongwae. He said the sugar that Kebs tested contained no mercury. Matiang’i announced the sugar contained deadly mercury. The Kebs official said he did not know where Matiang’i and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti got the results they announced. “The said results from tests carried out on the sugar unfit for human consumption were not done by Kebs,” Ongwae said. He said he could not ascertain if the samples collected for testing were from the same sugar that has been stored at DCI headquarters. “Did we test from the same sample? I really do not know. In terms of sampling, we went to DCI to get the sample and the results are what we have submitted to the DCI,” the MD said. The Kebs MD was pressed to explain the safety of sugar on sale in shops and supermarkets. He said Kebs has not carried out testing but assured the MPs that market surveillance will be carried out. The new revelations are likely to further distress consumers. For instance, Ongwae told the committee samples described as white sugar, branded ‘Kabras Premium White Sugar’, were found to have been packed in a package similar to that of Kabras and bore a valid S-mark. The sample from this sugar did not meet standard specification in colour, copper, polarisation, total viable count and the yeast and moulds, the Kebs boss said. He said Kebs could not confirm the origin of the sugar and it should be treated as counterfeit. Another sample tested was from UGT African Sugar, packed by Golden Stream Company. This, he said, bore no manufacturer or expiry date markings and was packed in polythene packs, product marked with S mark but no permit number. This sample did not meet the standard specifications on colour, conductivity ash content, copper, invert sugar content, marking and polarisation. “No manufacturer details, SM mark used illegally and Golden Stream does not have permit for white sugar,” Kebs said in the report the officials tabled in the committee. Ongwae said the Brazilian raw sugar, marked unfit for human consumption and supplied by Parry Sugars Refinery India, did not have to undergo further refining before use. “The sugar was therefore treated as intended for human consumption despite the label,” the report says. This was repackaged from original 50kg to 25kgs and the company had not been licenced to repackage, Ongwae said. Also read : Contraband sugar does not have mercury, Trade CS insists Click here for the latest political news