Traders importing unbranded goods could be out of business if MPs approve a new law seeking to eradicate counterfeit goods. The Anti-Counterfeit Agency through the Miscellaneous Amendment Bill 2018 propses the importation of unbranded goods be restricted to raw materials. However, legal experts and economists are opposed to this on grounds the proposal will hurt brand owners more than the counterfeits the agency wants to weed out. Counterfeit goods are imitations of a brand sold without the owner’s authorisation. Dealers of such goods may infringe on either the trade mark, patent or copyright of the brand owner by passing off its goods as manufactured by the brand owner. “This is a curious and oppressive provision which is going to stifle business in many goods that are generally imported and sold unbranded such as shoes, clothes, utensils, ornaments, among others,” William Maema, a partner advocate with Iseme and Kamau law firm, said. Maema, in an article published on the firm’s website, said the draft law will hurt business by criminalising legitimate trad. He said Kenya has enough laws on registering intellectual property rights so the new provisions are unnecessary. Anti-Counterfeit Agency executive director Elema Halake and Trade and Cooperatives PS Chris Kiptoo however said the proposals will boost the fight against illicit products. Industry PS Betty Maina and the outgoing Kenya Association of Manufactures chairperson Flora Mutahi have also backed amendments to the Anti-Counterfeit Act, 2008. crackdown They said the proposed amendments – particularly elevating the Anti-Counterfeit Agency to an authority and giving its inspectors powers to investigate – “gives it teeth” to tackle illicit trade. “The Ant-Counterfeit Act is 10 years old and we need to get back to the drawing board to put in place necessary legislation,” Kiptoo said. The officials spoke on Tuesday in Nairobi during the World Anti-Counterfeit Day. They said the current Act has slowed the war on counterfeits since it lacks provisions to deal with schemes used to trade illicit products. “The war on counterfeits is going to continue for a long time and the ongoing crackdown by the multi-agency team is not a public relations exercise. We will deal with everyone involved in the supply chain, whether big or small retailers,” Kiptoo said. He said they would consider coming up with a punitive anti-counterfeit provision similar to the US to have consumers found using counterfeits punished. Halake said his officers and a multi-agency team fighting counterfeits will tighten surveillance at border points.     