Was Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i (pictured) playing to the gallery when he told the National Assembly Committee on National Security that he would petition the Judicial Service Commission to take action against some judges? Some MPs were overheard yesterday discussing that it is now months since Matiang’i made the promise, but, since then, nothing has been heard from him. Matiang’i had also promised the committee chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinage that he would make public the findings of what led to harassment of journalists at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport during the deportation of self-styled NRMKe leader Miguna Miguna. The commitee is still waiting.  How times change! A former boss of a commission that folded sometime back has accused some individuals in government of plotting against him each time he applies for state jobs. The man, who sometimes became a subject of ridicule with MPs for being double-faced whenever he appeared before them to respond to issues during his time at the helm, became jobless after the mandate of the organisation he was chairing ended. The basis of his anger is that despite his good academic credentials and long-standing experience in the public service, individuals he believes are saboteurs would still not want him around. He recently told one of his friends at a popular joint on the outskirts of the city that his name could be blacklisted because whenever he applies for jobs his name is never shortlisted for interviews.   a well-known businesswoman is regretting her actions. The woman is said to have surrendered her expensive property in Mombasa in exchange for a senior position in the county. The woman had hardly signed off her property located along the beach when her county contact turned against her and even sponsored vicious and well-oiled propaganda to taint her character. The woman is now said to be working on plan to approach the powers that be to report the Jubilee leader who has even stopped picking her calls.   MPs from Western are worried about their colleague’s recent behaviour. The lawmakers are concerned that their fellow legislator no longer picks their calls and is always full of excuses whenever he is cornered by his colleagues. Three MPs suspect the  first-term MP could be going through some challenges and does not want to talk about them. The ‘isolated’ lawmaker used to be very social and would accompany them to social places up to late in the night. This has, however, changed and since the beginning of this month, they can only get hold of their colleague at Parliament Buildings.