Gor Mahia head coach Dylan Kerr is keen on clinching the Cecafa Kagame Cup title when the 2018 edition takes place in Tanzania between June 29 and July 13. Gor, pre-tournament favourites headline Pool ‘B’ alongside Rwandese giants Rayon Sports, Burundi’s Ludia Ludic and Ports of Djibouti Kerr believes his charges have what it takes to clinch the title which they bitterly lost to Azam in the 2015 finals. And to show how seriously he wants the regional gong, Kerr has ruled out fielding a second string squad in the preliminary matches as witnessed during the SportPesa Shield Cup, which they eventually won. And despite a three-match in hand deficit in the Kenyan Premier League, Kerr insists the Kagame Cup will not be a distraction whatsoever in their quest to defend their national title and advancing in the Caf Confederations Cup. A 2-0 win over Ulinzi Stars over the weekend opened a nine point gap between them and second-placed Mathare United and may widen the gap should they reap maximum points against Posta Rangers and Sony Sugar tomorrow and Friday before crossing to Tanzania. “We are going to Tanzania with the sole aim of winning the Kagame Cup. People are saying we are favourites but this is football. Each and every club stands a chance of winning it. We have no pressure to perform to the expectations of our fans,” said Kerr. “We want to play to our best and most importantly, win the tournament. We cannot afford to underrate our opponents. We have to accord them maximum respect.” He added: “In the Super Cup, I rotated the squad especially in the preliminary matches and it worked but I cannot take that risk this time round. This is a big tournament and I can assure each player will play and rotate when necessary.” At the same time, Kerr expects Tanzanian duo of Simba and Singida, whom they beat at the SportPesa Super Cup finals and semifinals respectively, to come hard on them. “Simba and Singida will be looking to revenge the defeats we handed them in Nakuru. They will be playing at home and will enjoy support from their fans but that will not stop us from achieving our targets,” said Kerr.