Two more schools, one in Homa Bay and another in Nairobi county, are on spot amid claims of attempted rape at the institutions. A family in Nairobi recorded at the Jogoo police station on claims their daughter was raped by a cook at Huruma Girls' school. The victim said the cook pushed her friend out of the kitchen, closed the door, and forcibly touched her in an indecent manner. "He came pushed us and closed the door and when we asked him he said
that he wanted a girl. We told him to look for them outside." "The principal called us in the office and accused us of seducing the
cook. We asked her to roll back the CCTV camera but she brushed it
off," she said. "After few minutes the girl came shouting that teacher Spencer was
coming that is when the cook opened the door," the girl said. Principal Margaret Owenje told KTN that the cook switched of the lights after the students went to look for water
in the kitchen. The head teacher denied claims she accused the girls of seducing the
cook stating that she had warned the students against entering the
kitchen. The Huruma Girls' incident reportedly occurred on May 19 but only emerged following the rape probe at Moi Girls' school Nairobi. Read: Did Moi Girls' School attempt to cover up rape incident? Related: DNA tests ordered for Moi Girls' male teachers, workers amid rape probe At Homa Bay's Rusinga Girls High school, a man reportedly gained access to the girls’ dormitory on Monday night. Homa Bay County Police Commander Marius Tum said the suspect took advantage of the darkness in the school. Tum said the school has been without electricity supply for four months now after a transformer serving the area blew up. "The suspect was not identified....the school has one guard manning the premises at night." "The school management reported the matter to the area chief and the institutions’ board of management," Tum said. He added that police in Suba North have taken records of those who were present at the time of the incident. Attempts to get comments for the school management were not successful as the principal Herine Owuonda did not respond to calls from the Star. Area MP Millie Odhiambo said she received the report of Saturday incident, a few hours after the Moi Girls' case came to light. She asked the government to deploy armed police to guard students, especially in girls' schools, at night. The MP also wants teachers trained on safety protocols in schools and also for funds to be set aside for beefing up security of schools. Click here for more political news      