Fear, hope and frustration: that was the melange of emotions among Robinson Wafula’s family members yesterday. Robinson is among those missing from the FlySax plane. His sister Charity Wafula described Robinson as a jovial and calm man. "The last time we spoke, there was no cause for alarm. It was a normal conversation, only to learn from the media the plane had gone missing," she said. Robinson, 30, has a five-year-old son. He was travelling from his home in Bungoma. Robinson’s family is hopeful he will be found alive, but what remains frustrating is the gruelling wait they have to endure as the search goes on. Nyandarua county commissioner Boaz Cherotich called off the search for the aircraft until today morning. Charity said, "The bad weather is making the operation difficult. We believe we will get him alive." Family members of other passengers gathered at the Weston Hotel in Nairobi yesterday desperate for information. The majority appeared lost in their thoughts while others sat in groups to comfort themselves. The plane left Kitale at around 4pm on Tuesday and was scheduled to land at Wilson Airport in Nairobi at 5.30pm. That was when JKIA control tower reported they had lost contact with the aircraft. Sax Airlines director George Kivindyo declined to issue the names of the pilots and any other information on grounds they are still in the search and rescue phase. He, however, confirmed a search and rescue team was mobilised immediately the plane was reported missing. The team includes KCAA, Kenya Wildlife Service and the Aircraft Accident Investigation Department. The Kenya Air Force team joined the search operations because it is well trained in the Aberdares terrain. LIFE HAS MOVED ON Kivindyo urged people to ignore speculation on social media and wait for official communication from the agencies involved with the operation. "We will issue a statement when ready. If it is bad news, we will still inform people because life has to move on whether good or bad. For now let’s just wait," he said. A Kenya Red Cross team was also at the hotel to counsel families. The family of one Abdi Ali also camped at the hotel for the better part of the day. He has dispatched his own team to follow up on the search for his cousin Mohamed Abdi. The government deployed three helicopters for the search. More on this: Phone signal from missing plane traced to Aberdare forest Click here for more political news    