So with most of #TheRaverend pals getting government appointments and with the courts upholding my brother Babu Owino's election as Embakasi East MP, its a great day for the youth. TheRaverend congratulates his boys. It’s time for me to also remind my government connections that I too need a state appointment. And now that Comedian Chipukeezy is a director, I can’t settle for anything less than PS or Cabinet Secretary... So, as the daily dose of corruption continues popping, the government is on a serious war path with  those involved in theft of public funds and the poster kids, lead by Ann Ngirita, the Slay Queen who is among the 43 suspects who have been remanded without bail for the past two weeks. Ngirita, who is guest of the state at the Langa'ta Remand Prison, has not disappointed when presented in court. She is always looking fresh and clean like a video vixen. She even has the time to pose for the cameras as she flaunts her tattoo, which KoT have now decided is her way of communicating the same way Michael J Scofield did in the American television series Prison Break. Ngirita is seriously confusing Kenyans with some men calling asking to take her place in prison... She looks so amazing for a convict that she is causing problems in some relationships. #TheRaverend was sipping at his local joint on Thursday andwas shocked when a man decided to dump his girlfriend of two years because he can’t understand how Ngirita, who has been in remand, still manages to look better than her. I didn’t know we have salons and boutiques that sell designer clothes in remand but then again, I have never been remanded. Kenyans are all talking about the drama that’s Moi Girls' School. Last year, we had a student who started a fatal fire at the school, and there is now a rape case rape  and now we have a case of defilement of three form two girls at the same establishment.....#TheRaverend was in high school from class 7..... And my two cents about public boarding schools in Kenya are a Hell Hope!!! Parents who send their kids to boarding school need to demand for accountability and more from the administrators...Do you know in Kenya, concerts and Gigs get more security than our boarding schools???? Most boarding schools have a maximum of three security guards at night and one or none during the day manning the school....I was in Chuka High School for four straight years I never saw a single security guard! The school gate was never ever closed for the four years I was there....The majority of the boarding school administrations never bother with security. Until recently, when terrorists started targeting schools, security in schools was a non-issue.  How do you have three untrained askaris to protect over 1,000 kids? Education CS and the BoG should take security in our schools more seriously.. All school heads need to be more vigilant and put the needs of the students first. We can’t have them putting the reputation of the school before the students' needs, or teachers covering up shit or gag our kids to protect the schools image. That’s nonsense. When students make any small complain, it must be addressed/investigated fully. Gone are the days when teachers decided to ignore the students in the name of “hawa wako home sick” "hawa wanataka to kwenda home”. That’s outright bull shit. And if the teachers are overwhelmed, it's better to send the kids back home than do nothing.The whole school system needs too be overhauled and re-evaluated, otherwise the ticking time bomb that is the school system will explode.... ION with all the problems Kenya is facing #TheRaverend needs to point out the fact that we have a referee who has seriously hurt Kenya's credibility. Aden Marwa, a senior Kenyan referee, was captured receiving a $600 (about Sh60,000) bribe to reportedly influence the outcome of an international football match. Marwa, who was the first Kenyan to officiate in a World Cup match, is now jobless and has embarrassed the country... The guy sold the country for 60,000 bob and he was looking forward to earning Sh2.5 million at the World Cup. #TheRaverend now believes whoever cursed Kenya died and lifting of the curse of corruption is a rumor!!! It’s in our DNA. So, let’s just drink and forget ever ending corruption!