 Kiambu residents are furious about harsh tactics in Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s relentless war on illicit liquor.They are also angry that Waititu often hands out cash to drunks and loiterers, saying that’s not rehabilitation.Youths often get about Sh400 whenever the governor makes stopovers at shopping centres. Residents say the money is used to buy more drinks.The public further criticises Waititu’s ‘rehab’ hiring of 5,000 youths as part of ending consumption of illicit alcohol.The critics have also complained about county spending of Sh500,000 every week to fuel vehicles of officials that go on missions to smash up drinking dens and distilling equipment.Critics include bar owners, alcohol traders, ‘compromised’ police and chiefs and the public at large.But Waititu says he won’t give up until alcoholism is tamed in Kiambu. He said the war on illicit alcohol is unstoppable.“Those castigating me over the programme should come up with their own projects. This is mine and they should leave it alone,” Waititu said in Thika on June 7.“No political distractions or court cases will stop me from creating jobs for the youth.”He said the youths under the rehabilitation programme will from next month form the Kiambu Youth Service.In March, Waititu assented to the County Alcoholic Drinks and Control Bill after it was passed by MCAs.The law wants sale and consumption of alcohol controlled. It also wants liquor outlets reduced from the over 5,000 to about 500.Residents have faulted the law, saying it excluded government administrators in the fight against illicit alcohol. Waititu does not include police and chiefs in the crackdowns. He said the two are often bribed to frustrate the war on illicit brews.“The war cannot be won if the provincial administration is included. They have been abetting illicit brew trade in the past and that’s why we left them out,” the governor said.The governor should rethink about the exclusion of officers of the national government for a successful campaign against alcoholism. It appears there is a supremacy contest between the two levels of government,” Thika resident Lewis Ng’eru said. Residents wants the war to focus on raw materials used in the manufacture of brews and not the sellers and distribution outlets.“What the governor is doing is like cutting a tree from the top,” Gatundu South resident Samson Kang’ethe told the star. The youths carry out manual works including clearing bushes, collecting garbage, unblocking drainage and digging trenches. They earn Sh400 per day, meaning the county is spending Sh2 million daily on the youths.“We use Sh70,000 per day to fuel cars that ferry officials from the alcoholic control department during raids on bars and other liquor outlets. I don’t think it’s much,” Alcoholic drinks directorate boss Geoffret Kaara said last month.Leaders including Deputy Governor James Nyoro, Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba, Senator Kimani Wamatangi and Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina have criticised the giving of cash to youths, saying it was worsening alcoholism.“It is a scheme to drain public coffers under the guise of rehabilitating and creating employment to youths,” Milcah Njihia said.“There are priority projects to be undertaken like expanding health facilities. Why would you give cash to youths to go and drink when patients are sharing beds in hospitals?” Residents said Waititu has turned the youths into a militia. They cited an incident where about 30 youths enrolled in the programme disrupted a meeting organised by Wainaina in April.The MP was launching a community water project in Matathia Primary School in Maguguni, Thika East.They said the youths have previously been sponsored to heckle Nyoro and Wamuchomba.“The governor must work with other leaders. Lack of consultation has already created rifts among the leaders. Nothing can succeed with such rifts,” Samson Murigi told the Star in Ruiru.           