Former Chief Government pathologist Moses Njue has been charged with another case of stealing body parts. The Embu Level 5 hospital CEO was on Monday arraigned in Meru and denied stealing a deceased person’s heart in 2015. The court heard that on March 12, 2015, at Consolata Hospital in Imenti South, Meru during a postmortem exercise of deceased person Benedick Karau M’Nchamaru, Njue stole the heart that came to his possession by virtue of him being in its possession as a Pathologist. He denied the three charges facing him; including stealing, removing and destroying a body part of a deceased person. The former state officer was released on Sh500, 000 cash bail by Meru chief magistrate Lucy Ambasi. Read: Ex-state pathologist seeks to block 'heart theft' trial In May, Njue denied allegations of stealing the heart of Timothy Mwandi Muumbo at Lee Funeral Home while performing an autopsy on June 25, 2015. He denied accusations that he removed the body part of deceased person Contrary to Section 13 of Anatomy Act CAP 249 Laws of Kenya before the body was received in an Approved School of Anatomy. Also read; Ex-state pathologist denies stealing heart, released on Sh1 million bond He was represented by lawyer Victor Adande. “I ask the court that the accused (his client) be supplied with prosecution statements and documents in the matter. I wish to apply for the reasonable bond term, he is a CEO Embu Level 5 hospital and therefore in the interest of justice I ask the court to grant him a personal bond,” Adande pleaded. State prosecutor Claire Muriithi did not object on the bail terms but asked the court to release the accused according to terms of the law like any other citizen. “We will comply on giving the copies. I understand he is a state officer but let him be given a bond term like any other, I am not objecting him being released on reasonable bail term,” Muriithi said. Ambasi set the hearing date to be on August 6, 2018. More on this: Ex-pathologist Njue might face second charge in body parts theft case  Click here for the latest political news 