Investigations show that Kenya Bureau of Standards did not meet standards in clearing impounded sugar, the DPP has said. Director of public Prosecution Noordin Haji said this when he faced the National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs Committee on Thursday. "Investigations show that the sugar contained chemical levels above recommended standards," Haji said. Kebs, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and Industrialisation CS Adan Mohamed have given conflicting reports on the contents of sugar seized in parts of the country. While issuing a stern warning against trade in contraband on June 13, Matiang'i said sugar seized from a warehouse in Nairobi’s Eastleigh area have mercury and copper components. But Kebs told Parliament on Thursday that the sugar contained unsafe levels of copper and lead, not mercury. MD Charles Ongwae was pressed to explain the safety of sugar on sale in shops and supermarkets. He said Kebs had not carried out tests but assured MPs that market surveillance would be carried out. More on this: Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Also read: Kebs boss contradicts Matiang’i on contaminated sugar samples Mohamed, who spoke in Mombasa yesterday, maintained that confiscated sugar does not have mercury and copper. He challenged anyone with evidence of the presence of mercury in contraband sugar to present it to the Kenya Bureau of Standards. Several MPs have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack him over the substandard sugar problem. Details: Contraband sugar does not have mercury, Trade CS insists Related: Sack CS Adan if he can’t quit, Uhuru told CORRUPTION CASES The DPP also discussed rampant corruption with the MPs, on the backdrop of an intensified fight as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said the ODPP has prosecuted 508 graft cases between since 2013, 252 of which were concluded and 256 which are ongoing. "Seventy of these involve senior government officials. They include 17 ministers/CSs/PSs, two Governors, MPs and senior county officials," he said. He told the committee that a full report on the cases will be released on Friday. Click here for the latest political news