A manufacturer who lost business after the plastic bags ban is seeking Sh2 billion compensation from the government. Hi-Plast yesterday filed an urgent application asking the High Court to enter a judgment against the government for failing to appear or enter pleadings. “We pray the court grants us leave since in spite of proof of service, the defendants have defaulted in entering appearance and failed to file any appropriate defence,” lawyer Eddy Orinda states in court papers. He appealed for an urgent hearing and ruling. The case will be mentioned on July 2, next Monday. The ban on production, sales and use of thin carrier bags went into effect on August 28 last year. SECOND LAWSUIT Orinda says the state, including the National Environment Management Authority, has neglected or refused to act, despite knowing that the matter is in court. Hi-Plast sought an order to quash the Gazette notice by the Ministry of Environment, banning the manufacture and use of carrier bags. In a separate similar case, the High Court ruled against the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) also seeking to quash the ban. Hi-Plast director Mahesh Dodhia in suit papers says the ban has caused him “unimaginable losses”. He had invested heavily in machinery and raw materials. Hi-Plast is facing liquidation and Dodhia said he had expected his suit would be merged with that of the manufacturers. In a sworn statement, Dodhia said the ministry should have at least engaged stakeholders before imposing the ban. inadequate notice “The petitioner’s loans were to be repaid solely based on sales projection that were hinged on month-on-month output and sales of its products, which are now deemed illegal,” lawyer Orinda says. The firm also claims the declaration of the ban and its implementation came after manufacturers were granted inadequate and unreasonable notice. Hi-Plast accuses the ministry of disregarding a parliamentary committee’s call to shelve the gazette notice. Dodhia says at the time the gazette notice was published in March 2017, the company had already shipped in raw materials. He further says the ban seems to have been effected to “prop up the businesses of friendly manufacturers”, which he called discriminatory and malicious.