The government has withheld Sh5.3 billion meant for free day secondary education. That money was to pay for student medical cover and textbooks. The amount comes from the first tranche of Sh11.3 billion capitation funds released for second term. In the free day secondary education project each student was to receive Sh4,346. The reduction resulted from the ministry’s move to change the textbook distribution policy and medical cover. The ministry says each student’s allocation of Sh1,123 will be directed towards textbooks and Sh900 towards medical cover. School fee guidelines indicate the government provides Sh1,999 for medical and insurance annually. The project is, however, lagging behind. It was projected to start in January. The Education ministry says the medical cover will need Sh4 billion to be implemented, funds that should be recovered from the FDSE capitation. Ministry director general Elias Abdi yesterday said the government is in its final stages of fine tuning the student medical cover guide. Abdi said the government, just as in the purchase of textbooks, will directly pay NHIF for the medical cover. “We hope in two months the medical cover scheme will have started. The distribution of textbooks is on course and we have already launched the second phase,” Abdi said. In a circular to county and subcounty Education directors dated May 2, the ministry states in this term’s capitation, students will receive Sh1,283 for tuition and Sh3,063 for other school operations. Some Sh3 billion will be spent on tuition, Sh7.9 billion in operations such as repair and maintenance, local travel and transport, electricity and water. “School heads will be required to issue copies of official receipts for tuition and operation to the county and subcounty education directors,” Abdi said. The ministry earlier indicated that going forward, cash disbursements for free primary education, free day secondary education and the KCPE and KCSE exam registration payments will be made through the Nemis platform. Only those captured in the system will receive the funds. However, this is yet to take effect as some students are yet to be registered on Nemis. The ministry also shows about 10 per cent of the students are yet to be registered. Data indicates there are 8.8 million pupils in primary schools and 2.6 million in secondary school. In December last year, Education CS Fred Matiang’i said the new textbook distribution policy will not be delayed. He said students will receive six textbooks for core subjects, directly from the government, from January 9. 