For the first time, the Judiciary responded
with rare commitment to support the war on graft. Judges were slow to grant temporary
freedom to the suspects and when they finally did, the conditions for bail were
stringent. Our history is dotted with claims of highly
placed individuals accused of graft residing in police protected hotel rooms
upon arrest. This time round, it appears suspects were treated with almost
equal measure of penal code treatment. As had been noted in earlier write-ups,
the handshake between President Uhuru and Raila Odinga must have unsettled the
applecart. Uhuru is more determined than ever to secure his legacy, which faced
corruption as the greatest threat. In the newfound unity with Raila, he has
impetus in the public goodwill and the wherewithal in government machine to
deliver on his vision. The Judiciary is more than willing and the law is on the
side of the people. Parliament appear united in word but not in deed in its
support to the President. Pronouncements from members of the august house do
not sound synchronised and in tune with State House declarations. Kenya has reached a point where it is
firmly captive to lords of impunity. The country is led and ruled by the
representatives of the barons of the bandit economy and the high priests of the
matatu politics. The movers here are people who consider themselves entitled
but lack the necessary sophistication to engage in the noble white collar
business as was developed by the colonialists. They are major tribal political players but
not well schooled in the dynamics of modern trade and commerce. Therefore, the
sector has grown on parameters that borrowed heavily and more from the
political norms of a guerrilla movement. The matatu culture developed in the
transport industry but has since permeated the other business sectors and it
reinforces the political patronage from where it emerged in the first place. It
is a culture that is characterised by lawlessness tethered on criminal
gangsterism.  The industry has nurtured a
different class of political operators who seek to topple the status quo in the
national political chess game. While they envied their brothers, who had been
better prepared by the departing colonial administration, they were aware they
lacked the necessary networks to challenge them in a leadership contest. In any
case, these successors to the colonial masters are now firmly in control of the
reins of government. But they understand that what they lack in western
education and sophistication can well be mitigated by primitive accumulation of
wealth. They have therefore focused undivided attention on building a strong
financial war chest. They are also establishing political
networks by building alliances with other savage leaders across the regions.
The barons of the bandit economy working in tandem with the high priests of
matatu politics have established an empire of kleptocracy. They are buttressed
by unity of purpose and fear of their rugged and unclear history that is
shrouded in mystery. They are thus the natural patrons of corruption. The patrons of corruption networks are
using every rule within and outside the books to frustrate the efforts of the
government. They are within and outside state structures and are using their
influence to create impenetrable brick wall to the fight against corruption. It
is now clear that all the purveyors of graft have not been netted in the
initial swoop. The net seems to fallen on one side of the sea as it was cast.
It fell on the breeding ground of the matatu species of fish. The cries that
have since emanated from that corner suggest the net not only managed the small
fish but also the layers. It has been three weeks since the NYS accused were
arraigned in court in one evening. That is inordinately long time for people
accustomed to comfort and opulence. The NCPB saga is gaining traction and
allegations are flying left, right and centre. Nobody is sure whether they will
not be mentioned and the prospect of facing fate similar to the NYS is real. The Kenya Pipeline Company leadership is
grudgingly accepting the report from the NIS that earlier on unearthed massive
rip-off and action is being taken. The Kenya Power billing saga is still being
hashed but everybody seems sure that time is running out for the culprits. Then
all of a sudden, the President ordered for the suspension of all government
finance and procurement heads pending fresh reviews. A temporary court order
obtained by public litigant Okiyah Omtata was so temporary that it was really
unnecessary. Hot in the heels was another order for a lifestyle audit of all public
officers. Clearly, the President has been in no mood
for nuances and time wasting processes that may halt his resolve for a clean
government. He has demonstrated an acute awareness that his legacy hinged on
the Big Four agenda relies on an efficient government. He has thus moved to
reorganise his delivery team since the swearing-in in October last year. This
has been to the chagrin of some his hitherto key players. However, all sides thought and hoped the
pressure would soon ease and things would revert back to business as usual. The
wait has been long and frustrating, driving some mavericks to the wall. The Sukarisumu scandal has opened the lid to
the pent-up anger with the purge against corruption. The country has lately
been treated to a mafia style tale of sugar imported illegally into the
country. Previously, these importations were
condemned on the basis that they denied the government much needed revenue in
taxes. They also provided fodder for western political honchos to hit at the
government since the imports crippled the local farmers’ economy at the same
time. Many more counterfeited goods were discovered and destroyed, maybe to
downplay the sugar scandal. The sugar issue refused to give way and remained
stuck out like a sore thumb. What scattered the other stories of the
counterfeited goods was the revelation that the sugar was poisonous. The bandit
barons had not only evaded taxes but also brought in sugar laced with mercury,
lead and all sorts of cancerous metals. Matters came to a head in Parliament when leader
of Majority Aden Duale alleged that Interior CS Fred Matiang’i was selective in
fighting counterfeited goods. He pointed to Nakuru Mattresses go down where
allegedly, thousands of bags contraband sugar were stored. He sought the
Speaker’s permission to table another list of more than 100 importers of
illicit sugar spared so far by the crackdown. He is demanding for equitable
application and enforcement of the law which should a standard operating
practice of the government anyway. Duale is a well-connected leader with
grassroots network to the highest echelons of power. His statements must be
based on credible information and cannot be taken lightly but should invite the
seriousness of a national leader. Therein lies the gravity of the current fight
against corruption. The question to ponder is why the government would not take
seriously the assertions of its leader of Majority in Parliament. Could the
push against graft by Uhuru be leading to a fallout in his government?  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst 