A few miles
from the resplendence of Kenya's Parliament House where the
finance minister delivered his budget on Thursday, Deborah
Mwandagina, deputy principal of a primary school in Nairobi's
Mukuru slum, is unimpressed. Her dilapidated, overcrowded and underresourced Kwa Njenga
school has around 2,000 pupils from the sprawling informal
settlement in the Kenyan capital, but for years she has
struggled to provide the quality education they deserve. Finance Minister Henry Rotich may have announced increased
spending on education on Thursday, she said, but his other
policies could make the impoverished families her students come
from more vulnerable. "It's good for the school if more funds are given. We have
over 100 students in each class and need to build classrooms. We
need trained staff for our children with special needs and
secured funding for lunchtime meals," said Mwandagina. "But if the prices of basic items goes up, it makes you
worry. Already these children are from poor families, often they
have single mothers or their parents are HIV positive, and the
grandparent is looking after them." Rotich announced increased investment in four priority areas
in his 2018/19 budget speech - manufacturing, food and nutrition
security, affordable housing and universal health coverage. The education budget will rise by 17 percent, and the rich
will help fund spending to help the poor through a "Robin Hood
tax" of 0.05 percent on financial transactions of over 500,000
Kenyan shillings (about $5,000), he said. But Rotich also proposed a 16 percent VAT on basic goods
such maize flour, kerosene, cooking gas and bread and announced
plans to toll roads and raise licence fees for small businesses. Newspaper headlines said the government was raiding "poor
pockets" and called the budget "Kenya's most painful", while
citizens have taken to social media complaining of public
corruption and the failure to target Kenya's most wealthy. "Robin Hood robbed the rich to give the poor. He didn't rob
the poor to give the rich, nor rob the rich to pocket the cash,"
tweeted one user under the handle @AlfredKOmbudo. GROWING INEQUALITIES Kenya's economy has grown on average by 5 percent annually
over the last decade, but the benefits have not been equally
distributed, and the gap between rich and poor is rising, say
campaigners. The number of super-rich in Kenya is among the fastest
growing in the world, and the charity Oxfam predicts the number
of Kenyan millionaires will grow by 80 percent over next decade. Yet while a minority of Kenyans are accumulating wealth, the
benefits of economic growth have not trickled down. Also read: Higher taxes a death certificate for Kenyans, protests ahead - Atwoli And Mukuru slum - located on the outskirts of eastern
Nairobi - lays bare these stark inequalities. Mukuru houses more than 100,000 people who work in nearby
factories, or as drivers, housemaids, gardeners and security
guards in the city's suburbs, and faces the same challenges as
informal settlements the world over. Families live in tiny one-room shacks made of wood and
corrugated iron, there is no piped water meaning residents must
buy it from private tankers, and a lack of toilets means nearby
streams and rivers are filled with sewage. Poor-quality education and a lack of job opportunities have
bred high rates of drug and alcohol abuse and crimes such as
robbery, rape and domestic violence are common. "If we want to grow Kenya and we want all our people to
prosper, it's not going to happen through investments in big
infrastructure projects like railways and highways, it's about
investing in the people," said Nelmo Munyiri, a musician and
social activist who lives in Mukuru. "We need to make sure that our kids get a quality education,
that basic foods are affordable for all, and that the poor get
proper medical attention when they go to the hospital. We want a
more equal country." "BUDGET FOR THE RICH" According to Kenya Fight Inequality Alliance, just 8,300
individuals in Kenya own the same wealth as the rest of the
country's 44 million people - and the richest 10 percent earns
23 times more than the poorest 10 percent. The alliance - a coalition of 50 international and local
charities focusing on issues from land rights and food security
to curbing violence against women and youth crime - said the
budget would push the poor to the brink. "The budget being proposed is a budget for the rich, which
will do little to reduce the growing gap between the richest and
ordinary Kenyans," the group said in a statement. "Faced with a fiscal crisis, caused by corruption and over
borrowing, the government is choosing to balance the books on
the backs of the poor, by increasing the cost of the basic goods
like food." The government of the East African nation has been
criticised in recent years, including by the International
Monetary Fund, for ramping up borrowing for infrastructure
investments, including a new railway completed last year. A recent corruption scandal related to the theft of nearly
$100 million from the Kenya's National Youth Service has also
shaken public confidence, with dozens of senior officials facing
charges. The charities - which include Oxfam, ActionAid, Wangu Kanja
Foundation, Mukuru Youth Initiative - said the government should
instead increase revenue by cracking down on graft and by taxing
the richest more. The top income tax bracket, they said, should be increased
to 45 percent from 30 percent, which applies to most Kenyans. "The government is there to serve the people - all the
people and not just the rich," said Wanjiru Njoroge of the
Daughters of Mumbi Global Resource Center, a women's rights
organisation and member of the Fight Inequality Alliance. "If it does not serve the needs of all the people, then what
is their job?" Click here for the latest political news 