Search and rescue operations for the missing light aircraft were yesterday hampered by bad weather. By the time of going to press, FlySax, the airline that owns the A 5Y-CAC Cessna Caravan aircraft, said the search team had not sighted the plane. The 12-seater aircraft had 10 people on board - eight passengers and two crew members. "We are hoping everything is going to be ok. I will give you a firm statement as soon as we are ready," FlySax CEO George Kivindyo told reporters. A multi-agency team comprising officers from the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, Aircraft Accident Investigation Department, Kenya Wildlife Service, the police, Kenya Forest Service and the disaster unit is conducting the search. "We are distressed, but hopeful. Kindly bear with us," the airline said. The government deployed three helicopters in the aerial search operation within the Aberdare range. "We have all the resources required to conduct the search operation. The main challenge for us is the bad weather," Pius Masai from the National Disaster Management Unit said. He appealed to families to remain calm and urged communities in areas within the search radius to volunteer information. RED CROSS SEARCH "I know if an aircraft passed somewhere, there was some noise and someone must have heard." Masai said the search had been extended to cover the area between Nyandarua and Murang’a counties. He spoke at the Kinangop sub-county offices in Njabini town where the team has set up a command centre. A phone signal of one of those on board was traced to the area yesterday morning. The aircraft went missing on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, a Red Cross ambulance that was carrying a team of rescuers to the Aberdare region was involved in a head-on collision with a lorry. The occupants sustained injuries and were taken to JM Memorial Hospital in Ol Kalou. The passengers on the FlySax plane include Ahmed Ali, Sailah Karaba and Kishani Khetia. Others were Thamani Matakasakaraia, Paula Matakatekei, George Kinyua, Ronald Pinuertorn and Robinson Wafula. See: Phone signal from missing plane traced to Aberdare forest Click here for more political news  