Comedian Vincent Mwasia alias Chipukeezy and Caroli Omondi - former aide to Raila Odinga, have been appointed to various parastatal boards in changes made by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday. In the June 6 Gazette Notice, Chipukeezy - a comedian, will join NACADA Board as a member. He was named alongside George Ogalo. On the other hand, Caroli Omondi has been appointed a board member of the National Oil Corporation of Kenya for a three a year term. Others are Margaret Wanjiru Saitoti, Sam Kibogo Gakunga, and Hillary Sigei. Former deputy IEBC chairman Lilian Mahiri-Zaja has also been appointed as a commissioner at the Energy Regulatory Commission. She was named alongside Samuel Nyanchama Maugo. Former Ndhiwa MP Augustino Neto has also been named as a member of the NEMA board. He was appointed alongside Teresia Mbaika Malokwe, Barnabas Njiru Mitaru, Peninah Aloo Obudho, Halima Ware, and Juma Ngeywa. Their appointment will run for a period of three years with effect from May 30, 2018. Former Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi will be the non-executive chairperson of the Agricultural Development Corporation Board for the next three years. The President has also appointed Mombasa politician Suleiman Shabhal as chairperson of the Board of the Kenya Trade Network Agency, for a period of three years with effect from June 6. Ex-Isiolo county boss Doyo Godana will be the non-executive chair of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital Board up to March 27, 2021. "The appointment of Mark Bor is revoked," Uhuru said in the notice. Former Knut chairman Mudzo Nzili has also been appointed the chairperson of the National Irrigation Board (NIB) up to the January 9, 2020, following the revocation of Immanuel Imana's appointment. Ex-KDF boss Julius Karangi will be non-executive chairperson of the National Social Security Fund Board of Trustees. Gideon Ndambuki has been sacked from the board. Former Nominated MP Abdalla Amina has also been appointed a member of the Coast Development Authority. She was named alongside Swaleh Khadara, Beatrice Gambo, George Kethi, Omar Famau, Ibrahim Sane, Ndegwa Julius Kariuki, and Mushenga Ruga. Homa Bay politician Martin Ogindo joins the Board of Agricultural Development Corporation alongside Hassan Osman, Tabitha Mbungu Maungi, Paul Kibet Chebor, Roba Sharu Duba, and Peter Chemuigut. Former Kwale woman rep Zainabu Chidzuga joins the National Irrigation Board as a member while former Laisamis MP Joseph  Lekuton joins the NSSF Board as a trustee. "The appointments will be for a period of three years with effect from June 6, 2018," the notice on the jobs, which have been taken up largely by poll losers, reads in part. Chipukeezy, in an Instagram post on Thursday, expressed his gratitude to the President and DP William Ruto following the appointment. "I would like to take this opportunity to thank God, HE the president, the Deputy president for the appointment to the NACADA Board," he said. "This is very humbling and I promise to work hard towards ensuring that the task ahead is accomplished as per the expectations," the comedian said. Click here for the latest political news