The search for an 11-year-old girl who was swept away by flash floods in Nakuru on Saturday continued yesterday. A team of more than 200 youths from Mau Narok arrived in Nakuru in the morning to search for Hellen Kanini. Her family has been spending sleepless nights looking for their daughter. The father of the missing girl, Joseph Matoima, has appealed to anyone who may have rescued his daughter to inform the family and end their agony. “We have been told by several people that someone could have rescued three children and my girl could be among them. It’s a painful incident,” he said. Matoima said they have unsuccessfully searched in all drainages. He said they have been unclogging one tunnel after another. Matoima said the county government and Kenya Wildlife Service officers have been helping. The search began at Geoffrey Kamau Way Bridge on Sunday. The search team recovered the body of the missing girl’s cousin, Eunice Wairimu, who was swept by floods the same night. The body was found in a storm water tunnel about four kilometres from the bridge in Bondeni. Read : Day 3: Still searching for body of ‘angel’ The KWS team has been searching at the shores of Lake Nakuru. “We have a team of 10 who have been trying to look for the missing child on the shores of the lake,” senior sergeant Michael Sigei said. The family was travelling from Elementaita after attending a dowry ceremony when the water swept the girls away. “As we were travelling back, there was a heavy traffic jam. On reaching the footbridge, the last roundabout before entering Nakuru town, we realised there was still a heavy traffic. In a flash of a second, other drivers started hooting and we saw the water,” a tearful Matoima said. He said he was with a neighbour, his father Isaac Omwenga, his two children and another belonging to his sister. “It was hard to open the car door due to the raging waters. When we managed to open, the water pushed the kids through the window to the nearby tunnel,” Matoima said. He said his neighbour, Nderitu Kamotho, saved his six-year-old daughter. He tried to save the other two kids, but the water was moving fast. All the water was pouring into the nearby tunnel. “Kamotho had held the hands of the little angles but he too was almost swept away. He raised his hands and people rushed to save him thinking it was the kids. He had swallowed a lot of water and had to be taken to hospital for first aid,” Matoima said. One of the bodies was found swept five kilometres from the town. “Its unfortunate we have lost the young children. They were the firstborns in our families. We cannot hold tears anymore,” Salome Gesare, the mother of the girl whose body was recovered, said. Click here for the latest political news