Jubilee coalition is united despite propaganda being perpetuated by “tribal chiefs,” DP Willaim Ruto has said. Ruto said the “false prophets” were after distracting and fixing Jubilee in a trap. “Who are they to complain in the media? I have not complained. I am doing my work, and President Uhuru Kenyatta is (very) happy about it,” said Ruto while addressing the people of Narok South Constituency during an interdenominational prayers. The Deputy President said Jubilee was not formed to win elections but to better the lives of Kenyans. “I urge those agents of division to leave Jubilee alone. We know where we have come from, where we are and where we are going,” he said. Ruto added: “Jubilee formation was by design. We are focused, determined and resolved. Our primary goal is to unite Kenyans and better their lives through a clear plan.” Several leaders in attendance echoed Ruto’s sentiments. Led by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, the politicians said that those thinking that Jubilee was poised to break were day-dreaming. They were Governors Joseph Ole Lenku (Kajiado), Samuel Ole Tunai (Narok), MPs Korei Ole Lemein (Narok South), Lemanken Aramat (Narok East), David Ole Sangok (Nominated), Johana Ngeno (Emurua Dikirr), Gabriel Ole Tongoyo (Narok West), Dominic Kosgey (Sotik), Joyce Korir (Women Rep, Bomet) and Soipan Tuya (Women Rep, Narok). “Those perpetuating that line of thought are used to politics of frictions. Shock to them Jubilee has a history and a solid track record. We have matured politically. The work we started in 2013 is in progress, and it will go on beyond 2022,” said Mr Sakaja. The Nairobi Senator said that they would not accept any sideshows to distract them, adding that Jubilee was fully behind the Deputy President. Must read: What handshake means for Ruto The leaders said it was in order for “dogs to bark at the vehicles in motion”, observing that Mr Ruto would succeed President Kenyatta in 2022. While regretting for having been a “prodigal son”, Mr Ng’eno said that he would be supporting the government and Mr Ruto’s quest to being Kenya’s next president. The lawmaker said that by joining hands with Jubilee, he seeks to not only further development in Narok but also identify with a political entity that is oriented towards developing Kenya. Tongoyo, once seen as a critic to the Deputy President, said that he had gotten lost politically, but was glad to be back home to support the government in developing Kenya. “I know I lost a lot of time in the wilderness. However, by uniting with Mr Ruto, we will work together and empower our people,” said the Narok West MP. Click here for the latest political news