Security officers in Homa Bay on Tuesday stormed Sukari Industries Limited in Ndhiwa over allegations it was selling contraband sugar. Residents said they feared contaminated sugar was being sold in their markets. Some claimed the company had been importing sugar illegally and repackaging it at its factory in Riat. The firm yesterday denied that their sugar was contraband or contaminated. A manager for Sukari in Homa Bay, who declined to give his name, told county commissioner Irungu Macharia their sugar was legal and safe. He said it came from the firm’s Mombasa warehouse. Macharia and police commander Marius Tum led the raid. They were accompanied by Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) and Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) officials. They took samples for tests and analysis. They said results will be available in two weeks. “We can’t tell whether the sugar is good for human consumption. Kebs officials have taken samples for tests and we expect results in two weeks,” Macharia said. KRA officials seized documents to ascertain if the law and regulations were complied with. Across several shopping centres, traders say sale of sugar has declined significantly because of fears over “killer content”. Yesterday, residents said they will not buy sugar from the factory until they know the truth. “We’ve remained cautious since we heard the story about contraband sugar in this area. We fear for our lives,” Jane Adhiambo said. On Monday, cane farmers urged the government to prosecute those selling contraband sugar. National Sugarcane Farmers’ Federation secretary general Ezra Okoth said traders behind illegal imports deny the country revenue and ruin many livelihoods. He blamed them for the dwindling fortunes of the local millers. “The Kenya Sugar Board should inspect all business premises to ensure they don’t store harmful sugar imported into the country illegally,” Okoth said. “They are killing the sector and farmers’ economy.” He urged leaders to fight for rights of farmers and consumers. The government has stepped up the war on contraband goods. Last week, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said all culprits will be punished. This followed seizure of 3,000, 50kg bags of sugar in Eastleigh, Nairobi. Matiang’i said it contained mercury. Another 1,600 bags were seized on Mombasa Road, 1,350 bags in Nakuru, 2000 bags in Matuu and 650 in Kilifi.