  The government has asked Kenyans to avoid consuming uninspected meat following an outbreak of Rift Valley Fever in Wajir. At least five people have been killed and seven others hospitalised. In a statement, director of medical services Jackson
Kioko and veterinary services director Obadiah Njagi called for immediate reporting of sudden deaths and abortions in livestock. The report should be made to the
nearest veterinary office or police to help in early detection and response. The duo
advised those experiencing fever of unknown origin to seek immediate treatment. The medical services is a department in the Ministry of Health while the veterinary department is in the Ministry of Agriculture. Last month, the two ministries issued an alert warning about the risk of RVF following heavy rains that caused serious flooding. Flooding provides
the ideal conditions for mosquito breeding and increased risk of
vector-borne diseases like RVF. The government has banned home slaughter of livestock without inspection
by a veterinary officer. It urged the use of gloves and protective gowns when
assisting animal births, removing aborted/still births or retained
placenta and disposal of carcasses. It also advised Kenyans to use treated
nets to prevent mosquito bites. Butchering and consumption of sick
animals or dead livestock should be avoided, the statement said.  Kioko said the 10 cases in Wajir have been traced to one location. The surveillance was conducted by the Wajir
health team. Laboratory samples from suspect human and
animal cases were being collected for further testing. Medical supplies
including laboratory and personal protective equipment have been supplied to Wajir . The county's animal
heath and technical support teams have been beefed up. A joint multi-agency
team, comprising of public and animal
health experts from government and non-governmental agencies has been
set up to provide weekly reports to the two ministries.  The public can contact the emergency operation center or the zoonotic
disease unit on the RVF toll free number 0800721433 for further inquiry. There have
been 11 outbreaks of RVF in Kenya between 1951 and 2007. In the 1950s the
outbreak was initially confined to one district in former Rift Valley
province which is prone to flooding. In 2006, more than 150 people died and
another 700 were hospitalised in the Northeastern region due to RVF outbreak. The epidemic lasted for close to a year.  