The government has raised concern over the alarming number of defilement cases reported in Western and Nyanza region the Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has revealed. The Cabinet Secretary who was speaking in Kakamega on Wednesday however said a program is underway led by the regional Commissioner Madam Anne Ng’etich to address the issue and ensure the vice is curbed. “I have had a candid conversation with our colleagues and I’m satisfied with the plans that the Regional Commissioner and her teams have on the ground to deal with this issue and we shall work together to achieve the end goal,” he said. He added that the county teams and the sub-county teams were completely primed, having adopted a new style of involving local groups, faith based organizations leaders and local leaders to deal with the matter. The tough talking CS reiterated that it was a fact of life that in the Western part of the country and in lower Nyanza defilement was a serious concern that requires grim attention. Kakamega County Commissioner Abdulrazack Jaldeza speaking to the star on phone confirmed that cases of rape and defilement in Kakamega County were rampant and that most of them involved family members “We receive at least 10 cases of rape and or defilement every week form the Sub-Counties and we are really concerned that the proponents of this vice are family members where you find a Father defiling his daughter, a step Father, an Uncle or a cousin committing the vice,” he regretted. Jaldeza added however that they are put up an aggressive program that will go up to the Sub-Locations that will involve both religious and local leaders and even hold barazas to address this grave issue. According to figures released by Kenya Nation Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) in 2016 ranked Kakamega County as the third highest county to register the most sexual related offence after Nairobi City and Nakuru but currently it is a factual that Western and lower Nyanza regions are taking the lead. According to records at the registry at Kakamega Law Court, a total of 137 cases were reported in 2016 and 87 cases in 2017 but currently it should be way higher than this. On the issue of schools unrest the Cabinet Secretary said he has asked all the Regional Commissioners, County Commissioners and Sub- County Commissioners to work closely with leaders in the education sector, shared boards and school principals to ensure that sufficient security is provided to the children in schools. "I’ve been having conversations with my colleague the Cabinet Secretary Education Amb. Amina Mohammed, we are all aligned on this matter and we are moving forward together as one government on this issue as we have been instructed by the President." He said where intelligence cases are involved in schools serious follow up will be made and speedy investigations done to ensure that children are kept safe ansecure in schools. The Cabinet Secretary said this in the backdrop of reported case of school girls’ defilement at Moi girls secondary school in Nairobi on Saturday night. Click here for more political news  