Thika United team manager Vincent Nyaberi has termed Saad Musa’s move to AFC Leopards as a big blow to their plans of escaping relegation. The talented creative midfielder decamped on Tuesday after his contract with Thika expired, leaving a void which Nyaberi described as ‘hard to fill’. It is believed Musa’s skills caught the eye of Leopards head coach Rodolfo Zapata when the two sides clashed three weeks ago at Thika Stadium, prompting the Argentine to recommend his name to the executive committee for approval . Musa joined Thika in 2015 from Nairobi City Stars, where he settled and established himself as a dependable midfielder. His shocking exit as a free agent has left the club with James Kinyanjui as their best replacement. Nyaberi, who turned for the club until his retirement, admitted that the absence of Musa would heavily be felt but expressed hopes of Kinyanjui plugging into the gap. “It’s unfortunate we lost Musa to Leopards. He was a senior and experienced player. Had we had him against Rangers, we would have won the match in the first half. It’s a big blow for us considering we are not safe from relegation,” Nyaberi said. “Nonetheless, we have able players who can replace him as time goes by. Kinyanjui has done well in the matches he has played and I am confident he will fully replace him.” Thika are currently 15th with 18 points. Nyaberi also revealed that the club’s midfielder Said Tsuma will be back in action in three weeks after fracturing his arm two months ago. Tsuma broke his right hand while on duty against Sofapaka in April and was ruled out for two months. He also disclosed their plans of signing two strikers to boost their goal conversion rate. “Tsuma is recovering well and in three weeks time, he will begin training with the rest although he may not be ready for competitive matches,” he said. “We want to bring in two strikers who will help us convert the many chances we blow. Our main problem so far has been scoring goals and two quality strikers will assist Eugene Mukangula in converting the chances to goals.”