The war on graft may have escalated to City Hall after the assembly’s public accounts committee forwarded its resolutions on the Auditor General’s report to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The 2015-16 report shows more than Sh20 billion could not be accounted for. The probe will extend to the tendering process, lost county assets, spending funds at source, undocumented and unsupported expenditure and illegal payments. The team has adversely mentioned county officers, external banks and the former City Council, recommending those found culpable be surcharged and prosecuted. In a letter dated May 23, the EACC acknowledged receipt of the PAC report. “The commission shall institute investigation into the allegation of misappropriation or embezzlement of funds to inform further action. Thank you for reporting to us,” deputy director investigation Humphrey Mahiva said. The EACC will investigate how JamboPay was awarded tender for revenue collection after Auditor General Edward Ouko and PAC found out it was not done on merit. JamboPay enables businesses, governments and individuals to securely make and receive payments on the web, mobile, partner banks and at its agents’ networks. According to the 2015-16 report, Ouko said JamboPay continuously failed to remit funds on time, despite having stated in the contract that the money collected would be deposited within 72 hours. “The contract provides that funds collected should be remitted to the county government within 72 hours upon receipt. However, review of records reveal that it takes up to a month to remit the funds,” Ouko report indicated. The auditor also questioned why the county pays 1.25 per cent of the value of all cash office transactions made using JamboPay, when there is no contract on that. It gets 4.5 per cent of the value of payments made on the system. In 2016, JamboPay wrote to the EACC over the allegations, citing negative publicity. “We are open to providing necessary information relating to our business and engagement with NCC,” JamboPay chief executive Danson Muchemi wrote to the anti-graft agency. In response, the EACC urged the company to seek court redress as the matter bordered on defamation. The anti-graft agency will also probe officers who neglected their duties that led to poor financial record keeping and non-submission of key accounting documents. Parking attendants are also accused of colluding with motorists to evade payment of fees. Others include the allocation of land owned by the county to private developers and encroachment. They include land for Komarock ward offices, Mutuini Hospital, Highridge Health Centre, Nanyuki road stores and depots, Karen Health Centre and Highways Stores.