Embu elders have prepared a ‘list of shame’ of prominent people they accuse of landgrabbing in the disputed Mwea Settlement Scheme. Nyangi Ndiiriri Council of Elders chairman Andrew Ireri yesterday said the beneficiaries include MPs, civil servants, prominent farmers and traders — not deserving squatters. They are to present the list to the authorities today. Ireri said 30  high-ranking citizens are among the more than 9,000 ‘undeserving’ recipients who received allocations. Some of the 54,000 acres are registered in the names of spouses, children and or clans, he said. In April, the government suspended resettlement and called for a review of allocation following consultations between Cabinet Secretaries Farida Karoney (Lands) and Fred Matiang’i (Interior). This came a day after clashes that left at least four people with gunshot wounds. One victim, Kennedy Muvevi, died days later. Ireri said the individuals on their list used their influence to illegally acquire large parcels. He said many squatters who have lived in the scheme for decades were left out. Their position contradicted the county government’s. Embu Land executive Josphat Kithumbu has previously denied some individuals own more than six acres. The scheme was fairly demarcated, notices were published in the media and the public and  government officers were involved, he said. Kithumbu said all deserving individuals were considered. The complainants are self-seekers, he said. Politicians and people who have been farming free tracts fanned the violence for their selfish interests, Kithumbu said. They want things to remain they way they are so they can continue raking in profits, he said. Ireri said they will present the list to Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, his land counterpart Farida Koroney, the Attorney General, the National Land Commission, the Embu county commissioner and the National Intelligence for a probe. He said most squatters were denied land after it was allotted to more than 9,000 people and title deeds provided before the controversial subdivision began. The elders want fresh and fair distribution. Squatters must be considered before anyone else and the public must be involved, they said. Dissatisfied squatters protested against the allocation and tried to block attempts to have beneficiaries shown their land. They confronted police officers who were escorting beneficiaries.