Most hard drugs in Kajiado county are smuggled through illegal border crossings. This has led to increased drug and substance abuse among youths in the county. Speaking at the Masai Technical Training Institute on Wednesday, NACADA CEO Victor Okioma said youths have been rendered vulnerable due to reckless alcoholism and drug abuse. “We cannot sit back and see alcohol and drugs ruin the lives of our youths while we do nothing about it,” he lamented. Okioma said NACADA is in the process of fighting rampant drug abuse cases nationally in a drug-eradication-campaign dubbed “NACADA Mashinani” targeting youths in rural areas where the vice has been documented to be rife. “It is high time we sensitized the youth on the negative effects of alcoholism, drugs and substance abuse; that is the only role we can play to safeguard their future,” he remarked. Read; High school drug abuse a ticking time bomb, Nacada warns Speaking at the same function, the county CEC for Youth and Education, Alvin Kimani said the County had set aside Sh100 million for youth empowerment initiatives through skills-based training and it would be unfortunate if the program fails due to low uptake as youth get lost in drug abuse. “I am glad that the national government represented here by the county commissioner has committed to fighting cross-border drug trafficking, this is a step in the right direction,” he said. Kimani said it is unfortunate that bars are giving Churches a run for their money in terms of how fast they were proliferating in the urban and rural centres of the county. He regretted the fact that the youth make up to 60 per cent of the population in Kajiado yet their productivity cannot be felt in development focused projects initiated by the county government. “We need to wake up and see what alcoholism and drug abuse is doing to us as a County so that we may move forward and develop,” remarked Kimani. NACADA was in Kajiado to meet stakeholders in a bid to situate the challenges of drugs and alcohol abuse in the county as part of a national fact-finding mission that is geared towards combating and eradicating the vice. Also read: Drug abuse at explosive levels in schools – Nacada Click here for the latest political news 