Facebook is testing a new time management tool that shows users how many minutes they've spent on the network. It also gives them the ability to set daily time limit reminders and change their notification settings from the site. Dubbed 'Your Time on Facebook', the tool is being developed in response to increasing pressure on the firm to curb online addiction. But Facebook appears to have come late to the party. Technology rivals including Apple and Google have already introduced time management features to their products in response to the 'time well-spent movement'. The movement was created by Silicon Valley engineers in an effort to design apps that prevent young people from becoming addicted. The new feature was revealed by developer Jane Manchun Wong. She noted that buried in Facebook's Android app is an unreleased 'Your Time on Facebook' feature. The feature shows how much time you spent on the Facebook app on each of the last seven days, and your average time spent per day. It also lets you set a daily reminder that tells you when you've reached your limit. Facebook said it was 'always working on new ways to help make sure people's time on Facebook is time well spent', according to TechCrunch. The move comes after Facebook said it wants to focus on more 'meaningful interactions' on its site earlier this year. The Facebook-owned app, Instagram, is also getting a new 'Usage Insights' tool that helps users see how much time they've spent in the social media app. This feature looks very similar to the proposed Facebook tool and was confirmed by Instagram's CEO, Kevin Systrom, back in May. Earlier this month, Apple also unveiled a range of new features to help users monitor their smartphone use, as part of plans to improve digital well-being. As part of its new iOS 12 software, a new feature called Screen Time will send users weekly reports on how they are using their device to show them what is distracting them. The technology firm said the feature will also send parents reports from their children’s phones and set time limits on app usage. Speaking during the firm’s annual WWDC conference in San Jose, Apple’s Craig Federighi said it was important to sometimes “stop distractions” triggered by smartphone use. Tech giants are beginning to pay more attention to how much time is spent using their products. Last month, Google announced a digital health tool to help users monitor their device use and change their behaviours as needed. Click here for the latest political news