Home player Japheth Kiprono won the third round of the ‘KCB Road to the Masters’ at Eldoret Club over the weekend to lead six qualifiers from North Rift region to KCB Karen Masters Pro-Am.
The handicap 20 player did it in bravado upon firing 39 stableford points and had his campaign effectively sewn up after beating men’s winner Kamar Manek on count-back.
Kiprono managed 19 in the first nine and 20 in the second nine to pull through. Manek, on the other hand, had it 22 in the first nine and 17 in the second nine.
Manek and Kiprono nevertheless savoured a Pro-Am slots to the second edition of KCB Karen Masters. On his way up, Kiprono parred holes 5, 7 and 13.
Other qualifiers were guest winner N. Ongalo from Kakamega on 39 points, staff winner and KCB branch manager, Eliud Siganga (34 points), lady winner who is also the ladies’ captain Jane Koech (38points)  and men’s runner up Simon Chepkwony. It was double feat for Koech, who also celebrated her birthday same day.
“It’s such a great pleasure representing the club in the Karen Masters. I will surely give it my all,” said Koech.
Kiprono was all smiles, saying: “I have been practicing really hard and I’m glad to have won the event. The course was quite fantastic and the Karen Masters Pro-Am qualification came as a pleasant surprise,” said the winner.
The first nine winner of the Eldoret KCB sponsored event was Amos Bore on 20 points while the second nine gong went to S. Nanji on 21 points.
Nearest to the pin winner was George Njoroge. Longest drive Lady winner was Anabwani Amimo while Sunjay Dodhia claimed the honours in the men’s category.
The second runner up on 36 points was Caleb Kositany who incidentally is a the Member of Parliament for Soy Constituency in Uasin Gishu County.
The event brought together 100 golfers from Kakamega, Kisii, Kitale Golf Club, Nandi Bears, Jericho and Nakuru amongst other guests and staff golfers.Eldoret Club’s chairman Andrew Chelogoi, who is also the Kenya Golf Union North Rift representative, thanked KCB for sponsoring the event which holds the key to Karen Masters Pro-Am tickets.
“We now have two major golfing events in the country —Kenya Open and the Karen Masters—which joins the prestigious Sunshine Tour, thanks to KCB Bank Group for bringing some of the very best golfers to Kenya and giving our locals an opportunity to further their skills,” said Chelogoi.
KCB Bank’s Great Rift’s regional service quality manager Stephen Mosong thanked North Rift golfers for gracing the qualifier.
“Earlier in the week, we launched the KCB Karen Masters in Karen and it’s all systems go as we await to make a debut in the prestigious Sunshine Tour. We take this opportunity to invite you to the next two qualifiers at Nyali on June 30 and Muthaiga on July 7. We are overly excited to host you including our existing and potential customers. For us as KCB, golf is one of our avenues of interacting with our potential customers and appreciating you for your continued support. We ask those of you who are not already customers to try us and enjoy our partnership to catalyze your lives and businesses,” said Mosong.