The seven former Bungoma county officials accused of inflating the cost of wheelbarrows have been fined Sh4.2 million or 22 years in jail. The accused are Juma Matsanza (former county secretary), Howard Lukadilu, Oscar Ojwang, Ayub China, Arlington Omushieni, Jacquiline Namukali and Reuben Rutto. They faced charges of violating procurement laws and not taking responsibility as accounting officers and members of the procurement committee, leading to loss of public funds. Senior resident magistrate Thomas Muraguri, reading the ruling by chief magistrate Bildad Ochieng, fined Matsanza Sh400,000 for each count or two years imprisonment for each count. Muraguri fined Lukadilu, Onyango, Tuvaka, Shikuku, Nanjala and Rutto Sh300,000 each for each count or one-and-a-half years imprisonment. “The sentences run consecutively,” Muraguri said. He dismissed an application by the defence to have the seven treated as first offenders. “The accused failed to take responsibility as accounting officers. The court must send a strong message that the culture of corruption cannot be tolerated,”  the magistrate said. Defence lawyer Sylvester Madialo asked the court to consider granting the seven bail, pending appeal in 14 days. Madialo also asked the court to suspend the jail term pending appeal. “The accused should be granted bail because they have religiously attended court sessions since they were charged. The sureties the accused deposited have not been discharged,” Madialo said. But prosecutor Paul Juma opposed the submission, saying they had not given sufficient reason to warrant the accused be bailed. Muraguri dismissed the defence’s application, saying the appeal stands little chances of success. “The application for bail fails because the defence ought to have filed an application to that effect. As matters stand now, my hands are tied. I am left with no option but to uphold the law,” the magistrate said. The accused had earlier, in their mitigation, told the court the real culprits are free. “The real culprits are known and even defended the deal,” said lawyer Victor Shiveka. The seven were accused of inflating the prices of wheelbarrows and purchasing 10 wheelbarrows at Sh933,880. The tender was awarded to Jagla Enterprises, which sold each wheelbarrow at Sh109,320. Disqualified suppliers included Biovet (Sh136,700 ), Economic Crescent (Sh140 000 ) and Chemiaty Enterprises (Sh122,000 ) for a wheelbarrow. The Evaluation Committee visited hardware shops in Bungoma county where the prices ranged between Sh2,500 and Sh3,500. Authority market price index dated October 2013 place the price of a wheelbarrow at Sh3,231. The prosecution said when the extra specifications of the wheelbarrows such as an extra wheel, coating and size were considered, the price of a wheelbarrow was estimated at Sh6,000.