From the past
experience, anti-corruption campaigns initiated by sitting regimes have been
deliberately set up to fail, but this time round it mustn’t abort midway. Most have been
gimmicks, strategic public relations exercises to appease donors or a restless
citizenry, and in certain cases, clever politics to fix, re-organise or address stubborn
political challenges. Of course, some quarters
have already raised fears that this campaign is
lopsided and tailored for ulterior motives, most likely political. God forbid! Kenyans need to monitor
this anti-corruption drive with keen interest. It must be
genuine and with strength of resolve. We should get the whole comprehensive truth about how this monster hatched, matured,
started roaming and went on the rampage without being intercepted. Anti-corruption purges have used selectively and for strategic survival house
cleaning political manoeuvers. This time
it must be done absolutely right. All
culprits and their godfathers should be put to the sword mercilessly. This does not
mean Kenyans are opposed. No. Citizens support it 100%. But they want it to be real. All corruption must
be shaken and uprooted. Once and for all! This isn't rocket science. The root causes of
the corruption crisis must be addressed. Obviously, a crisis comes at the tail
end of a graduated recurrence of an untreated problem. Only in few cases does a
crisis just erupt. Therefore, the country should summon all its resources, intelligence-plus and attack culprits and facilitators. This can
only be executed in a climate of real political will steered from the very top,
the presidency. If the presidency and
the Jubilee Executive are genuine, they will just be joining the People’s
President, H.E. Raila Odinga who arrived here a long time ago.
But our anti-corruption efforts were  maliciously frustrated by the intransigent, pre-handshake Jubilee leadership. The presidency has at
its disposal the NIS, the Auditor General, EACC and DCI to get
credible intelligence, information, paper-trails and networks of sleaze. They should provide the whole truth about this rot for the final onslaught. The ODM Treasurer and ex-Kitutu Masaba MP spoke to the Star Read: Ruto’s allies want Uhuru family audit Click here for the latest political news