The March-May rainy season was the wettest in nearly 70 years. The meteorological department said many parts of the country received the highest rainfall on record. It was the heaviest ever in 55 years. For instance, the rainfall recorded at the Narok station was the highest since 1950. “The station recorded 706.6mm as compared to 686.4mm during the short rains (October to December) 1961 and 610.8mm in March-May (long rains) 1957 seasons,” the analysis shows. Read: Heavy rains to fall, not yet long rains, says Met Narok was among the counties with the highest number of rain-related deaths. A bus heading to Nairobi plunged into a river due to poor visibility which was attributed to heavy downpour. More than 30 people died. Fissures also developed in parts of the county, leading to false speculation the country was tearing apart. Makindu recorded the highest March-May (long rains) since 1950, Garissa the second highest since 1959 while Kakamega experienced its second wettest season since 1958. Head of the meteorological department Peter Ambenje said Nakuru recorded the second highest year-round rain since 1964 while Embu had the second highest since 1976. 183 KILLED Other stations with record rainfall include Eldoret-Kapsoya with the highest rains since 1972 and Laikipia Airbase with the highest long rains since 1957. “The March-April-May 2018 seasonal rainfall was characterised by storms that caused flooding and wreaked havoc in most parts of the country. There were landslides in some areas,” Ambenje said. Up to last moth, the havoc had killed 183 people, injured 544 and affected 53,675 households where 225,360 people were displaced from their homes, the National Disaster Operations Centre said. The most affected counties include Tana River, Mandera, Turkana, Kisumu, Garissa, Isiolo, Taita Taveta, Wajir, WestPokot, Marsabit, Samburu and Narok. Ambenje said most parts of the country will remain dry between June and August. Western and the Coastal regions will receive slight showers. “Western highlands, the Lake Victoria basin, Nakuru, Nyahururu, northwestern Kenya and southern coastal strip are likely to receive near-normal rainfall with a tendency to above normal,” Ambenje said. Coastal areas bordering Somalia are expected to receive depressed rainfall. Most areas in the central highlands and Nairobi are expected to experience cool and cloudy conditions with occasional drizzles. Read: 44 swept to death as Nakuru dam bursts wall Click here for the latest political news