Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has promised to shield Governor Mike Sonko against an alleged plot to impeach him. However, Sakaja told the governor to settle down and deliver election pledges he made to city residents. There have been reports that some civil organisations are scheming to petition the county assembly to impeach Sonko for failing to perform. But Sakaja termed the move blackmail. He said it is aimed at derailing the governor’s agenda. Sakaja said the plan would fall flat in the Senate in case it is passed by the county assembly. He spoke at the African Inland Church in Lang’ata yesterday. He told Sonko to focus on his work. Sakaja urged him to expose cartels and ensure the revenue City Hall collects translates to better services. “There are individuals who want to stop the governor from transforming Nairobi. Let them know their schemes will not succeed. I will ensure the impeachment plan dies as soon as it reaches the Senate,” Sakaja said. “The people of Nairobi want good services. They want good roads, clean estates and they want clean water,” he said. MP KORIR BACKS GOVERNOR “Name the cartels, don’t protect them. We will support you. Water vendors should not be doing booming business because Ndakaini dam lacks enough water after the heavy rain,” he said. The senator said the governor must deal with corruption that has dogged City Hall for decades. Lang’ata MP Nixon Korir told Sonko not to be distracted by the impeachment threats. “We need to support the governor. We will not achieve anything by fighting him. All the people of Nairobi need proper services irrespective of tribe or political affiliations,” Korir said. UHURU SCOLDED HIM Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Baringo North MP William Cheptumo attended the service. Sonko has complained about corruption cartels he accuses of taking the city hostage and denying the residents services. On May 30, President Uhuru Kenyatta rejected Sonko’s assertions that state officials were frustrating his efforts to run the capital. Sonko has been at loggerheads with senior Interior ministry officials, claiming that they were targeting him for supporting the DP. The President spoke at a ceremony at Jacaranda grounds where he issued 50,000 title deeds to landowners in Eastlands, Nairobi. Uhuru also scolded Sonko, telling him to end the drama and get down to work. The governor had repeated his complaint that he was being fought by people around the President. “Ni watu wako wananichapa left, right and centre. (It is your people fighting me),” he said. Sonko’s choice of deported NRMKe General Miguna Miguna to be his deputy has drawn sharp reaction. He wants him to replace Polycarp Igathe who resigned in January. Miguna was deported to Canada on March 28 in a messy citizenship row. Some MCAs have said they will not approve the nomination.