The sugar industry is no doubt in a major crisis. The problems facing the
industry today have emerged suddenly from nowhere:
They have been with us since the 1970s! Bureaucratic corruption organised the
industry in such a way that rent seeking was inherent in the manner in which
the industries were managed, contracts awarded for infrastructural development
and cane sold locally or through the tiny window that was infrequently opened
under the EU-ACP [African, Caribbean and Pacific] Sugar
Agreement. In all these arrangements, the farmer and the factory worker have
always been the major losers, while tenderpreneurs have always laughed their
way to the bank, notwithstanding the economic underdevelopment  caused by
their avarice for easy money. At a two-day meeting convened by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and his PS
Richard Lesiyampe at the behest of governors from the sugar growing counties,
tremendous progress was made to establish short and long-term solutions for the
sugar sector problems. In attendance were the governors, their respective MPs
and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula representing his counterparts from the
region as well as his county. The managers and receiver managers from all the
state-owned factories presented detailed and up to date information regarding
levels of output over time, problems with productivity, growing and
unsustainable debts, decaying equipment and infrastructure, the historical
sabotage of the local sugar market and production by cheap sugar imported by
unscrupulous tenderpreneurs, and unsatisfactory corporate governance. The candid discussions, led ably by both the minister and the PS, came to the
conclusion that urgent action was needed to save the industry from total
collapse. On almost every issue, the meeting made concrete and implementable
proposals that will soon be presented to the President by the governors through
the good offices of the minister. One low hanging fruit is the issue of imported cheap sugar that has over time
undermined the growth of the sugar industry as a competitive enterprise within
the Comesa market. It was noted the so-called gap between domestic production
and domestic demand is a total myth created by tenderpreneurs to justify the
annual allocations by Treasury to dubious importers of sugar. The evidence is as clear as the path to
the village church. To begin with, over the last 20 years, the domestic
capacity to produce sugar way beyond our domestic need has grown by leaps and
bounds. How come we consistently continue to have this 200, 000 -300,000 tonnes
shortage no matter the expansion of the capacity of our factories to produce
more? In order to burry this myth once and for all, the meeting decided to call
upon the minister to immediately ban the importation of sugar to give room for
our factories to produce to their maximum capacity for the domestic market. We then looked at the immediate problems facing our factories and farmers. The
first urgent issue is the arrears owed to farmers and workers. The meeting
observed there is no option but to pay these arrears immediately. After all,
the farmers and the workers consistently met their obligations by delivering
cane to the factories and making sure it was transformed into sugar. It is
totally unfair for the factory managers and the government not to meet their
part of the bargain year after year by not paying salaries. Second, having rendered the factories inefficient, productivity has
consistently been low. The factories have themselves been increasingly unable
to meet their obligations to statutory institutions such as the KRA, the NSSF
and the NHIF, making the workers also suffer further in the process. These
unmet obligations have further aggravated their indebtedness. Combined with
growing inability to service their loans, the debt portfolio has become a
monumental albatross around the neck of all the state-owned factories put
together. In 2012, the coalition government had presented a proposal to Parliament to
write off all the debts of these factories so that they could clean up their
balance sheets to be able to invite capital either through privatisation or
other arrangements, Treasury, for some odd reason, has sat
on this decision by Parliament, obviously compounding the problem by the growth
of the non-serviced loans. It is foolhardy not to pay immediate
attention to these debts: They will simply become worse. The meeting resolved
that the 2012 decision by Parliament be immediately implemented so that the
consideration of the two levels of government on what to do with the factories
is not unnecessarily encumbered by these debts. The issue at hand, therefore, will still remain the need to inject more capital
into the factories. But before doing that, we still need to address the
management and organisational matters facing the factories, which have been
complicated by recent reforms in the agricultural sector. The meeting observed
the sector urgently needs proper regulation. In that regard, the removal of
both zoning and the Sugar Development Levy were big mistakes. They must be
restored. Further, as a crop sugar production, marketing and general husbandry
has its own unique features and problems: It needs its own law to govern its
operations. The meeting, therefore, resolved the Sugar Act needs to be
restored. Since agriculture and land are devolved functions following the enactment of the
2010 Constitution, county governments are key players in the sugar sector. Many
investors have already approached governors in the sugar zone with the
intention and desire to partner with the governments in investing in this
sector. They have, however, pointed out that their entry would be hampered if
the reform measures mentioned above are not undertaken expeditiously. It is encouraging the national
government also understands and appreciates the urgency needed in undertaking
these reforms. In other words, we are finally speaking the same language. We
both realise we are partners in seeking solutions bedeviling the sugar industry
and preventing it from contributing effectively to the Jubilee government's Big
Four agenda. I am confident that as a result of our meeting this week, we, as county
governments, will now look forward to a period during which the project of
injecting capital into these industries, even if it means their radical reorganisation,
will remain our top priority. It is evident the State Department of Agriculture
and the presidency have led by example in convening us to the successful
meeting and will no doubt be eager to see the fruits of our discussions sprout
waiting the developmental harvests that Big Four promises.