Former employees of flower firm Karuturi Ltd have appealed to the government to facilitate their benefits after the company was put under receivership. The 2,500 workers who were rendered jobless in 2014 want Treasury, Central Bank of Kenya, Kenya Revenue Authority and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe Stanbic Bank. They accused the bank of advancing loans to the firm’s receiver managers even when it had become clear they would not repay. The actions of the bank, they said, contributed to Karuturi’s collapse. They are now unable to get their benefits. “We bring this matter to your attention because the actions of the bank led to a cruel outcome for workers,” reads the petition signed by Ferdinand Juma. Juma is the Kenya Plantations and Agriculture Workers Union (KPAWU) chairman for Naivasha. The letter was copied to Naivasha MP Jane Kihara. The workers want compensation and benefits for employees who worked for more than 10 years. Karuturi Limited executive director Yeshoda Karuturi has supported the workers’ petition. “To be denied benefits after working for over 20 years is an act of treachery by the receiver managers and the bank. It was impossible to incur a loss of Sh1.6 billion and only recover Sh400 million. It is a complete mockery of the prevailing laws,” Karutusi told the Star on the phone yesterday. Stanbic Bank acknowledged it was aware of the matter but declined to comment. “We are regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya and we adhere to the provisions of the Banking Act at all times. We understand the sentiments around the issue but won’t comment because the matter is in court,” the bank’s senior communications manager Willis Angira said. Karuturi Ltd, one of the world’s top growers of roses with exports of more than one million stems annually, was put under receivership in 2014 after failing to service a Sh383 million loan borrowed from Stanbic Bank. In March, the High Court allowed the bank to auction the assets of Karuturi Ltd if the owners failed to clear Sh1.8 billion debts owed to the lender in three months. Justice Francis Tuiyott said a three-year-old court order restraining the bank from auctioning the properties of the flower farm was to stand vacated after the lapse of 90 days. The judge observed that the owners, Surya Holdings Limited and RHEA Holdings Limited, admitted the pre-receivership debt and the post-receiver debt had been assessed by and audit firm selected by the owners themselves. The workers said they have suffered since 2014 when the receivership pushed them out of work. “Long serving workers need their terminal benefits. It is long overdue,” Juma said. Click here for more political news