“As stewards of God’s creation, we are called to make the earth a beautiful garden for the human family. When we destroy our forests, ravage our soil and pollute our seas, we betray that noble calling.” Pope Francis uttered these powerful words three years ago. He might have seen how mankind was slowly destroying the planet, not knowing that doing so amounted to destroying livelihoods. The Pope’s words reverberate as the world descends to India today for World Environment Day to try and seek solutions to environmental problems facing mankind largely associated with climate change and its impact. Plastics are among the issues that have troubled the world, threatening the very existence of mankind more than ever before. Kenya banned plastic carrier bags in 2017 through a gazette notice dated February 28. It banned “the use, manufacture and importation of all plastic bags used for commercial and household packaging”, which fall into two categories: carrier bags and flat bags. A carrier bag is one that is constructed with handles, and with or without gussets, while a flat bag is one constructed without handles, and with or without gussets, an extra piece of material to make it wider, stronger or more comfortable. The ban took effect on August 28. Anyone violating the ban faces a one-two year jail term or a Sh2 million-Sh4 million fine. ENFORCEMENT PROBLEMS Manufacturers are now accusing the state of not enforcing the law. “Consumers who buy these banned plastics are not doing us any favour, as they are promoting countries outside,” said an Industrial Area manufacturer, who has since shifted from plastic to paper bags. The manufacturer said his company has invested 700,000 Euros in buying a state-of-the-art machine that produces two million paper bags per day. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers said manufacturers were not extensively consulted on the decision to effect the ban on plastic bags, as per the dictates of the Constitution. KAM said there are over 176 plastic manufacturing companies that directly employ 2.89 per cent of all Kenyan employees and indirectly employ over 60,000 people. These jobs and livelihoods will be negatively affected by this ban, it argued. Additionally, they said the six-month period provided for the ban to take effect was not adequate, as the companies could not close down production and clear their stocks within that period. Providing alternatives to paper bags within six months was also a bone of contention. However, the government has committed that there will be no turning back. “I knew it was not going to be easy as there were several hurdles, but I soldiered on,” then Environment CS Judi Wakhungu, now the Ambassador to France, said. The UN says the level of public concern about plastic pollution is totally unprecedented. But now, citizens across the world are pledging to do something about it. The UN urges all to make a commitment to change our habits. PREVIOUS ATTEMPTS Kenya has on several occasions tried to impose a ban on plastics. However, all attempts flopped as a result on interests from manufacturers. For instance, in 2007, the government issued a ban against bags below 0.3mm in thickness, which also failed. In January 2011, the National Environment Management Authority declared a ban on bags below 0.6mm in thickness. It also flopped. Doomsayers said the August 2017 ban would also fail. Fast-forward to May 2018, and Kenyans have taken it in their stride and fully embraced the ban. However, there are a few elements still sneaking in plastics from neighbouring countries, such as Uganda. This has been blamed on reluctance by individual East African Community countries to put in place proper laws on plastics. Meanwhile, each year, more than 8 million tonnes of plastic ends up in the oceans, wreaking havoc on marine wildlife, fisheries and tourism, and costing at least $8 billion in damage to marine ecosystems. Up to 80 per cent of all litter in our oceans is made of plastic. According to some estimates, at the rate we are dumping items such as plastic bottles, bags and cups after a single use, by 2050, oceans will carry more plastic than fish, and an estimated 99 per cent of seabirds will have ingested plastic. Closer home, a research revealed that 100 million plastic bags are handed out annually in Kenya by supermarkets alone. The study was carried out by the National Environmental Management Agency in conjunction with Unep and the Kenya Institute of Public Policy Research and Analysis. CHURCH’S ROLE The April 2018 Foresight Brief on Faith for Earth by UN environment recognises the spiritual dimension of the environment. It also notes the importance of utilising the agility of faith-based organisations around the world in addressing environmental concerns for sustainable development. Religion plays a significant role in the understanding and shaping of attitudes, opinions and behaviours, including for management and use of the environment and natural resources. Religious organisations are arguably the fourth-largest group of investors in the world. In 2004, the National Association of Evangelicals produced a position statement advocating more resources to combat environmental degradation, global warming and to promote environmental sustainability. NAE is an umbrella association of 53 evangelical Protestant denominations in the US, with a combined membership of about 30 million. The diverse theologies of Hinduism suggest that the earth can be seen as a manifestation of the goddess and must be treated with respect. The five elements — space, air, fire, water and earth — are the foundation of an interconnected web of life. Hindus also believe that our treatment of nature directly affects our karma, or the spiritual principle of cause and effect where intent and actions of an individual influence the future of that individual. The Buddha taught five precepts for everyday life: do not harm any living creature, do not take more than you need, do not act thoughtlessly, do not steal, be generous in giving and do not lie. Buddhist teachers draw upon these precepts, particularly the first three, to explain the importance of conservation.