The Kikuyu Council of Elders has accused people "very close" to DP William Ruto of fighting President Uhuru Kenyatta to derail his corruption purge. Secretary-General Peter Munga said they were particularly irked by National Assembly and Senate Majority Leaders Aden Duale and Kipchumba Murkomen, whom they said have directly attacked Uhuru in public. Munga did not specify how the two have done so but noted: "They are no longer advancing the interests of the government but personal and partisan interests, thereby undermining the authority of the President in his fight against corruption and the Build Bridges Initiative." Murkomen claimed on Sunday that people undermining Ruto, with the intention of preventing his ascent to the presidency, were working in the Office of the President. The Senator, a member of Ruto’s kitchen Cabinet, said those keen to scuttle Ruto’s plans for 2022 want to create bad blood between him and Uhuru. He said that Uhuru’s order for the lifestyle audits of all public servants in the ongoing graft purge had made matters worse. Duale was criticised by Government Spokesman Eric Kiraithe for claiming that importers of contraband sugar were being protected. Read: Ruto’s haters are in Kenyatta’s office, says Senator Murkomen Also read: Politics useless in war on illegal sugar trade, Kiraithe says after Duale claims On the contraband sugar crisis, Munga questioned the issuance of "questionable gazette notices" that gravely affect farmers and Kenyans' health. "Some politicians seem to be in defence of the traders behind the sweet poison," he said. "It is annoying and disheartening to see people closest to the DP trying hard to divert Kenya's attention from this serious crime against humanity." The elders also demanded explanations on how "broke and bankrupt" Sony Sugar Company managed to import. They said those using the company to undermine cane farmers must be named. The elders further demanded explanations from Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, Trade's Adan Mohamed and Treasury's Henry Rotich on the opening of "floodgates" in the importation of sugar. They lauded the DCI, ODPP and police for "good work" in fighting corruption and urged authorities to deal ruthlessly with the culpable in the fertiliser, energy, sugar and pipeline scandals. Related: Uhuru's brother did not import any sugar, says CS Kiunjuri The elders earlier told Ruto to retire with Uhuru when their second term ends. This was the clearest signal yet of the fluid nature of the DP’s support in Central Kenya, which has been sending mixed signals. Details: 2022: Kikuyu elders tell DP Ruto to retire Click here for the latest political news