IEBC Wafula Chebukati (pictured) and his two commissioners could be on their way out of the commission in a few weeks. We are told State House is considering asking the three to quit quietly and they will be paid some cash. State House was planning to communicate this to the three by next week, but we are now told the communication has been held back because of a court case that has been filed seeking the removal of the three, who were left in office after their four colleagues resigned. What is the connection between Dick Oneko, the son of the late politician Achieng’ Oneko, and Youth Affairs PS Lilian Omollo? We are told Dick has been running errands for Omollo, who is whiling away her time at Kenyatta National Hospital while her fellow suspects in the NYS scandal are locked up in remand prison. We are told it’s Oneko who deposited some cash for the VIP room the PS is using. Narok Governor Samuel Tunai and a top-ranking Jubilee politician are men used to getting what they want. But on Monday they were given some food for thought. During the official opening ceremony of Kichwa Tembo (Baceleur) — a famous and well-known hotel in the Mara — the pair were sure the chief guest, President Uhuru Kenyatta, would shore up their spirit with words of encouragement for their business skills. But they were treated to an unexplained no-show as Uhuru decided he had more serious national challenges to handle. Instead, he sent county commissioner George Natembea to unveil the plaque, which, according to plan, clearly indicated the hotel had been opened by Uhuru. Corridors has learnt Uhuru has vowed that there are certain businessmen he does not want to humour with his presence just now. Uhuru, Corridors has also learnt, has quietly refused to officially open a hotel in Lang’ata constituency, Nairobi, because he is not particularly amused by the businessman behind the hotel. Two senior procurement and accounting officers from a county in Nyanza have panicked and were seen in frenetic trips to the Registrar of Companies’ offices in Nairobi this week. Perhaps they are in swift response to the ongoing anti-corruption purge. An insider whispered to Corridors the two are among the many accounting officers and procurement managers in the county rushing to change ownership of companies linked to them and their relatives to beat anti-graft detectives. The two officials own two hotels along the Eastern Bypass, some flats in Embakasi and a car-hire firm. Click here for more political news