The Director of Public Prosecutions said yesterday his office will target banks and their staff for their involvement in the handling funds lost from NYS. A court charged 43 suspects, including state workers and business people, over Sh1 billion missing from the government-run National Youth Service training scheme, with the prosecutor saying half of it had been determined to be fraudulently acquired. Authorities are also investigating 10 financial institutions suspected of handling funds that were stolen from the youth service. DPP Noordin Haji said his office will also go after individuals found to have facilitated the transactions. “Very soon, once those investigations are complete, you will see the banks being prosecuted,” he said. “Not only the banks. We are also going to go for the tellers and the managers who authorised those huge withdrawals, because our argument is they must have been part of the conspiracy to allow such huge withdrawals.” President Uhuru Kenyatta pledged to stamp out corruption when he was first elected in 2013, but critics say he has been slow to pursue top officials and ministers. Kenyatta, who was elected for a second term last year, has spoken out recently against graft and urged the Judiciary “to ensure fair trials and justice”. Last month, Haji said the investigation by his office and the police had revealed funds were stolen through fictitious invoices and multiple payments on one supplier invoice. Haji said the next phase of prosecutions into the loss of Sh8 billion will show at least half of it was dubious and will result in prosecutions for those responsible. He said the amounts they were investigating could rise if they found profits was generated by businesses that used the stolen funds. “The figures might grow or might shrink a little bit. But even before looking at the other aspect that I have told you, probably more than half of the 8 billion (shillings) pending bills are questionable,” Haji said.  “We have only looked at only one branch within NYS. And there are other branches that we are looking at and investigations are going on.”