National women’s volleyball team call ups Milgrene Lituva, Lincy Jeruto, Eglay Kulova and Nancy Mulonza headline Kenya Commercial Bank’s 14-member squad to this weekend’s annual Genocide Memorial tournament in Kigali, Rwanda. The four will, however, join the national women’s team training after their tour of Rwanda. The Kenya team was expected to start training this week ahead of the World Championship in Japan later in the year. Left attackers Lituva and Kulova will fight for the starting line up against Doreen Marani and Metrin Nabwile in the event, where the bankers will be making their debut. In the right attacking department, Mulonza will be up against Lucy Mumo and Phosca Kasisi while Jeruto will jostle for the libero’s position against Linet Mukambi. Other players in the team are experienced setter Salome Wanjala and Gladys Wairimu and centre blockers trio of Pauline Nyongesa, Modesta Chepchirchir and Lydia Too. Commenting on the tournament, team’s captain Wairimu said the team have prepared well and they are optimistic of good results. “The squad has practiced well and the morale is high. Thankfully, we are fresh from participating in the recently concluded Amaco/Paul Bitok International tournament in Eldoret and so we are in a competition mood. We are hoping for the best in Rwanda.” Team’s coach Vernon Khayinga said he expects stiff competition from host teams but remained positive of making it to the finals. He said: “We are excited about Rwanda event. We have worked on our weaknesses especially our centre positions and we believe we are at good place and ready for the event. We expect stiff competition from Rwandese teams but we are targeting to reach final.” Team patron Judith Odhiambo said their tour of Rwanda is meant to expose the players. “We want to take the team to another level and the Rwanda trip will offers a great experience and a learning curve. We are keen to making it to the Africa Club Championship and that’s why we are leaving nothing to chance” The team depart tomorrow to the host nation.