 Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has lost her bid to overturn the election of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru.Kerugoya High Court judge Lucy Gitari yesterday dismissed Karua’s petition citing lack of sufficient evidence.Gitari ordered Karua to pay Sh5 million as cost. Karua was told to pay Sh3 million as cost of the petition and another Sh2 million to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. She promised to appeal the ruling.The former Cabinet minister challenged Waiguru’s win in August 8 last year, citing ballot tampering among other irregularities.Gitari said Karua did not produce evidence to back her claims.“The burden of proof fell upon the petitioner but she did not prove to the court cases of Kangara bribing voters at Wanguru Primary School polling station as claimed,’’ Gitari said.Karua said there was voter bribery and that her agents were barred from polling stations during the election.Gitari said cases of electoral malpractice are grave and criminal hence the need to prove claims beyond reasonable doubt.“Bribery and tempering with election materials are grave offences which lead to arrest without a warrant hence the need to provide credible evidence,’’ Gitari said.Karua asked the court to provide her with proceedings of the petition to file her appeal.The court rejected her request to be supplied with handwritten notes. “We will fight for justice to the end. I intend to appeal the decision made today,’’ Karua said. Gitari said Karua did not submit Form 37A and Form 37C which were used to declare the Waiguru the winner. The documents ought to have formed part of the evidence in the petition.The court said the testimony of Loice Wanjiku contradicted that of Karua where the petitioner claimed the agent was barred from Kimunye polling station. Wanjiku is Karua’s sister.“The petitioner failed to call any of the said agents who were barred from polling stations to testify. She did not file the list of the said agents to form part of her evidence,” Gitari said.The judge said Karua did not file a flash disk as part of her evidence. There was no sworn affidavit to the same.During hearing, Karua said she filed a flash disk containing a video of ballot box tampering at a Wanguru Primary School polling station but the disk disappeared from the court.Speaking after the ruling was delivered, Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri asked Karua to let the petition end and work with the county government for the development of Kirinyaga.Security was heightened around the court with anti-riot police officers scrutinising everyone entering the court. 