 Today I will offer
a ngumbaru class to our MPs on Economics 101. And as the good teacher that I
am, I will start by posing a question. What is a thermometer? It is a tool that
measures how hot or cold the temperature is. Imagine you suspect
your son has a fever. When the doctor takes his temperature, he ascertains it
is 40.50 C. The doctor can one, scratch off the 40.50 C and
write 370 C and voila! The fever is immediately cured; or two,
administer medicine and your son’s fever will gradually come down. The first option
sounds absurd, right? In fact you could sue the hospital for misconduct. The
irony, however, is that option one is exactly what the MPs are advocating for,
when they insist interest rates must be capped. Let me explain. For starters, allow
me to deconstruct what the interest rate really is by stating what it is not.
It is not an arithmetic number representing a particular quantity. Neither is
it a lever that can be pulled up and down at will. It is also not the price of
your loan. Like the thermometer, it is only a tool. A signal: A metric that
responds to value. The interest rate is the price you pay for earlier
availability of money. So, by paying interest, a borrower is essentially buying
time not money. A fundamental
economic principle is demand and supply. The law of demand states, ceteris paribus, the higher the price of
a good, the lower the quantity demanded but the higher the quantity supplied
because producers get more revenue. Price, therefore, becomes a reflection of
supply and demand. One of the
functions of the Central Bank is to regulate money supply. This is the total
stock of money circulating in an economy at any given time. It is also the
amount of money banks have available to lend to borrowers. As a rule, central banks
mandate all depository institutions to keep an amount of funds in reserve
against their total net transaction accounts. For example, if the Central Bank
has set the reserve requirement at nine per cent and a commercial bank has
total deposits of $100 million, the latter must set aside $9 million to satisfy
the reserve requirement. The Central Bank can, therefore, increase or decrease the
available loanable funds by lowering or raising the reserve requirements,
respectively. Now let us
understand where banks get money to transact. Banks have no money of their own.
They use the money that you save in your account, or that they have borrowed
from other savers, to loan out to others. The borrower then agrees to pay back
the loan with interest. In a free market economy, the balance
between savers and consumers thus determines the interest rates. In economic-speak,
when you save your money, we say you have a low time preference. This is the
ratio between the value you place on consumption of present versus future
goods. Foregoing consumption in the present results in consumption of higher
quantity and quality at a future date. So when people save more, and the
Central Bank does not increase the reserve requirement, the banks will have
more money to lend to borrowers. This causes the interest rate to naturally
fall following the law of demand and supply. But when the
Central Bank tinkers with the interest rate and lowers it, it no longer
represents the true balance between savers and consumers. It gives a false
impression that people are foregoing present consumption of lower order goods
and are thus saving more to consume higher order goods in the future. The
reality, however, is that consumption of lower order goods has not slowed down. Another negative
consequence of capping the interest rate at a low mark is that people stop
saving and thus banks have less money to lend hence competition for the
available loanable funds ensues. Banks redirect their lending in favour of large
corporate borrowers and government, thus crowding out the ordinary mwananchi,
who the MPs seek to protect. In some dire cases
when banks do not have enough money to transact, central banks result in
printing fiat money to increase the money liquidity. This causes inflation
because the fiat money is not backed by any physical commodity. This means there
is more money chasing the same number of goods and services. The false signaling
occasioned by artificial interest rates motivates entrepreneurs to borrow and invest in
production of higher order goods. The result is malinvestment. Soon
entrepreneurs realise they are unable to service their loans because the
returns they expected from consumption of higher goods by those seemingly
‘saving’, never materialise. Ultimately, these investments
stall, workers are laid off and unemployment sets it. This leads to a recession. But a recession is actually a good thing.
We should welcome it because it clears out the malinvestments that should not
have happened in the first place. Recession is the market failure correcting
itself from the waste and errors of the artificial boom. The only time we
should be concerned is when the Central Bank once more chooses to meddle in the
economic downturn by injecting more stimuli to reactivate economic activity
because this makes the adjusting process even more difficult. It is akin to
taking another drink to cure a hangover. Kutoa
lock. I, therefore, submit MPs should re-evaluate
their mistaken assumption of an aggregate time preference for consumption; and
to the Central Bank to discard its monetary policy and allow the invisible hand
(Adam Smith), to coordinate the supply of money based on individual time
preferences. So honourable MPs, choose ye this day to
either scratch the numbers on the thermometer and write a magic figure that
will immediately cure the economy, or allow the free market forces of demand
and supply to take their natural course. The
road to hell is paved with good intentions - Saint Bernard of Clairvaux.  Mugwe is a political economist