As the government intensifies the war on corruption, focus today shifts to the Anti-Corruption Court as it decides whether to free NYS fraud suspects on bail. Yesterday, 20 more suspects were charged before chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti. They faced multiple charges in relation to the theft of Sh468 million at the Youth and Gender ministry — formerly Devolution. This makes 43 the number of people who have so far been charged and are in custody. They are the same whose release DPP Noordin Haji has opposed. See:NYS suspects remanded until Tuesday after DPP blocks bail The Dpp has pushed to block the suspects’ bail application, saying they are not only a flight risk but are likely to interfere with evidence. Among those who have been in remand since last Tuesday and will know their fate today include PS Lillian Omollo and NYS director general Richard Ndubai. Four members of the Ngirita family in Naivasha, whose companies were allegedly paid more than a half of the NYS cash in question, have also been in remand. Those who denied charges yesterday include NYS senior deputy director Nicholas Ochieng and acting Finance officer Wellington Lubira, who were charged with abuse of office. They were accused approving fraudulent payments of millions of shillings to several firms involved in the scam. The companies involved are Annwaw Investments, which belongs to Anne Ngirita, and Waluko Investments belonging to her mother Lucy Wambui. Read:NYS suspects risk Sh58m in fines, one year in jail if convicted Other company’s linked to the family are Kunjiwa Enterprises and Jerrycathy Investment. Others are Ngiwaco, Ameri Traders, Firstling Suppliers Limited belonging to James Thuita, Ersatz Ltd, Arkroad Holdings and Calabash Food Suppliers, which got Sh72 million from NYS. Also charged were members of the verification and clearance committee accused of unlawfully signing and approving clearance forms for the payments. Director of Administration at NYS Michael Ojiambo, Christopher Simbauni, Peter Mahugu, David Maina, John Mwaniki, Catherine Kamuyu, Tabitha Ndungu, Sarah Muguru, Clara Mbau and Ken Mburu were also charged. Others are Grace Mbere, Clement Murage, Nicholas Otieno, George Ouma, Simon Kiiru, Don Kariuki and Kenneth Mwangi. They faced multiple charges of abuse of office and failure to comply with procedure. Also Read:NYS scandal: 20 more suspects in court for multiple fraud charges Click here for more political news    