For this revolutionary manoeuvre, though still
young, he needs immediate and unconditional support by all, starting from
Deputy President William Ruto to local leadership. We, in the opposition, led by the Peoples’ President
Raila Odinga, joined him immediately and want it expanded and entrenched to
give Kenya a new life. After all, one of the major problems that made us fight
so hard to remove Jubilee from power in the recent past was runaway corruption,
which always appeared state sanctioned. However, even before we make the first steps into
the lifestyle audit, a campaign across the country is opposing it. The current
crescendo of objections against the anti-corruption war, more so against the
proposed lifestyle audit for all public servants, is confounding. A grouping
with vested interests is deliberately subverting the Constitution. Supporters of the DP owe Kenyans an explanation and
a serious apology for this mischief. Majority leaders in Parliamnet Kipchumba
Murkomen (Senate) and Aden Duale (National Assembly) and MPs Oscar Sudi (MP
Kapseret) and Samson Cherargei (Senator, Nandi) are the choirmasters of this
band, roaming the country belting this chorus of defiance. We cannot be
convinced their master is innocent of it. Remember the guilty are always
afraid. In a seemingly well-choreographed and coordinated
crusade, the anti-lifestyle audit warriors have seized every publicity
platforms available including radio talk shows, real time television debates,
news releases, church functions, barazas and harambees all over the place to
demonise this noble anti-corruption campaign. This war is not only in conformity with the
country’s laws but is also a requirement of the Constitution, which demands
total protection of public resources to grow and sustain the economy and
finance provision of vital goods and services. Prudent use of public resources
is primed as a catalyst for Kenya’s transformation in all fields to a developed
nation. The country must stand united in support. The President has sweetened the deal by proposing
to carry out lifestyle audits for all public servants starting from himself. He
announced it in Mombasa in the company of the DP, who also announced his full
support and pledged his willingness and readiness to subject himself to it. We
thought he meant it. Alas! Days later, his closest and most influential
lieutenants erupted in a furious fight back, dismissing the audit as a
malicious witch hunt aimed at maligning the DP, and blocking him from ascending
to the presidency in 2022. In a disjointed blame-game narrative, they have
simultaneously claimed the audit is tailor-made to frame and fix the DP, then t
variously blame it on Raila a, President Uhuru’s kitchen Cabinet and an alleged
clique of “powerful civil servants in the Office of the President”. They have openly indicated they are totally against
the audit without offering any viable alternatives. They have not tabled
evidence of the alleged plot to frame the DP so that the plotters and their
scheme can be quickly confronted and tamed. Only once, during a live television interview, has
Murkomen argued for the provision of a legal framework to guide the audit. Surprisingly,
he claims such an exercise is not anchored in our laws, remarks that tempt many
to question the quality of his training as a lawyer. In the “legal frame work” idea, he betrayed a
desired dirty trick to torpedo the whole exercise and undermine the wider
ongoing anti-corruption war. The outspoken senator was obviously vouching for
the option of crafting a bill to start the exercise only, to mobilise quickly
and viciously kill it on arrival. Corruption networks will be mobilised to raise
millions to bribe MPs to roundly condemn the bill and shoot it down. Remember, the same DP foot soldiers had previously
cried foul, claiming the anti-corruption war was skewed and maliciously
targeted institutions headed by their allies, sparing those allied to Uhuru. As long as the Constitution prohibits abuse of
office, mismanagement and theft of public resources, and as long as the Penal Code
also penalises these misdeeds, any administrative measures instituted to combat
them are valid and legal. Lack of accompanying statutes is not justification to
let corruption thrive in our midst. The
guilty are always afraid.  The writer is ODM National Treasurer and
Immediate former Kitutu-Masaba MP  