France Vs Australia Saturday 1pm So I went to fifa.com to get some tips on Australia and their approach to the World Cup and this is the first quote I saw from their coach, Bert Van Marwijk: “Maybe we don’t have the best players, but we want to become the best team. We have trained very hard to try and develop our own way of playing... and that means we don’t always have to adapt to the opponent. We have to take the initiative ourselves.” This means the Aussie’s have a little bit of hope here. I think that’s laughable. They have Tim Cahill in midfield and that’s about it. Even his fellow midfielder Jackson Irvin says the Socceroos need to put up a near perfect performance to get their desired result which is, if I’m to imagine what they mean, a draw. France is naturally the strongest team in Group C with Peru and Denmark the other two. The Les Blues — my team — survived a late injury scare to Kylian Mbappe and also have the likes of Antoine Griezmann, Paul Pogba, Ngolo Kante, Blaise Matuidi, oh my! This list is awesome! I am actually tipping France to win the whole showpiece and with players raring to go, this game will be but a formality. My Prediction: Les Blues 2 – 0 The Socceroos  Croatia Vs Nigeria Saturday 10pm This is a really tough group with Iceland being the dark horse given how they performed at the Euros two years ago and how they qualified for this showpiece. Croatia needed to go through a playoff to qualify for the World Cup but they are regulars here so that doesn’t matter so much to me. The Eastern European nation is currently ranked 20 in the latest FIFA World Rankings while Nigeria is down at 48. Again this being a World Cup tournament, it would be hard to predict how a team will start. Nigeria, like most African nations, disappointed the continent in Brazil four years ago and I just hope they have the focus to go far this year. They have the squad, though they couldn’t even beat a young English side two weeks ago. In fact their build up matches haven’t convinced me that they will go far, but again, the head coach Rohr Gernot could have just been testing his squad and not aiming for pre-tournament wins. So tough to predict yawa! Croatia boast the likes of Luca Modric, Ivan Rakitic, Dejan Lovren, Mario Mandzukic and many other talented ‘ic’s’. The Super Eagles, meanwhile, have a few great names starting with captain John Obi Mikel, Alex Iwobi and Kelechi Iheanacho. I’ve seen a better Nigeria side flop on the world stage so I hope that Gernot can come up with some magic that matches their travel outfits and kit. I will be behind Nigeria as an African but I don’t think they’ll get past Croatia. My Prediction: The Blazers 2-1 The Super Eagles  Germany Vs Mexico Sunday 6pm Now THIS is a World Cup battle that I can’t wait for. Germany are the defending champions. They go into the tournament ranked number one in the world and have a squad to die for! What else would you call a group of players made up of Mario Gomez, Marco Reus, Thomas Mueller, Mesut Ozil — who performs for his country — Sami Khedira, Julian Draxler, at this rate I’ll name the entire squad. They have an exceptional group of players and to think their juniors won the Confederations Cup last year and they aren’t all in Russia. Mexico are ranked a respectable 15th in the standings and I would give them a chance if they were playing any other side. They will rely heavily on sharp shooter Javier ‘Chicharito’ Hernandez and I think he will get goals at this tournament, but that will be tough against the German machines. This game will be played at the great Luzhniki Stadium, as if preparing Germany for the final against France. My Prediction: Die Mannschaft 3 – 1 El Tricolor  Brazil Vs Switzerland Sunday 9pm Brazil are right up there behind Germany in the Fifa rankings and as with every single World Cup tournament or anything they participate in football-wise, they are favourites to win. Such is the power of the Brazil name in football. They have won the most World Cup titles and despite a disappointing run in their home country four years ago, the Samba Boys are looking good. Neymar is looking good despite the injury scare some few weeks ago, Diego Costa can’t wait to disrupt everyone’s lives, Willian, Fred, Paulinho, Coutinho, oh my! This line-up is almost making me defect from France but I can’t. Switzerland are such a luke-warm team that will always be bridesmaids. They come to make up the numbers. Xherdan Shaqiri impresses everyone, but like other superstars who carry an entire team, they rarely go anywhere. This will be a good warm up game for the Brazilians! My Prediction: Le Selecao 4-1 Rossocroaciati