The first Young
Scientists Kenya (YSK) exhibition will take place at the KICC in Nairobi from July 5
to 6. YSK is a Public
Private Partnership (PPP) launched in July 2017, with the aim of promoting the diversity, resourcefulness and commercialisation of young students' ideas. Ninety projects will be exhibited at the showcase in which more than 150 secondary schools will participate. YSK board chairman
Kevit Desai noted on Monday that there is need for more vigour in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). "The age of innovation is getting lower by the day so it is important
to invest in the young talent of the 21st century," Desai said and encouraged young innovators to attend the event. Ireland ambassador
Vincent O'Neill noted the importance of investing in skills and
education for Kenya to grow economically. “There's a direct
link between this initiative and Kenya's future economic prosperity,”
he said. O'Neill noted that last year's winner from Ireland made a coding system to improve the next
generation of computers and that the invention was partially sold to a US-based
company at $5 million (Sh504 million). He said that the embassy is committed to fostering linkages and financial aid and will sponsor Kenyan winners to visit
Ireland to learn scientists. “Winning projects
will be supported so the innovators learn business principles. Intellectual properties will be defended and good ideas nurtured with the students at the center, in ways they are not going to be exploited.” GOVERNMENT PROMISES RESOURCES Education CS Amina
Mohamed said that the STEM module is a key driver of education in
Kenya and that it is mirrored in the government's vision 2030 and Big Four agenda. Amina noted, however, that according
to the 2017/18 KUCCPS placement, only 31 percent learners enrolled for STEM
courses with over 55 percent in humanities. "It is important to encourage young female students to enroll in STEM
courses as only 25- 30 percent enrolled compared to 45-55 percent boys," she said, The Minister said the event will trigger interest in the initiative The Education ministry as identified 102 secondary schools where further training
of 372 teachers will take place to improve the quality of STEM. The schools were
each given robotic equipment worth Sh81 million as part of the project on which the government will spend Sh1.3 billion. “Through this, we
will increase uptake and expand the initiative,” she
said, adding that schools will also be built. Sanda Ojiambo, Safaricom's Head of
Corporate Responsibility, pledged support while noting that a few secondary schools have access to STEM resources as they are scarce. SOME OF THE SMART INNOVATIONS Kenya High student,
Maryanne Andove came up with a natural mosquito
killer to help fight malaria. Thika High student
Rick Ngugi invented the production of sustainable paper from banana stem
waste, corn and sugarcane stocks. The student
noted that deforestation in Kenya is a huge problem and that is has contributed to global warming and desertification. Alliance High student Ian Oduor created a machine to help in reduction of food
wastage as food security is a major issue in Kenya. Isha Jobanputra, a
student from Shree Cutchi Leva Patel Samaj School, invented a system for detecting
dangerous drivers on roads. “We need to catch
bad drivers and give them what they deserve,” she said. The students
participating in the programme will showcase projects in four broad
categories: physical, chemical and mathematical  sciences; ecological and biological sciences; technology; and social
and behavioral sciences. The award ceremony will be held on July 6, with the winners walking away with fully paid trips to Ireland to
visit the Irish chapter of the Young Scientists initiative. The opening ceremony will be officiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Click here for the latest political news