The Education sector has been allocated Sh444.1 billion in the new financing plan for the year ending June 30, 2019. Treasury CS Henry Rotich on Thursday said the government has prioritised expansion of TVET infrastructure, hiring of training instructors, school feeding programmes, and ICT. Of these, Sh16 billion has been allocated for additional recruitment of 200 technical training instructors, capitation grants, and construction of 15 new technical training institutes. Part of the cash will be spent on curriculum development assessment, creations of certification centers, and establishment of a Technical Vocational Training Authority. Sh91.1 billion has been allocated to support University Education while Sh9.6 billion for Higher Education Loans Board (Helb). Rotich further apportioned Sh59.4 billion towards free day secondary education in a bid to sustain the 100 per cent transition policy initiated by the government in January. The CS holds that: "The provision of quality and relevant education and training is critical in equipping Kenyan with skills necessary for industrialisation." "For this reason, the government will focus on improving and expanding technical and vocational education and training institute in order to equip the youth with the relevant skills for the same." Also read: Mobile money transfer charges to go up as Rotich increases duty to 12% Rotich said free Primary Education program will take up Sh13.4 billion while Sh4 billion will be spent on examination fee waiver for all Standard 8 and form four candidates. "Further, Sh2 billion has been allocated for school feeding programs. To increase the teacher-student ratio, Sh5 billion has been set aside for recruitment of additional teachers," the Cabinet Secretary said. CS Rotich also emphasised on the need to further develop capabilities in Science and Technology. "The government has spearheaded major ICT investments including expansion of fibre optics infrastructure across the counties. This has facilitated reliable high speed network and supported e-government services and innovation among businesses." In order to support the ICT sector, Sh11.9 billion has been allocated for the digital literacy program, Rotich added. The Ministry also proposes to exempt VAT on imported computer parts as well as those purchased locally in order to support the government's laptop project. Rotich also mentioned that one of the government's key achievements is modernising education sector, free secondary education, a new curriculum, and upgrading technical institutions. Also read: Inside the Sh3 trillion 2018/19 budget Click here for the latest political news 