Enos Teche Okusi, The Star photographer is among 36 nominees for the finalist for the 2018 Kenya Photography Awards. The awards organized by PAWA254 was founded by photojournalist and activist Boniface Mwangi. Those nominated are under six different categories: News, Daily Life, Sports, Nature, Creative and Portraiture. Teche will be battling out with Daniel Irungu and Thomas Mukoya in the News category. Those nominated for Daily Life are Peter Ndung’u Kamau, Gerald Anderson, Brian Otieno, Patrick Biwott, Gamba Kizito, Nashon Otieno. Read:The Kenya Photography Awards 2016 launched In the sports category, Larry Asego, Abdiwahid Abdikadir Abdiwahid, Kevin Onnoka, Shah Pareet are in the finalist while in nature David Kariuki Njogu, Neha Manoj Shah, Alvi Suhaib, Evans Ogeto, Sushil Chauhan, Ali Tanvir Mohsin, Abdulrahman Mutuma, Mauhoobah Mardhiyya Butt and Boniface Kimani Muthoni will compete for the award. Nominees for Portraiture category include Austin Odunga, Brian Otieno, Richard Allela, while those for creative are Nicholas Zavier, Dan Kiptoo, Stephen Maithya, Alloys Iteba, Phoebe Apondi, Patrick Mwaura K, Curtis Obimbo A, Jared Gichohi, Elie Shikuku O. The 36 were nominated following a rigorous judging process by judges in the photography industry. The Chief Judge this year was Jide Adeniyi Jones from Nigeria who has been in the panel since inception in 2013. According to one of the judges, Georgina, “It is one of my big beliefs that African's stories should be told by Africans, and the Kenya Photo Awards provides a unique platform to celebrate this. As one of the judges of the KPA 2018, I'm pleased to see deeper interest and passion growing in Kenya's photography industry. Let’s support our own. Read:Bankers association to sponsor art competition “It is certainly amazing to see some photographers who take their work seriously and have taken the challenge up and want to see their work acknowledged. Kenya Photography Awards is an opportunity for Kenyan’s to celebrate their work and show their clients that they are exceptional and seek to be better at every chance. We hope that those looking to engage photographers will find them listed here as we appreciate the meeting of skill and talent in the 2018 awards. It is also notable exciting to see some new names that have made the finalists,” noted Njeri Mwangi, PAWA 254. During this year’s edition, judges did not shortlist anyone in the humanitarian/documentary category as no entry passed the litmus test to warrant shortlisting. Click here for the latest political news  