Deputy President William Ruto and former Vice President
Kalonzo Musyoka have reaffirmed their commitment to work together despite their different political affiliations. The two said this as follow up to their truce at the National Prayer Breakfast meeting in May saying "it is for the sake of the
country’s unity". The leaders reiterated the position when they attended an Iftar dinner hosted by Nairobi
Governor Mike Sonko at Charter Hall on Wednesday evening. This was the first meeting since the May 31 'hugshake'. Read: Forgiveness rules the air as Uhuru, Raila lead breakfast prayer meeting "My brother, do not mind what people say, so long we
are clear in our minds that we are doing the right things. Those who want to
talk can talk," Ruto said. The DP said that the politics is over and called on politicians
to embrace competition based on development agenda rather than division and
tribalism. Kalonzo said that he stands for the country’s unity,
but clarified that the handshake does not imply that the opposition had joined
the ruling party. "We are saying that NASA will continue performing
its role as the opposition. If there is corruption, like it is now, we will
rebuke it and call for action," he added. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen, nominated
senator Millicent Omanga, MPs George Aladwa, George Theuri, and former
legislator Ishrad Sumra attended the event. Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice
Elachi and a number MCAs also attended. Sonko promised delivery on is pre-election promises
to the city residents adding that his administration had partnered with the National
Government to transform the city. "In the coming days, you will work being done. Roads
are being repaired and garbage collected," he said. Ruto said the
government has initiated several infrastructural projects in the capital city. "Very soon, we will launch the construction of social-low cost houses to
address the housing shortage. This will be in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s big four agenda." Also read: Ruto apologises to Raila, Kalonzo over 2017 poll insults Click here for the latest political news