If you had $86,400 to use only for today and tomorrow it would be gone, what would you do with it? This is the visualisation exercise that started a session on transition from employment organised by the Association of Media Women In Kenya (Amwik). The facilitator was Mercy Acholla. The 86,400 in reality is the number of seconds in a day. Everyone has the same amount of time each day, but how you use it determines if you live a purposeful life. Mercy, a firm believer in purposeful living, talked about the importance of choosing faith over fear. Many times people stay stuck in dead-end jobs because of fear of failing at business even before they have given it a shot. Mercy urged aspiring business people to create a vision for their life and then stop overthinking and talking to every and anybody about your plans because "some people do not wish the best for you". Another tip is - stop consulting. There are people who seek tonnes of opinions from others and this can be overwhelming and the conflicting messages can make one fail to start the business in the end. The important question is not what do others think, but "what do you think?" To conclude, Mercy said to ever get on with the business of starting a business, one should stop complaining and learn and get on with it. Another speaker - Rachel Keino - said one has to think carefully about why he or she wants to leave employment and not do so out of 'boredom'. Her lesson was on the importance of building networks in employment because they are the ones who come through later on. Rachel also highlighted the importance of being good for the sake of it because good begets good. So do you think you are ready to get into business? Decide where your passion lies, your skill set and where the opportunities lie and go for it. Depending on your affinity for risk, you can start a business while still in employment to test the waters and then transition later or you can plunge in and make your way through. Click here for the latest political news 