The calls for the disbandment of EACC gained momentum on Thursday after Kenyans on Twitter questioned its capacity to recover graft proceeds. This was after the anti-graft agency tweeted information on Machakos' Wakaela secondary school principal who was jailed six years on Wednesday for soliciting a Sh10,000 bribe. EACC stated that Paul Nduve was found guilty of soliciting a bribe from a contractor as a benefit to
release payment for supply of computers and accessories to the school. The post elicited mixed reactions from Kenyans who mostly said they are disappointed with the manner the agency has handled multi-billion corruption cases in the country. Read: Sh134m recovered, 125 cases cancelled after ex-CS Kamau ruling - EACC See: Score card: EACC recovers less than 1% of 'stolen' public cash Blogger Robert Alai said: "How many staff members do you have? How is it that your staff earns millions in salary while you recover Sh10,000, Sh3,000 etc?" "What value do you bring to the economy when you consume more than you deliver?" he asked. He added: "My message is clear. You are rewarding the corrupt. Trees are not corrupt. Personalities are". A twitter user identified as Brenda said: "It's disheartening that an agency that pays,its staff billions is
salaries investigates such trivial matter given the scale at which
corruption is happening in Kenya. Shame!" Kennedy Omogi said: "In a country where billions are lost through [sic] corruption? Do you go to bed contented for nailing Sh10,000 bribe." @KirimiKilymi said: "That's pocket change! Meanwhile 95 billion shillings thieves are
deflecting the commission's short attention with shiny objects made of
stolen gold." @joaonyii said: "Deal with the big fish costing the country billions. Sh10,000 is just pocket
change which shouldn't be put on your twitter page as an achievement." But in response, EACC said: "Theft of public resources is simply that, there's no big fish or small fish in theft. The law must be enforced at equal measure." The agency, after it was asked why it investigates trivial matters given the scale of graft in Kenya, said they should not be blamed for cases that don't result in recoveries of stolen resources. "This should be directed to the courts, our mandate is to INVESTIGATE, then our files are forwarded to the @ODPP_KE and courts adjudicate," EACC said in a tweet. Calls to disband the anti-graft agency and have its roles managed by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are rife. On Monday, Aldai MP Cornelly Serem petitioned the National Assembly seeking for the agency to be disbanded. He argued that the commission can shelve its mandate to the Office of the Director
of Public Prosecution (DPP) and the DCI. Also read: Give EAAC another chance to fight graft Related: DPP to charge four governors, two PSs face arrest over graft Click here for more political news