One trending wedding was that of the famous Tanzanian Seduce me hitmaker Ali Kiba, who got married to Amina Khalef on April 19. The focus here is not the wedding and how the events unfolded but Ali Kiba’s dressing on his big day. The dressing has a lot of meaning to the coastal people, and every man who wants to get married should put on the attire. Just as a coastal bride mostly dresses in green and in white thereafter, a man is expected to be dressed as a ‘sultan’. The word sultan means king, and when the groom is dressed this way, it is a symbol that he is now a king and he has won over his bride. It needs specialty to get a groom ready. The groom, therefore, does not just wake up on his wedding day and dress up on his own. A specialist with the experience to dress the groom is involved. Touring Kisauni area, we meet Hassan Ali, who specialises in creating smiles on these new grooms on their big day by dressing them up. Ali explains the meaning of the dressing one after the other to make a complete sultan. According to him, the groom is to be dressed this way to show he is the conqueror. Just as the bride is supposed to feel as a queen on her big day, the man needs to feel like a king. This dressing will also help in identifying the groom from the rest of the men in the occasion.  HEADGEAR Let’s start from the groom’s head. He is tied a piece of cloth round his head known as ‘kilemba’ in Kiswahili, which needs a lot of expertise for it to look gorgeous. Tying of this kilemba would take several minutes for it to be attractive. “It’s just the same as when a king wears his crown,” Ali said. Moving on to the dress, which runs all the way to the feet, most of them are black or brown in colour, referred to as ‘Joho’. Inside the Joho, you would have to wear other clothes and a kanzu (the white dressing mostly worn by Muslim men) simply because the Joho is usually open. Looking closer, a knife is tied around his waist to symbolise protection. “A king must be set for war. Therefore, having a weapon is a requirement,” Ali said. Toping all this up, the groom must hold a sword, also symbolising self-defence. Now the groom is all set, dressed, handsome and ready to protect his future wife. He gets a facial setting to ensure his dressing goes hand in hand with his dressing.  GROOM-SETTING BUSINESS For Ali, the job of making the groom look gorgeous has seen him sustain his family. He has done the job for three years now, and he is forever grateful. He gets a groom set for Sh3,500-12,000, depending on how the groom wants to be set and where exactly he is from. “I look at the groom’s situation. If he is from a well-off family, then he would pay more, but I consider those grooms who are not so well off and we discuss on a comfortable price,” Ali said. Ali said he encourages his four kids to put education into a lot of consideration, but says education without brains is nothing. Getting educated to him does not mean that it would bring you cash. “I always tell my children not to have a notion of saying that being educated will bring a lot of cash to the table,” he said. “You must have education with brains combined to prosper.”  D-DAY WONDERS Ali is forever grateful to his trainer as he is now self-employed and well loaded with his equipments for setting up the groom. All he needs is a groom dressed in his kanzu and shoes, and he promises to create wonders on his D-day. Ali Mwalimu, who had his wedding this April, said indeed he felt like a king on his big day, and his dressing made him smile all along. “It’s a great feeling because it’s your day and you feel like, yes, I’m officially accepting a life-bound responsibility,” the newly wedded Mwalimu said.