Urban centres are likely to face a shortage of 300,000 housing units by 2020, Treasury CS Henry Rotich has said.  Research from the National Housing Corporation shows that currently Kenya faces a housing deficit of 2 million units while housing demand grows by 250,000 units annually. The supply only grows by 50,000, meaning that the deficit grows by 200,000 units annually.  To reduce this deficit you might soon have to part with Sh5,000 from your monthly salary to help the government fund its affordable housing agenda, according to Rotich.  Second among President Uhuru's Big four plan, the agenda targets to make 500,000 new home owners in the next 5 years.  Rotich proposed in his budget speech last week an amendment of the Employment Act to provide that both an employer and employee shall contributed to the National Housing Development Fund.  An amendment of the act would demand that an employer contributes to the Fund, in respect of each employee’ in his or her employment 0.5 per cent of the employees gross monthly salary subject to a maximum of Sh5000 while the employee will contribute 0.5 per cent of their monthly gross earnings.  If established , the fund would be the third kitty after National Hospital Insurance Fund and National Social Security Fund that would see Salaried Kenyans contribute to on a monthly basis.  The CS said the move to establish the fund is meant to ease responsibilities of the National Housing Corporation which is meant to take up more strategic roles in resource mobilization. The corporation is expected to manage tenant purchase schemes and provide alternative financing strategies for low cost housing and the associated social and physical infrastructure.  Aside from the proposed fund, the government has also established a new company that would help Kenyans own houses at affordable rates.  The Kenya Mortgage Refinance Company, incorporated in April will receive an estimated Sh2 billion from World Bank and shareholders. It is aimed at increasing Mortgage uptake that Kenyans have been shying away from.  According to data by the KNBS 2017, 74.4 per cent of employees in the formal sector earn less than Sh50,000 per month, and thus mortgages are out of reach given the average mortgage size was Sh9.1 million as at 2016 which requires monthly repayments of Sh106,000.  KMRC will offer loans to only civil servants, self employed or salaried persons at a fixed interest rate for a minimum period of time which will be variable if feasible in later years.  The loans will be limited to a minimum of Sh1 million and a Maximum of Sh15 million for a five to 30 years term limit.  