The government will spend Sh250 million in the next financial year to expand water connectivity in Kigumo, Kandara and Gatanga constituencies in Murang’a. Water and Irrigation CS Simon Chelugui said the money will be used to put up pipes. He said the programme is part of a government plan to ensure access to water is increased to more than 90 per cent by 2022. Chelugui said the government is undertaking water projects worth Sh2.6 billion in Murang’a. The Athi Water Services Board will spend another Sh6.4 billion to compensate residents displaced by the construction of the Northern Collector Tunnel, the CS said. The tunnel is expected to increase water supply in Nairobi. Once complete, the projects will connect an estimated 500,000 households in Murang’a. The county has a population of 942,981 according to the 2009 census. “These projects are being done in semi-arid parts of Murang’a and we expect all homes to have water connection by 2022,” Chelugui said on Friday. He said the government has established a national master plan for the expansion of water connectivity countrywide. The plan was developed two years ago with the help of the Japanese government. National water coverage is expected to increase  from the current 60 per cent to 80 per cent by 2020, Chelugui said. “To achieve this, the government is constructing 10 dams to tap and store water,” the CS said. Chelugui spoke during a prizegiving day at St Charles Lwanga Secondary School in Kandara. In Murang’a, the government will construct Maragua Dam in Kigumo constituency while Gatei, Karimenu, Ruiru 2 and Ndarugo dams will be built in Kiambu. Construction of Mwache Dam that will supply water to Mombasa is ongoing, the CS said. Bosto Dam will be built in Bomet to supply water to residents of the county and those in neighbouring Kericho. The Upper Narok dam is also expected to reduce flooding in Narok town while another dam will be built in Isiolo to serve residents of Nanyuki, Isiolo and Merti towns. Three dams – Kithino, Ura and Kianjuri – will be built in Meru. “When all these dams are complete, water coverage will have increased to 80 per cent,” Chelugui said.