President Kenyatta is in acceleration mode to fight graft and he seems a little more committed this time round. The fight was merely lip service in Kenyatta’s first term in office Beyond having high ranking officials listed as implicated in graft —including Cabinet Secretaries whom he asked to step aside — there's little if anything to write home about. No successful prosecution ever took place. The President needs to heighten the war on graft and cast his net wider beyond procurement officers and heads of accounts. The current targetted officers are merely hatchet men and women in the chain of corruption, who act on instructions from superiors in the bureaucratic food chain. To sink his teeth deep into the flesh of corruption, Uhuru must go for the jugular. It's time to courageously go for CSs and PSs. All companies tendering to government and parastatals should be scrutinised to establish who's behind them, how long they've provided services and whether the billing is reasonable. There is need to rethink the functionality of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, which seems to be resting on its laurels. The President should nominate a serious anti-corruption czar. Additionally, the role of police as investigators in graft cases is crucial. All policemen officers who handled corruption cases that were dismissed for want of cogent evidence should be investigated. If they are found culpable, they should face the serrated blade of the law. Police cannot be left out of this equation. The President should have every government ministry investigated as well as all key government offices — including elements within his presidency. If the President lets this campaign slip through his hands this time round, he will never be able to raise his head on the issue of corruption. Let him move swiftly and forcefully and confound friend and foe alike. Let it be his signature effort. Let him move the earth. If anything, dogs always bark at a moving car, not a static one. Declarations of wealth should be institutionalised and scrutinised. The political analyst spoke to the Star   