A requirement for beneficiaries of titles in Nairobi to pay Sh30,000 has sparked a fresh row between City Hall and MCAs. The county government says the money will be used to pay lawyers who prepared the leases. But some ward reps have told their constituents not to pay. It is wrong for lawyers to demand money, they said. Lands executive Charles Kerich told the Star on Friday five law firms processed the leases, and it was agreed that each beneficiary pays a subsidised fee of Sh30,000 for the lawyers. He said the county only waived all survey and rates fees. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nairobi Governor issued 50,000 title deeds to residents at Jacaranda Ground on May 30. “We engaged the services of external lawyers. We have communicated to them [beneficiaries] through the subcounty offices,” Kerich said. “The lawyers are not going to work for free. That is the amount we agreed on. Some MCAs are now telling landowners not to pay, yet they knew about the fees. We held meetings with MCAs and told them the law firms involved.” However, Majority leader Abdi Guyo told them not to pay. He said, “President Uhuru has done his part, we thank him for bringing the titles. But there are some people demanding cash. Don’t pay, those are conmen.” The Matopeni-Spring Valley MCA Abdi spoke during at an event at Kayole North Primary School. His Mihango counterpart Paul Kados backed him. He said some county officials were colluding with lawyers to defraud beneficiaries. Some beneficiaries in the first phase of the programme said lawyers are asking for conveyance fees before issuing the titles. The beneficiaries are mostly in the Eastern parts of Nairobi including land acquired through schemes, land buying companies, the National Social Security Fund and civil servants housing schemes. While issuing the titles, President Uhuru gave the Ministry of Land, the county government and other relevant agencies three months to sort the controversies engulfing the Embakasi Ranching Scheme for members to get title deeds. He said some investors in the city lived in fear because they had put up buildings on land without title deeds. He said time had come for every Kenyan to get his or her right. Land Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney said her ministry targets to upscale the issuance of the titles to Nairobi people to 100,000 by the end of the year. During the first term of President Uhuru’s Administration, the Jubilee Government issued 3.2 million titles.  