The High Court in Mombasa yesterday declined to issue orders stopping the re-painting of residential and commercial buildings in the central business district. Judge Erick Ogola said the court could not grant the order as the petition lacked some facts. He said the people who will be affected, if the re-painting is not stopped, are not mentioned. Ogola directed the petitioner, civil society group Commission for Human Rights and Justice, to file and serve the main petition in 14 days. The lobby sued Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. It wanted the court to bar his executive orders to have all buildings painted white and blue. Under a certificate of urgency, the lobby wanted the court to stay or permanently stop the implementation of the orders. They termed it discriminatory and against the law. In an affidavit filed last week, the civil society group said building owners were not involved in the decision. They said if the order was not challenged, it would affect the building owners and tenants as they would be confined to a uniform colour. The lobby said this will be contrary to some companies that have specific colours for their brands. Through their lawyer Maurice Mkan, the civil society organisation said it was illegal for the county to restrict colours on private property without an explanation. He said the notice is likely to affect the leases and owners and those renting buildings in town. “Unless this court intervenes by staying the notice and or quash it, the proprietors of the buildings stand to loose the use and ownership of the structures,” he said In a notice signed by Transport, infrastructure and Public Works executive Taufiq Balala, all buildings should be painted white andblue – which symbolise the Indian Ocean. The residents were given 30 days to comply with the order failure to which defaulters will face the law. “The buildings should be white with Egyptian blue border on the edges and the windows with no sign written on the wall or canopy,” reads the notice Owners are also required to clean and refurbish their buildings so they are decent, healthy and have proper safety standards. According to the county, pointing the buildings in CBD and Old Town in uniform colour was a way to preserve the culture of Mombasa. It is aimed at attracting tourists and also identify Mombasa as a tourism hub, the county government says.   