The Director of Criminal Investigations is investigating multiple cases of financial malpractice at the Nairobi assembly. Speaker Beatrice Elachi blew the whistle after she discovered numerous cases of double payments of suppliers and “some questionable” projects and goods bought without the approval of the county assembly service board. “Yes, it is true they [DCI officers] have been following up on us. So, it is an active investigation process going on,” Elachi said. The speaker said she wrote to the DCI to probe financial operations after she discovered many cases of financial malpractice, including illegal procurement that was done by the Office of the Clerk. “Everyone will carry their own cross, as the President said. There is a lot of double payment and some issues members raised way back and nobody could answer those questions,” Elachi said in an exclusive interview with the Star yesterday. She specially questioned how the Office of the Clerk spent millions of shillings to build a cafeteria within the precincts of the county assembly without the board’s approval. The County Public Service Board is the decision-making organ of the assembly. It has five members — the speaker, who is the chairperson, Majority leader, Minority leader and a member of the public and the clerk, who is the board’s secretary. “When you walk around the corridor, you find very many new items that were purchased by the taxpayers’ money. “But when you ask about that, you find yourself in conflict all over. People are investing out there and if you listen to those investments, you are shocked that in four years, you can have such investments,” she said. The Star also established clerk Jacob Ngwele will today appear before the county Public Accounts Committee to respond to queries by raised by Auditor General Edward Ouko that the assembly could not account for Sh45 million meant for MCAs’ mortgage. But Ngwele denied any wrong doing and maintained procurement has been above board. He said he was ready to appear before the investigative agencies to respond to the queries. Elachi said DCI officers are also investigating Ngwele over abuse of office claims. He was seconded to the county assembly from the National Assembly in 2013. According to a letter by clerk of the National Assembly Jeremiah Nyengenye, Ngwele resigned from Parliament in August last year, but continued to serve as the county assembly clerk without being appointed by the board and approved by the assembly as required in law. 