Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja will do everything possible to shield Governor Mike Sonko from "rumoured" plans for his impeachment over poor performance. Sakaja said this on Sunday but asked the Governor to settle down and fulfill his promises to residents. There have been reports that civil societies are planning to petition the county assembly to impeach Sonko. Sakaja termed the move blackmail aimed at derailing the Governor's agenda and said it will fall flat in the Senate should it be passed by the assembly. "There are some people who want to derail the plans of the Governor to transform Nairobi but the impeachment will not go anywhere. I will ensure it dies immediately it reaches the Senate," he said at AIC Lang'ata. "The people of Nairobi want services. They want good roads, clean estates and clean water." The Senator told Sonko to focus on his mandate, expose cartels derailing his plans and ensure that the billions of shillings City Hall collects every month translate to proper services. "Expose the corrupt ... we are going to support you on this. Do not shield them. We don't want Ndakaini Dam to [be empty] while other dams overflow and then see bowsers hovering everywhere selling water." Sonko has been criticised severely for not making changes in the city despite promising to do so during campaigns ahead of the election in August 2017. He says cartels have held the city hostage, denying residents the services they need. The county boss says these groups have grabbed land and defrauded residents and the county in other ways. He also says he has sealed loopholes in revenue collection but could still use the help of NRMKe General and lawyer Miguna Miguna, whom he wants to be Deputy Governor. On May 20, Sakaja said it was too early to judge Sonko. But he rejected his choice of Miguna terming it a joke and adding that "support doesn’t mean agreeing with everything or not having an opinion". At that time, Jubilee Party MCAs denied claims that they were plotting to impeach the county chief but noted they did not want Miguna as DG. More on this: Plans to impeach Sonko will fail, says Sakaja Also read: Uhuru our only spokesman, no plan to impeach Sonko - MCAs In his address before Sakaja's, area MP Nixon Korir asked Sonko to stay focused despite the impeachment threats. "We need to support the Governor. We will not achieve anything as a people by fighting the Governor. We need to support him to deliver. We all need water, a clean environment and safety, irrespective of our tribes and political affiliations." IG Joseph Boinnet and Baringo North MP William Cheptumo also attended the service. More on Governor: 'Clean E in maths did not stop me': Sonko motivates KCSE candidates Click here for the latest political news