Fireworks are expected today as the national athletics championships-cum-trials start at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The women’s 10,000m race will be the highlight of the day where the top two finishers will book their tickets to the Africa Senior Athletics Championships in Asaba, Nigeria in August. The third athlete will be handpicked by an Athletics Kenya selection panel. Reigning Africa 10,000m champion Alice Aprot faces a competitive field in the 25-lap race which promises thrills and spills. Aprot who failed to finish in her speciality at the Commonwealth Games in Australia will be seeking to find her form in today’s race. Aprot competed at last week’s Kenya Prisons championships in the 5000m where she was beaten to second by Lilian Kasait. Visiline Jepkesho, also of Prisons, will also be another one to look out for in the race. Kenya Defence Force’s world half marathon record holder, Joycline Jepkosgei will also be in the mix representing alongside teammates Pauline Korkwiang and Gladys Koech in a formidable lineup. Jepkosgei, a serial winner on tarmac is aiming to be part of the team to the Asaba championships and looking to win a continental track medal. Commonwealth games 10,000 silver medallist Stacy Ndiwa will also be one to watch in the race as she seeks to make her mark on the Africa continent . Athletes from the Kenya under 20 team picked last week are expected to compete in the three-day championships. Athletics Kenya will be seeking to pick between 60 and 70 athletes for the Africa championships and competition across the events is expected to be fierce according to AK president Jack Tuwei. “We are expecting a competitive selection process from what we saw during the Defence Forces, Prisons and National Police Service championships. We expect to see a very competitive races which will allow us to pick the best to do battle for the country in Nigeria,” said Tuwei. Tuwei added that Kenya can bag more medals in the Africa championships than they did during the previous edition, where they got eight gold, eight silver and eight bronze medals in Durban, South Africa. “We will put a lot of emphasis on the sprints and field events and hope that we win medals in events where we rarely do,” added Tuwei.