The huge crowd that had gathered at Jacaranda Grounds erupted in cheers when President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the Ministry of Lands and City Hall to issue titles to all members of the troubled Embakasi Ranching Company in three months. The cheers painted a picture of a group that has suffered for many years in search of the crucial land ownership documents. Many people have been duped and lost millions of shillings, others have been injured and others lost their lives because of tussles over land ownership in the expansive and populous Eastlands area. The President on Wednesday launched Nairobi titling programme that will mark the end of the perennial disputes over land. He issued the first batch of 50,000 titles under the programme. “Nairobi has been riddled with wars over land ownership between individuals and land companies. People have been evicted, others injures while others have lost their lives,” Uhuru said. The programme targets landowners in Tassia, Kariobangi, Dandora, Ruai, Njiru, Embakasi, Nyayo and Hazina. There has been several complains of multiple land allocations by land buying companies, swapping and encroaching of public spaces by members and those who bought land through them. The complaints range from multiple allocations, swapping and encroachment of public spaces, thus making residents quite not sure whether the plots they own or claim ownership, genuinely belong to them. The President said, with the issuance of 50,000 titles, the residents’ economic potential was unlocked by Sh20 billion as they can now use the titles as collateral for loans. Uhuru into the troubled Embakasi Ranching Company and ordered Lands CS Faridah Karoney and the Nairobi County government to ensure all the shareholders and those who bought land through it get titles. The ranch has been held hostage by land cartels, which include influential and finically endowed politicians, have been evicting genuine land owners and allocating the parcels to tycoons. People have been killed, injured because of multiple allocations. The ranch was established in 1975 with 13, 495 shareholders who were mainly from Kiambu and Murang’a. But many of them have since died. The company was to wound up in February, but the government maintained that all shareholders and through who acquired land through it, must get their titles. Speaking at the event, Lands CS Karoney urged all landowners without titles to submit allotment letters for processing of the titles. She reiterated that she target to process another 50,000 titles by December. Governor Mike Sonko said the titles processing fees has been scrapped and urged the residents to take advantage of the drive. 