The Ministry of Health is on the spot once again after it emerged yesterday that Sh7 billion might have been lost in the procurement of CT scanners. The National Assembly Public Accounts Committee was shocked after the Ministry of Health officials told them they issued a fresh tender for the buying of 37 CT scanners at Sh8.4 billion. They had already been budgeted for in the acquisition of Medical Equipment Services (MES) for Sh4 billion. The watchdog committee is chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi. Health Principal Secretary Peter Tum said 89 mobile clinics that were bought for Sh1 billion are lying idle three years after they were delivered by Estama Investment Limited. They were to distributed in Mombasa, Kisumu and Nairobi counties. Related : New audit confirms Sh5 billion Afya House scandal Tum, who appeared before the panel at Parliament Buildings, admitted the scans were supposed to be part of the MES equipment. “The CT scans are part of the family of imaging machines and a CT scanner should be one of them,” he told furious MPs. They were bought in a government to government transaction between Kenya and China, the newly appointed PS said. Tum said Kenya was required to pay Sh1.7 billion and China the balance. “So far we have bought 37 CT scanners for Sh8.4 billion. This was an agreement between governments. Installation of the scanners is ongoing. Kenyatta National Hospital and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital are beneficiaries of the equipment,” he said. Wandayi demanded to know why the CT scans were omitted yet they were part of the imaging machines deal that included theatre, laboratory, renal, ICU and radiology equipment. He wondered how the government lost billions of shillings in the deal. Wandayi said some individuals in the ministry planned and orchestrated the whole issue to mint money. “The reason why they were excluded was to create opportunity for a rip off,” he said. Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and his Mavoko counterpart Patrick Makau said the officials involved in the mess should be investigated. Simiyu wanted to know why the ministry paid for the MES and scans. He also sought a clarification on why the ministry opted to buy the equipment instead of leasing, which was a cheaper option. The committee concluded that Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich and former Health CS Cleopa Mailu appear before it to respond to the questions raised. Also read : Kenyans outraged over Uhuru kin links to Sh5 billion 'Mafia House' scandal Click here for the latest political news