When Donald Trump became President against all odds, one thing was very clear, even among some of his ardent supporters: He was an unwelcome outsider and one with a number of challenges ahead of him. Few believed his first two years in office would be marked and remembered for this man’s in-you-face, bold lies and other unbelievable deviant pronouncements he effortlessly says or posts on Twitter on a daily and sometimes on an hourly basis. Trump has endlessly lied and said shocking things with total abandon. He has normalised what, before his presidency, was universally unacceptable conduct or conduct unbecoming of a President. In other words, would there be consequences for such lying as in the past? To be sure, all politicians lie and therefore by definition, all presidents lie. What’s different in Trump’s lying is not only that is it unparalleled in its frequency and shamelessness, but also substantively, the lying eviscerates any significance given to truth and facts, the very bedrock of meaningful discourse be that intellectual, personal, political or otherwise. Again, the pregnant question is whether America has reached a new low in political discourse, where truth and fact don’t matter, thanks to Trump’s conduct. One certainly hopes not. Like Trump’s unprecedented lying and divisive politics, corruption in Kenya, too, has reached new economically devastating heights, which also now appear to be a new norm. A few greedy men and less so women are grabbing and stealing at an unfathomable rate to the point of numbing people. We’re almost resigned, there’s nothing that can be done and that this might as well be accepted as the new norm. What’s even more pathetic, is having some characters in social media questioning those saying the looting at the NYS is in billions of shillings instead of in the hundreds of millions of shillings — as if the latter is excusable. More shocking is that these characters see no evil in this looting because it’s perpetuated by one of their own, who ironically doesn’t share even a penny with them. Yet, they are there shamelessly trying to find fault in those raising the alarm about the alarming theft. What President Uhuru Kenyatta needs to do is not to give another speech about how he can’t do anything about this runaway corruption or call for the arrest of the culprits and their underlings, only to have their cases drag on for years and decades. He ought to put to task law enforcement agencies and make sure the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes law is fully enforced without all the usual shenanigans and the corrupt circumvention of the law, which renders it useless. He should use the NYS suspects as an example for if they have, in fact, stolen as accused, let them face the music to the full extent of this law. That’s the only way the President can show he and the country have had enough of this reckless and merciless theft that’s is crippling the country and denying ordinary citizens services. Anything less the President does or doesn’t do shall be a judgement of his legacy, besides leaving the country worse off than he found it. The choice is yours, Mr President.