I am not happy with the latest remarks by Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are not together and don't agree on ideologies. My take is that Murkomen wants to break Jubilee. I'm confident he wants to create hatred between us [Kalenjins] and other communities. Jubilee’s top leadership asked us to bring Kenyans together after the handshake. But when Murkomen goes around saying Uhuru never consulted Ruto [over] the handshake, it is wrong. Ruto has never protested that Uhuru never consulted him. Murkomen's remarks indicate he wants to divide Kenyans. If this is his way of looking for Ruto's votes, it is bad. The DP doesn’t need a politician dividing Kenyans; he wants people to unite Kenyans, set an agenda and build the country. Kenyans know the DP holds Kenyans' interests at heart. They know he built his career himself, they know his kind of politics. Politicians supporting Ruto should be careful what they say. A number of them are killing Ruto’s career, chasing away potential voters. As of today, no politician is more powerful than Ruto. Only Ruto has declared his 2022 bid. Yet some politicians are attacking Uhuru and Raila as if they are candidates. If we continue this way, we will be isolated by other Kenyans. Anyone opposing Uhuru’s lifestyle audit loves corruption. Ruto has declared he will be the first to take it. Who are you to oppose? We are talking with leaders countrywide to ensure Ruto wins State House. If we continue fighting, disagreeing and making reckless remarks we will not realise our 2022 agenda. I urge Murkomen to understand the journey is long. We struggled to bring Ruto and Uhuru together. Many suffered. We have recovered but still live in fear. Murkomen and his people should not destroy what we have struggled to build with toil and sweat. They are are already creating hatred. Ruto's supporters should support the handshake first so Raila can endorse us. Excerpts from Cherangany MP's comments in Parliament, edited by the Star. Click here for the latest political news