Deputy President Wiliam Ruto has said he is ready for a lifestyle audit. Speaking at the 43rd Kenya Secondary School Heads Association conference in Mombasa yesterday, Ruto said the audit should not be selective. He said all public servants must submit themselves for the audit when "the time comes." “William Ruto will be among the first to submit himself for that exercise,” Ruto said. President Uhuru Kenyatta last week ordered all public servants to undergo a lifestyle audit, saying as "worker number one", I will lead the exercise followed by Ruto. Read : Uhuru orders lifestyle audit of state officers, says will take lead, Ruto to follow He said Cabinet Secretaries and governors will be audit before other public servants at both national and county governments undergo the exercise. Ruto said he was not scared of the audit but accused the media of bias. “I can see the media already has done some work on me. I did expect that the next day it will be somebody else but it looks like it stopped at me,” Ruto said. “I thought the lifestyle audit was meant for everybody." Opposition leader Raila Odinga on Sunday dared politicians "loitering around the country dishing out cash" to subject themselves for a lifestyle audit. Raila's statement was aimed at Ruto who has recently been associated with kutangatanga [loitering]. The phrase gained popularity on May 30 when Uhuru publicly accused Ruto of loitering across the country in weekends politicking. In a surprise barb, Uhuru said Kenyans should tell Ruto their problems when he is travelling around. “This young man called Ruto, you know, loiters aimlessly everywhere. He will be passing through these alleys, if you see something wrong happening, tell him," Uhuru said. See this : [VIDEO] Lifestyle audit should include Jomo Kenyatta, MP Sudi tells Uhuru Raila accused Ruto of dishing cash he could not account for. "We know your salary. Don't ask for a lifestyle audit. We know the thieves," Raila said. Ruto yesterday said the audit will put the record straight "because I've nothing to hide." “Hopefully, it will help us put to rest what goes on in the rumour mills and half truths and many of those things that are out there,” said Ruto. Click here for the latest political news