Police in Machakos yesterday impounded 12,400 bags of sugar at Primarosa Flowers in Athi River. County commissioner Matilda Sakwa said security agencies seized the bags on Sunday after a tip-off from a member of the public, who informed DCI office in Athi River that there was sugar in the company. The operation was led by Sakwa, Machakos county commander Samuel Mukindia, DCIO Jonah Kirui, and the Kenya Bureau of Standards, the Anti-Counterfeit Agency and the Kenya Revenue Authority officials. “As the county security team, we decided to come and verify if indeed there was sugar here,” Sakwa said. She said it was suspicious the company was keeping the sugar in its stores, while it is known for dealing in flowers for export. Sakwa said the sugar was imported from Brazil. She said police had sealed off the stores as officers from Kebs, KRA and Anti-Counterfeit Agency conduct their inspections to find out if the sugar is fit for human consumption and legally imported. “Kebs is already verifying if the sugar is safe for human consumption, what is interesting is that sugar is kept here, a place for flower business. The place will be cordoned off,” she said. Sakwa said the government multi-agencies will also find out if the firm’s stores are good for sugar storage. On Friday, Gladys Mugambi, head nutritionist in the Health ministry said a tiny amount of copper is essential. “Even if somebody takes five spoons of sugar [containing some copper] per day and is already consuming copper from other sources such as meat, we are unlikely to go beyond 10mg per day,” Mugambi said. She spoke to the Star as thousands of tonnes of sugar were being seized around the country, much of it contraband. Some of it reported to be contaminated with high levels of copper and lead. Dr Richard Oduor, a senior lecturer in biochemistry and biotechnology at Kenyatta University, also said a small amount of copper in food is essential. Long-term consumption of high levels poses health risks. On Thursday, Kebs managing director Charles Ongwae told the National Assembly Committee on Trade and Industry that lab tests on some impounded sugar contained high amounts of copper, 20.7 per cent milligrams per kilogramme, against the recommended two milligrams per kg of sugar. Click here for the latest political news