Zoo Kericho’s quest to avoid relegation got a slight boost yesterday as they picked a crucial point in a goalless draw at home to AFC Leopards. Zoo went into the match at the Kericho Green Stadium just hovering above the drop zone and needed a win to calm the jitters that have enveloped them for the better part of the campaign. It was always, however, going to be a big task for Sammy Okoth’s charges to take all three points against a resurgent Ingwe who had Ezekiel Odera back in the starting line-up ahead of Whyvonne Isuza. In the end nothing gave way and the spoils were evenly shared. Zoo now move up to 13th on the table with 21 points from 20 matches, two above the relegation zone. Leopards on the other hand have 31 points from nineteen outings and are still in the top five though way out the title race currently controlled by their fiercest rivals Gor Mahia who have 46 points. Meanwhile, Mathare United new goalkeeper David Okello has set his sights on mentoring the next generation of shot stoppers at the club as he heads to the twilight of his career. Okello, who won a league and Cup double with Tusker in 2016, put pen to paper on a one and a half year deal that will keep him at the club until September 2019 and the 31 year-old joins a department that has 19 year old Emmanuel Otieno, who was recently signed from Nairobi City Stars, and academy graduate Job Ochieng’. “A lot is expected of me being the senior but they are young talented keepers who are ready to learn. Leading such a group is easy because they are hungry for success,” he added in cognizance of the role awaiting him. Okello revealed that he is settling in well with having familiar faces within the squad a big factor. “It feels great to be back at home. The environment is familiar because I have played with some players here and also the system is one that I am used to,” said Okello after a positive reception from the first team. Despite league leaders Gor Mahia 10-points advantage over the Slum Boys, Okello believes the title is still within sight. “It is possible. We just need to get our winning touch and push them as much as we can. You cannot rule out our chances with more than 10 matches to go,” asserted the Kenyan international. Okello’s first match is likely to be Saturday’s clash away to Bandari.