Health PS Peter Tum yesterday said the ministry did not clear its pending bills because it did not receive all the cash from the Treasury. He was quizzed over Sh4.7 billion pending bills in the ministry. Tum appeared before the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee. The bills had accrued in 2014-15 as highlighted in a report by Auditor General Edward Ouko.  budget deficit The committee chaired by Ugunja legislator Opiyo Wandayi heard that the ministry had a deficit of Sh77.9 million during that financial year. Tum said the total budget for the ministry was Sh42 billion — Sh17.4 billion for development and Sh25.3 billion for recurrent expenditure. “If the ministry would have received the full allocation for the recurrent and development votes, a surplus of Sh8.7 billion would have been realised to enable the ministry to pay all pending bills,” he said. Wandayi said the committee would probe pending bills in all ministries. “We are witnessing many cases of pending bills in many government agencies. As a committee, we will look into this matter because it is becoming serious,” he said. The Ouko report had confirmed most details of the 2016 infamous Sh5 billion Afya House scandal. It put Health ministry on the spot for paying Sh800 million for the purchase of 100 portable clinics before they were installed, commissioned and handed over. The auditor described the move as “a flagrant violation of the contractual agreement”. “Information available indicates the containers were stored in government premises in Mombasa, despite the fact that ownership has not passed to the government,” he said. “Consequently, it has not been possible to determine whether the government obtained value for money for the expenditure of Sh800 million.”  contract extension Tum was taken to task by the committee to explain why the ministry revised a contract for upgrading Othaya Subcounty Hospital from Sh436.3 million to Sh501.7 million. The auditor had observed that the completion period was also extended from 85 weeks to 123 weeks. The report shows that as at February 21, 2014, 192 weeks had elapsed, yet the project had not been completed. The hospital is still incomplete. Tum said the State Department of Public Works was responsible for the entire scope of work at the facility.  