Last week I talked about how
I was thinking about getting more engaged in social media, but when I looked
into it, I stumbled across information that I found unsettling. The information
I’m referring to is research conducted indicating that what you post on social
media, and how often you post it, may be revealing much more about your personality
and self image than you realise.  In that last article I mostly
covered the messages you post and what they say about you, on the inside. Just
as I was about to get started on the good stuff; what your photos tell us about
how you tick, I ran out of writing space.  So, as promised, this week we
look at what some of the photos you upload on social media may be saying
(according to research) about your psychology, without you even knowing
it.   Sexy selfies like you in a
dress emphasising your curvy body, bikini shots, and even the salacious duck
face says to the world, ‘I’m a liberated, ready-to-experiment
woman.’ The underlying message being, I am available. Nothing wrong with being
available, the problem is you probably don’t mean you’re available to every
Tom, Dick, Harry and their respective male cousins who will be sharing and staring
at your sexy selfies, not wondering where you bought that dress.  Couple photos are apparently a demonstration
of your relationship, and that you perceive it as strong and
long term. It’s a way to tell the world: "I’m
not alone, I’m loved, I’m needed and appreciated." So the researchers
wondered, why do you need to tell the whole world? Is it perhaps a hidden
desire to prove something to your ex, or to show off to your single friends? Their
conclusion; couple shots, lots of them on social media, may be an indicator
that you’re insecure about the relationship.  How
about group photos, what’s their story? Well, if the majority of the pictures
in your account are photos of parties or group shots showing how
much fun you’re having with your friends, it can indicate an inner emptiness and
loneliness. It can also be you telling everyone, ‘I was
chosen to be part of this group, my vanity is flattered.”  Children photos are an indicator of one of two
things. If it’s your childhood photo you’ve put up, especially as a profile
picture, it indicates you’re tired of the responsibilities of adult life, and
subconsciously, you wish you were still a kid. Pictures of your children on the
other hand, or photos together with them, is a way of saying, ‘I’m a parent,
and it’s a great achievement in my life’  Glamour look photos, photos with expensive cars and
luxury goods in the background, and photos of exquisite food from expensive
restaurants is an attempt at self-affirmation
and social self-promotion. You’re telling the world about your success (often
imaginary), so as to project a certain social status.  We all have some personality glitch or self-esteem
issue, no one is perfect. But, and this could just be me, I’d rather show you
my flaws, my faults, and my pluses while looking you in the eye. That way, I
get to see yours as well.       