Fires have become synonymous with Gikomba market following several incidents over the years. The market is the heart of informal trade, with merchandise ranging from second hand clothes to groceries. It is a favourite because the prices are low. The fires leave deep scars - at least 15 people died while more than 60 were injured in the latest incident in the wee hours on Thursday morning. As the public grappled with the intricacies of the tragedy, leaders led by President Uhuru Kenyatta demanded and end to the fires with proper investigations and measures by disaster management teams. More on this: 15 dead, 60 injured in Gikomba market fire Also read: Gikomba fires must end, Uhuru says in condolence message  Rescue workers load the body of a man in a police truck at the smouldering scene of fire that gutted down the timber dealership of the Gikomba market and nearby homes in central Nairobi, June 28, 2018. /REUTERS Fires at the market spreads quickly because of makeshift structures that are very close to each other. Today's fire swept through the market and nearby homes catching people unawares and damaging property worth millions of shillings. Trapped in the early morning smoke, many of the worried residents escaped while others could not move due to intense suffocation. Regional Coordinator William Thuku told the press that the fire broke out in a timber yard making it easier to spread through the structures of the market. Also read: Gikomba fire: Inhaling poisonous smoke caused deaths - police MORE TO FIRES THAN MEETS THE EYE? Several fires have destroyed the market in the past so there has been speculation, some saying the incidents are motivated by business rivalries. On June 25, 2015, a mystery dawn fire swept through the market and destroyed goods worth hundreds of millions of shillings. On September 10, 2017, a fire started at around 7am and witnesses suspected it may have resulted from an electric fault. On October 6, 2017, a fire began at 3am, barely a month after the previous case. Investigations were not conclusive. Land ownership has formed part of the speculation about Gikomba market. In 2015, residents claimed that original landowners in Majengo, Gorofani and Gikomba were being evicted by people who had allegedly been irregularly allocated title deeds by Nairobi. Gorofani residents' chairman Mwalimu Sood Ahmed Mohamed gave their report to the NLC Task Force on Historical Land Injustices at Kariokor Social Hall. More on this: City council blamed for Gikomba land grab These reports beg the question; is the government doing enough to investigate the fires or is there something that the country is not being told?  Riot police secure the smouldering scene of fire that gutted down the timber dealership of the Gikomba market and nearby homes in central Nairobi, June 28, 2018./ REUTERS "MONKEY BUSINESS" Kenyans took to social media with their views after the Thursday morning case. Via Twitter, one Nyenjeri said the government should sort out the menace or quit. Pinchez Peetah was of the view that greed for land is the cause of the fires in Gikomba. "Taking poor people's lives in the process is just sinister," Peetah said. Newton spoke of the "annual Gikomba fire festival" while Frank Phaebyan said: "There is someone behind this fire in Gikomba. Stop playing monkey business with people's properties worth millions and their lives." Miss Macahria added: "Why aren't the culprits brought to book since this isn't the first case? Secondly, how prepared are we as a county for calamities such as fires since most of the time fire fighters arrive too late?"  The scene of fire that gutted down the timber dealership of Gikomba market and nearby homes in central Nairobi, June 28, 2018. /REUTERS Bravin said someone must want to grab the land the market sits on while Gachango wrote: "The sad thing about all these Gikomba market fires is that someone is behind them." Kamanja Junior said the fires won't end unless the people are terrified enough to leave. "That's all cartels hope for. RIP innocent souls," he said. Matagaro Omae wrote: "Wasn't there another fire in Gikomba towards the end of last year, and another one before that, and another one? Who's to blame? The people, the authorities or the fire itself?" Ruth Kerubo said: "Gikomba isn't just about fire... Investigations should be done thoroughly. Innocent Kenyans can't keep losing their hustle to fires." DjDabo Trabo said: "In Gikomba it's just not about the fire. Dig deep ... it's about the cartels ... they are ready to kill in order to acquire what they want. It's not a coincidence anymore. Poor people versus rich people." One Mwaura said that "just life sugar firms, someone is overseeing the destruction of small businesses at Gikomba. This market supports millions of families in Kenya." Click here for the latest political news