The Garissa county government will build a Sh200 million cancer treatment centre this year. The facility will also serve neighboring areas where many people are suffering from various kinds of cancers. Many of the cases are throat cancers related to air pollution from dumpsites. The cash has been allocated in the Sh10 billion budget passed on Thursday. On Thursday, Finance executive Roble Nuno said they will prioritise health services in the next four years. “Health is a critical docket. The county has heavily invested in areas such as staff recruitment. The payroll has increased from Sh600 million in 2013-14 to more than Sh1.6 billion in 2018-19,” he said in the county assembly. “A healthy population positively impacts on the socioeconomic well-being of our county. That’s why the health of our people is top on our list of priorities.” On Friday, MCAs unanimously passed the budget. They praised the executive committee for targeting areas that directly benefit the poor. Health priorities include hiring adequate staff, developing sufficient infrastructure and developing a medical supply chain management system. The Health docket plans to establish training centres, develop systems to tackle communicable and noncommunicable diseases, and put in place efficient and responsive patient referral systems. poverty eradication As part of its long-term projects, Garissa will turn Garissa Level 5 Hospital into a regional referral hospital and research centre. Nuno said the budget reflects the need to stimulate economic growth, create jobs and improve infrastructure. “The budget is geared towards alleviating poverty, and improving literacy, health services, food security and the livelihoods of the poor and vulnerable members of our society,” he said. Some Sh644 million projects tendered in the 2017-18 financial year will be completed. They were delayed by time constraints, the county minister said. The county has provided Sh80 million for bursaries, up from Sh50 million this year, to ensure many young people do not drop out of school or college because they lack tuition fees. Nuno said more students from poor families have registered for courses in universities and colleges and they must be helped to complete their studies. The county government plans to raise Sh250 million revenue. It will emphasise collection of land rates. Nuno said they aim to register more than 20,000 parcels to raise Sh80 million. Other sectors to benefit from the budget include skills training for school dropouts. The county intends to build youth service centres to train the youth so they can be absorbed in the job market. Only people with the right skills get employed in various sectors, the executive said. “We’ve set aside Sh100 million and Sh45 million for vocational institutions to address high unemployment and poverty in Garissa,” he said. korane care Governor Ali Korane recently launched the Youth and Women Enterprise Fund, which was allocated Sh100 million in 2017-18 budget. Another Sh50 million has been for the coming year. The county has also come up with an ambitious programme called Korane Care. This will provide free medical cover to 7,000 households through the National Hospital Insurance Fund. The medical scheme will help the neediest people access quality services at accredited health facilities. Nuno said they will continue driving innovation and excellence by mobilising and allocating resources to foster sound economic and financial management.      