Kenya Consumer Organisation has threatened a class action suit against the government over alleged substandard sugar in the market. The coalition of consumer bodies said this during a joint press conference today in Nairobi, accusing Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs), Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), Ministry of Trade and Health for negligence in their regulatory duties. ‘’We are collecting views and complaints from consumers before mounting a strong case against the government that has failed to protect its citizens. We are also considering a nationwide boycott and protests to force the government to take action against perpetrators of this vice,’’ said Daniel Asher, who read the joint statement. ‘’We are distressed with the unabated occurrence of food contaminations in the country putting to risk the lives of millions of innocent Kenyans. Unfortunately, this is not only against the constitution but also UN guidelines that guarantee every citizen the right to good services of reasonable quality,’’ read the statement. Read: 1,350 bags of contraband sugar nabbed in Nakuru Also read: Contraband sugar seized from Eastleigh contained mercury His sentiments were echoed by Joseph Ogutu, chief executive Consumer Downtown Association and Samuel Ochieng of Consumer Information Network who questioned the efficiency of regulators to protect the welfare of consumers in the country. ‘’We remain concerned whether Kebs, Kephis, Anti Counterfeit Agency and other regulatory institutions are effective enough to live up to their mandate in the wake of the unprecedented influx of unsafe consumer goods in the marketplace’’. They gave the government less than a week to come clear on the state of food security in the country, lest it face the wrath of disgruntled consumers in the country. They issued a raft of six demands to the government, wanting it to ensure transparent validation process to ascertain the authenticity and accuracy of a certificate of conformity as released from the county of origin. They also want the implementation of Kenya National Food Safety Policy fast-tracked and operationalization of Kenya consumer protection agency. Read: Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Click here for the latest political news