Four companies in western Kenya are under investigations
after police found 130,000 bags of suspected contraband sugar at the weekend. A manager of one of the sugar milling factories was arrested
and is expected before either a Webuye or Kakamega court today. The senior factory manager will face charges of among other
things improper storage of goods. Officers from the Flying squad unit under the command of
Musa Yego raided three go downs in the region and recovered the 130,000 bags of
sugar. The sugar, which is suspected to have been imported from Brazil,
was being repackaged into paper bags similar to those used to package locally manufactured
sugar. The repackaged sugar
is then released into the market with labels as those of locally manufactured sugar. Yego declined to comment on the latest burst by the police
when reached for a comment yesterday. Sources within the Western region police command said some
sugar barons in the region had imported close to 340,100 bags of sugar and
that the search for the unrecovered bags had been spread across western Kenya. The recovered sugar includes bags of raw sugar (from Brazil)
and others from Sugar millers in Western Kenya, the sources said. The investigators said samples of sugar had been submitted
to the Government lab for testing and analysis after past cases of harmful chemicals
were reported by the Government lab. “What we see here is a case of unscrupulous traders bringing
in sugar from Brazil and repackaging it to look like locally manufactured sugar
“said a senior officer in Western Kenya. “We are also looking for a director of one of the companies
linked to the importation of sugar from Bbrazil “said the senior officer. The Directorate of Criminal investigations has stepped up
the hunt for Sugar imported from Brazil and which is said to have found its way
into the local market. Tonnes of the contraband
sugar have been recovered from several go-downs spread across the country including
Nairobi, Ruiru , Western Kenya and Kitui. Last week , Interior CS Fred Matiangi visited DCI
headquarters, Kiambu road where he inspected close to 50,000 tones of sugar
found in a godown in Ruiru. 1,000
bags of 50 kilogram’s of contraband sugar was y recovered from a godown in
Ruiru. The sugar was recovered by
officers from Parklands DCI who raided the warehouse on the Eastern-bypass. A prominent Kirinyaga businessman
said to be the owner of the warehouse was arrested. The recovery comes barely a
week after the same team recovered 1,500 bags of sugar said to be unfit for
human consumption. The previous recovery happened in
Eastleigh, Nairobi. The operation was headed by Parklands DCI boss David
Chebii. He has been coordinating operations against contraband goods. Investigators have since expanded
the probe on the illicit sugar to a warehouses in Mombasa where unscrupulous
traders are believed to have stored the sonsignment.     