Nairobi is among the top 10 major urban Foreign Direct Investment destinations in Africa but risks losing its position to Kigali, a new United Nations report shows. The State of African Cities 2018 report unveiled in Nairobi on Thursday by UN Habitat ranks the Kenyan capital at position eight in Africa and 146 globally, an improvement of 25.01 per cent since 2003. The decade long survey shows that Nairobi attracted $5.9 billion (Sh600 billion) of FDI between 2003 and 2016, posting the second fastest growth in the continent after Accra and Ivory Coast which recorded growth of 34.7 and 25.4 per cent respectively. Nairobi’s growth is attributed to improved technology, retail market and infrastructure FDI mostly from China. The Kenyan city is lagging behind in manufacturing FDI compared to Cairo, Johannesburg, Tangier, Lagos and Casablanca who are leading overall FDI destinations in Africa in that order. Key factors driving foreign investors to Nairobi and other cities in Africa include domestic market growth, proximity to market, skilled workforce and infrastructure and logistics. According to the report, 52.2 per cent of investors are attracted to African cities due to their domestic market growth potential while proximity to market accounts for 31.1 per cent of their investment motives. Although Kigali is ranked position 27 in the continent after Uganda’s Kampala, the report shows the Rwandan city is key competitor to Nairobi, benefiting from civil strife in Central Africa and democratic volatility in East Africa. "In recent years, Kigali has emerged as a new investment gateway for Central Africa and offers perspective to this FDI underprivileged region. It is the likely beneficiary of shakeups in Nairobi due to its high ease of doing business,’’ UN Habitat report said. The report has challenged African states to improve on market accessibility- including air, land and sea links as well as urban mobility , large market access, connectivity, energy supply and public service in order to benefit from high value manufacturing FDI. It further warns the continent against dependency on with limited value addition such as resource extraction which can exacerbate inequality. Despite Africa being home to 15 per cent of the global population; it only attracts five per cent of global FDI. The report shows that cities account for 70 per cent of global GDP. Nairobi is at position four in the continent after Johannesburg, Lagos and Cairo in terms of regional FDI for other countries in Africa.