When we ask ourselves whether the National Lands Commission has done or is doing enough in recovering grabbed public land, the answer is a big no. In my view, NLC has not done enough. In the process of doing the little they have done, they have been accused of bribery and corruption, some of which have been investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Some of the cases being probed could be subject of the of lifestyle audits of certain individuals who have suddenly landed on money courtesy of public land. In mega infrastructural projects such as Standard Gauge Railway, major roads and bypasses and the LAPSSET, we have heard complaints that the processes have not been transparent. There are reports that allege that the senior officers at NLC have taken bribes. We have had situations where people are compensated yet they do not deserve payment. The commission, at times, has been blamed for refusing to issue compensation to occupiers in good faith. They are also subjects of compensation just like any land owner as is enshrined in the Constitution. We have heard stories, for instance at the LAPSSET corridor project, where occupiers of good faith have been ignored and money pocketed by unscrupulous individuals. Perhaps if we investigate the lifestyle of the commissioners and their agents, you might find they are living large, far beyond their means. When one of the officials in charge of land valuation is found with millions in their home, what does that tell you as a Kenyan? Are we engaging in money laundering or are people trading with public land? If you want to know whether NLC has done enough, look at the position of the commission on the day the 2010 Constitution was promulgated. They are supposed to have pursued all leases exceeding 999 years. They have never done that and have kept on saying that they are trying to establish an inventory and that was supposed to have been done on the first day when the Commission came into force. In managing public land, the Commission is supposed to be the new organ that acquires land for the government to carry out public projects. In terms of repossessing grabbed land and managing it, my verdict is that they have performed very poorly.  The writer is the Chief Executive Officer of Kenya Land Alliance