Mombasa county has been challenged to expose the companies contracted to clear garbage. In a letter to the Environment Executive Godfrey Nato, Muslims for Huma Rights protested the county’s “despicable” condition of solid waste disposal and management. Nato is yet to respond to the June 17, letter addressed by executive director Hassan Abdille. On Friday, he acknowledged recipient and through the director of communication, Richard Chacha, said the letter’s content did not warrant his response. Prior to the write-up, MUHURI said it conducted a fact-finding mission and “established that the allegations are true”. “Heaps of garbage lie all over the county,” Abdille said, noting facts were established in Mishomoroni, Kisauni, Kongowea, Changamwe and Majengo. Abdille said the health of the population is at risk. The executive director said the fundamental target of solid waste management has not been achieved in Mombasa. He said the environmental quality has not been promoted, natural aesthetic around the city remains unpreserved and platform for sustainable waste management is yet to be maintained. “Unfortunately, these essential services are severely lacking or minimal dispensed to the people of Mombasa exposing residents to all sorts of environmental-related diseases,” Abidlle said. MUHURI said cholera, malaria and chikungunya have become recurrent because of mounts of garbage. The letter said the public is concerned over the county’s silence to explain efforts to end the hazard. “Families are leaving with waste in their houses feeling dehumanized and are already expressing their displeasure and anger,” Abdille said. But the executive termed the allegations as “baseless”. “We have not contracted anyone one to do garbage collection, we are doing it ourselves. The tracks are ours,” he said. Fast Movers and Hauliers Ltd were initially contracted to collect garbage but in 2017, fell out with the county for forfeiting Sh140 million debt. At the same time, ANC has said it will be forced to sue the county for failing to keep the town clean. Coast secretary general Jimmy Azangu said cholera caused deaths and the county must take responsibility. “We may be in one coalition but the life of the locals is more important than our friendship. If nothing is done, we will move to court,” the official said Friday. Abdille demanded the budget to clean Mombasa be made open. According to Mombasa draft budget for financial year 2018/19, the department of environment, waste management and energy has been awarded Sh531 million. The county also intends to set up a Sh6.5 billion recycling plant to tackle the garbage menace that has overshadowed Hassan Joho's development record over the years. Read: Joho eyes Sh6.5bn waste recycling plant to end Mombasa garbage menace Joho’s administration has not provided specifics of the project but says the plant will see waste from the county recycled into usable products. The governor has put a five-year time frame for the project in a move considered to be about his desire to leave a legacy at the end of his two terms in office. Joho on Sunday said Kibarani dumpsite will be shut down by this June. “Fifty per cent of work is now complete. The dumpsite will be recreated to a level never seen before,” Joho said. Joho said punitive measures will be taken against illegal dumpers. “Their cars will be seized for one month and daily fine of Sh10,000 will be charged. This is a law that I want it passed,” he said. The governor said residents are dirtying the town and post pictures of social media to show he is a failure. Also read: Garbage collectors blamed for disease outbreaks in Mombasa Click here for the latest political news