The embattled Catherine Mturi-Wairi on Wednesday failed to showup at her office, hours after the Mombasa High court's reinstatement. Late May, the Kenya Ports Authority Special Board sent her on compulsory leave. Daniel Manduku was consequently appointed the acting Managing Director for two months. Manduku on Wednesday reported to work as usual, two sources at the Port confirmed. He spent better part of the day at the container terminal after shifting the MD's office from the headquarters, they said. By press-time, it was not clear whether KPA will appeal Judge Erick Ogola's ruling. Those contacted and spoke in confidence said it was unlikely. Irrespective of the court's order, they said, "the Government has moved on". KPA Cooperate Affairs Department said: "Work at the Port is going as usual.The court matters will be handled by relevant authorities." The ruling followed a petition filed by Mombasa resident Emmanuel Kenga. KPA, Transport CS James Macharia and the Attorney General have been sued. Kenga said there was division among employees after Mturi-Wairi was sent on a two-month compulsory leave. But after the Star's multiple interviews with staff at the Port and Dock Workers Union, it emerged Manduku's operational strategy is winning over employees. Since his appointment, he has spent time interacting with staff and witnessing work at the terminals. "This week he meet the lower cadre staff who work at the operations. The change of his office also enabled him monitor cargo movement and how it links with the SGR unlike before," one worker said. "What staff want is recognition by management, motivation in terms of grading and good pay. They are seeking promotions and are willing to work." The DWU secretary general Simon Sang' said workers are "100 per cent behind Manduku". Sang' said Manduku is in touch with the ground, a situation that makes him "relevant". "You become irrelevant if you fail to interact with the workers. During question and answer session, workers see positivity," he said on phone. Sang said performance has started improving. "When workers morale - which contribute to 40 per cent of the out put after equipment engagement - is down, undertaking will be affected. But morale is up now," he said. Mturi-Wairi was supposed to hand over to Manduku on Wednesday but the event was postponed. Reports indicate a possible sabotage cost Mturi-Wairi her job.