The IEBC has proposed amendments to laws for power to bar questionable politicians from vying for office. The commission wants the upper hand in the enforcement of chapter six of the Constitution which deals with leadership and integrity. Chairman Wafula Chebukati said on Tuesday that the goal is a legal framework that works for everybody handling matters of integrity. "There is need to amend the laws to empower the commission so that it’s able to deal with political candidates who violate the electoral code of conduct," he told journalists in Kisumu. "The commission currently lacks powers to disqualify politicians who are culpable for criminal activities." Chebukati further noted that the law blocks the IEBC from taking any action when the politicians take matters to court. "We cannot ban someone from standing for elections as long as they are still exhausting their legal processes," he said, noting innocence until guilt is proven. “This legal bottleneck makes it very hard for the commission to bar people from standing." The chair said the IEBC is working on the post-election evaluation report that includes a review of all processes of the August 8, 2017 vote. It will be shared with stakeholders for the sake of better management of future polls. "IEBC INTACT" Chebukati also reported that the elections agency was operational despite the court case over the suspension of CEO Ezra Chiloba. He did not get into details as the matter is in court but added that Chiloba's absence and the resignations of three commissioners had not affected work. “The commission is intact and continuing to discharge its duties as mandated by the Constitution,” he said. Chiloba was forced to take leave on April 27. Vice Chair Consolata Nkatha, Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat then left in protest. The CEO sued in a demand for his boss to personally appear in court to show why he should not be held in contempt. Through his lawyer Andrew Wandabwa, Chiloba says that he stands to suffer immeasurable prejudice and irreversible violation of his constitutional freedoms, legal rights and due process unless the court hears his petition. More on this: IEBC crisis deepens as Chiloba aides forced to take leave Also read: IEBC woes: Chiloba sues Chebukati for contempt Click here for the latest political news