Investors interested in setting up power firms will soon be expected to do so using the Kenya shilling , a move the regulator hopes will bring down electricity costs. The Energy Regulatory Commission has come up with a local currency based tariff for power purchase agreements which the state is expected to adopt in the next 12 to 18 months. A study by ERC launched yesterday proposes that projects under 10MW be fully denominated in local currency while those between 10MW and 40MW be partially denominated in foreign currency depending on the technology. The ERC in August last year commissioned a feasibility study titled Local currency - Denominated Tariffs for Kenyan Power Purchase Agreement. It aimed at establishing the availability and viability of local financing for infrastructure projects in the energy sector. currency fluctuations The study established local financial institutions have a projected capital base of Sh4.45 trillion that can be tapped to reduce the development cost of energy projects. ERC’s director of economic regulations Frederick Nyang said the 12 to 18-month period will include passing the study to the Ministry of Energy, which will extract policy guidelines to help in the implementation of the PPAs. Nyang said the adoption of local currency based tariffs is targeted at cutting power generation costs which constitutes two thirds of electricity bills. For instance, consumers currently pay Sh1.22 per KW as foreign exchange rate fluctuation adjustment. The fee is up from Sh0.37 charged 10 years ago when the shilling was trading at Sh75.84. The report intends to help local firms participate in energy infrastructure projects in local currency as opposed to previously when they had to deal in foreign currency to cushion them from currency fluctuations. “For instance, if the dollar moves from trading at Sh90 to Sh105 then it will translate to a 15 per cent rise in payments which is often passed to consumers,” executive director of GuarantCo Samuel Chasia said on the sidelines of the launch. Currently, the tariffs are denominated in US dollars, a situation that has led to consumers paying more for power. Kenyans have been complaining about inflated bills and last month, Kenya Power announced employees will sign a three-year contract in a move to win the war on corruption. At least 18 employees were found to have illegally helped 350 labour and transport contractors get tenders without meeting the criteria.   