Kenya's Ogiek
people are optimistic of returning to their ancestral forests as
the government has pledged to honour a landmark ruling ordering
reparations for forced evictions, in a judgement that could
impact others with similar land claims. Evictions have ceased and the Ogiek are rehabilitating parts
of the Rift Valley's Mau Forest one year after Africa's highest
human rights court told Kenya to compensate the forest-dwellers
for violating their land rights, an Ogiek campaigner said. "The community looks a bit psychologically stabilised,"
Daniel Kobei, executive director of the Ogiek Peoples'
Development Program, a complainant in the case, told the Thomson
Reuters Foundation. "They have hope they will get back their land." The Tanzania-based African Court on Human and Peoples'
Rights ruled last May that Kenya violated the Ogieks' land
rights by evicting them from the Mau Forest - Kenya's largest
water catchment area - in the Rift Valley. Campaigners supporting communities living on protected lands
across Africa hailed the court's first decision on indigenous
people's rights as a major victory. A government taskforce, set up in November, will give its
recommendations in June on how to implement the ruling, Korir
Sing'oei, a member of the 17-strong body and a legal advisor to
the deputy president's office, said on Thursday. The Ogiek could be restored to their original land or given
alternative sites, the government said when it appointed the
taskforce last year. "Everything we are looking at now has to do with restitution
of land and other forms of remedies," Sing'oei said. "I don't think, at this point in time, there is any talk
around financial compensation." Environmentalists have long campaigned for better protection
of the Mau Forest as Kenya has been hard hit by unlawful
settlement, logging and charcoal production in its indigenous
forests, all of which are government-owned. Indigenous communities argue that the best way to protect
forests is to give them ownership of the land on condition that
they conserve it. "Mau is a very fragile ecosystem of huge environmental and
ecological significance to the country," said Sing'oei, adding
that restoration of the forest to the Ogiek would require it to
be converted from government to community or private land. "Determining the beneficiaries is a huge project ... There
are many people who present themselves as Ogiek, and they are
not, or there are some people who are Ogiek and are not
included." The case has nationwide implications, he said. "This is a forest community and so this decision has a
precedence value vis-a-vis other communities that are similarly
situated," he said. "There is no magic bullet to this implementation. It's going
to be a fairly lengthy process." Click here for the latest political news 