  President’s
Uhuru Kenyatta’s recent declaration that lifestyle audits be conducted has
created the usual political furore, complete with allegations, and counter
accusations across the political divide. Nearly
five years into the Jubilee government fight against corruption, justice for
perpetrators is yet to be seen to be done. Arguably at the root of this is the
political will to take down the big wigs behind the many scandals ripping through
the government. Though the pressure is being applied, especially seeing as some
disgraced top ministry officials are currently either incarcerated or likely to
face incarceration, there is still little being done to close the loopholes
that fan corrupt practises and embezzlement of public funds. The
President’s decision to look into blockchain technology (Distributed Ledger
Technology) as a platform for better governance is crucial to developing the
sort of systems that create a connected government working with a distributed
ledger that is paperless, interoperable, immutable, and tamper-proof. To
be clear, blockchain technology is not a magic box. Simply because you have the
platform doesn’t mean corruption in government will magically disappear.
Rather, it means actions taken by government will be traceable, and
transactions cannot either be rescinded nor their records tampered with. This
is the closing of loopholes that is necessary in running an efficient, and less
corrupt government, and accounting to the public on taxes paid. This
also means existing embezzlement cannot be undone. The transactions have
already occurred and in this regard, the efforts of the EACC, the DPP and the
Judiciary become critical in the fight to not only recover assets but also
ensure culprits have their day in court. That said, uptake by governments seeking to utilise blockchain requires greater
imagination than merely adopted DLT for better accounting practises. For
starters, there is the product that is released each time a transaction is
verified, the crypto-assets. If Kenya is sincere in it decision to look into
adopting blockchain tech for its governance, then the country has to seriously
consider the utility of the cryptocurrencies that come with the technology. Of
course economically, the potential to have incentives such as coins to ensuring
transactions is quite the boost. Not only would there be more people willing to
do the work to verify, there would be no question as to who would pay them, as
the system itself generates the coins. It’s
democracy at its finest: The people will hold to account the government, and
can publicly do so, and be paid to do so. Further,
the circulation of the new currency and its accessibility will directly boost
the GDP. Currently, Kenya’s income per capita is $1,455, up from about $70 in
1964. With the adaptation of blockchain, and a sincere accounting for human
capital (labour) Jubilee’s goal of meeting the Big Four agenda, and in turn
generating one million jobs per year can be attained. It
is possible, but all this requires work. The number of unemployed Kenyans currently stands at 14 million and although there has been great investment in government
assets such as roads and other infrastructure, a lack of human capital
accounting means there has been missed growth opportunity over the last 30
years, despite changes in government, changes in leadership and injection of
funding. The
conversations on corruption still remain centred around personalities, and
focused on the failures of existing systems, deliberately weakened so that
embezzlement and misappropriation of funds occur. We have to do more than
lamenting the state of the economy, because that alone will not fix it. We
need to look forward, even as we deal with our past. Even as we seek justice
from the perpetrators of corruption, we must, as society, seek collaboration,
and work towards ensuring we do not miss any more opportunities to grow our
economy. Envision a socioeconomic system, in which any person, willing and able
to do worthwhile work, can access unlimited work opportunities and the tooling for the work they choose to do, and be monetised for that work. Such
a system, where everyone abides by the rules, and is incentivised to do so and
can deliver on expected outputs is not only possible, we already have the
technology to build it, and are capable of adapting it as well. Theoretically,
It is through adaptation of blockchain technology, and application of it that
our socioeconomic development goals can be realised, in time on schedule and
preferably, under budget.  Waitherero, Visionaire, FreeWork shared agency Ecosystem and
Kazini Valorization protocol, which is built on Ethereum Blockchain. Sponsoring
value forming relationships 