Kenyans are coming to terms with the state of rot in the government through the series of mega corruption revelations. These scandals are the logical result of years and years of lack of accountability, impunity, and zero political will, public servants doing business with government, state complacency, systemic institutional failure and diversion tactics. Sadly, we have been here before. We have heard stern speeches from the presidency promising to clean house, allegations from some quarters that some individuals are sacred cows, massive arrests and dramatic court appearances covered live by our media houses. In a funny twist, it was revealed that the person who has been leading the NYS investigations was in fact a close associate of the Ngiritas— so much so that they occasionally borrowed hundreds of thousands of shillings from each other. The investigator intimated that the Director of Criminal Investigations was aware of their relationship. Which begs the question: Is the case being sabotaged from inside? How can such an officer truly interrogate or even investigate his close associates? Kenyans cannot be blamed for being cynical of the fresh impetus to stop corruption. In an unprecedented move, the President ordered that all heads of procurement step aside and hand over to their deputies for fresh vetting that will include lifestyle audits. Through an Executive order, the President has also directed that all tender details, including the identities of directors and goods supplied, be made public from July 1. Detractors point out that more often than not, corruption in tendering emanates from patronage of senior government officials, and the heads of procurement are merely executing orders from above. The reality is, it is often the CSs, PSs, directors, governors, county executives and other senior officials who determine who gets awarded tenders. The very government purporting to be outraged over graft is the same one that is on record attacking the Office of the Auditor General for consistently reporting on massive lack of accountability in government over the years. The Auditor General, Edward Ouko, has been threatened with removal proceedings and there have been attempts to clip his power by amending the law. What has changed? The auditor’s reports have come to be regarded as accurate indicators of where and by whom money is being misappropriated in the national and county governments and other offices. As such, relying on these reports can offer a more ‘guided missile’ approach to which accounting officers need to be earmarked for scrutiny and investigations. Data by the KRA, a more serious anti-money laundering authority and a keener CBK would also be key indicators on which individuals have unexplained wealth and would detect abnormal movement of funds. The only way to effectively fight corruption is to follow the money. History has taught us that, two or three weeks form now, the public and the media will move on to other stories to the delight of those implicated and the duty bearers who are embarrassed by the revelations. And, one by one, acquittals will ensue. I will not hold my breath this time round. The President’s Big Four agenda — which promises food security, affordable housing, expanded manufacturing and affordable healthcare — may be dead on arrival if looting continues at the present rate. The corrupt within the system are salivating because it presents the mother lode of tenders. In the long run, all of us, including the political class, must begin asking ourselves hard questions about how and whom we appoint to vital positions in the criminal justice system, the ministries, government departments, parastatals and other government functions. As long as government appointments remain as a tool of rewarding political loyalty, unqualified, clueless and undedicated people will continue running down the country. In the wake of the recent NCPB fiasco, maize farmers from Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet and Trans Nzoia county are waking up to the reality that it is their ‘own people’ who are sabotaging their livelihoods based on the names of alleged suppliers.  Senior legal officer, Article 19 Eastern Africa demaslaw@gmail.com Twitter: @kipdemas     