Betty Kyallo has for the first time opened up about her life as an intern. The sexy TV siren says it was not easy. "My life as an intern was such an interesting and really inspiring time. I remember walking into the KTN newsroom and everybody was like a superstar. Seeing Michael Oyier, Beatrice Marshall, Cynthia Nyamai, I was like 'gosh, these are the people I have been watching and I just want to be like them'. So it was such a shocking journey. I would see Njoroge Mwaura and I would be like 'wow these are the people I have always want to be like'," she told Word Is. "I would sometimes follow them to the studio and see how they used to do it and [was] so hungry for it but of course, you go through the emotions of being an intern when everybody is dismissing you. But that's how it is with life. If you want something, you really have to struggle to go to the top." After completing her internship, Kyallo says she really wanted to work in the media and revealed; "We did a mock-up of a news bulletin with my former colleagues at Daystar and I sent it to KTN, NTV, and Citizen with my CV attached. Luckily I was picked by KTN and that's where my journey started and grew slowly by slowly and [I] rose up the ranks." Kyallo, who runs a high-end salon, Flair by Betty, has this advice for young entrepreneurs: "Start saving now no matter how little it is and you will not regret [it]. When you're ready to start a business, go for the best location, where clients and staff can easily access [it], everything will fall in place." Talking about toxic relationships Kyallo says; "I would never advise anybody to be in a toxic relationship, whether it's a partner, in marriage or a friend. I feel that a lot of the things that happen to us is because of the energies that surround us. If I'm going to surround myself with toxic people, people who are always talking about others...I can't. Even my friends know that I don't entertain gossip." "I believe that the people who are around you will either build you or destroy you. How to improve our lives as single mothers, spiritual life and how to grow our businesses are the only conversations I engage in." Kyallo is set to venture into teaching and soon she will be a tutor at a local journalism college.