Kebs and Public Health officers have been questioned over the handling of seized sugar following concerns on suspected contraband sugar. The officers accompanied members of the joint National Assembly Committee on Agriculture and Trade. They were unable to explain why thousands of tonnes of sugar seized in two warehouses belonging to Menengai Oil Refineries had not been kept as per regulations. The committee, led by vice chairman Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) found at the Nakuru blankets and Menengai main warehouses sugar had been stored on the floor contrary to public health requirements which demand they be stacked on wooden pallets. “The owners of the warehouses are exposing consumers of the product to health risks given the dampness on the floor,” Wangwe said. The comittee found samples of sugar taken in three different warehouses in Nakuru more than one week ago are yet to be received. unable to differentiate sugar The members called on the department to up its game and ensure premises are inspected regularly in line with the Food and Poisons and Public Health Acts. The lawmaker said after the committee winds up its tour of warehouses containing seized sugar, it will present a final report detailing if the government lost money from sugar importation and who should bear cost. Kebs officers were at pains to explain the difference between two consignments of brown sugar seized inside Nakuru blankets and United Millers warehouses as both resembled in appearance while the officers insisted one lot was for consumption while the other was to undergo further processing. While expressing concern about a tampered seal at a warehouse in Menengai Oil Refineries, Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi called on the county security team to ensure all warehouses containing seized sugar should remain under lock and key until the contents are certified to be fit for human consumption. Rongai lawmaker Raymond Moi said after the gazettement of exemption of sugar, “local millers were not given the opportunity to import sugar and this created a window for unscrupulous investors to import sugar that is now creating problems in the market”. Read:Suspect sugar seized in Athi River’s Primarosa Flowers The Trade Committee said West Kenya Sugar Company was not licensed to import and process raw sugar. Vice chairman Cornelly Serem said the Sugar Directorate issued a statement in Parliament showing only one sugar miller allowed to process raw sugar - Kibos Sugar in Kisumu county. Serem wondered why the company imported raw sugar and yet it had no capacity to process it. The West Kenya officials said it was their first time to import raw sugar. Serem spoke in Webuye where he toured Rai Paper factory. one million tonnes Meanwhile, it has now emerged an excess of over one million tonnes of sugar were imported last year through the Port of Mombasa. According to KRA, Treasury CS Henry Rotich issued a gazette order exempting sugar and milk powder from paying duty on May 11, 2017. This gave sugar importers a window period to import sugar duty-free, whereby over 1,060,630 metric tonnes of sugar were imported which is an increase of over 211 per cent compared to 2016. KRA Southern region commissioner Nicholas Kinoti yesterday told the joint Trade and Agriculture committees that in 2016, only 341,444 metric tonnes of sugar were imported. “In 2017, KRA cleared 941,164 metric tonnes of brown sugar (ready for human consumption) and 119,466 metric tonnes of industrial sugar totaling to 1,060, 630 metric tonnes,” Kinoti said. Read:1,350 bags of contraband sugar nabbed in Nakuru The committee was meeting KRA, Kenya Ports Authority, Kenya Bureau of Standards and Port Health officials at the KPA boardroom to investigate the issue of suspected contraband sugar in the country. According to documents he presented before the joint committee, the quantity of imported brown sugar last year increased by 338 per cent compared to the previous year of 2016. The quantity of industrial sugar went down, from 126,502 metric tonnes in 2016 to 119,466 metric tonnes last year. regulations This showed the appetite importers developed after the duty-free period was announced by the government to cushion the country during the drought period. It also emerged that one vessel, carrying 40,000 tonnes of sugar, was blocked from offloading the cargo in Mombasa. The ship is still at the high seas since August last year. KPA said the ship did not meet some regulations, however, it has been established that the vessel came into the country after the tax exemption period had come to an end. KPA, KRA, Kenya Bureau of Standard and Port Health officials were at pains to explain how some of the said sugar, which is already in the market, was contaminated. It emerged that the handling of the sugar at the port of Mombasa might have been the reason behind the said contamination; as the sugar is imported either in bulky or already packed in bags. According to Mumba Tsuma, a Port Health official, who spoke before he committees, they had written a letter to all importers raising concern of how sugar was being handled. Also Read:I have list of 'principal suspects' in illegal sugar business, says Atwoli Click here for the latest political news