As sugar companies grapple with Sh16.5 billion loan debt from the government, workers and farmers have not been paid for over 10 months. Kenya Sugar Plantation Workers Union on Friday accused the state of failing to address the plight of sugar companies. On Thursday, Commodities Fund CEO Nancy Cheruiyot said Mumias, Sony, Muhoroni, Soin, West Kenya and Chemelil sugar companies’ loans are due to their poor performance. She told the National Assembly Special Funds committee that the government should consider writing the loans off. The union’s general secretary Francis Wangara said the companies have a workforce of more than 20,000 and thousands of farmers who have not received their pay. Read:Why governors are cautious about privatising sugar industry “The union is painfully disturbed by the casual manner in which the government continues to address sugar woes in the country. “Nothing tangible has been forthcoming other than empty promises ranging from plans to to privatisee to government putting in more funds allegedly to revamp the factories,” Wangara said. “We have asked the government to stop its game of musical chairs and address address itself to the plights facing workers in the companies.” The union wants the government to crack whip on barons and heads of various sugar companies involved in illegal importation of sugar in the country, flooding the local market at the expense of local sugar. Read:Public-owned sugar companies to be privatised by August 2018 Cheruiyot told MPs that in 2014, she received a loan book from AFA that contained advancements of Sh14.6 billion that had accrued since 1992. Cheruiyot told MPs that in 2014, she received a loan book from AFA that contained loan advancements of Sh14.6 billion that had accrued since 1992. She added that during the financial year 2014/15, AFA disbursed another loan of Sh1.9 billion to the sugar companies. “According to how the sugar companies are performing, there is no likelihoods that those loans could be paid. As we clean up the sugar sector, probably it would be prudent for the government to write off the loans.” Also see:Sugar industry on its deathbed Click here for the latest political news