A Catholic priest has praised President Uhuru Kenyatta's call for a lifestyle audit of civil servants and their close families. The head of state says the study will enable the government to establish how state officials acquired the wealth they own. Fr Lawrence Nyaanga said the audit will help in slaying the graft monster citing cases of a few individuals becoming rich overnight at the expense of millions of poor Kenyans. "We must all support the President in the war on graft because the same has tainted the image of this country. We fully support him for his move for the audit," Nyaanga said. The Kisii University chaplain said, "it is not good for millions of Kenyans to go without food while a clique are enjoying money stolen from public coffers." He made the remarks at the Kisii Cathedral where he urged those involved in the investigations not to leave any stone unturned. "I am appealing to detectives involved in the investigations to ensure that all those who swindled money from the public must be answerable," Nyaanga said. He urged Catholic faithful to pray for the nation to overcome the many challenges it is facing, beyond the corruption scandals. On the fight against gambling, the clergy lauded Interior CS Fred Matiang’i for ordering that the seizure and destruction of gaming machines. Nyaanga said betting was taking much of the youths' valuable time and thus ruining their bright future. Some youths, he further noted, could be tempted to steal money from their parents while others have sold family items to get money to engage in gambling. "The gambling machines were brought by Chinese who were constructing roads in the area. It is unfortunate our youths have been wasting their time betting on them," he said. "I am appealing to members of the public to report them to chiefs so that they can be confiscated and destroyed," the prelate said. "Some pupils and students are thinking about betting hence cannot concentrate on their education and thus end up performing dismally in examinations." Read: Ban on gambling machines here to stay - Matiang'i Click here for the latest political news