The clamour for and the debate about constitutional changes have begun in earnest. The major political players are slowly accepting there is a need to change the Executive structure in our Constitution. The majority of Kenyans have, however, adopted a wait-and-see approach. The plausible explanation so far advanced, which I wholly agree with, is that the Executive structure, as it is, does not advance or promote the unity of the state. It is a winner-takes-all arrangement that condemns political leaders to five years in the cold when and if they lose an election. Such a system is not suited for a developing nation such as ours, saddled with fierce ethnic and regional competition for power and resources. Devolution was meant to decentralise power and resources and this has succeeded to some extent by dispersing 15 per cent revenue to the counties. The national government, however, still retains the 85 per cent share, a huge chunk of the national budget. This huge concentration of resources at the centre means the national government still retains a huge influence on the governance structure and, therefore, generates a lot of interest from various communities and regions. The one purpose of a Constitution is to set out fundamental conditions upon which individuals and groups broadly agree to be governed. Constitutions usually provide limits on government by establishing and distributing powers between different branches, institutions or offices of government. The supreme law provides how each institution should perform its functions. It also limits government’s powers by conferring individual and group rights against certain actions undertaken by the state. Even as the push to amend the Constitution gathers momentum, we must be careful not to destroy the basic structure of the 2010 Constitution. Professor Joe Onyango Oloka, speaking on the topic ‘Why Uganda needs a Constitutional Crisis’, illustrated how the powers that be have committed what he called “Constitucide” — the act of murdering and mutilating Uganda’s 1995 Constitution to retain power, not for the betterment of the people but to satisfy individual egos. Justice V Ramaswamy of the Supreme Court of India, in emphasising the great importance of the supreme law, said the Constitution, unlike other Acts, is intended to provide enduring paramount law and a basic design of the structure and power of the state and rights and duties of the citizens to serve the society through a long lapse of ages. It is not only designed to meet the needs of the day when it is enacted but also those of the altering conditions of the future. He further stated it contains a framework or mechanism for resolution of constitutional disputes. It also embeds its ideals of establishing an egalitarian social order to accord socioeconomic and political justice to all sections of the society, assuring dignity of the people and fundamental rights. Our Constitution contains certain fundamental basic structures we must guard against being amended or mutilated. At the least those sacrosanct features include the supremacy of the Constitution, the unity and integrity of the state, sovereignty and democratic structure, the rule of law, separation of powers, independence of the Judiciary, the essence of fundamental rights and freedoms and judicial constitutional review. Others are principle of free and fair elections, the secular character of the Constitution and limitations on the amending power of Parliament. The Constitution is a national heritage, not the property of one single party, however mighty they may be. Therefore, no single party has the right to institute amendments in their interest rather than in the national interest. Even as we embark on identifying the areas that need to be addressed, care must be taken not to mutilate the Constitution we fought so much for. We must also heed to the warning given by the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the founding father of the Republic of Tanzania in his book, Our Leadership and the Destiny of Tanzania ( 1995 ): “This is very dangerous. Where can we stop? If one section of the Bill of Rights can be amended, what is to stop the whole Bill of Rights being made meaningless by qualifications of, and amendments to, all its provisions?”  Mwamu is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya and former President of East Africa Law Society    