Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo on Monday paid a courtesy call on DP William Ruto at his Karen home, pointing to a renewed friendship between the two former political foes. The two appeared to have severed ties in the run-up to the August 8 election after Kabogo blamed a "high hand in Jubilee" following his loss in the party primaries. However, as it appears, Kabogo and Ruto may have buried the hatchet if the Monday meeting - whose details remain guarded - is anything to go by. "I 'tangatangad' Karen to see my good friend the DP," Kabogo said in a tweet. The term "tanga tanga" loosely translates to loitering without intent. It gained popularity recently when Uhuru used it in reference to Ruto’s weekend political rallies across the country. "Hii kijana anaitwa Ruto unajua kila weekend anapenda kutangatanga tangatanga kila pahali. Atakua anapitia hizi machorochoro, akiona kuna kitu inaenda kona kona mumwambie? Tuhakikishe kazi ya wananchi imefanyika," Uhuru told a roadside rally on May 30. [This boy called Ruto likes loitering everywhere every weekend. He will be coming by these alleys and if he sees any problem, tell him about it. We must ensure citizens are served]. Kabogo attempted to defend his seat as an independent candidate but lost to Ferdinand Waititu. The 'high hand' he talked about was interpreted by many quarters as being a reference to the DP - the latter having played a central role in the primaries following the chaos that marred the nominations on the first day. Read: Is Ruto the ‘someone’ who wanted Kabogo out in the cold? More: Waititu, former DP Ruto aide sign MoU to beat Kabogo in Friday primaries Ruto’s apparent underhand machinations against Kabogo seemingly emanated from a statement the ex-governor made in 2016. Against the backdrop of the unfolding events, Kabogo said Central Kenya’s support for Ruto’s 2022 bid would not be automatic just because he (DP) supported President Uhuru Kenyatta. On May 15, 2017, during an interview on a local TV station, Kabogo repeated the sentiments. "I still insist that we shall only support a leader if they go out there and prove that they can work for the people, that they will initiate development projects for Mt Kenya people," Kabogo said, adding that there was no bad blood between him and Ruto. Ruto is considered heir-apparent to Uhuru who is currently serving his second and final term as president. The country's next elections will be held in 2022. After the August 8 polls, a number of Jubilee politicians from Mt Kenya who lost their seats blamed the same on Ruto. Reports at the time said that the disgruntled poll losers had received backing from a number of business tycoons to derail the DP's 2022 ambitions "because they felt threatened by his presidency." Read: Now Central Kenya election losers gang up to fix Ruto A source told the Star then that most of the anti-Ruto meetings were being held in the homes of prominent politicians and business tycoons to avoid the attention of spies from the pro-Ruto camp. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu is among the Central Kenya politicians who have openly said the region’s backing for Ruto is not automatic. "Mt Kenya people will vote for a candidate they believe will protect their interests. Our interests are jobs, ability to do business, security and the distribution of resources," he said. Click here for the latest political news 