Lands commission Chairman Muhammad Swazuri has denied claims that he approved payment of Sh3.2 billion as compensation for Ruaraka school land. He said the commission only approved the payment of Sh1.5 million. Two private firms and two public schools claimed the property that hosts Ruaraka High and Drive Inn Primary schools. The firms are Afrison Export-Import Limited and Huelands Limited. The 13.7 acre piece of land neighbours GSU headquarters, De La Rue and the Kenya School of Monetary Studies. Swazuri said the land is not public as claimed and that due diligence at the Lands Ministry confirmed it was private property for which there needed to be compensation. The Sh3.2 billion is the total value of the land based on current market rates, he said, adding the owner presented a claim of Sh368 million per acre. "After due diligence and considering market rates, the commission settled on a figure of Sh206 million per acre. Secondly, in the judgement of 2012 when the owner took the matter to the court, the court ruled that he should be paid Sh12 billion." After valuation, the figure was scaled downwards. Swazuri said: “For the record, we have not paid Sh3.2 billion as most of you are saying. We have only paid Sh1.5 billion as part payment,” he said. “We paid what we thought was the market (value) in that area. We have paid only Sh1.5 billion. Shida ni nini? Kosa ni nini? Nani ameibiwa pesa hapo? (What is the problem? Where is the mistake? Who has been conned money there?)” The official challenged anyone who claims to be the real owner of the land to come forward with evidence and also show that the wrong people were paid the money. “Where is the invisible person who is the owner of the land? Where is he? I challenge you, bring that person here with documents to show us that the land is his. We shall pay,” an agitated Swazuri told reporters during a press briefing at the commission's headquarters on Monday. He noted the EACC investigated them over the issue and that he was ready to appear before any agency to give clarifications. Last Thursday, a team of MPs called for the investigation of Swazuri over the payment of the monies. Lands committee chairperson Rachael Nyamai tabled a report which recommends that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations probe the NLC chairman over the payment of the firms. The National Assembly team wants Swazuri, commissioners and other NLC officers to take personal responsibility for the payment. "The National Land Commission should immediately secure the interests of the government on the land compulsorily acquired in portions of LR. No. 7879/4 by formally taking possession of the title documents of the land in accordance with provisions of Section 121 of the Lands Act, 2012," the report says. Read: Lands boss Swazuri ‘to be charged’ over Ruaraka land scandal Also read: DCI told to probe NLC boss Swazuri over Ruaraka land Click here for the latest political news 