Kenya National Rally Championship series leader, Baldev Chager, is determined to kill two birds with one stone in this weekend’s RSC Rally at Stoni Athi and Athi River. The multiple former Safari and Kenyan champion will be the first off the ramp, navigated by Ravi Soni in a Kabras Mitsubishi Evolution 10. A total of 20 drivers have entered the competition. Taking off second will be reigning African champion, Manvir Baryan, who recently became the first non-South African to win the York Rally down south. Baryan, who is one of the fastest rising KNRC youngsters will team up with Briton Drew Sturrock in a Skoda Fabia R5. Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo, navigated by Tim Jessop in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10 is seeded third ahead of youngsters Karan Patel (Evolution 10) and Farhaaz Khan (Evolution 10). Eric Bengi, who finished fifth in the Safari — a career best performance, will take off in seventh ahead of Jasmeet Chana and Amaanraj Rai in a Ford Fiesta while Mahesh Halai leads the Subaru onslaught in a N12 version of the Japanese make at 10th. Drivers will cover a total 384Km. After the flag off, the drivers will traverse CS1 Kunkur stage then head in the CS 2, 49.43Km Konza stage. The crews will stop for remote refueling at Konza before tackling the CS 3 Machakos Ranch at 9:39am. Clerk of Course, Hellen Shiri, said the weekend outing will be tough for the competitors especially at the Konza stage and Machakos Ranch. “The weekend showdown will be a tough challenge for the crews especially at Konza stage,” said Shiri. Hundreds of spectators are expected to gather at the ceremonial start to wave off competitors outside Stony Athi resort. The rally outing presets a test of nerve that will stretch the endurance of the drivers who will be aiming for the podium finish. Only three points separate championship leader Baldev Chager in his Kabras Sugar sponsored Mitsubishi Evolution X from Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo who will be at the controls of his Top Fry Mitsubishi Evolution X. The championship contenders will be driving at ten tenths through Kunkur, Konza and Machakos ranch in a bid for victory to earn vital points. The battle in the navigator championship is even more intense with both Chager’s navigator Soni and Tundo’s partner Tim Jesop on 53 points. Eric Bengi’s Tuta Mionka is in third place in a Menengai Cream Subaru Impreza N12 with a score of 30 points. Bearing in mind that Ravi Soni navigates for Baldev Chager and Tim Jesop for Flash Tundo, rally fans are guaranteed an action packed day.