Just who does Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa thinks she is? That she is indispensable, indomitable and the Alpha and Omega of ODM? Well, I have news for her and others. Your horns will soon be trimmed to size. Instead of them wasting their valuable time throwing jabs at their party, ODM, they should take the words of Minority Whip John Mbadi very seriously. All these politicians now vomiting vitriol on ODM would not be sitting in Parliament were it not for the backing of ODM and party leader Raila Odinga. Where was Jumwa in 1997, 2002 and 2007, when Raila was busy building his support base at the Coast? Now she has the temerity to lie that it is her who introduced the region to the ODM boss. The Malindi MP should move slowly and respect her party. She cannot continue biting the same hand that feeds her. Jumwa is a vibrant leader. That is no lie. She has a promising political future but if she does not tread well, she could find herself in political oblivion sooner than later. The outspoken legislator should remember the Kiswahili adage, “Usitupe mbachao kwa msala upitao (Do not throw away what you always had for something that is fleeting)”. Or the one that says, “Usitukane wakunga na uzazi ungalipo (Do not abuse the midwife and yet you will still seek her services later)”. Jumwa is not the only MP from the Coast who is pledging loyalty to Deputy President William Ruto. But we have not heard them throwing mud at Raila and other party leaders. If the second-term politician (first as Woman rep and now as Malindi MP) thinks she is popular, she should be brave enough to have a chat with the voters of Malindi. She should stop chest thumping and tell them she no longer finds ODM attractive and has subsequently developed an appetite for the Jubilee Party. She would then move to the next level and resign from ODM and seek a fresh mandate from her constituents. That is the way to go. These other sideshows will not help her. Since meeting Ruto, Jumwa has done an about-turn, forgetting one wrong move could jeopardise her budding political career. Jumwa thinks she has reached the apex of her career and no longer needs the support of those who nurtured her politically. Now that she is where her political dreams wanted her to be, she imagines she can throw away the baby with the bath water. Jumwa’s sojourn into the DP’s territory has not only irked her party but her voters too. To demonstrate their discomfort with their MP, the people of Malindi heckled her as she addressed them last Saturday, asking her to leave ODM so they can elect another MP who toes the party line and respects its leaders. Humility is a virtue but it is one component effusively lacking in Jumwa’s character. As I said before, there are other ODM politicians from the Coast who have been caught pants down lounging with a section of Jubilee leaders but because they know when not to berate their party, they choose to keep quiet. The fact that they have not engaged ODM’s rank and file in fistfights does not imply they have nothing to say. They have wisdom, which Jumwa desperately requires in high doses. The MP’s opposition to punitive action facing ODM MPs, senators and governors, who have pledged allegiance to a section of Jubilee, depicts a mentality festering in the minds of politicians who think they can serve two masters concurrently. Even the Bible does not condone it. Jumwa should be ready to let go her position in the Public Service Commission. She has decided to be Jubilee’s bridesmaid and must, therefore, be ready to taste a dose of her own medicine. Choices have consequences. I urge Jumwa and her colleagues, who may have misread the meaning of the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru and Raila Odinga to get it right. It is “Building Bridges Initiative” not “Shifting Allegiance Initiative.”