At least 232 families displaced by landslides and fissures in Murang’a will receive Sh30 million to rebuild their houses. Their houses had minor damage that can be repaired. The Murang’a government and the Kenya Red Cross Society partnered to give the donation. Another 84 families whose houses were destroyed and their farms swept away will receive help after Central Kenya geologist James Karembu gives his findings. Murang’a was hit by more than 20 landslides as torrential rain pounded the region between March and May. Experts have blamed extensive cultivation and deforestation. The donation was announced during a leaders’ meeting in Murang’a town on Tuesday. Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria and Red Cross secretary general Abbas Gullet attended. Karembu was given two weeks to report on extent of the damage caused by landslides and cracks.  WORKS BEGIN NEXT WEEK The county will provide building materials and masons. Residents will help build three-bedroom houses for each family. County and Interior ministry officials will supervise work beginning next week, Wa Iria said. The governor praised residents who provided shelter for most displaced families. Only 70 families are still being sheltered in institutions, he said. Murang’a is among five counties badly affected by heavy rain that wreaked havoc countrywide.He said a Red Cross survey shows the lives of more than 800 families were disrupted. Gullet said the KRCS has received Sh1 billion from the state and Sh700 million from well-wishers to help flood victims countrywide. “At least 300,000 people were displaced and 200 died because of floods nationwide,” he said. Gullet said Red Cross would train Murang’a county staff on disaster management. Mathioya MP Peter Kimari said 51 families were displaced in his constituency and a watchman died. He welcomed the assistance to resettle people camping at Mutitu Polytechnic. Kigumo MP Ruth Mwaniki praised the county for pledging to reconstruct Marumi Coffee Factory destroyed by a landslide. “We need to be more prepared so we are not caught unaware by landslides,” she said.