June 12 every year is the World Day Against Child
Labour. In the world's poorest countries, around one in
four children are engaged in work that is potentially harmful to their health. Sub-Saharan
Africa has the largest proportion
of child labourers (29 per cent of children aged five to 17)
and is considered detrimental to their health and development. Many children not yet in
their teens are sent out to work in farms as sand harvesters, street hawkers,
domestic workers, drug peddlers and, most piteously, as sex workers and child soldiers. Of all child labourers
in these and similar industries around the world, half are in Africa,
indicating that the continent’s
conscience must urgently be pricked into action. Kenya has made some
commendable moves towards eliminating child labour, primarily through the
National Policy on the Elimination of Child Labour, and most recently the
Computer and Cybercrime Act, with its provisions on child sexual exploitation.
And worth mentioning is the Children’s Act, which domesticated most
international and continental conventions to enhance child rights and
protection. Kenya has ratified most
key international conventions concerning child labour, including Minimum Age,
Worst Forms of Child Labour, Optional Protocol on Armed Conflict, and Palermo
Protocol on Trafficking in Persons. The country must now
also ratify the UN Convention of the Rights of the Child Optional Protocol on
the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. Among the steps that
will reduce the number of children ending up as workers is the policy on
compulsory secondary education. Currently, only the primary level schooling is
mandatory, which leaves an almost five-year gap between completion and the
minimum working age of 18 years. Officially, primary and
secondary schools are prohibited from charging tuition fees, but unofficial
school levies, books and uniforms still make it difficult for families to send
their children to school. Partly because of that, transition to secondary
school is at about 60 per cent, leaving many children prone to exploitation. While engaging children
has been considered as more income, new analysis by the International Labour
Organisation
(ILO) indicates child labour is economically unjustified. Sending such children
out to work rather than to school means they miss out on education and the
skills that might have landed them better jobs in the future. It means we are not investing in human
capital, but rather ensuring the youth will remain mired in low-skilled jobs,
thus jeopardising any hopes for reaping a demographic dividend. Efforts to
empower, educate and employ young people will have a cascading effect on the
rest of society. Estimates indicate that
in sub-Saharan Africa, the last few years have witnessed a rise in child
labour, where other major regions recorded declines. It is conceivable that the
retrogression was driven largely by economic slow-down, but clearly, child
labour is likely a cause rather than cure for poverty for families and for
entire nations. “Child labor perpetuates
poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, population growth, and other social problems,”
says Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi. A particularly obdurate form of child labour
is early marriage, with statistics indicating that one in five girls under 15
years is married, invariably to a much older man.  The cycle of abuse sets off immediately, with
most of these ‘child brides’ being overworked in the home; often made to walk
many kilometres to fetch water, sweep the house, prepare meals and give birth
to many children while their peers are in school.  Childbirth is a deadly
hit-or-miss proposition for them.  Young
mothers are four times likelier than those
over 20 to die in pregnancy or childbirth, even without considering other
perils such as fistula that are hazards for child mothers.  Even where such births
are uneventful, it means that such children will most likely never go back to school,
dashing any hopes of decent employment in future.  The Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by world leaders in 2015, include
a renewed global commitment to ending child labour.  With its current
momentum including moves to clamp down on exploitation of children and
increasing secondary school transition rates, Kenya can be a model for Africa
in the global commitment.   Jacqueline
Mogeni
is the CEO at Kenya’s Council of Governors and Siddharth
Chatterjee
is the United Nations Resident Coordinator to Kenya. 