Several Machakos MCAs have condemned Governor Alfred Mutua for allegedly attacking Deputy President William Ruto. Led by Kangundo Central MCA Moses Musyoka, they said Mutua should stop dragging Ruto into county politics. “We condemn in the strongest terms possible the recent unwarranted and misdirected attacks by Mutua against MCAs and Ruto, which the "former" Governor has been orchestrating directly, by innuendos or through proxies," Musyoka said in a statement issued at the assembly’s premises in Machakos town on Monday. "The former Governor has made wild allegations that MCAs have received what he calls blood money from the Deputy President purporting to frustrate his 2022 bid for the presidency." Musyoka said those are "totally unfounded allegations which should be treated and dismissed with the contempt they deserve". He said the allegations were aimed at diverting attention from Mutua's "gross failures and neglect" in the management of county affairs, faults which have caused it to lag behind in development. “Let it be known to the former Governor that we are persons of integrity, indeed strong Christians devoted to serving our county with the fear of God. [Perhaps he is the one] living on what he calls blood money, whatever that means." The MCA referred to Mutua as former Governor because the Court of Appeal nullified his election in the August 8, 2017 vote. The appellate court set aside the judgement by the High court in the petition filed by Wiper's Wavinya Ndeti. Justice Ouko said the election was not conducted fairly and directed the IEBC to conduct fresh polls. However, Mutua through his press secretary Mutinda Mwanzia dismissed the MCA's claims stating that he had never mentioned Deputy President William Ruto's name. Mutua said he was not fighting anyone but was committed to slaying the corruption dragon which he added should be declared a national disaster. "The guilty are always afraid and I urge all leaders to support the efforts by President Uhuru Kenyatta in fighting corruption," Mutua said. He said his presidential bid was on course and will not be derailed by political sideshows. Details: [VIDEO] Alfred Mutua loses Machakos seat, Appeals court orders fresh vote Also read: By-election win could make Mutua a political giant While raising allegations of corruption in the country, Musyoka said they will never take bribes for the sake of development as residents deserves proper service. The Kangundo Central MCA added: "It is worth noting that since 2013, Mutua has been fighting other leaders in and outside the county instead of serving Machakos people. Mutua has continued to openly disrespect Ukambani leaders some of whom are in the rank of his parents. That is culturally wrong and only invites a curse." Musyoka further rebuked Mutua for waging "uncalled for waging wars against his political mentor and leader of the people of Ukambani, Kalonzo Musyoka". “We state in no uncertain terms that any politician within and outside the Ukambani region purporting to fight Kalonzo is an enemy of the good people of Ukambani and hence anti-ukambani development," the MCA said. “It is also not lost to us that Mutua relentlessly waged dirty political games, backstabbing, and mudslinging against former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama. We are not going to sit back and watch him continue to peddle lies about other leaders in the area, starting from MCAs to Kalonzo and Ruto." He said it is time for Mutua to respect Ukambani and national leaders. Click here for the latest political news