A "harpaxophiliac" is someone who gets sexually aroused from the thought of being robbed...And going by the trend of corruption and looting of public funds #TheRaverend has come to the conclusion that the government believes taxpayers suffer from this condition...It’s been downhill for the jubilee government, as taxpayers are presented with a new scandal with each passing week! The corruption roller coaster is so bad that American TV host Ellen Degeneres visited the country with her wife, had breakfast with our giraffes, but decided to take her money to Rwanda to save mountain gorillas...Ellen didn’t even meet up with any government officials, she only made time for the giraffes! So as all Kenyans, including my barman, are calling on the President to deal with corrupt individuals, so far only one significant arrest and conviction has happened...A Huduma Centre employee was arrested taking a Sh2,500 bribe and was sentenced to two years in prison. As for all the other major cases we are still waiting for the trial to start. But it’s worth mentioning that 33 suspects are in remand until Tuesday after they were denied bail by the court! One of the suspects, who was paid Sh60 million and supplied Air to the National Youth Service, was spotted putting on makeup in the courtroom. I wonder how she is surviving at Lang'ata Women’s...#TheRaverend was having bar talk with fellow taxpayers and when I asked what one would do if Sh60 million or Sh15 million was deposited in their accounts, none of my drinking buddies said they would return the cash...Many said they would clear the account and disappear! So if #TheRaverend mysteriously received millions of shillings in my empty bank account, I would definitely think it’s manna from heaven...This would be that opportunity the “wagenge” say only knocks once, so I will definitely answer the door and grab that opportunity like that ex who left me for a rich sponsor, “Kesi Baadaye”. There's a reason why such shit would happen to #TheRaverend. I’m so unlucky that the only thing I have ever won or got for free is punishment when I once went to collect my money order in high school. I bumped into the discipline master near the bazaar's office and the guy assumed I was there for the usual dose of six of the best. The idiot actually threw me to the ground and whipped me for no reason. I was so shocked but I didn’t complain...When he was done he asked me what I had done to be sent to his office first thing on a Monday morning. I was like 'nothing', then the punk told me such is life and the viboko were advance punishment...That said and done I warn the government or anyone who’s planning to put random cash in my accounts. You will “Lamba Lolo”. The cash will disappear quick minus slow. I’m not about to be a hero and I don’t mess with destiny. I’m not about to interfere with forces that want to see me prosper!!! I will spend that money with no mercy like it’s my birthright...I’m not planning to die poor in the name of integrity. I don't need guys to come and speak lies at my burial. I want when guys say “He lived a full life" they actually mean it and add the fact that I did it with a big spoon matafakas!!!!! #TheRaverend is a very respectful person. Why disrespect “wagenge” when they said if you can’t beat them join them...When you go to Rome do as the Romans do. So if it’s corruption season, I’m so jumping into that storo!!! As for yesterday’s maombi, aka National Prayers, I don’t know who and what was prayed for. But l hope our politicians first prayed for themselves, for in reality THEY ARE FIRST AND FOREMOST THIS COUNTRY'S BIGGEST PROBLEM!! And secondly, I hope they prayed I get free money in my account soon.