MPs wants the EACC exonerated and incroporated into investigations into the Ruaraka land matter. On Wednesday, the Lands committee tabled a report which recommended that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations probe NLC Chairman Muhammad Swazuri on the cash paid to a private firm. The committee had recommended that the EACC take responsibility for the irregular acquisition of the land. Chairperson Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South) had said that the commission should take responsibility for partial payment of Sh1.5 billion as compensation. On Thursday, however, Nyamai moved an amendment to the report for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to be exonerated and involved. Nyamai got the backing of her Kikuyu counterpart Kimani Ichung'wa. "The EACC was part of the team probing the saga. They did a commendable job and stopped further payment to the company," Ichung'wa said. The dispute involves two private firms and two public schools - Ruaraka High and Drive Inn Primary - which all claimed ownership of the 13.7 acres. The firms are Afrison Export-Import Limited and Huelands Limited, its directors saying they sold the property to the government for Sh3.2 billion and had been paid Sh1.5 billion. Swazuri said only Sh1.5 billion was paid and that nobody was conned. More on this: NLC paid Sh1.5bn for Ruaraka land, nobody conned - Swazuri Also read: Ruaraka land acquisition was above board, NLC value lowest - Swazuri "SUPPORT EACC AT ALL COSTS" In a heated debate in the afternoon sitting, legislators said it would be unfair to limit the investigations to the DCI and leave the EACC out. Ichung'wa, who doubles up as the Budget committee chairman, defended the anti-corruption agency saying it started the inquiries into the irregularities. He said Parliament should not be prejudicial to investigating agencies. "Matters of the 96 acres of land that were irregularly paid for have brought me a lot of troubles but I still maintain that the EACC must be part of the investigations. I support amendments for the EACC to be part of the process," he said. "The matters of the two pieces of land, especially that of GSU, touch on the presidency, thus the DCI might not be in a position to fully investigate due to compromise. The EACC will [do what the] DCI cannot." The MP said he will not budge and noted that the EACC has forwarded the file to the DPP. "Expunging them from the investigations would be a disservice. It is not just about the 96 acres of land or the 1.5 billion and Sh1.2 billion paid. It is more than that as there is a pending requisition of another Sh671 million." His sentiments were supported by Tharaka MP George Gitonga who said the EACC should be supported at all costs and given time to execute its mandate. The MPs want the National Land Commission chair, commissioners and other officers to take personal responsibility for the payment. They said the organisation did not conduct public participation that could have included the two schools. "The NLC failed to secure the interests of the government in terms of ensuring the title documentation, in respect of the land being acquired, were delivered to the registrar and registered," the report reads. The committee also wants Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji to prosecute all public officers implicated in corrupt dealings over the land. The report says: "The National Land Commission should immediately secure the interests of the government on the land compulsorily acquired in portions of LR. No. 7879/4 by formally taking possession of the title documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 121 of the Lands Act, 2012." Click here for the latest political news