The journey of pregnancy right from conception to delivery is of utmost importance to the pregnant woman, the unborn child and the family, as well as to healthcare providers, including midwives and obstetrician gynaecologists. Severe bleeding during pregnancy or delivery is the leading cause of maternal death in both developed and developing countries, mostly preventable with adequate management. Other causes include high blood pressure, infections, difficult deliveries, birth injuries and foetal distress. Dr Joseph Musana, an assistant professor and head of obstetrics section at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi, explained, “Twenty to 25 per cent of labour and delivery complications are unpredictable, hence it is advisable for expectant women to select a hospital well equipped with a trained team, including a consultant obstetrician gynaecologist round the clock to attend to these emergencies. “However, approximately 80 per cent of women will have uncomplicated labour and delivery and will not require highly specialised care. The care of these low-risk women during labour and delivery can be led by midwives linked to a functional referral system in case of complications. “Excessive bleeding during pregnancy or delivery could be as a result of injuries in the birth canal, some of which are easily detected while injuries in the uterus may require a specialist’s urgent attention. “After delivery of the baby, if the uterus does not contract strongly, the blood vessels where the placenta detached continue bleeding. This is the most common cause of postpartum haemorrhage. Other causes maybe a tear in the uterus, cervix or vagina.” High blood pressure is another leading cause of death during pregnancy. The condition could be pre-existing, or develop after 20 weeks of gestation also called pre-eclampsia. The cause is still unknown as to why some mothers develop hypertension during pregnancy. “In the course of pregnancy, hypertension can progressively damage the mother’s liver, kidney and brain. If left untreated, it could lead to fatal complications for both the mother and baby, including development of seizures hence the ultimate solution is delivery in order to save life,” says Dr Musana. “During induced labour or augmentation, the baby could get distress. It is therefore vital to keep track of the labour process and how both the mother and baby are coping. The mother’s health history is also important in determining the cause of distress. In such cases, a cardiotocograph, acid-base check or ultrasound can be done to determine the level of distress. “Emergency pregnancy complications require timely decisions to be made and therefore, a 24-hour care system should be implemented in all county health facilities, with nurses and midwives as the primary care attendant, with emergency back up by a medical doctor or an obstetrician available within 10-15 minutes to improve quality of care and reduce maternal death, newborn mortality and stillbirth, currently still too high in Kenya.” At Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi, we have opted for a midwifery-obstetrician team model of care whereby a consultant obstetrician gynaecologist is available on campus at any given time of day and night, assisted by a team of other professionals to attend to these emergency pregnancy conditions in order to save lives and assure safe deliveries.” Dr. Musana further notes. 