The Kenyatta International Conference Centre has partnered with the Dubai World Trade Centre to develop tailor based programs that spur domestic tourism growth in the country. KICC CEO Nana Gecaga said the staff of the two iconic centres will enjoy exchange programs where the staffs travel to Kenya and Dubai frequently to acquire new skills and technology meant to build the capacity of tourism in the country. “At KICC, we are looking at the opportunities available, which we have already identified and believe in creating policies that empower our institution, the tourism sector and the people we serve,” she said. Dubai World Trade Centre brags of connecting people, products and ideas from around the globe through a year-round calendar of international trade fairs, blockbuster consumer shows and prestigious international conferences. The Dubai World Trade Centre has played a pivotal role in the growth of international trade for the Middle East, ever since our inauguration in 1979. Then, it was through the landmark 39-storey Sheikh Rashid Tower. Today we are the region’s largest purpose-built complex for events and exhibitions. “We are looking at energy sustainability and using renewable energy as part of the lessons we have acquired from Dubai,” said Nana. The team was speaking to the Star after the meeting between top KICC and the Dubai World Trade Centre led by Mahir Julfar the Vice President. The initiative will enhance other new partnerships at individual capacity in-terms of skills and personal development. “In the meeting, we also marketed Kenya for delegate experience in forthcoming events in the United Arab Emirates and especially in the world expo.” She said the exchange program will build the relationship between the two nations. “We are looking forward to a greater partnership with the government of Kenya and of course from the Tourism sector, we have over forty thousand employees working now in the United Arab Emirates from Kenya and we look forward to sending our team to Kenya for Work Experience and vice versa,” Muhir told journalists after the meeting.