The Treasury has defended the Financial Markets Conduct Bill 2018, saying its main aim is to ensure fair lending practices. Director General for Economic Affairs Geoffrey Mwau, however, told the Star the proposals are not cast in stone, and that is why Treasury has invited the public to participate in its formulation. He said before going back to the drawing board on the law capping interest rates, Treasury wanted to regulate lenders to ensure proper lending practices. The last day for the public to submit their views is today. The Bill has already drawn the criticism of Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge who said it would emasculate the regulator’s powers. He further dismissed it as a step backwards since it does not address the interest rate cap which has dampened private sector credit growth since it became law in August 2016. “This Bill does not deal with the fundamental issues that led to the rate cap,” Njoroge said during the Monetary Policy Committee press briefing last Tuesday. The Bill, which Treasury said seeks to encourage responsible borrowing, also proposes the creation of additional regulatory agencies including the Financial Market Conduct Authority, Financial Sector Ombudsman, and Financial Sector Tribunal. Experts criticised the Bill, saying it may not meet its intended purpose. STIFLE INNOVATION Africa Asset Managers investment analyst Daniel Kuyoh told the Star that rather than shield consumers from high debt, the proposed Bill may result in more adverse effects in terms of credit disbursement than the interest rate cap. “These mobile loans provide a bridge financing for individual households and bottom of the pyramid traders for their working capital needs and by frustrating that flow and access, the government may be shooting itself in the foot,” he said. He added that the proposed Bill would only worsen the current economic conditions. A survey by Financial Sector Deepening Kenya found the most common reasons for digital borrowing among Kenyan adults are business and day-to-day needs. This has prompted concerns over rising household debt as a result of increased digital credit uptake. The survey found 14 per cent of digital borrowers were repaying multiple loans from more than one provider meaning over 800,000 Kenyans are juggling multiple digital loans. It stated having multiple loans is not necessarily an indicator of debt distress. Joseph Githaiga, an associate director at PWC’s tax department said although the Bill was a step in the right direction as it seeks to rein in negative practices, there is a risk that it will stifle innovation in the financial services sector. “Under such a regime, innovations such as M-Pesa would most likely not have succeeded. This would have an overall negative impact on low-income consumers who rely on innovative financing models to gain access to credit and other financial products,” he said. “It repeals certain positions under the Banking Act such as approval of fees and charges which really leaves bank customers back at the will of banks.” Under the proposed draft Bill, banks will not be allowed to increase a customer’s credit limit without proper consultation and consent from the borrower. This is aimed at restraining lending platforms from enticing vulnerable consumers. Click here for the latest political news