J onas Nahimana is a man of many nationalities. Kenyan, Burundi and Congolese. The footballer-cum-gospel artiste was among the squad of players who brought back glory to Sportspesa Premier League side AFC Leopards back in 2011-12 by displaying great results, giving the club’s fans hopes that they would clinch the title during the two seasons, but that did not happen. Tusker  FC took all the titles during the two seasons. Nahimana later left for Quang Nam FC in Vietnam Premier League for a season, then Champasak in Laos Premier League, before he decided to settle in the US, where he played for Atlanta Silver Back ( 3rd Div). He later hang the boots and ventured into modelling and music. “I do miss playing because that’s what I  have been doing my entire life. It was a tough decision but that’s what makes you a man in life,” he says. Jonas is happy with the reception from music lovers and says: “So far so good with music. I am launching my first tune before the end of summer,” he added. Pako, as he is popularly known by football fans, was known for his unique sense of fashion. He featured on magazine covers and billboards as a model both in Kenyan and Congo, and he says this encouraged him to try out his luck in the competitive industry. “Because I’m into fashion, I decided to audition then made it. I was the runway model at some fashion event and I got positive feedback. There are a couple of agencies that are willing to work with me but I won’t mention their names now until I seal the deals.” Born in a Christian family, he says growing up he was into music and “anyone who knew me when growing up, I always loved singing. I started as a kid in the church choir but because of the love of soccer, I neglected it. And I couldn’t combine singing and playing at the same time. Just like they say you cant serve two masters the same time”. Adding: “I always had my guitar and wrote songs but it got to a point I decided to put my songs out there to show the world my hidden talent.” The multi-talented footballer, who has now become a darling to many thanks to his melodious voice, is currently in Des Moines, the capital and the most populous city in the US, and will be relocating back to Dallas, Texas, this summer, sings in Lingala and his music is a mix of Rhumba, Rnb and Afrobeat. Asked about his career at AFC Leopards, he says: “My most memorable moment is KPL was every time I put on that AFC Jersey. These moments are unforgettable and I miss them a lot. Ingwe is not a team but a family. Living away from home sometimes, when things are not going too well, can be tough. You break down emotionally and mentally. But during my time at AFC players, technical bench, officials and fans made me feel at home.” Nahimana, who also feautered for Sofapaka FC, is still a great supporter of Ingwe and he’s hoping to reunite with the team’s fans and players. “I’m still close to football and still support the upcoming talent. My former team, a 3rd division team back in Congo, where my little brother is playing right now — I’m their sponsor and try to support them with materials. “And also to my former team AFC Leopards, I always follow them from afar and try to encourage and support players individually. Whoever I feel like had a good performance during a game, but I won’t mention names. But I’m planning to do something for the entire team. I will see maybe get them sets of jerseys or some materials. I already spoke about it with a few members.” Adding: “I have a project I’m working on with one of the agencies  (Dream Catcher Nation). I have a project to set up my foundation in Congo and Kenya, called “Fiends of Pako”, which will not only focus on the football field but extend wings, like visit orphans, widows, and hospitals to help the less fortunate with my little income as I look for sponsors. “ Nahimana is a close friend to Congolese maestro artiste Fally Ipupa, and says he looks up to the superstar.