New KPA boss Daniel Manduku has promised to improve efficiency and deal with corruption at the agency. He spoke to Star Reporter Maureen Mudi yesterday.  What are your short-term and long-term plans at the helm of KPA? First, I want to improve efficiency to ensure there is seamless connection between discharge of cargo and eventual location. I will do that by engaging other agencies involved in port operations. We'll also ensure there is maximum output from staff by motivating them and creating harmony in all departments. So far, we've been able to achieve considering the measure is the number of containers currently at the port which have reduced from an all time high of 22,500 to about 10,000 today. We're committed to ensuring the numbers are further reduced even as we maintain good business practice.  How are you able to achieve these numbers?  By ensuring that all departments are efficient. This is a chain process involving those discharging from the cranes, transporting from the terminal, evacuating out of the port and those doing documentation. They must all work in harmony. A small break in the link will cause clogging.  What do you think is ailing port operations? I'm still new but can pick out a few issues. First are issues to do with human resource. We need a well-motivated, well trained and focused workforce that is good-cultured. The other challenge is on the operations which I think should be well-serviced modern port. We also have external challenges. There is need to continuously sensitise stakeholders and align their interests with those of the authority. For instance, the SGR must work. There is no question about it. We can't negotiate that. Once stakeholders realise that, then we can work it out.  How do you intend to enhance stakeholder engagement and involvement in decision-making? We have a stakeholders' meeting every Friday. The chairman of the board, Geen Joseph Kibwana, has agreed to grace the meeting. Beyond that, I intend to make small subcommitees where we will identify issues and deal with them at that level by making recommendations to be tabled to the management. Those that need policy direction will be taken to the board for onward transmission to the government and relevant ministries.  What's your take on the government's directive that cargo be transported via SGR? SGR is the best thing that ever happened to this country. We're able to deliver cargo delivered to our Inland Container Depot in Nairobi within 24 hours. It is safe, secure and cost effective. Besides, SGR doesn't damage our roads.  Cargo transporters say SGR has taken up their businesses. How will you deal with that? SGR will only freight about 30 per cent of the cargo. That means the businessmen have 70 per cent to transport. Remember they also have the option of doing the last mile given the SGR line ends at the ICD in Nairobi. No container is destined for the ICD which means the truck owners have the opportunity to ferry them to their eventual destinations in Industrial Area, Thika or Limuru.  The Kenya International Freight and Fowarders Association feel ICD operations have largely failed. What are you doing to address that? We are currently evacuating six trucks every day to Nairobi. We are doing between 600-620 containers per day. I believe the process is efficiently done. The stakeholders should not mix their commercial interests with national interests.  The country is chocking under fake and contraband good which are sneaked in through the Port of Mombasa. How are you going to deal with the problem? We are working together with agencies involved in national security to ensure no counterfeits or contraband consignment are shipped in.  Specifically, what about the current issue of contraband sugar that is said to be flooding the market? You know that matter happened before I came here, so I cannot comment about it. In the future, we shall be on the lookout.  How do you intend to deal with corrupt officials of the authority? Of course you know corruption is punishable by law. At KPA, we have an integrity board and a department that deals with security. I have warned my staff that anyone found culpable, will be summarily dismissed and prosecuted.  Have you had any board meeting? What are the key issues you shall be handling at the meeting? There will be a board meeting on Friday June 22. I think it will be more of an induction since it will be my first meeting.  How is KPA strategising itself to deal with regional competition? We can only deal with competition if we are efficient both in time and costs. Customers chose the better deal. We can only be better if we improve our systems and remain competitive.  What's the latest on the LAPSSET project in as far as the port is concerned? We are currently undertaking the construction of the three berths. The mandate of KPA is to oversee the construction of the berths. We hope we shall get the finance to do that.  How much do you need for the project? Construction of the he three berths will cost about Sh30 billion. We need Sh15 billion because we are already 50 per cent done.  When will operations at the berths commence? I shall be visiting the place next week. We hope to have them operational by 2020.  Local communities want to be given priority in the running of port activities. They also want jobs. How will you address that? They should come up with ways to settle those concerns. I’m not an appointing authority, so I can’t address that