Public hearings on the national budget should be held after the budget Review and Outlook Paper has been submitted to Parliament so that projects arising from public consultations are included in the budget before the budget policy statement is finalised. The House should therefore amend the PFM law to ensure public participation on the budget is conducted in October and November. Given the large projects initiated by the national government, with contractual agreements which Parliament only gets to know about later, any contractual agreement worth more than Sh1 billion should be pre-approved by Parliament beginning July 1. Given the importance of finalising ongoing projects, particularly in infrastructure, manufacturing and agriculture, resources allocated for these projects should be ring-fenced. A proper monitoring and evaluation framework should be put in place to ensure these projects are completed within the stipulated time frame. Any budgetary changes within the year should not affect projects related to manufacturing, unless substantial reason is provided, along with a plan on how this will be mitigated. A list of all pending bills should be provided by the Treasury and should be given priority to limit accrual of penalties. The government should consider expanding the current leasing framework of motor vehicles for the entire Public Service, as opposed to purchasing vehicles as this is quite expensive. An audit of Mitihani House, Umaa Dam, Kirdi Laboratories in South B, the Civil Servant Housing scheme in Makueni and other major stalled government projects should be carried out by the departmental committee in liaison with the MDAs to determine why projects have taken so long to complete and a report should be presented to the House. They should be prioritised for completion over the medium term as they have consumed a significant amount of taxpayers’ money and still continue to incur costs without yielding any returns. Going forward, the government should pursue a public-private partners which has been adopted by the office of the Auditor General for designing and constructing its headquarters at Upper Hill, Nairobi. Excerpt from Budget Committee Chairman's speech in the House yesterday Click here for more political news