Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu was questioned by Israeli police on Tuesday for the
first time in an investigation into a $2 billion deal over the
sale of German Thyssenkrupp submarines to Israel, but
is not a suspect, police said. The deal for three submarines and four patrol vessels has
been the subject of a corruption investigation since late 2016
after Israel's Channel 10 TV reported that Netanyahu's personal
lawyer also represented the local agent of Thyssenkrupp Marine
Systems, raising concerns of a conflict of interest. The attorney, David Shimron, has denied wrongdoing and said
he never discussed the deal with Netanyahu, a distant relation. Police investigators questioned Netanyahu at his Jerusalem
residence. Israeli media initially reported they had focused on
a separate corruption probe into Netanyahu's dealings with
Israel's main telecoms company. "The prime minister gave testimony in Case 3000, the
submarines case, for the first time. He is not a suspect,"
police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said. In a text message, a spokesman for Netanyahu said that the
prime minister "detailed the entire professional considerations
that guided him in his decisions regarding the submarines and
vessels and their importance for the security of the state". In November, police investigating the submarine case
questioned a Netanyahu confidant, Yitzhak Molcho, an attorney
who has doubled as the premier’s envoy in negotiations with the
United States, Egypt and the Palestinians. He denies wrongdoing. Netanyahu has been named as a suspect in three other
corruption probes -- cases 1000, 2000 and 4000. In February,
police recommended charging him with bribery in the first two. Israel's attorney-general is still weighing whether to
indict Netanyahu, who has denied committing any crimes, and the
decision could take months. In Case 1000, he is suspected of bribery over gifts from
wealthy businessmen, which police say were worth nearly
$300,000. Case 2000 involves an alleged attempt by Netanyahu to
win positive coverage in Israel’s biggest newspaper by offering
to take measures to curtail circulation of a rival daily. In Case 4000, Netanyahu has been questioned over allegations
he awarded regulatory favours to a telecoms firm in return for
favourable coverage on a news site the company’s owner controls. Despite the probes, opinion polls have shown the right-wing
leader's popularity has risen in recent weeks, a reflection of
his tough security policies, US withdrawal from the Iran
nuclear deal he opposes and the opening of the American Embassy
in contested Jerusalem, a move Netanyahu had advocated. Click here for the latest political news