There is a disconnect among the state corporations in the Agriculture ministry, Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has said. The ministry has 29 parastatals, with an annual budget of Sh23 billion and a workforce of about 15,000. Kiunjuri said the accountability and effectiveness that must be demanded of such resources is equally big. However, whenever issues of accountability are raised, it is the CS and the Principal Secretary who are blamed, he said. “For example, right now we have a challenge at the National Cereals and Produce Board. Who is being roasted? Who is answering the questions? It is the PS and CS,” Kiunjuri said. Last month the CS said he will not resign over the Sh1.9 billion maize scandal at the National Cereals and Produce Board. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and Moiben MP Silas Tiren were among politicians who had called for his resignation. The EACC last week started grilling some of the traders listed as top beneficiaries of Sh1.9 billion. The money was paid to at least 10 traders yet more than 3,500 farmers have not been paid at least Sh4 billion since December. Former NCPB chief executive officer Newton Terer will also be questioned. Terer resigned four weeks ago without giving details. Kiunjuri spoke in Mombasa during a two-day meeting between the ministry and state corporation heads and chairpersons at the Nyali Sun Africa Beach Hotel. Kiunjuri said everyone should be held accountable. “There is disconnect between what happens at the ministry headquarters and what happens at these state corporations. When issues arise, you run to the Cabinet Secretary to defend you,” he said. Kiunjuri called for communication among all ministry levels and state corporations’ departments. He said Kenya is at a point in time when citizens have great mistrust in public institutions due to poor services and unacceptable governance lapses. In his 2015-16 report, Auditor General Edward Ouko flagged Sh20 billion expenditure allocated to the National Irrigation Board for schemes that cannot be accounted for. At the centre of Ouko’s probe is the giant Sh7.3 billion Galana-Kulalu irrigation scheme launched by President Uhuru in January 2014. 