Uganda has asked Kenya to declare the holder of its $74 million (Sh7.4 billion) stake in its proposed oil refinery ahead of the investment decision to be made next May. President Yoweri Museveni yesterday said Kenya is taking long to name its shareholder in the $2.5 billion project with an envisaged output capacity of 60,000 barrels per day upon full operation in 2020. “We have limited time to make an investment decision on this project. I would like to remind Kenya to name its shareholder in the project as promised during the 13th summit held in Uganda in 2016. The project holds a great future to this region,” Museveni said at the 14th Summit of Northern Corridor Integration Project in Nairobi. Although Kenya concluded plans to invest in the proposed refinery project in 2014, it is yet to decide the government agency or ministry that will be a shareholder in the project. Uganda invited regional nations to acquire marginal stakes in the project. Kenya agreed to take 2.5 per cent while Tanzania went for eight per cent of Uganda’s 40 per cent. The refinery is expected to be financed in a public-private partnership arrangement, with Uganda-based Albertine Graben Refinery Consortium taking a 60 per cent stake. Uganda signed a Project Framework Agreement in April 2018 with the Albertine Graben Refinery Consortium to design, develop, finance and operate a refinery in Hoima. northern corridor projects It is expected that a final investment decision will be made by May 2019. The land for the refinery has already been acquired. The NCIP is a multilateral development initiative established in 2013 and aims to speed up development in the region, particularly the improvement of infrastructure for ease of movement of people, goods and services in the region. The meeting reviewed the progress made in the implementation of the resolutions reached at the 13th Summit held in Kampala, Uganda in 2016. Regional leaders praised Kenya for taking major steps in implementing Northern Corridor infrastructure projects, especially the standard gauge railway. Having successfully completed the Mombasa-Nairobi line and embarked on the Nairobi-Naivasha section which is now at 50 percent completion, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya is expected to pass the baton to Uganda with final connection to Rwanda.   