The
Kenya Ports Authority Managing Director seat appears to be a hot one. Out
of 13 MDs the port has had since 1979, seven were sacked, three resigned and
four finished their terms. Jonathan
Mturi (February 1980-September 1984), Phillip Okundi (September 1984-January
1993) and Brown Ondego (December 1999-January 2006) concluded the durations set
in their contracts. John
Gituma who was deputy director general before being made the first KPA MD,
served from November 1979 to February 1980, then retired. The
latest to resign from the position, but after being accused of underperfoming,
is Catherine Mturi-Wairi. She
took charge of operations from the sacked Gichiri Ndua in 2016 and on Saturday,
she bowed out. All
the sackings were attributed to graft, incompetence or both. An
analysis has shown Coast natives promoted to be MDs were axed mid-way. Also,
all the dismissed did not survive past two years into their appointment. Daniel
Manduku - ex National Construction Authority – is now the acting MD after
Mturi's exit. The High Court on Tuesday ruled that Manduku should serve as the acting MD. He has promised radical changes at the port to ensure effective delivery of services at the port. But
the manner, in which former bosses have been hounded out since 1994, has
triggered a debate of what lies in the office. The
position comes with immense influence over lucrative expenditures and staff
recruitment. Heads
have been caught up in web of corruption that soiled their reputation,
consequently ending career of some. Ndua
was in 2016 fired after a dossier compiled for the President by the Ethics and
Anti-Corruption Commission and National Intelligence Services. It
unearthed malpractices, including tax evasion and entry of contraband cargo. “Several serving staff at the KPA had
failed to fully exercise their duties to stop or mitigate the possibility of
KPA operations and delivery being compromised,” then Transport CS James
Macharia said. Ndua's
immediate predecessor was James Mulewa. Mulewa
was sacked in 2010 by then Transport Minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere. He
was accused of corruption and economic crimes. Mulewa
irregularly recruited, awarded tenders and mismanaged KPA funds. Last
September, he was ordered by Mombasa High Court to pay the state Sh63 million
and surrender two parcels. Mulewa
forerunner was Abdalla Mwaruwa. He
was sacked in 2008, two years after taking office. Then
Prime Minister Raila Odinga announced the firing. Raila
said Mwaruwa was dismissed because he failed to solve a congestion crisis at
the port that cost the country millions in revenue. Between
December 1999 – January 2006, Ondego led. Joseph
Munene took the reigns in September 1999. But three months later, he resigned. Lennyrod
Mwangola after working as the MD for 28 months from May 1997, he was sacked. Robert
Brenneisen was hired to work for a year as executive chairman between February
1996 to April 1997. Brenneisen's
predecessor Simeon Mkalla worked for two years from 1994 before he was shown
the door. Just
like majority, Albert Mumba was sacked a year into his appointment after his
January 1993 selection. Okundi
came before him and worked for nine years from 1984. Dock
Workers Union secretary general Simon Sang' said the dismissal was largely due
to poor performance and political interference. Political
machinations affected Mturi and Mkalla while Mwangola and Mwarua suffered
because of performance," he said on phone Monday. Sources
say lucrative tenders for capital equipment and services and other general
supplies usually cause the storms at the port. Interested parties are reported
to fight their wars around the Transport minister, KPA board and brokers
leading to sacking. Questions
are abound why there have been no legal action against some sacked MDs despite
claims of corruption. Only
Mkalla and Mulewa were arraigned in court in 1996 and 2017 respectively. Mkalla's
case was however later terminated. What
remains to be seen is how Manduku, or other person appointed to the MD
position, will navigate the hurdles ahead. 