The government will build 4,000 new laboratories in needy schools, especially day schools, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto said a significant number of schools, especially day secondary schools, have poor or no laboratory facilities yet they are expected to compete with others that have better facilities. “It is a tall order to expect students that have to go to another school for facilities like laboratories to perform equally in the same examination with the students who have better facilities,” Ruto said, He spoke yesterday during the third day of the 43rd Kenya Secondary School Heads Association annual conference at Wild Waters Complex in Mombasa. The laboratory programme is to complement the ‘Watoto Waende Shule’ drive launched at the Coast by Education CS Amina Mohamed recently to push the transition numbers up. The government targets 100 per cent transition rate from primary to secondary schools by 2022. Amina said the transition rate has hit the 90 per cent mark. Ruto said success stories like the Marereni Secondary School in Kilifi, which managed to enrol 520 students in Form One this year should be appreciated and encouraged. He said education is a major enabler of Kenya’s socio-economic transformation and must be supported. More than 20 per cent of the country’s Sh3 trillion budget, which translates to about Sh600 billion, goes into funding the free primary and secondary education. He said infrastructure grants have expanded space in secondary schools to ensure that transition becomes a reality. But as the government expands school infrastructure, the principals said the schools might run aground with a deficit of Sh6.034 billion in fees from the government. Kessha chairman Indimuli Kahi said they might be forced to ‘send the children home’ should ‘parent number one’ (CS Amina Mohamed) fail to pay the arrears. “This money is very important for the successful running of our schools,” he said. In April, Ruto told schools to stop forcing parents to contribute money for development. He said schools should look for other ways of raising cash. The government rolled out free primary education to lift the fee burden from parents, Ruto said.