In his latest developments to slay corruption, President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday issued executive orders requiring all government entities and public owned institutions to publish details of tenders and awards from July 1. In a statement by State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu, the Head of State said the publication will allow members of the public to access the information. These, he said, includes the items or services purchased, contract prices, and the particulars of the suppliers including owners, directors and beneficial ownership. "This will enhance the highest level of public scrutiny at all units of public administration, and thereby improve the management of public resources for public good," Esipisu said. The president further stated that from January 1 next year, all public procurement will be undertaken through the electronic platform of the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS). He said Treasury CS Henry Rotich as been directed to guarantee the integrity of the system, and secure the seamless integration of all public procuring entities. The IFMIS system has on a number of occasions be blamed for having gaps that allowed corrupt government officials to siphon Sh791 million from the first NYS scandal. "As outlined in their respective letters of appointment, accounting officers shall take personal responsibility for all procurements in their agencies, and will be held personally accountable for all public resources under their charge," Esipisu said. He said the executive order is in line with the president’s commitment to entrench good governance in the management of public affairs, and deepen accountability and transparency in the procurement of public goods, works and services. The Executive Order is premised on the Constitutional principles of Chapter 12 on public financial management, and in particular Art. 201 and 227 that emphasise integrity, prudent use of financial resources, and fair, equitable, competitive and cost effective procurement. On June 1, Uhuru ordered all procurement and accounting officers of state agencies, departments and parastatals to be vetted afresh. He also ordered that the officers be subjected to a polygraph test before being allowed to continue with their duties. Uhuru’s directive seemingly emanated from the revelation that Sh468 million was stolen from NYS through fictitious procurement of goods that were never delivered. Some 46 suspects have since been prosecuted over the alleged theft and are currently in remand pending their trial. On June 4, through Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, Uhuru directed all procurement officers to step aside and forward their personal documents in readiness for vetting. A court case that had contested the fresh vetting of the officers was yesterday set aside. Read: Justice Makau lifts order against fresh vetting of procurement officers More on this: Uhuru orders procurement heads in all ministries to step aside Click here for the latest political news