If I was to describe from my personal perch, the play entitled Constellations, authored by Nick Payne that was recently on show in Nairobi at the Braeburn Theatre, as tersely as possible, I would say it is about; “Life and death and everything in between, or just about”. It is not often that Nairobi gets to be regaled by a play that diverts from the more common preoccupation with politically and socially driven narratives. For here we have an unapologetically steady slithering into the murky depths, which at times prove to be the shallows, of Philosophy. It was directed by John Sibi-Okumu, a theatrical legend in Kenya, with no doubt the largest resume of roles acted, directed and topped off with a bevy of plays he has written. When I spoke to him, his humbleness never failing him, he graciously gave entire credit for selecting this play to the main actress, Sylvia Cassini, who was also the producer. She had approached John to direct it, and it goes without saying that it was a prescient, almost forgone choice. He admitted that; “My initial reaction was that it was too complex”. Well, what else can anyone expect to hear from such a self effacing man, for the reality is that he is always game to whatever is as challenging as it gets. He has no time for easy tasks and suffers no fools, as behind his polite façade is a Mara Lion. The other role was assigned to another local thespian, Peter Coulson, who cheekily likes to sum up his stage presence as one who aims to “leave no community safe from a gentle ribbing”. What an understatement, for he is merciless when at it, at least in this play, where his character comes from Yorkshire. Yet somehow he manages to go against the grain of the saying that “A Yorkshireman is a Scotsman with all generosity squeezed out of him”, and finds many redeeming qualities. Although it is a two actor play, or is it, for they each keep undergoing permutations, like a creature from Franz’s Kafka’s Metamorphosis, to a point where there are as many versions of themselves on stage as in a kaleidoscope. Definitely the main onus of the play rested on Sylvia’s performance, which was not a surprise, for her prowess extends to having taken on leading roles over the years, with her Lady Macbeth being no less a permanent seal of her talent. This time around she had actually taken on a particularly difficult role, as she had to be by far more nuanced and restrained. She pulled off this feat magisterially. Not to be a spoilsport I will stay clear of giving away the plot itself. All I will say is that the crux is a romantic entanglement between a cosmologist and a beekeeper. Yes, you heard me right, as incongruous as this may sound. The play has a stark economy to it, which strangely enough, as the play progresses, gets lobbed out of our consciousness, and instead we behold an extremely rich tapestry, conjured up by Sibi-Okumu, who masterly places us within a world of his deft creation. “Fundamentally it is a minimalist play, where what was of essence I had left to the audiences imagination, for it’s not a didactic but philosophical play”, he shared with me. This is a play that is a gift to an actor turned director. John says that in his case he had an advantage; “As an actor you are by far more sensitive, for you know how to deliver a line, hitting the right sort of cadence without falling into the trap of overkill”. He purposely approached this play in such a fashion that it could function effectively as a radio play as well. The more I prod John his inner roar starts piercing his outer shield: “The word is sacred, and therefore I hate improvisation. Every word was written by the author for a specific reason, so who are you to question the intention behind it, and fiddle with it? No! Never!” John is so averse to improvisation that he often declines to attend performances of his own plays if he gets a whiff that his creations are being compromised in any manner. He is after all Kenya’s leading living playwright, so take note of this; all directors, or there will be nothing left for the vultures once John is through with you. I found Constellations to be a play that sums up the current condition of Europe’s Soul, which may soon be knocking down doors at closer Meridians and Longitudes. And what comes across is tragic. “Something is rotten in the state of Denmark”, is one of Shakespeare’s most memorable lines, not only from Hamlet, but his entire oeuvre. In this case the figurative ‘Denmark’ is primarily the UK. The protagonists of Constellations are on a quest to both find and create meaning in their lives, which keeps slipping and eluding them. That is why Sibi-Okumu assembled a mirror, parallel world on the stage, following Nick Payne’s annoyingly delicious verbal contortions, where two people lose their identities as soon as they think they have grasped one. It is a fact that right now there are by far more dogs and cats than children in the homes of European cities, towns and villages, as this is a continent that is so entranced with satiating its selfish pursuits that it considers having children a hindrance to enjoying a self-centred lifestyle. Without offspring, it is as of now committing collective suicide, trying to temporarily stave it off with a massive importation of a ready but inassimilable and hostile population. Bizarrely one of them is now Mayor of London. Charles Dickens would squirm. It is ever agonising when the highly intellectual Sylvia’s character keeps dejectedly repeating that there was once a time when there was certainty, for there was Faith, while now she has been relegated to a mere molecule. But even in this demeaning cocoon that she finds herself trapped in, there is no answer, as it recently turned out that Albert Einstein’s theories about space-time are precariously becoming wobbly. The beekeeper Yorkshireman tries to ward off this emptiness by placing his trust in the apparent order and tranquility of Nature. But still as much as he tries there is little for him to show for his efforts. Well, at least some of his results are objectively sweet. Vacuous dalliances only reiterate the need for an anchoring in a more solid Truth. But no consolation is in sight. Friedrich Nietzsche, the German philosopher who posited that: “God is dead. God remains dead. And we have killed him. How shall we comfort ourselves the murderers of all murderers?”, can either be made co-responsible for swinging these ominous gates wide open or seen as the one who attempted a coup de grace. For some strange reason only the first part of his aforementioned phrase is commonly known. There’s equally both poison and anguish in the remainder, and the play echoes this. Astonishingly a hefty part of the leadership of the Church of England themselves no longer believe in God. This is not a joke may I say. Already a quarter of the British declare themselves avowed atheists. For Kenyans it may be of interest to know that the most famous atheist in the world is their own compatriot, Richard Dawkins. As many, he completely embraces and espouses, without any shade of doubt, Charles’ Darwin’s theories of evolution. Karl Marx, now safely entombed in a London cemetery, hammered the final nail that scuttled the substance of this continent, and whose ‘ideals’ unleashed untold horror all over the world, chalking up the greatest body count in history, all for a debunked promise of a Heaven on Earth. In the play, one such leftover murky ‘paradise’ of the once more growing Leftism, is replicated and represented by London’s Tower Hamlets Borough, where the beekeeper has naively ensconced himself to the evident dismay of the cosmologist. There are after all limits to her tolerance. What was once a solid Western structure built of the Mores, Reason and Laws of the Jews, Greeks and Romans is whittling away at a stupendous rate, and this Borough is symbolic of this decay. This highly intelligent play deals with the drought of Spirit afflicting the West without recourse to any direct naming of the actual ailment. This is theatre in the vein of the classic Russian playwright Anton Chekov, based on Naturalism, where understatement rules. Chekov said; "Let us be as complex and as simple as life itself. People dine and at the same time their happiness is made, or their lives are broken”. I recall being fascinated by all the instruments assembled by the Medieval Polish astronomer Nicolas Copernicus, when I visited his observatory in a castle tower in the tiny town of Frombork, which he used to measure the movement of celestial bodies. He is forever remembered as “The Man who Stopped the Sun and Moved the Earth”. How astounding to learn that he was a Catholic clergyman. So then, is there no conflict between Faith and Science, as the common lore goes? Saint Mother Teresa of Calcutta, with whom I have had the good fortune of meeting and talking to, had in many ways best surmised the state of contemporary affairs. In an interview, though not with me, she said: “There are many in the world dying for a piece of bread, but there are many more dying for a little love. The poverty in the West is a different kind of poverty – it is not only a poverty of loneliness but also of spirituality”. Will the constellations of what is truly of value and worth ever be recovered by Europe and not lost by those also standing at that same unwinding slope?  Jacob Barua is a renowned film director Copyright, 2018, Jacob Barua  