Former KPA Managing Director Catherine Mturi-Wairi has officially handed over to Daniel Manduku after weeks of conflict and speculation about the organisation's leadership. A low-key ceremony took place on Thursday, those in attendance including Kenya Ports Authority board chair General (Rtd) Joseph Kibwana, Legal Services General Manager Addraya Dena and Operations GM William Ruto. Mturi-Wairi pledged to support and advise the acting MD when necessary, as well as avail herself during the transition. The former MD, who was sent on a two-month forced leave before voluntarily resigning, handed documents to Manduku and took him through key port projects. They include second container terminal-phase two, relocation of the Kipevu oil terminal, Lamu port construction, and the second relief line of the Standard Gauge Railway that will cover the conventional cargo terminal. Manduku said he will ensure Mombasa port becomes "very efficient and competitive" and improves on gains made. “We shall work with partners, both local and regional, constantly engage stakeholders and ensure the government and the national agenda are put first,” he said at the chairman's office at the KPA headquarters. Manduku, who is former National Construction Authority boss, asked staff to be service-centred and operation driven, as opposed to being procurement centered and merchant driven. Read: Corrupt officials to be sacked as Manduku vows to revamp KPA Also read: KPA boss Daniel Manduku says qualified for port job The handover paved way for the smooth induction of board members, with the first meeting taking place on Friday.  Manduku said the meeting will be for the induction of members and staff. It will be the second one for Kibwana to chair, in a period of three years. Kibwana was appointed in 2009 and his tenure extended on June 5 in a gazette notice by Transport CS James Macharia. Macharia appointed Peter Gibendi, Mary Ngare, Conrad Thorpe, Kariuki Njiri and Alice Mwaisaka to the board for three years. Member Valentine Mwakamba was also retained. The terms of Stephen Ogwapit, Hafswa Dele, Fred Kirui and Ken Ogeto (now Solicitor General) expired on April 21. The board has 12 members, those who are representatives by virtue of their positions being the chairman, MD, Transport PS, Treasury PS, Attorney General and the Kenya Railways Cooperation MD. KPA has announced major plans to revamp port activities and engage its stakeholders, after making records in cargo clearance and ship performance. After Mturi-Wairi's suspension, Ruto, Dena, Engineering Services GM Rashid Salim and Finance GM Patrick Nyoike took over KPA's management to ensure no vacuum. They stepped in also because Manduku's appointment had been suspended by the High Court. The former MD went to the authority's headquarters for the first time today, since May 30 when she was asked to take leave, and despite a court order that reinstated her. More on this: Mturi-Wairi yet to report to work despite court order, says KPA Also read: Manduku finally takes charge at KPA after Mturi case withdrawn Click here for the latest political news