Has Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and DP William Ruto closed ranks as much as Ukambani politics is concerned. Well. There are whispers that the duo could be plotting to teach Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua a political lesson. It is rumoured that the two could have deliberated on the issue after attending the Iftra dinners hosted by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko last week. Our mole told Corridors of Power that the DP, known for his ‘generosity’, could be contemplating striking to neutralise any challenge to Kalonzo in Ukambani ahead of a possible 2022 pact. ***** Is there some cold war developing between top Jubilee leaders’ associates relating to the ongoing graft war? Some senior government officials think so. They told us that both sides have been offering police tips on where illegal sugar has been stored in a bid to make the other party look bad. This is also said to be the case in the NYS probe where the battle is reportedly being taken to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s doorstep. Its whispered that a huge smear campaign has began. If the NIS was effective, maybe this is the time they need to advise the Head of State appropriately. ***** Still on matters graft, two senior people close to government officials are on our radar. The first is a senior Jubilee official whispered to be building state-of-the-art flats along Thika Road. Although the man is said to be wealthy and would ordinarily afford, its his dalliance with Chinese contractors that is raising eyebrows. Some people in the know believe he is dangling his influence to partake in the eating. The second is a Principal Secretary who is said to have awarded a lucrative tender to his family. ***** An MP whose firearm licence was revoked by the state is unsettled. The vocal lawmaker has made frantic efforts to have his firearm licence restored. A bird whispered to Corridors that the MP allied to the opposition was seen at the Interior CS Fred Matiang’i’s office a few weeks ago trying to get his licence reinstated. It is not clear what his mission entailed, but it is understood that the MP has been reaching out to government functionaries in a bid to have his firearm returned. The MP has previously threatened to shoot his opponents. Will the government bow to pressure? Who will blink first? Time will tell.