Power back at City hall after KPLC and County Government reached an agreement. Speaking to the Star yesterday, County Executive for Lands Charles Kerich said the lights were connected back at city hall last week on  Friday. " We reached a deal and they reconnected the electricity. We agreed we (County Government) pay what we owe and we follow the to pay what they owe us," said Kerich. Last week,City Hall building and the adjacent annex had been in ‘darkness’ for three days after KPLC pulled the plug over a sh 732 million debt. Photos going round on social media revealed KPLC's vehicles bearing blue number plates,being clamped and towed away by the county officers even after having been legally parked and the company having paid parking for three months. However, the County Secretary Peter Kariuki had rubbished the the claims and said if the vehicles were towed it had to do with "parking issue". Nairobi county has been at loggerhead with the utility firm since 2014. Last month Nairobi county has lost a bid to bar Kenya Power from disconnecting electricity supply at key city institutions over an outstanding Sh732 million debt. According to the county government, Kenya Power owes them more than Sh600 million in way leave and rent arrears for electricity poles. Both Kerich and Kariuki said Kenya Power's disconnection of electricity supply to City Hall was in bad faith. Kariuki had noted that a joint task force was formed to establish the exact amount owed by each party and that it had not yet proposed ways to offset the debt. “The amount they claim we owe them is an estimation. That is why the team was formed,” he also said, placing the figure at Sh990 million and adding that it disputed a Sh543 million amount in court," said Kariuki. He further argued that the firm owes City Hall Sh816 million for way leaves for its distribution networks and installations. He had earlier said Nairobi was willing to pay the debt and had already released Sh15 million. Kerch who is also the acting CEC for finance said the county had no problem paying what it owes but it only request that the task force be given time to reconcile these debts.  