Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo's focus on
education is a strategy to win the support of teachers and parents. The MP on Thursday reiterated his
dedication to supporting and improving education infrastructure in
Kisauni. Speaking at Mtopanga primary school
after delivering 100 desks and chairs to the KCPE candidates and
another 16 tables for teachers, Mbogo said he will make Kisauni the
model constituency in the county. “If you invest in education, you will
never go wrong,” he said. Kisauni is Mombasa county's most vast
and populated constituency with an estimated population of more than
300,000 people, over 120,000 of who are registered voters. Mbogo attributes his election success
to the support of teachers who had bought into his mantra of 'Elimu
Kwanza' (Education first). The mantra was designed to drill home
the importance of education in fighting crime and ensuring
socio-economic development. The MP, who has governor ambitions in
2022, said he will work together with teachers and other stakeholders
in Mombasa to ensure crime goes down and education goes up. To show his commitment to education,
Mbogo says his team has developed a policy to channel 70 per cent of
the NG-CDF money to education while 30 per cent will go towards
security. On Thursday, he said he wants to make
public schools in Kisauni the schools of choice. “We want public schools to compete
favourably with private schools in Kisauni. We want to make public
schools more attractive than the private ones,” he said. Already, the MP has won the support of
the 45 teachers at Mtopanga primary school who pledged to work
closely with him. A similar silent pact has been made
between the MP and teachers at Shimo la Tewa primary school. According to close Mbogo allies, the MP
believes teachers have the power to convince both parents and pupils. “That is why he has decided to treat
teachers in all the schools in Kisauni well. Teachers will enjoy
support from the MP, especially on matters education,” said one of
Mbogo's confidantes. On Thursday, Mbogo said he will have to
work out ways to help teachers access bursaries. This is after the teachers at Mtopanga
primary told him they miss out on the bursaries because they have no
time to queue at the MP's office for the bursary forms because of
their usually tight schedule. “We also have children who need
bursaries because sometimes we are overwhelmed,” said one of the
teachers. Mbogo said teachers played a big role
in his election success in August 2017 and he plans to reward them. “I have the most respect for teachers
because they made me who I am today,” said the MP. He is set to battle it out with Mvita
MP Abdulswamad Nassir and Mombasa county assembly speaker Aharub
Khatri for the Mombasa governor seat in 2022. Nassir has also been using tactics
similar to those used by Mbogo. He has also invested heavily in
education and has experience on his side. The two education champions are
striving to make Mombasa the model county in terms of education.