Trade in charcoal continues unabated despite a moratorium on logging and tough talk from authorities. Increased logging and charcoal burning, which became a great threat to the environment, forced the government to enforce the temporary ban on February 24 for three months in public and community forests. It was meant to allow enough time for the reassessment of the forest sector management and to come up with comprehensive recommendations on the reforms needed to enhance development in the sector. The government has since extended the ban by six months.  TASK FORCE A 15-member task force was formed to look into Forest Resource Management and Logging Activities on February 26. On March 19, the task force handed the interim report to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko. The explosive report recommended the sacking of the entire Kenya Forest Service Board and lifestyle auditing of senior Kenya Forest Service managers. Task force chairperson Marion Wakanyi said, “We were unhappy with governance, corruption, unfair businesses and stealing of government resources, as well as destruction of forests. We were horrified.” The task force, which handed its full report on April 30, further called for equipping of rangers with state-of-the-art-technology. They tasked Tobiko to expedite the constitution of a new KFS board. This would enable investigations to start on the 16 suspended KFS officers, among other urgent matters. It also called for an urgent establishment of an independent caretaker management team, with special authority, and comprising of competent persons, who meet the requirements under Article 6 of the Constitution. National Assembly Committee on Environment had also raised concerns over charcoal trade, warning if not contained, it could wipe out forests in the country.  EXECUTIVE ORDER HAS NO FORCE Benson Ochieng, the director of Nairobi-based Institute for Law and Environmental Governance, said the issued executive order has no force of the law. "We do not have room for executive order to ban charcoal and logging as it is administrative," Ochieng said. With lack of enforcement, he said, the ban has no impact. "Political gimmicks have no place," he said. He added that if there was a working system, getting alternatives could have been possible. "People are doing this as a source of livelihood. People in authority are the biggest sellers and users of charcoal. This is double standards," he said. The task force, in its report, also found out 68 Kenya Tea Development Agency tea factories utilise approximately one million cubic metres of well-seasoned firewood per year, equivalent to 5,700,000 eucalyptus trees or 3,600 hectares of high quality commercial tree plantations. Approximately, 50 per cent of this wood is sourced from government commercial plantations, mainly through third parties licensed by the KFS. The balance is sourced from own factory plantations, community plantations and farmers' smallholder trees/forests. But despite the task force calling for full implementation of recommendations of the Mau Forest Complex, the report continues to gather dust. Mau Complex covers over 99,000. Charcoal trade is also common in sections adjacent to Mau.  WEST POKOT In West Pokot county, charcoal traders have had to improvise ways of secretly transporting charcoal for fear of arrest. Traders load the charcoal on to the lorries, cover it with polythene paper before putting sand on top. Law enforcers have discovered the trick as they recently intercepted two lorries carrying charcoal on these pretense. “Those engaged in charcoal business are now using sand transporters. They load first charcoal on to the lorry cover it with polythene paper and then cover on top with sand,” West Pokot county chief officer incharge of Environment and Natural Resources Peter Adoki said. Adok said they will scan and inspect all lorries transporting sand to ensure they are not transporting banned products from the county. The chief officer asked residents to be vigilant and report those dealing in charcoal trade in the area . Last month, KFS officers  and county officials impounded three lorries ferrying  330 bags of charcoal  in Kacheliba town, North Pokot subcounty West Pokot ecosystem conservator Allan Ongere said the officers on patrol impounded the lorries following the 90-day  government ban on logging.  KITUI  In Kitui, illegal traders have also devised new tactics of burning charcoal by camping in the expansive forests in Kitui. Kitui Deputy Governor Wathe Nzau and police commandant Antony Kamitu recently found out more than 1,000 people have pitched camp in the forests. They are in forests such as Sosoma, and are still cutting down trees and burning charcoal without the knowledge of county enforcement officers. They warned charcoal dealers called on the police to aid in flushing out those camping in the forests. "I am calling for cooperation among the stakeholders, from the national to the counties to put a permanent end to the business, which has been thriving in Kitui, despite the strict measures put into place. Who do these traders think they are? They should know we will not relent," Nzau said. He added that their mission was prompted by continued arrest of lorries ferrying charcoal from the county. Every time they are nabbed, they pretend to have permits from other counties, as far as Lamu and Kilifi. On May 13, Nzau and Mwingi youths intercepted three lorries, each carrying more than 200 bags. The owners claimed to have permits from Kilifi and Lamu as well. On the same day, Kitui Environment executive John Makau said money is exchanging hands among the police, traders and county enforcement officers, whom he and Nzau said they have no faith in them. During the national tree planting day, youth and county officials intercepted three lorries fully loaded with more than 200 bags of charcoal headed from Mwingi to Nairobi. In March, police said  the proceeds from illegal logging and charcoal burning in Boni forest in Lamu were believed to be funding al Shabaab. The militants have been hiding in the dense forest. Police say areas where charcoal burning and illegal logging thrived most have  frequent cases of Shabaab attacks. Charcoal trade still thrives in the area. The continued use of charcoal according to the government threatens Kenya's forest cover, which currently stands at 7.2 per cent against the 10 per cent target. More than 80 per cent or the urban population in Kenya depends on charcoal, while about 90 per cent of rural households use firewood for cooking and heating, according to the Ministry of Energy, 2002.  KAJIADO  In Kajiado, which produces one of the best quality, a sack of charcoal has shot up to Sh5,000 following Governor Joseph ole Lenku's ban on the trade. A sack which once cost Sh600 in Maili Tisa, Mile 46 and Bissil is now going for Sh3,000. A few months ago, a bag cost  Sh1,700 in Kitengela but has shot up to Sh5,000. This charcoal is burnt from Acacia trees, which takes time to mature. While banning the trade, Lenku said the county had taken measures to stop the rampant felling of trees. The Governor formed a multi-agency team of county environment officials, Kenya Forest Service officers and APs and ordered it to crack down on the illegal burning of charcoal, its transportation and the cutting of trees for commercial purposes. A departmental committee on Environment and Natural Resources chaired by Kareke Mbiuki had also recommended a raft of measures aimed at reversing the trend. The committee in its May report found out that there was a major forest degradation affecting both the indigenous and plantation forest. It said the effect of forest degradation was hugely felt at the local level.  CHARCOAL MOVEMENT The Forest (Charcoal) Rules, 2009 under regulation 14 provides for charcoal movement permit. A person is required
to apply for it in order to move charcoal or charcoal products from one
place to another. Regulation 17 provides for the requirement of a person or
association exporting charcoal or charcoal products, from Kenya to obtain
an export permit from the KFS. Regulation 18 provides for the requirement
of a person or association importing charcoal or charcoal products from
Kenya to obtain an import permit from the KFS. The penalty for contravening the provisions of the Regulations is a fine of
not less than Sh 10,000 or an imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months. However, there has been relaxed enforcement. 