Starring:
Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett, Rihanna, Anne Hathaway, Mindy Kaling, Sarah
Paulson, Helena Bonham Carter, Awkwafina Directed by: Gary Ross Release date: June 8  STARRING: Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett, Rihanna, Anne Hathaway, Mindy Kaling, Sarah Paulson, Helena Bonham Carter, Awkwafina DIRECTED BY: Gary Ross RELEASE DATE: June 8  I cannot believe it has been almost 17 years since Ocean’s 11 was released! It seems just like yesterday that we were being entertained by the charming Clooney-Pitt duo, whilst laughing out loud at the late Bernie Mac’s anecdotes. The trilogy must be one of the best original film franchises of all time. The crime was ingenious, and the team was a well-oiled machine. The franchise ended on a high note… that is, until now. When Debbie Ocean leaves jail, she visits her brother Danny Ocean’s grave. Danny’s friend Reuben shows up at the grave and tells Debbie that Danny asked him to watch out for her. Debbie meets with her old partner Lou and tells her that she has a plan for one job that will allow them to live comfortably after. And all she needs is seven people to pull it off. Debbie and Lou set out to find suitable members for their team. The heist involves stealing a Cartier necklace that is worth 150 million dollars. The plan includes getting a celebrity to wear the necklace for the MET Gala and then swipe the necklace. In the usual Ocean’s format, nothing ever goes as planned, and the conclusion usually has a trick up its sleeve. Seeing as the plot of the spin-off is a like a blueprint of the original, there are hardly any surprising elements. Although the film is entertaining with a highly engaging cast, it lacks the long-lasting excitement factor. Although, I must admit, the best part of the film for me was the surprise appearance by Shaobo Qin, who reprised his role as The Amazing Yen; that is, the guy who fits in tiny spaces and makes his way across rooms without touching the floor. Just a testament of how memorable the original film was.  Star Rating: 3/5