President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered a lifestyle audit for public servants, including himself and Deputy President William Ruto. He said this will be in a further step to control corruption that is argued has threatened his bid to achieve the Big Four development pillars. The President said all public servants will be asked to explain the source of their wealth adding that all those found to have plundered public coffers will be put to task to explain the source of their wealth. "You must be able to explain how you got your car, your house and land in comparison to what you earn," the President, who spoke after he launched the Miritini Mwache Kipevu link road in Mombasa on Thursday, said. The President said the lifestyle audit will be key amongst other measures put in place by the government to curb graft. "Transparency is when all those in authority declare what they own and how they got their property," Uhuru said. On Wednesday, the President issued an Executive Order requiring all government entities and public owned institutions to publish full details of tenders and awards from the 1st of July 2018. The publication will allow members of the public to access the information including details of the items or services purchased, contract prices, and the particulars of the suppliers including owners, directors and beneficial ownership. Read: Uhuru issues Executive Order compelling state agencies to publish details of tenders On Madaraka Day, he ordered that all heads of procurement and accounting units to be vetted afresh. He said the vetting will include subjecting the officers to polygraph tests to determine integrity. The President said the war on graft will continue and no one will be allowed to politicise it. "Corruption must end and those trying to politicise the issue will not succeed. A thief is a thief, he has no tribe. You cannot use your tribe to shield and justify yourself. We cannot afford to trivialise graft by politicking," the President said. He said the government would continue introducing new measures to ensure public servants to give Kenyans value for their money. More on this: Uhuru orders procurement heads in all ministries to step aside Click here for the latest political news  