Kenya Bureau of Standards MD Charles Ongwae yesterday denied attempted murder and abuse of office charges. He was charged alongside six others for allegedly allowing substandard fertiliser into the country, and conspiring to defraud the state of Sh882 million. Ongwae’s co-accused are director of quality assurance Eric Chesire, Kebs inspection manager Peter Kinyanjui, Kebs Coast regional director Martin Nyakiamo, health officer Kilindini Port Pole Mwangeni, Kenya Revenue Authority supervisor of customs Erick Kariuki Kirimi and clearing agent Bollore transport Benson Ngesa. They are accused of intending to cause deaths to people in Narok and Eldoret by releasing to importer OCP (K) 5.8 million kilogrammes of substandard fertiliser, which contained mercury. The crime allegedly took place between November 13 last year, and on June 7 this year. The seven were also charged with conspiracy to defraud, aiding commission of a felony and breach of trust. endangering lives The court heard that the first six, being in public service, jointly aided OCP(K) to commit a felony by releasing the fertiliser, therefore, endangering human lives. Ongwae and his co-accused were also charged with conspiring to defraud. The crime allegedly took place between December 9, 2014, and May 23 this year, in Nairobi. They allegedly entered into a contract for supply and delivery of Kebs quality marks ISM stickers complete with traceability system, yet Madras Security Printers Private Ltd had no capacity to deliver. bail application The defence asked the court to release the accused persons on bail, saying their clients will abide by court conditions. Through lawyer Cliff Ombeta, the defence counsels submitted before senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruyiot that the prosecution had not given any compelling reasons to have the suspects remain in custody. Ombeta, who represents Ongwae, said all the accused persons are innocent until proven guilty and thus should be granted bail since it’s a constitutional right. The prosecution in its submissions argued that the offences that the accused persons are facing are serious. The substance that was allegedly found in the fertiliser - mercury – is dangerous to the environment. The DPP further said if released on bail, the accused are likely to interfere with the witnesses since most of them are their juniors in their respective offices. “The justice of this matter will be prejudiced if the accused are granted bail,” the prosecutor said. Read:Kebs MD Charles Ongwae released on Sh15 million bond Click here for the latest political news