The questioning of two Bungoma education officers by the assembly turned dramatic yesterday when they accused MCAs of having “benefited from the bursary funds”. They said the MCAs each received Sh5,000 in allowances in January during the launch of the bursary fund ceremony. Education executive Beatrice Mayeku and chief officer Monicah Fedha had been summoned to explain how Sh180 million meant for bursaries was spent. They were further to explain who benefited from Sh54 million scholarship cash for needy students. It emerged the cheques given to some students had bounced. The two officials were last week unable to explain how the money was spent as they did not produce banks statements. Speaker Emmanuel Situma had to postpone the sitting to this week and told the two to avail documents showing the names of the beneficiaries and the bank statements. Yesterday trouble started when they handed over the documents, which included the reports of the expenditure indicating the MCAs had benefited from Sh5,000 in allowances. The MCAs hurriedly rose on a point of order, saying the documents they were given by the two officials had not been signed and only the speaker’s were signed. Minority leader Francis Chemion told the speaker the questioning could not go on and asked for the sitting to be postponed. “We have documents that are not signed. We want this grilling postponed until the officers who were present sign the documents,” Chemion said. The decision was seconded by deputy speaker Omusai Simiyu. An MCA, who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity, said the MCAs decided to postpone the sitting to avoid press coverage as education officials had played a trick on them by including their names as beneficiaries of the funds “The CEC and the chief officer, know that indeed they could not account for the bursary and scholarship money. So they decided to shut the MCAs up by tabling a report implicating representatives of receiving Sh5,000 each during the launch of the bursary and scholarship,” the MCA said. The representative said that according to the executive official, this is why the cheques bounced and the bursary and scholarships money could not be accounted for. The MCA said every ministry has money for boards and conferences in which money for allowances should be drawn from. “Why did the executive use money for bursaries and scholarships to entertain MCAs?” the MCA asked. 