Sex robots will soon be able to say 'no' to unwanted advances from humans. Sergi Santos, the Spanish inventor of sexbot Samantha, claims he's working on a version of his AI doll that can enter 'dummy' mode in certain situations. For instance, 'dummy' mode may be switched on if sensors under Samantha's skin detect that she is being touched in an aggressive or disrespectful way. The robot will also enter into the unresponsive mode if she is bored with the attention of her potential lover. Samantha demonstrated her ability to say 'no' to overly aggressive sexual partners during a recent presentation held at the Life Science Centre in Newcastle. The robot is expected to go into mass production with a price tag of £3,600 ($4,700), although it is not known when. The robot has motorised hands, hips and face and can whisper endearments if stimulated in the right way, according to the creator. As well as a dummy mode, the robot also has 'family', 'romantic' and 'sex' settings as well as an 'extra naughty' level. Professor Kathleen Richardson, founder of The Campaign Against Sex Robots, branded Samantha as 'an extension of pornography and prostitution'. She said it was a 'waste of money which could be spent on better things'. In April Dr Santos, who studied nanotechnology in Leeds, said his sex robots had saved his marriage. Dr Santos said the robot rescued his relationship as his desires were met even when his wife, who he has been with for 16 years, wasn't in the mood for sex. 'A man wants to feel in general that the woman is desperate to have sex with him,' Dr Santos told Barcroft TV back in April. 'And if a man feels like the woman will not enjoy it fully, most men do not like sex.' He claims that couples with incompatible libidos are more likely to divorce. 'So if I have the doll, I'll not divorce because of sex – in my case, I think that's good enough.' Santos, who is an electric engineer by day, says it was his wife's idea to implant his artificial intelligence network into a doll. 'We started researching it and found out – before anyone was making the robots – that wives were buying them for their husbands because they understand the kind of need that their husbands have, and how this could benefit their relationship,' Ms Kissamitaki said. Over time, they made improvements - adding in-built vibrations that make the dolls sensitive and reactive to touch. They believe Samantha will be 'capable of enjoying sex' and will remember previous conversations – even going to sleep. And although Ms Kissmitaki doesn't have a problem with her husband using the dolls, he says he would feel jealous if she slept with a male doll. Nevertheless, he is planning to build a male sex robot. Click here for the latest political news 