Interior CS Fred Matinag’i will not appear before MPs investigating the importation of contraband sugar. The CS was scheduled to appear before the lawmakers today. In a letter to the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said Matiang’i’s appearance before the team will jeopardise police probe. Kibicho said the matters raised by the joint committee were under investigation by the National Police Service. “An open and detailed deliberation on these matters will prejudice not only the persons who are the subject of these investigations but also the investigation processes. It would fall short of the Bill of Rights and other Statutes of Parliament that offer guidance on how investigations should be undertaken,” Kibijo said in the letter dated June 26. He said Matiang’i was also actively involved in the East Africa Heads of States meeting. Mating’i said some of the impounded sugar contained mercury. The Kenya Bureau of Standards however said the tested sugar only has high levels of copper and lead metals. Read:Matiang'i snubs committee probing sugar scandal The CS failed to appear before the committee co-chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega and his Mandera South counterpart Adan Haji on Monday and Tuesday. The lawmakers a summon would be issued if he failed to appear for a third time today. Kibijo raised concerns over “concurrent jurisdiction overlaps amongst the committees of Parliament and the law enforcement agencies”, saying the matter should be handled carefully not to prejudice delivery of justice. “For instance, under Act 245( 2 )(b), the police are required to perform their functions independently and judiciously, and thus the Ministry may not substantively speak on matters they are fully seized of until the latter conclude their task and submit a suitable report,” Kibicho said. “In keeping with the law, the ministry will submit a report to Parliament through these committees on the matter at hand.” He said they will table a comprehensive report once the probe is complete. Read:Kebs boss contradicts Matiang’i on contaminated sugar samples Also See:Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Click here for the latest political news