The Employment and Labour Relations court yesterday temporarily suspended the enforcement of the circular on fresh vetting of procurement officers. Justice Onesmus Makau certified the matter urgent and directed the petition be served to the respondents — Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and the Attorney General. “Pending the interparties hearing on June 13 and determination of the application, the respondents are hereby prohibited from implementing the circular whatsoever,” Makau said. But the order drew a sharp reaction from the State which expressed frustration. The grounds that have been used are very strange. Whatever the merit of the application, the judge should have certified the matter as urgent and fixed the hearing for both parites today,” protested State House Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita. “Ex-parte orders are tools of last resort.” Read:Court suspends notice on fresh vetting of procurement heads In his application, activist Okiya Omtatah had argued that the circular was created subjectively through an irregular and opaque process without public participation in violation of the Constitution. Omtatah argues that public officers are protected by the Constitution and legislation, and due process must be followed when taking disciplinary action. Kinyua’s circular, he argued, has created extreme anxiety in the public service as it purports to terminate the services of heads of procurement and accounting units in government ministries, departments and agencies. “It is totally unreasonable and procedurally unfair for the public officers, who have personally not been accused of any wrongdoing, to be punished,” Omtatah argues. The activist says the circular constitutes a gross attack on Article 25 (c) of the Constitution, which declares the right to a fair trial may not be limited. He says a blanket disciplinary measure is being imposed on a class of people without holding each one accountable for specific claims as an individual and without consideration for its impact on the general population and the public service. Omtatah says Kinyua is not a regulation-making authority and he has no capacity to issue any directive. On Monday, Kinyua ordered procurement and accounting officers in parastatals and ministries to step aside pending vetting to determine thier suitability to continue serving. They were ordered to hand over to their deputies and submit a plethora of personal details to the Office of the President by this Friday. The court order shocked government officials. “The fight against corruption will be messy and uncomfortable but it must be done for the greater good of the nation. Kenyans of goodwill must have the stomach for it,” Waita posted on Twitter. “There are many great and conscientious judges in our Judiciary, I’m sure they’ll soon rise to the occasion and explain to the country what unique and extraordinary arguments the layman Omtatah advances in order to secure more ex-parte orders than any Senior Counsel ever has in Kenya.” Also Read: Courts covering agents of impunity, State House says on fresh vetting Click here for more political news