President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday reiterated that he will not relent in his war against corruption, even as it became clear that allies of his deputy William Ruto are implementing a well-choreographed strategy to sabotage the plan. And amidst the heightening rift within the ruling party, the increasingly vocal Kikuyu Council of Elders yesterday pinpointed four government and Jubilee Party officials whom they want kicked out for allegedly undermining the President’s efforts. In a strongly worded statement, the elders’ chairman and secretary general accused Industrialisation CS Adan Mohammed, Treasury CS Henry Rotich and the party’s Parliamentary Majority leaders Aden Duale and Kipchumba Murkomen of letting down the President. The Star has established that Ruto’s lieutenants are going all out to paint Kenyatta’s inner circle as corrupt in a clever strategy to demonstrate double standards in the fight against graft. Over the last two weeks, Ruto’s allies have been grumbling that the lifestyle audit and the anti-corruption crusade are targeting an individual, even though publicly they have expressed lukewarm support. Read: Bring on the lifestyle audit, Ruto says after criticism about wealth A week ago, Murkomen sensationally claimed that officials in the Presidency were fighting the Deputy President. His statement provoked swift reaction from moderates who are shy about taking on the President directly, and who rapped him for crossing the line. The outburst was the culmination of rising tension within the party triggered by Uhuru’s tough stance against corruption, which is being seen as a strategy to limit the DP’s growing war chest. Shortly after the NYS suspects were charged, Uhuru’s uncle Paul Gathecha was named as one of the beneficiaries of the National Youth Service scandal. Petrokenya Oil Company Ltd, the company owned by Gathecha and Gor Semelang'o, was accused of having been a beneficiary of the NYS scandal. However, it turned out that the company was only contracted by Horizon Ltd, associated with businessman Ben Gethi, which had taken out the tender for supplying petroleum products it did not have. It had resorted to sourcing the fuel from Petrokenya, which delivered directly to NYS. When Horizon failed to pay, Petrokenya sued Horizon and enjoined NYS in the suit as the beneficiary to recover its money amounting to Sh68 million, including interest. Gathecha’s name was mentioned at a press conference in Parliament by Nyali MP Mohamed Ali who, although elected as an independent, has been gravitating towards Ruto. Shortly after Uhuru announced a lifestyle audit to purge corrupt civil servants across government, Ruto’s associates began grumbling and demanding a broad-based audit stretching back to 1963. The Kapsaret MP and close Ruto ally, Oscar Sudi, told a public meeting in Uasin Gishu that the audit should begin with Uhuru’s father, founding President Jomo Kenyatta. The Kenyatta family is among the country’s most affluent and its wealth, particularly land, has been the subject of controversy. “We will start with Mzee Jomo, then come to the rest of us," Sudi said, adding that he is ready to account for what he owns since his days as a tout. In an emotional address in Parliament days later, Majority leader Aden Duale, who is Ruto’s foremost point man, accused Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i of waging a biased war against contraband sugar. Duale cited importation of sugar by billionaire Tejveer Rai, whose family is believed to be close to the Kenyattas. “Madam chair, if we have agreed to clean Kenya, let us clean Kenya completely. Let us not clean Kenya halfway. Let's not clean Kenya as it suits you,” Duale said. He pledged to protect the Somali community from being probed over the seizure of allegedly contraband sugar from a store in Eastleigh, Nairobi, which is the Somali community’s distinct business haven.  KENYATTAS TARGETED  In an escalation of political mudslinging within Jubilee, Aldai MP Cornelius Serem on Tuesday claimed that the President’s broth er, Muhoho Kenyatta, was among the sugar barons. Serem alleged that Muhoho’s company, Protech Investment Limited, had imported 180,000 metric tonnes of brown sugar. He also said that the failure by Matiang’i to appear before a parliamentary committee was a plot to shield him from investigation. On Wednesday, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri defended Muhoho, stating that although the company had applied to import sugar from the Agriculture and Food Authority, it was neither licenced nor did it import any sugar. Kiunjuri blasted Serem for maligning names in “a crude way, using a village approach”, and accused him of abusing parliamentary privilege. “You know, there is no dog that has no owner,” Kiunjuri said, suggesting that Serem was someone's proxy. Yesterday, President Uhuru pledged he will not protect anyone, including his brother Muhoho, if he is involved in corruption. He warned Kenyans against politicising the efforts to rid the country of corruption and economic crimes. “I have full confidence in the agencies that we have to do the right job. People were there bashing my brother yesterday. I have said, if he is guilty and I say, let them charge him,” Uhuru said. Speaking at the UN Complex in Gigiri when he presided over the opening of the US-Ken ya Trade Conference, Uhuru said that his government’s onslaught on corruption will be intensified in the coming days and reminded Kenyans that no one will be spared. He reaffirmed his confidence in the investigating and prosecuting agencies and said he would not defend anyone found culpable. “is is not a fight of me against them, this is a fight against the vice that denies our people jobs. It is a fight against the vice that denies our people essential services. It is a vice that denies us of our ability to develop our country and to protect the next generation,” the President said in response to questions from participants. “We will not turn back in this war. It is not targeted at an individual.” Read: Lifestyle audit will 'expose us', Murkomen jokes on Uhuru's call for wealth review Also read:Central leaders flock to Raila, back calls for lifestyle audit