Garissa and Tana River flood victims have demanded compensation from the Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen). KenGen has said it should not be held responsible for natural calamities. On May 15, Energy CS Charles Keter warned that Masinga would be filled up by rains and water would be released through spillage. Residents were warned to move to higher ground; they said they didn’t receive enough notice. Tana River leaders say the firm’s Seven Forks dams in Kiambere and Masinga were to blame for “our people’s suffering”. More than 60,000 people were displaced, farms were destroyed and lives lost. The people require urgent assistance, they said. Garissa leaders said during Eid celebrations on Friday that they were building “a strong case”. They included Governor Ali Korane, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale (Garissa Township) and Balambala MP Abdi Shurie. Korane said they will pursue the case to “the bitter end”. He dismissed claims that leaders were engaged in a public relations stunt. In Tana River, leaders said they plan to petition the National Assembly to compel KenGen to fast-track the payout. Yesterday, Garsen MP Ali Wario said he will table the petition “very soon”. He spoke after visiting cholera patients at Madogo health centre. They are held in an isolation camp. Wario also visited those displaced by floods. He said the cholera outbreak is a sign other waterborne diseases could break out. “We urge the government and other donor agencies to supply mosquito nets and drugs to prevent dreaded malaria,” Wario said. He was accompanied by Tana River Senator Juma Wario. If KenGen does not respond to the petition, residents will seek court redress, he said. "The livelihoods of Tana River residents were completely destroyed by the floods after KenGen released excess water from their Masinga Dam. It caused massive flooding downstream leading to loss of human and animal lives,” Wario said. “We’re disturbed by the way KenGen has been handling the matter. We’ve not seen any of its top official visit the victims.” Juma said firms responsible for disasters must be compelled to pay. He criticised the government for compensating victim’s of the Solai dam tragedy on private land, before victims of a state dam overflow in Tana River.