The airlines’s director, Mohamed Ahmed, said all the 10 victims – eight passengers and two pilots - were positively identified as the bodies were not badly damaged. The passengers were Sailah Karaba, Ronald Pinuertorn, Thamani Matakasakaraia, Robinson Wafula, Ahmed Ali Abdi, Paula Matakatekei, George Kinyua and Kishani Khetia. Captain Barbara Wangeci and First Officer Jean Mureithi were flying the plane. Ahmed said a postmortem was being carried out by a team of doctors led by chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor. Oduor said the injuries on all bodies were consistent with an air crash- head, chest and limb injuries. “Bodies identification had been successful and we are hopeful the government pathologist will give families postmortem results later in the evening,” Mohamed said. Priority would be given to the bodies of the Muslim faithful so the relatives can proceed with burial. Turkana deputy commissioner Erick Wanyonyi, whose first born son, Robinson perished in the crash, asked for speedy investigations into the cause of the crash. “I am shocked and overwhelmed by grief. Speedy investigation should be done to establish if the accident could have been avoided,” he told journalists at Lee Funeral Home. The Nairobi-bound Cessna C208 FlySAX crashed at Elephant Point in Aberdare Forest in Nyandarua County on Tuesday. It was flying to Nairobi from Kitale. The wreckage of the plane and the bodies were retrieved on Thursday evening after a two-day search by KDF and NDMU officers. The bodies were transported to Lee the same evening from Njambini in Nyandarua. And as the families identified their loved ones, the Kenya Airline Pilots Association, Kalpa, said comprehensive technical investigations should be carried out to avoid such accidents in future. Read:Families identify bodies of plane crash victims, probe begins “In order to learn from such an event and to prevent any repetition, Kalpa stresses the need for a comprehensive technical investigation into the circumstances of this accident,” CEO Murithi Nyaga said in a statement yesterday. Nyaga said the probe should strictly follow the provisions laid out in the International Standards and Recommended Practices to determine the factors that contributed to the crash and come up with safety recommendations. Nyaga urged the public to avoid unnecessary speculation and allow the investigation agencies carry out their task. Yesterday, the government said it has intensified investigations. KCCA director general Gilbert Kibe said the Air Accident Investigations Department led by Air Investigator of Air Accidents was continuing with the investigations. “Investigations are ongoing and they shall include the retrieving of the wreckage.” Read:All 10 bodies recovered from Aberdare plane crash site Click here for more political news   