Two businessmen have written to Governor Charity Ngilu after their trucks were burnt in Kitui county. David Waweru and Julius Ngugi say on February 8, their vehicles, registration KCC 050P and KCK 233Q, were flagged down by Governor Ngilu and a bunch of Kitui youths as they ferried charcoal. The vehicles were being driven on Garissa Thika Road from Tana River county, where they were commandeered by county officers.The drivers fled. The vehicle registered as KCC 050P, they say, was burnt on Ngilu’s instructions around the Kanyonyoo area. The other car was driven and/or towed to Kitui police station with its charcoal consignment, where it was held until April 13, when it was released after a court order was issued. This is after its owner and driver were found not to have broken the law in sourcing and transporting the charcoal. Read : Kitui youths burn 100 bags of charcoal, threaten to torch more The traders say as a result, they have suffered loss and damages, ranging from value of the lorry to the charcoal. They want Ngilu to admit liability for the loss suffered, failure to which they will sue her and the county government. In February, however, Ngilu denied lorries were burnt, and that certain communities are being targeted in the protests against charcoal burning and sand business in the county. She said there is a charcoal ban that had been in force since 2014, and the county is only enforcing the Kitui County Charcoal Management Act, 2014. On February 14, youths in Mwingi, Kitui county, burnt 100 bags of charcoal. The youths reportedly found a lorry collecting bags of charcoal and set them on fire. Some Kiambu leaders called for Ngilu’s arrest, saying she sent the youths to burn the lorry. Some demostrations were organised in Kiambu. But Ngilu said she will not relent and the businessmen should go burn charcoal in their home areas as they are degrading Kitui’s environment. She said the area no longer receives enough rainfall because of deforrestation. The governor also said the charcoal burning ban did not target any particular community but is focused on making the county better. The youths had strategically positioned themselves in the Kanyonyoo area, which marks the end of Kitui county, and said they will not allow any lorry with charcoal through. Through their lawyer, the two businessmen said their right to own property and do business anywhere in the country has been abused. Also read : Kitui charcoal burning racket busted in forest Click here for the latest political news