Students of Moi Girls School, Nairobi, reported back yesterday, a week after the institution was shut following the rape of a Form Two student. Two other students said they were assaulted by the masked and squint-eyed assailant on the night of June 1. Detectives from the Serious Crimes Investigations division and the Government Chemist are probing. Last Monday, 32 men who were in the school on that night had body tissue and hair taken for DNA testing at the Government Chemist. [VIDEO] Moi Girls' school sends students home for one week amid rape probe On Tuesday, Education CS Amina Mohamed asked parents to take their children back to the school by 5pm “with full confidence that the security situation at the school is under control”. She ordered an overhaul of security at the school and the guards and said 24-hour police security would be in place by then. “The ministry has provided five armed security officers to guard the school,” Amina said. Parents started arriving from 8am and students were taken through registration and inspection. Some expressed satisfaction that there were improvements at the school in line with the recommendations of the quality assurance team from the ministry and the Teachers Service Commission. Read: Moi Girls' principal quits, board dissolved after rape claims “We are not very happy even though we are coming back. We are putting God in everything. Everything shall come to pass,” a parent said. “Nobody is an island to a predicament like this one. Things like these can happen anywhere.” Another parent said he had inspected the school and was satisfied with the improvements. “I have seen the security situation and found it to be good. Police officers are patrolling and I have seen the dormitories are in good shape. I ask fellow parents who are yet to bring back their children to do so. There is no bad or good school,” he said. Brian Weke, a governance activists and one of those elected a PTA member at the school said the security and general orderlies at the school are impressive. Read: Six quizzed as Moi Girls Nairobi is closed over rape allegations Click here for
the latest political news