President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Thursday travel to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia for the IGAD-led South Sudan peace process. In her inaugural press briefing today, State House Deputy Spokesperson Kanze Dena said the President’s visit affirms the country’s continued support to the ongoing peace process in South Sudan. “Regional security remains an important factor to our national peace and development,” Dena said. She added: “In the continued search for peace and stability for our northern neighbour, Kenya will continue to support the IGAD-led process on South Sudan.” Dena emphasized that Kenya will remain committed to the course of peace and stability in South Sudan as an independent arbiter within the IGAD framework. Read: IGAD denounces South Sudan opposition leaders, government forces On Friday, the President will visit the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) site in Ngong, Kajiado County to assess the progress of phase 2A of the project that will see the SGR expanded from Nairobi to Naivasha. The President’s visit to the SGR site in Ngong is part of his quarterly meetings on the development of the new railway line, a routine the President has observed over the last three years. “The President’s SGR site visit is an affirmation of his continued commitment to the project that saw the successful delivery of the first phase,” the State House Deputy Spokesperson said. On promoting Kenya as an investment destination of choice in the region, Dena said a large business delegation from the US is expected in the country for extensive engagements on how to deepen existing trade relations and investment as well as explore new opportunities. “The US delegation will be led by Under Secretary for International Trade Gil Kaplan and members of the US President's Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa,” she said. She disclosed that business executives from Bechtel, Visa, IBM, Overseas Private Investment Corporation, Acrow Bridge, Amethyst, Citi, GE, IBM and a host of others will be part of the visiting delegation. Also read:Uhuru meets UN boss Antonnio Guterres, discuss South Sudan conflict Click here for the latest political news   