On a day that news filtered in that star striker Medie Kagere had switched allegiance to Tanzanian champions Simba, Gor Mahia forwards Jacques Tuyisenge, Ephraim Guikan and George Odhiambo provided a timely and emphatic assurance to K’Ogalo’s restive fans that their leading scorer will not be missed one bit. The trio scored in the champions 5-0 drubbing of Posta Rangers in a SportPesa Premier League clash at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Tuyisenge opened the scoring from the spot after he was fouled by Joakins Atudo in the 20th minute. Under-appreciated Ivorian Guikan drilled in the second seven minutes to halftime to drag the game further away from the mailmen. It only took 10 minutes of the second half for K’Ogalo to kill off the match as a contest as Odhiambo got his name on the score sheet to confirm Posta’s third defeat in four outings. Tuyisenge and Francis Kahata completed the rout. The win pushed Dylan Kerr’s men to 46 points, 12 more than their closest challengers Sofapaka while Rangers remained in 10th place. Meanwhile, AFC Leopards will be looking for maximum points and a rise up the standings when they face Zoo Kericho at the Kericho Green Stadium today. Leopards who have not lost in their last seven matches and will seek to exert pressure on runaway leaders Gor Mahia. The two sides have met thrice since the Kericho-based side was promoted to the top flight a year ago and Leopards have come out unscathed. Two of the matches have ended in draws with Leopards winning one. Leopards head coach Rodolfo Zapata will be pleased to have a fully fit squad ahead of the match as confirmed by his assistant Tom Juma who revealed that new signing Ezekiel Seda will be the sole absentee. Juma expressed hopes of clinching the three points despite playing in an environment which he termed as hostile to visiting teams. Fresh from handing Ulinzi Stars an easy ride to the SportPesa Shield Cup round of 16 through a walkover, Kakamega Homeboyz return to action against a high flying Kariobangi Sharks side at Bukhungu Stadium. The match will provide a platform for Homeboyz to redeem themselves from a disastrous 6-1 drubbing in the hands of Nakumatt in their last league match. A win for Paul Nkata’s side will see them dislodge Nzoia Sugar at eighth while three points for Sharks will steer them two places high.