Two suspects in the NYS fraud trial have moved to the High Court to challenge a court's decision to deny them bail. James Thuita, a director at Firstling Suppliers, and Yvonne Mwanza want the decision by Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti overturned. In their application filed as urgent on Wednesday, they say the Magistrate failed to uphold the presumption of innocence until proof of guilt. “The most paramount consideration in granting bail is in the assurance to the court that the accused persons will attend court” they say. The complainants sat the prosecution did not present any evidence to prove they are likely to abscond should they be granted bail. Thuita and Mwanza further argue that they require urgent medical treatment for high blood pressure and a heart condition respectively. Ogoti ruled on Tuesday that all accused persons involved in the Sh486 million scam be remanded until their trial is finalised. The Magistrate declined to release them on bail saying the offences they are accused of are grave and affect the nation's financial health. It was the opinion of the court that they can also lead to anarchy and threaten peace and national security.“ More on this: Threats to national security, peace: Why NYS suspects were denied bail "This in itself is a compelling reason why bail should and is hereby denied” said Ogoti. The Magistrate further said the court had put in place elaborate measures, by way of pre-trial conferencing, to ensure a speedy tria. "For this reason also, bail is denied as the trials will not delay. All parties are encouraged to participate fully in the pre-trial vonferences and allow the trials to hit the road as soon as possible” he said. The High Court had declined to block Thuita’s arrest and that of Bernard Ayienga, the senior Finance Officer at the Youth ministry. The two had sought anticipatory bail to evade arrest and possible prosecution. However, Justice Ngenye of the Criminal Division at Milimani Law Courts said the application lacked merit. Earlier today, the suspects' lawyers opposed the start of the pre-trial conference, citing unfair treatment of their 46 clients. In a unanimous protest, the lawyers accused Ogoti of dealing with the case in a "hasty manner", and said this clearly indicated that their clients' rights were being violated. They said they were neither willing nor ready to sit but that they would consider doing so in two weeks, should their clients' rights be guaranteed. Details: NYS suspects accuse magistrate of rushing case, say rights violated Also read: 'Hungry' NYS suspects ask court for water, biscuits after missing meal Click here for the latest political news 