The Luhya community will support Deputy President
William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid if it fails to present its own
candidate, Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said. Savula said ANC
leader Musalia Mudavadi remains the community’s first option with Ford
Kenya's Moses Wetang’ula an alternative. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya is their third choice. “If our first plan
fails, we shall switch to the second and third and if all of them do not work, the community will back DP Ruto who is our neighbour. We cannot go back
to Nyanza,” Savula said. “It’s in our interest for our plan to work." Savula spoke during the
burial service for Joash Alulo in Matungu on Saturday. Alulo was
father to Radio Citizen's Pamela Kadima. Matungu MP Justus
Murunga, Kakamega Woman Representative Elsie Muhanda and Sports and Heritage CS
Rashid Echesa attended the funeral. Both Mudavadi and Wetang’ula
have announced plans to merge their parties to form a formidable political vehicle for 2022. They have also agreed to field one presidential candidate. Oparanya has declared he will run for the presidency on an ODM ticket. He asked party leader Raila Odinga to back his bid. Ruto has asked for support for his bid. Raila on Saturday said premature 2022 campaigns will polarise the
country. Echesa said
Oparanya was a political merchant whose presidential bid should be ignored. “Oparanya said he
wants to be president but he has now changed tune, saying he wants to put together
the two million Luhyas in Kakamega and use them to negotiate with Ruto. That is trading with our people and not seeking the top seat,” Echesa said. Echesa said Luhyas
must seek alliances with other communities to be able to
win the presidency. “When you see Oparanya
only roaming around Kakamega campaigning to be president, then you must know
what he is up to because Kakamega alone cannot make him president,” Echesa said. Murunga said
Luhyas were the second largest community and will
not accept to be used again. He said the
community will either win the presidency or determine the fifth president of
Kenya. “Our elected leaders
have decided to work together regardless of party affiliations to ensure
the community takes its rightful place in Kenya’s future politics,” Murunga
said.