Luo Council of Elders have asked former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to help them get audience from former US president Barack Obama to install him as an Elder. The elders resolved to engage Raila on their plans to prevent humiliations and disappointment they might encounter in the hands of security as it was the case in the previous years. "The last time Obama visited when he was the senator we were roughed up by his security after approaching him with respect and honor to installed him as an elder," Ongadi said. The elders led by their Secretary Nyandiko Ongadi and Chairman Willis Otondi spoke on Thursday in Bondo during the launch of Ramogi Cultural festivities. Ongadi said as Luo Community they show respect to leaders by installing them as elders and Obama being their son they should not be locked out for the ritual. “Our culture allows as to recognize Luos or any other dignitaries as form of respect and we tried in vain to install Obama," he added. He added that after failing to meet Obama the last time he was in the country they opted to meet Raila and handed him a letter to give Obama requesting that next time he visit they should be allowed a chance. “We are aware that Obama will be in the Country to have talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga us elders we also want to meet him and that can only happen if Raila usher us in,” said Ongadi. They added that they are happy Obama accepted to be the patron of Luos in the diaspora and if they get a chance with him they expect updates on the happenings in aboard. Otondi asked Luo Community to be at Kogello on July 16th to give Obama a warmth welcome and join K’Ogello residents in celebrationing the return of their son to his ancestral home. “Obama has made us proud and it will be good if we all get to Kogello to welcome him,” said . There appeal comes at a time when information on preparation of Obama visit in Kogelo is scant as those in a position to address the media remain hostile. However the information in the public domain indicates that Obama will be visiting Kogello for the launch of Sauti kuu foundation project initiated by Obama's sister Dr Auma. Our spot check at the facility confirmed the final touches of the facility that will nature sports talents in the region with football and basketball that Obama played in his hey days given priority. The facility is also being extended to host Obama university in Kogello as opposed in Siaya town as proposed by governor Cornell Rasanga.