Seasoned Sony Sugar striker Benjamin Mosha was the surprise causality as the struggling Kenya Premier League outfit released 11 players in a bid to avoid relegation. Sony sit at the bottom of the standings with 14 points and risk being axed to the National Super League should they fail to halt the poor run. Mosha, a hard to mark forward, was released alongside proven Congolese winger Yema Mwana and Ugandan talisman George Abege, who had formed a solid combination for the 2006 league champions. Other causalities were Kevin Otieno, Jesse Obare, Tyrone Owino, Kelvin Muhanji, Victor Ademba, David Simuyu, Alfred Onyango and Samuel Olare. Ray Omondi was recalled by his parent club AFC Leopards after the six months deal elapsed. Sony, who recently dished a walkover in the SportPesa Shield Cup in a bid to concentrate on maintaining their status in the league, axed the senior players as head coach Patrick Odhiambo sought to work with a crop of new ones. “Most of the players completely ignored my instructions during matches and I felt we could not collectively achieve our goal. I tried talking to them where they promised to change but never did as promised. They were good but never had the spirit of teamwork. We have hence replaced them with four new signings and we expect two more to join us before the end of the week.” Meanwhile, after crushing out of the SportPesa Super Cup, Kariobangi Sharks dipped in the transfer market and captured the duo of Abege and Moses Mwangi from Sony Sugar while John Kuol was shipped from Chemelil Sugar. “We are proud to confirm the acquisition of George Abege, Moses Mwangi and John Kuol. Mwangi and Abege have joined us from Sony Sugar FC while Kuol comes in from Chemelil Sugar. Abege will be on a twoand a half year deal while Mwangi and Kuol will be with us for the next three and a half years,” a statement from the official page read. Zoo Kericho budding midfielder Gideon Lang’at was loaned to Chemelil Sugar on a four-year long deal. “We have released our youngster Gideon Kibet Lang’at to play for Chemelil Sugar on a 4-year deal. May his star keep shinning. We appreciate the value and efforts he brought to Zoo family.”