A Jacques Tuyisenge’s goal in the 50th minute was all Gor Mahia needed to beat a stubborn Sony Sugar FC 1-0 yesterday at Moi Stadium Kisumu. The unpaid allowances and the exit of talisman Meddie Kagere was hardly felt as Gor rendered the Sony Sugar tasteless to move 15 points clear on the standings with 49 points and a match in hand. With the Cecafa Kagame Cup the next assignment on Gor’s roster, head coach Dylan Kerr rested the trio of experienced Boniface Oluoch, Harun Shakava and Humphrey Mieno for Shaban Odhoji, Charles Momanyi and Lawrence Juma in a bid to save energy for the regional inter-club tournament set to throw off this weekend in Tanzania. Despite gambling in his selection, Gor dominated the proceedings for the better part of the first 20 minutes as Sony sat deep at the back awaiting for counter-attacks. However, the millers grew in confidence and would have broken the deadlock in the 21st minute through Maxwell Onyango who found space in Gor’s box but his shot was well gathered by Odhonji. The game was nearly adjourned at the stroke of half-time as Sony players confronted the centre ref Chris Ashira to sent off Gor’s custodian Odhonji for handling ball outside his box. Odhonji had advanced to stop a defence splitting pass as well as stop Enoch Agwanda from scoring and clearly handled outside the box an offence which attracts a straight red card.To the amusement of the Sony bench, the whistle man dished a yellow card. Protests to the incident by Sony’s head coach Patrick Odhiambo saw him sent to the stands. Tobias Otieno would have thrown his side ahead with few seconds remaining in the first half but was denied by the woodwork. Meanwhile Sofapaka are banking on hope as they tackle basement club Wazito this afternoon in the SportPesa Premier League. The points difference is hefty and it will take an almighty collapse from league leaders and defending champions Gor Mahia for the 2009 champions to have an inkling of an opportunity to add to their sole historic crown. Batoto Ba Mungu have made a few additions to their stable, notably the arrival of Wyciffe Kasaya and it will be interesting to see how he fits into the squad. Like Sofapaka, Mathare United have also brought in a new goalkeeper, David Okelo. The championship winning custodian with Tusker will be on line for a debut appearance against Bandari in Mombasa. The Slum Boys have not fared well down in the coast and they will need to reverse that trend if they are to stay in the title race at the business end of the campaign. For a team that looked to be in the red for much of the campaign, Nakumatt go into this evening’s encounter against Chemelil Sugar looking to consolidate their place in the top flight league. Those fears of the drop have vanished somehow and the recruitment they have done will go a long way to show their ability to remain among the elite.