NYS theft suspects were yesterday denied bail in a move that signals Judiciary’s commitment to the war on corruption. Suspects have previously been released on bail. But Milimani chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti directed that 51 accused persons, including PS Lillian Omollo and NYS director general Richard Ndubai, remain in custody until their trials are finalised. “Even though they are deemed innocent until proven otherwise, offences of economic crimes should be taken with the seriousness they deserve as they can lead to loss of financial health of a country,” Ogoti said. The suspects are jointly charged with conspiracy to commit an offence of economic crime. They will be tried in relation to the theft of Sh468 million at the National Youth Service. See:NYS suspects denied bail, to remain in remand until end of trial Ogoti said plunder of public resources can lead to denial of fundamental rights to Kenyans and deny citizens “good health, food and shelter leading to death”. He equated the offences to serious transgressions that can lead to anarchy. The suspects put up a spirited fight to be released on bail, saying it was their right. Ogoti said the court had taken notice of the ongoing outcry against graft on social media. “It is the opinion of the court that such offences can lead to anarchy and thus a threat to peace and national security,” Ogoti said. “This in itself is a compelling reason why bail should be and is hereby denied.” The ruling was a major win for the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji who had opposed the release of suspects on bail. The DPP, through his assistants, told the court the suspects were facing serious offences. Prosecution also held that the suspects were a flight risk and were likely to interfere with evidence if freed on bail. Among the suspects sent to custody are senior deputy director at NYS Nicholas Ochieng and acting finance officer Wellington Lubira. They are facing abuse of office charges. Others are four members of the Ngirita family, whose companies were allegedly paid more than a half of the Sh468 million. Defence lawyers protested Ogoti’s order for the expedition of the cases, saying they were yet to be supplied with witness statements. Read:NYS suspects remanded until Tuesday after DPP blocks bail Click here for the latest political news