Anyone who
follows global news keenly will know that the South Korean Parliament is famous
for the regularity with which fistfights break out during debate on
contentious issues. In recent
years, Ukraine has emerged as a rival in this kind of drama: You can watch very
many YouTube videos of Ukrainian MPs engaged in fistfights if you care for
that kind of entertainment. The odd
thing is that these wild scenes, which our own MPs are yet to even approximate,
are not considered to be particularly disturbing by the citizens of those
nations. There are
those who feel embarrassed of course. But many others seem to regard these
fights as just an eccentricity of their local politicians. It’s not
easy to understand the political traditions of foreign nations. And speaking
of local political eccentricities, our own Deputy President William Ruto has
been on the campaign trail for the 2020 election in a manner which would no
doubt greatly puzzle foreign observers. Here is a
Deputy President, barely one year into the new election cycle, already going
all over the country recruiting allies; offering “goodies”, which in many cases
consist of pre-selected government projects; and otherwise seeking to make
himself popular with the electorate as though there is a presidential election
just around the corner. Well, there
is a logical explanation for this: And indeed, Ruto is following a script that
has worked very well for him before. Back when
Ruto was a Cabinet minister in the “grand coalition government”, which was
formed following the tragic post-election violence of 2008, he was the most
junior of the ministers from Rift Valley. His Cabinet colleagues
included Henry Kosgey, who was already a Cabinet member as far back as the early
1980s, when Ruto was still a student. Also, Dr Sally Kosgei, a former head of
the civil service.  And Franklin Bett,
who was a former Comptroller of State House. But while
these more senior figures diligently attended to their ministerial portfolios, Ruto got an early start touring the country in much the same way as
he is doing now, invariably accompanied by MPs from other regions. There is a
deep strategic and psychological significance to this: Whereas this kind of
touring may not get him any lasting support in the regions he visits, it has a
huge impact on “the folks back home” in his Rift Valley political backyard. For many
Kenyans, seeing a political leader who is “one of their own” travelling around
the country, and being received by rapturous crowds literally every weekend,
has a very powerful effect. Their
thinking is likely to be, “If our son has such immense popularity all over the
country, how can we not support him?” Thus, the
race for the Kenyan presidency invariably begins in the candidate’s own
backyard. This
explains why former VP Kalonzo Musyoka’s presidential hopes will rise or fall
with the outcome of the Machakos gubernatorial by-election – if indeed it does
come to that – as it involves his rival for regional influence, Dr Alfred
Mutua. So, what
would seem to be hopelessly premature electioneering by the DP, is
actually a very effective process of outmanoeuvring his key rival for political
“ownership” of the Rift Valley vote bloc: Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. And such an
anti-Gideon manoeuvre is not only an essential preliminary to Ruto’s
presidential ambitions. It is indispensable to such ambitions, given what
observers have termed as “the coming together of the great Kenyan political
dynasties”: The Kenyattas, the Odingas and the Mois. This is a
group that conspicuously leaves out the DP, while at the same time apparently
bringing in a former President who has no known dynastic inclinations: Mwai
Kibaki. It is a very formidable group indeed. On the face
of it, Ruto has no chance against the combined power of these dynasts. But that
applies only if they stick together. Let there be any political cleavages among them, and the whole game changes. And even as
he hopes and prays for just such a splintering, Ruto has to secure his backyard
against a resurgent Gideon.