The National Police Service Commission verified degree certificates for 3,739 officers in 11 counties at the end of phase one of the vetting. The certificates are held by junior officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Kenya Police, and Administration Police. Most of those who submitted their certificates fall in the ranks of constable, corporal, sergeant, and senior sergeants. The verification by NPSC was conducted between May 2-5 at selected centres. In the second phase, the Johnstone Kavuludi team will undertake to establishing whether the degrees are genuine. This will involve the Commission on University Education, the State Department of University Education, the National Police Service, and the Kenya National Qualifications Authority. The commission and NPS were shocked after most officers, including those with bachelors of law degrees, failed the inspectors' law test at the Kenya Police College in Nyeri in January. All cops who got degrees while in service and elevated to job
group "J" were demoted back to job group "F" and their salaries slashed
in March and April pending the ongoing authentication of their degree
certificates. The rationalisation is targeting those that forged
degrees and colluded with the human resources department to be awarded
unjustified promotions to the job group "J". The exercise will determine the officers' redeployment depending on their competencies. "Several
police officers have acquired degrees in specialised fields but were
currently deployed in general duty areas. Officers from the DCI have not
had their [graduate status] reinstated and were hence earning negative
salaries," NPSC said in a statement. "The commission and the
service [NPS] have a pool of graduates from which they can easily pick
officers to be re-designated as cadets." The NPS has two entry levels - the ordinary recruits who join the service
at the lowest rank -constable  and cadets for graduates who join the
service at the Inspector's rank. Officers recruited  at the
constabulary rank get promotion to job group "J" same as members of the inspectorate - inspectors and chief inspectors after acquiring degree certificates but remain at the
constable rank and have to follow the routine police promotion
procedures before attaining the senior ranks. Read: NPSC suspends its decision to scrap higher pay for junior cops Also read: Salary reductions will intimidate police, cause more suffering - Atwoli Click here for the latest political news