Anti-corruption crusader and publisher of
The Elephant, John Githongo, writes
in the E-review, “Corruption in Kenya isn’t about greedy procurement officers,
fiddling civil servants, crooked businessmen, shady bankers, thieving
politicians … these players are born of a system of politics and governance
that is itself inherently corrupt; one in which the thieves and those who
facilitate them thrive.” Understanding this is the key to solving
the corruption riddle. Many times, it has been suggested that
graft is a cultural problem that grew out of a supposed “African” tradition of
gift giving. Now, it is a good practice to be skeptical every time someone uses
the word “African” to imply a uniformity on the continent – and here a healthy
dose of skepticism would be justified. As Joe Khamisi’s history of corruption - Looters
and Grabbers – demonstrates, graft was the gift of colonialism. It was,
and still is embedded into the very fabric of the state the British created.
The logic of that state was to legitimise the stealing by the few from the many
and that is evinced throughout its design. In fact, Kenya was corrupted even before it
became Kenya. By 1907, 13 years before the territory officially became a
colony, bribery was already a feature of the nascent state. Khamisi cites Hugh
Cholmondeley, popularly known as Lord Delamere, a leader of the British
settlers, describing the relations between the public and the new rulers: “Time
and time, I have had a native say they were stopped by an Indian policeman.
When I asked them how they got away, they always said, ‘Oh, I gave him
something.” Khamisi also describes how corruption
seeped from the White colonial establishment down to its African enforcers, the
appointed chiefs and policemen. A state built to steal was itself peopled by
thieves. As David Anderson says in Histories
of the Hanged, “Europeans were as guilty of corruption and malpractice
in colonial Nairobi as anyone else, and Africans at the bottom of the colonial
racial hierarchy were most often its victims”. The Rose
Commission, which was established in 1955 to look “into alleged corruption
or other malpractices in relation to the Affairs of the Nairobi City Council”
found that “the practice of City Council servants demanding or accepting, and
of contractors offering, bribes or, if you prefer, money presents-for services
rendered or to be rendered, [was] by no means uncommon”. Corruption was baked into the state and its
templates were established from early on. At the top, the white elite ripped
off the state through public projects such as the railway and the construction
of public housing, while at the bottom, poorly paid chiefs, members of African
courts and police supplemented their incomes by extorting from the people.  As Khamisi puts it, citing David Leonard’s African
Successes: Four Public Managers of Kenyan Rural Development, “Through
corruption and bribery, chiefs were transformed into willing agents of
colonialism and were “implicitly encouraged to use their positions to amass
wealth and demonstrate to all and sundry that it paid to cooperate with
Europeans.” In this manner, corruption became
institutionalised as a way of doing government business. And when those chiefs
and their kids inherited the state from the British, they really did not know
any other way to be. Following independence in 1963, the civil service was
massively expanded. But the Jomo Kenyatta (Uhuru’s father) administration was
not keen on paying for it. Following the colonial model, in 1971 the
Ndegwa Commission recommended allowing them to supplement their wages with
private business, which had the effect of legalizing corruption. The looting
ramped up and it has been escalating ever since. Understanding the systemic roots of
corruption would allow Kenyans to see that successful prosecutions, while a
necessary part of a credible anti-corruption strategy, will not fix the
problem. Deterring and punishing the corrupt is no substitute for fixing a
system that not only permits, but also rewards graft. Convictions, even in the
unlikely event meaningful ones were secured, would be ineffective so long as a
third of the government’s budget, some
Sh600 billion according to the EACC, continues to be available to be stolen
every year. The fact is, the rewards of corruption far
outstrip Kenya’s capacity to punish it. The country’s energies would be better
spent in holding political leaders accountable, not just for delivering
convictions and harsher sentences, but for shutting down the gravy train. And
that will require reforming how the Kenyan state works. 