From the onset, we should all appreciate that there is a fine and thin line
separating the life of William Ruto the Deputy President and William
Ruto the politician and William Ruto the private citizen. It is therefore difficult
to tell when he is campaigning and when he is is discharging his duties
as the Deputy President. He himself has been clear that we should all shelve politics
until the right time and deliver on campaign promises. The
DP has been doing exactly that — launching roads construction around the country and representing President Uhuru Kenyatta at various functions. This should not be misconstrued to mean that he is campaigning. Yes, no doubt Ruto
will be the Jubilee flagbearer in the 2022 polls. And if in the process of rolling
out Jubilee projects he strengthens his candidacy, all well and
good. In any case, which politician would not want to build and expand his network? The
general election is so far and yet so near. We should note that the
success of the Jubilee administration will greatly impact on Ruto's
presidential bid. That is why he is up and down to ensure the President
secures an impressive legacy, which will alsobolster his own chances. After the
handshake, there have been major major political developments.
Politicians have slowly and secretly started aligning themselves with
what they hope is the winning team. Ruto has become the major
beneficiary of the handshake. There is confusion in the opposition
whether Raila Odinga will run again. Every weekend politicians
from across the divide are meeting the electorate. They most likely want
to have a leader they associate with and in this case, they have found
DP Ruto as that man. Let me also point out the DP is
exceeding energetic. He can plan several functions in one day and attend all of them. Naturally, when people see him campaigning in
various corners of the country within one day, they would think he is
on the campaign trail. The MP for Belgut spoke to the Star Read: Ruto plots raids on Raila strongholds Click here for the latest political news