A signal from the plane which went missing after take-off from Kitale on Tuesday has been traced to Aberdare forest near Kinangop. The signal was from a mobile phone believed to be that of one of the ten passengers who were aboard the aircraft. Jomo Kenyatta International Airport control tower reported that it lost contact with the plane at 5:20pm. The caravan aircraft registration number 5Y-CAC had 8 passengers and 2 crew members. East African Safari Air Express, the plane's operator, said in a statement that the 12-seater aircraft departed from Kitale for Nairobi at 4:05pm. A search and rescue team has been mobilised by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, Aircraft Accident Investigation Department, and KWS. "At present, East African Safari Air Express has no knowledge of the location or condition of the aircraft or its occupants," the statement released on Tuesday said. Deputy Director of the National Disaster Management Unit Pius Masai said search and rescue operations were being hampered by bad weather and poor visibility. He appealed to the public to volunteer information which may lead to quick rescue and recovery of the plane and its occupants. “If you have any information please call 999, 911 or 112. For coordination, you may reach me on 0722644085,” he said. Relatives and next of kin have been asked to convene at Weston Hotel for more information. They can alternatively seek more details via the crisis number 0706 305 305. "We are in the process of contacting the next of kin and family of the passengers on board.We pray for the safety of the passengers and of our crew," East African Safari Air Express said. Speaking at Weston Hotel, Chief executive George Kivindyo urged the public to be patient as the search operation continues. He said he would give a brief once they receive concrete updates from the government. “We are hoping everything is going to be ok. Bear with us. I will give you a firm statement as soon as we are ready. He went on: "I’m not going to hide anything, if it’s bad news I will tell you it’s bad news, if it’s good news we share this and we move on with life. Life must continue.” Mohamed Abdi said his cousin Abdi Ali was on board the plane. He said the last time they spoke with the father of five was on Monday. “We have no option. We are just waiting for information. If he’s dead we will accept, if he’s alive praise be to God.” Former FKF Chairman Sam Nyamweya said three of his friends were passengers on the plane. Kenya Red Cross has set up a posttrauma desk at Weston Hotel to offer counseling services to the family members. Meanwhile, a Red Cross ambulance that was carrying a team of rescuers to the Aberdare region was involved in a head-on collision with a lorry. The occupants sustained injuries and were taken to JM Memorial Hospital in Ol Kalou. Read: Plane with 10 people from Kitale goes missing Click here for the latest political news