Former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau yesterday called on the government to ensure that the ongoing anti graft war leads to high profile prosecutions and convictions.  The ex-lawmaker said the ‘big fish’ were the real masterminds behind the looting of public funds and challenged the government to spare no one.  Speaking to the Star on phone, Kamau said it was time for tough action against graft suspects, adding that corruption had morphed into a national disaster that now threatens future generations.  The former legislator said the war on graft was long overdue and each individual had to be held accountable for their own actions.  'Let everyone carry his or her own cross, when you go to steal or misuse public resources, you do it as an individual, and you should be punished as an individual," he said.  His remarks come hot in the heels of a vicious anti graft war launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta following emergence of multi-billion corruption scandals in government.  These included the Sh9 billion NYS saga in which fraudulent payments were made to phony companies and proxies linked to powerful individuals in government.  So far 33 people, including Public Service and Youth PS Lillian Omollo and NYS director general Richard Ndubai have been charged with corruption at the National Youth Service as more cases of graft emerge.  But Jamleck said individuals involved in corruption cases must not hide behind their tribes, political parties or status in government.  “There is nothing like this or that community has stolen more. Corruption is corruption and must be dealt with firmly,” he said.  The former minister also urged the investigating bodies to widen their scope as public confidence in the authorities tasked with investigating and prosecuting corrupt suspects has dwindled over the years. He said Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission, the Director of Criminal Investigations and the Director of Public prosecutions to work closely and to complement each other if the way against graft is to be won.