Parliament plans to vet Treasury CS Henry Rotich’s bid to repeal the one-year-old interest rate cap. Lawmakers reacted furiously to Rotich’s proposal while he was delivering the 2018-19 Budget in the House on Thursday. They heckled Rotich when he read out his plan to do away with the interest cap law, signalling that repealing the law will not be a walk in the park. On Friday, National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi warned Rotich that they will not succumb to “blackmail” by financial institutions that cause suffering to the public. He said Parliament will protect the interests of Kenyans who need access to cheap credit. The law has achieved its intended purpose. The rates have stabilised and amending it will make the banks run amok and destabilise the market as was the case before,” Mbadi, an accountant, said. Related : M-Pesa charges, kerosene, mitumba go up in Big Four budget Kiambu MP Jude Njomo, the architect of the interest rate cap law, accused the National Treasury and the Central Bank of trying to please ‘a cartel’ of banks denying Kenyans credit to push for the repeal. “It is wrong for Treasury to do what the banks want and think that the financial institutions will now behave and make credit available,” he said. Njomo said the reasons Treasury had advanced in support of the repeal of the law are not convincing enough to change MPs’ minds. “We’ll not support the repeal. It’s meant to enrich a few people,” he warned, accusing the CBK of working with banks to frustrate credit access. “We know banks are not lending to SMEs because that’s what they promised to do when we were enacting the law. They are now working as cartels on that promise as they did with high interest rates.” The Consumers Federation of Kenya (Cofek) has criticised Rotich’s proposal and asked MPs to veto the move, which, it says, unshackles banks. “We urge MPs to veto the proposal with the contempt it deserves. The matter is actively in court,” it said in a statement. Cofek said Rotich’s promise to protect small and medium-sized firms through a credit guarantee scheme rings hollow. The proposed guarantees and a bill to protect consumers from predatory lenders are a tokenism, it said. “It’s wrong that Rotich has bowed to pressure from the International Monetary Fund and local banks at the expense of consumers,” the advocacy group said. An IMF team in February told the government to abolish the interest rate cap as a way of releasing funds to SMEs and the private sector. Rotich’s proposal is seen as a move to deliver the government’s promise to the global agency The IMF had suspended Sh99 billion credit facility that Kenya had arranged to ride out temporary economic shocks. Since the cap was enacted in September 2016, Kenya’s fiscal and monetary policymakers have been on a collision course with development partners. Also read : Treasury stares at ‘Sh4tn gap in infrastructure funds for 4 years’ The enactment of the law saw banks increase their investment in government bonds and T-bills. Lending to the private sector has reduced. It stood at 2.8 per cent in February. But banks have argued the rate caps have made it impossible to profitably accommodate riskier borrowers within the set maximum interest rates — currently standing at 13.5 per cent. Rotich seeks to remove the caps by taking away the Central Bank of Kenya’s powers to enforce interest rate ceilings, effectively leaving banks to freely price loans. “In order to enhance access to credit and minimise the adverse impact of interest rate capping on credit growth while strengthening financial access and monetary policy effectiveness, I propose to amend the Banking (Amendment) Act, 2016 by repealing Section 33B of the said Act,” Rotich said. Click here for the latest political news