Three Kenya Pipeline Company top managers whose homes were raided by the anti-graft agency have been sent on compulsory leave to allow for investigations. On Monday procurement manager Nicholas Gitobu, general manager finance Sam Odoyo and Amina Juma, a manager in the operations department, were told to stay away from work. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission raided their homes a fortnight ago in search of crucial procurement documents. But yesterday a senior manager at KPC dismissed the graft claims in the multimillion-shilling procurement under probe. The official, who did not want to be named for fear of reprisal, said the tendering of the Sh647 million supply of hydrant pit valves was aboveboard. He told the Star it was witch-hunt meant to sideline some senior managers because of a looming change of guard at KPC. An 18-page document seen by the Star outlined how the procurement was done in 2014, leading to delivery of 60 valves in 2015 by Aero Dispenser Valves Ltd. Read:[VIDEO] Kenya Pipeline MD Joe Sang denies loss of Sh95bn in alleged scam “Hydrant pit valves spares listed are as per our specifications and are alright,” the KPC Inspection Certificate, sent by the source, reads. Managing director Joe Sang’ yesterday said, “The case has been with the EACC for the last three years before we came to office.” “We wrote to the EACC last week requesting reasons why it initiated search warrants against the officers, who are on compulsory leave for 30 days, so we can take appropriate disciplinary action.” Sang’ dismissed the alleged loss of Sh95 billion, saying the KPC is committed to collaborating with anti-corruption agencies. He termed the alleged loss of billions of taxpayers money at the company “inaccurate, astonishing and malicious”. Sang’ said the claims are a scheme to taint the KPC’s name. “We would like to allay fears the corporation has lost Sh95 billion of taxpayers money. This is not the case. We find these allegations malicious because our annual turnover is Sh28 billion and Sh95 billion is not pocket change but a huge amount of money,” he said. Sang’ spoke during a press conference at the company’s headquarters in Nairobi. He was accompanied by company secretary Gloria Khafafa and other senior officials. The KPC commenced the procurement of hydrant pit valves in October 2014 to replace the existing ones to comply with standards laid down by the Joint Inspection Group, the global organisation certifying quality jet fuel. Sang said all the 12 projects the KPC undertook in procurement were aboveboard as per the State Corporation Act, the Public Finance Management Act, and the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2015, among other laws. The projects include the 122km Sinendet-Kisumu Pipeline (Line 6 ) worth Sh5.7 billion, the 2009-10 capacity enhancement projects worth Sh9.6 billion, the Kisumu Oil Jetty worth Sh1.7 billion and the Line 1 replacement project (Line 5 ) at a cost of Sh48.4 billion. Also Read:EACC sleuths raid homes of Kenya Pipeline officials in Sh600m flawed tender probe Click here for the latest political news   