A row has erupted between relatives of Wanza Mulupi, the woman who died after a botched breast enlargement surgery. Wanza died at the Nairobi Hospital’s ICU last weekend, where she was admitted after developing complications. Her body was removed from Montezuma Funeral Home and she is expected to be buried today at Lang’ata Cemetery. Her husband’s relatives from Bungoma want her buried at her matrimonial home but her sisters want her interred in Rongai, where she lived with her husband Mulupi Musuya. More on this : Woman dies after botched breast enlargement surgery Musuya comes from Nabiswa settlement scheme in Tongaren, Bungoma county. He has not visited his rural home since 2009, when his father died. “Musuya and Wanza never stepped home since they came for the burial of their father in 2009. They built a nice house but never stepped there, claiming the area had witches,” a close relative said. “When we learnt about the death of his wife, we came to try and help him bury her. But he shifted from Rongai to Kileleshwa and has refused to engage his people from Bungoma.” Wanza died on Thursday last week after her intestines were punctured during the breast enlargement surgery. Read : Medical board investigates botched breast enlargement case She developed sepsis, a complication that occurs when the body’s immune system releases chemicals into the bloodstream to fight an infection. The waste from her intestines seeped into her stomach, causing the infection. Wiping away tears and choking up, family and friends on Friday mourned Wanza during a funeral service at Montezuma. The mother of three was the secondborn in a family of four. Friends described her as a stylist and fashion and fitness enthusiast. A friend of Wanza, who sought anonymity, said she did not know her condition was critical after the operation, despite having abdominal pains. She said Wanza was taking painkillers that had been prescribed after the operation. “She thought her abdominal pains were after-effects of the surgery. My heart is broken today for both the families who lost Wanza and the children whose mother has been taken away from them too early,” she said. Click here for the latest political news