The government is in the process of gazetting additional 70 water towers. The Kenya Water
Towers Agency said yesterday it will soon roll out a Sh2 billion programme to protect the water
catchment areas. Board member
Margaret Maranga said they were in talks with counties to coordinate the conservation of forests. There are 18 gazetted water catchment areas including Abardaere Ranges,
Mt Elgon, Mt Kulal, Loita Hills, The Mau Complex and Cherangany Hills. Others are
Mt Kenya, Marmanet Forest, Mt Kipipiri, Ndotos, Mt Marsabit, Huri Hills,
Kirisia Hills, Nyambene Hills and Mathews Range. Maranga said
the agency will plant bamboo, in collaboration with county governments, in all the earmarked water towers in the ambitious
rehabilitation bid that is aimed at restoring natural water supply after years
of depletion of forest The bamboo,
according to the agency, will be harvested and processed at the industries. According
KWTA environmental experts, bamboo matures in 18 months and helps a faster
restoration of water catchment areas. Maranga said
the agency will establish a Sh200 million bamboo factory in Kaptagat forest in
Elgeyo Marakwet. The factory,
Maranga said, will encourage locals living adjacent to the forest to grow
bamboo, since the factor will offer a ready market. The factory
will process mature bamboo stems to produce tooth picks and other products. “We will
break the ground in the next one or two months. A lot of discussion with
counties is going on in terms of the scale of investment,” Maranga said after
meeting Governor Alex Tolgos. Tolgos said
the county government donated a 300 acre land for the establishment of the
factory and a demonstration centre. He said the
factory will create jobs for youths four counties including Elgeyo Marakwet,
Baringo, Uasin Gishu and Nandi. The county
chief said water levels in the county have fallen sharply following depletion
of water catchment areas. “We are
facing an acute shortage of water in the county and we want to reverse the
trend,” Tolgos said. Elgeyo
Marakwet has the second highest forest cover at 38 per cent after Nyeri (38 per
cent). “Our aim as
a county is to increase our forest cover to 60 per cent by encouraging locals
to grow bamboo in their farms and earn from them,” Tolgos said. He hailed
KWTA for carrying out public participation before embarking on the
multi-million conservation project, noting the move will enhance good reception
of the projects. Tolgos told
the agency to gazette the Elgeyo agency as a water tower so that forests in the
county’s highlands are conserved. The new water towers are: Kajiado County Migori/Homabay Counties Elgeyo
Marakwet County Turkana County Meru County Laikipia County Nyamira County Nyeri County Taita Taveta Kili­fi County Nyandarua County Machakos County Makueni County Kitui County Baringo County Nakuru County Kiambu County Narok County Uasin Gishu County Embu County Kisii County Nandi County Lamu County Samburu County West Pokot County Migori County ENDS///