Husni Mbarak was walking casually back to work at his father’s workshop near Sapphire Hotel in Mombasa’s Central Business District after Jumaa prayers on Friday, May 25, when three people accosted him. The young man, who had just turned 18, was observing his eighth day of fasting during the holy month of Ramadhan. He resisted as the three strangers tried to bundle him into a waiting white Toyota Fielder registration number KCP 254W. He, however, coiled at the sight of three pistols that were brandished by his abductors at him and his friend *Ahmed Hussein (identity changed for security reasons). Scared stiff, he obliged and entered the vehicle. Hussein said the mean looking men were all casually dressed in T-shirts and jeans trousers. “When they pounced on Husni, I became confused. Then seconds later, seeing Husni was putting on a brave fight, I joined to help him. That is when they drew their guns,” Hussein said in an interview with the Star. This was yet another case of the increasing cases of abduction by unknown people in broad daylight in Mombasa. Young Muslim men, especially those who live in low income neighbourhoods, have become targets.. Human rights group Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid puts at 12 the number of such reported cases this year alone at the Coast. “We have received cases in Msambweni, Ukunda, Malindi and Lamu. In all the cases, there is no substantive answers from the security forces in the country who are supposed to ensure our security,” Khalid said. Husni’s father, Mbarak Khalid, told reporters at the Haki Africa offices they have visited all police stations in Mombasa in search of of the young man after they were informed of the incident to no avail. The case was reported at Central police station under OB 56/25/5/2018. Police have, however, denied any involvement in the abduction. Mombasa county commissioner Evans Achoki said the search for Husni is on and that the family is updated on every significant development. “Let us be patient,” Achoki said. Achoki said the fight against insecurity should not be left to security officers alone. “Parents have a role to play in this. Know where your children are all the time and what they are doing. Be involved with them and get to know them better,” he said. On Wednesday, Mbarak said the last time police communicated with them they informed the family that Husni’s phone had been tracked to Mayungu, between Malindi and Watamu, in North Coast, over 250km away. “But nothing significant came out of it. We are still hopeful that our son will be found. It is particularly hard on his mother who cries day and night,” Mbarak said. Munaa Mbarak, Husni’s mother, said her son is respectful and disciplined. “All I want is for my son to be returned home safe,” she said amid tears. Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Fahad Changi said the abductions are all executed in an almost similar manner. “The abductors are usually four. They usually try to persuade their victim into a waiting vehicle but when they resist, they draw their guns. It happened the same way to Shebe,” said Changi during an interview on Wednesday. He was referring to Abubakar Abdulkadir alias Shebe, who was abducted on November 17, last year at 6pm outside Classic Butchery (formerly known as Rayaan Butchery) near Masjid Sheikh Nassor in Malindi, Kilifi county. Shebe was on his way to Masjid Sheikh Nassor for the evening prayers when he was accosted by around ten men in two vehicles, a white Toyota Corolla (new model) of registration number KBQ 157U and another car, whose registration those who witnessed the incident could not recall. He was bundled into the Toyota Corolla before the two vehicles sped off. Shebe was heavily built hence the high number of those involved on the operation. Similar to Husni’s case, a search on the National Transport and Safety Authority database for the two vehicles yielded negative results as the registration numbers affixed to them do not exist meaning the number plates are fake. “The NTSA must come clear on this issue. How come there are registration numbers that do not exist in their records but are seen on the roads?” Changi posed. According to an Independent Police Oversight Authority report seen by the Star, Shebe had previously been interrogated by DCI officers at Malindi police station at least three times. According to his wife Amina Abdulazziz, his husband’s phone was still ringing but was not answered from the time of his abduction up to the afternoon of November 19, when calls stopped going through. Abdulazziz, has since become aloof and no longer wants talk about the incident. Another victim, Mohamed Avukame, had travelled from the quite and pristine Manda Island in Lamu county, to deliver vital documents relating to a land tussle at the Muhuri Legal Aid Clinic outside the Mombasa law courts when he was abducted by armed men believed to be police officers on August 23 last year. He was bundled into a waiting Toyota Prado, registration number KBQ 152U. He was handcuffed after initially resisting arrest. His elder brother, Bwanaheir Avukame, tried pursuing the Toyota Prado but it was too fast to keep up. The incident was reported at the Central Police Station but no information about his whereabouts has been forthcoming. “I strongly believe the government is responsible for his disappearance. They are supposed to protect, not abduct us,” Bwanaheri told the Star on the phone on Wednesday. He said life has not been easy for Avukame’s family since his disappearance. The victim’s son has been sent away from school due to tuition fee arrears. The uncle is pleading with the school administration to give him time to raise the money. “Life has been extremely tough. I have been forced to quit my job and look after my parents, a task that initially performed by Avukame,” he said. “I can’t tell if I will ever see him alive,” Bwanaheri whispers, as if in fear that those who took his brother away could be listening. On March 27, last year, Surus Nasoor, a teacher at Moi Forces Academy in Nairobi, who hailed from Malindi, left home for a meeting at Parklands but never went back home. His car was recovered on March 31, 2017 at Pangani police station. Nothing was stolen. No information from the police to date. His elder sister, Zulekha Nasoor, says her sister-in-law, Fatma Nzea has been struggling with life since then. They, however, still hope of seeing him alive. “If he is traced, we will drop all the cases. The family is not happy. We are paining. The absence is taking toll on us,” his sister Nasoor said. IPOA head of communication Dennis Oketch said they have been following up on the cases. The disappearances aside, Haki Africa has also documented at least nine people who have been killed by police or suspected police officers, this year alone. They include Samini Karisa, 37, who was shot in the chest by police on April 24 at Miritini, Mombasa county. He was among four people shot by police who said they were acting in self-defense as they dispersed a crowd that had allegedly turned violent. Karisa succumbed to his gunshot wounds on April 27, four days later. Hussein Nduke, 35, died on the spot. Kombo Gude, 53, was shot dead by unknown people as he walked home in the company of his friend on April 3 in Diani, Kwale county. Police denied involvement. Earlier, Gude is said to have complained he was being followed by people he suspected were police officers. Nothing was stolen from him. Nassib Diti, 50, who was in the company of Gude was also killed. Modi Shume, 26, was shot by police outside Donulinda Primary School in Mtongwe on April 2 just a few days to celebrating his son’s first birthday. Police said Shume, a boda boda rider, was among the most dangerous criminals on their watch list and had committed many robberies. Likoni police boss Benjamin Rotich said Shume was member of a criminal gang, Wajuku Wa Bibi, a juvenile criminal gang operating in Likoni. Abdi Dahir Mire, 22, Fumo Abdi, and Benny Thomas, 22, were shot by police in company of three others in Likoni, Mombasa county on March 27. Police said they were also suspected to be members of Wajukuu wa Bibi. Haki Africa says seven bullet riddled bodies of unknown male persons were on March 27 this year found dumped at the Coast General Hospital. “The state, being the duty bearer, ought to be in the frontline in observance and protection of all rights as enshrined in the Constitution. “It is, therefore, very disheartening to learn that those entrusted to ensure observance and protection of these rights such as the police are again found as the violators,” said Haki Africa.  LEADERS REACT Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki said security forces in the country need to explain such abductions and disappearances. “An 18-year-old cannot just be abducted by people brandishing guns in broad daylight in a place where there is supposed to be security,” the senator said. Faki said in a country that has attained middle-income status, such happenings should not be heard of. “This is one way of radicalizing youth. There should be no unexplained disappearances and killings,” Faki said. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said the police should come out clear and give information to Mombasa residents on what is happening. “At this rate, we will be asking for a ministerial statement. How can a car registration number be fake? This is where we should start from,” Nassi said. “We have information some of the incidents were captured in nearby CCTVs. These, I believe, should provide crucial leads. “We expect security forces to keep us updated on what they are doing to ensure Husni returns home safe. This was a well-orchestrated thing. We do not want such kind of images this Ramadhan,” Nassir said.