Kenya Sevens face a Herculean task in the final leg of the World Sevens Series in Paris today. After crossing the 100-point barrier for the first time last week at the London Sevens, the squad will be looking at gaining momentum and form ahead of the Rugby World Cup Sevens in San Francisco, USA next month. Shujaa are in Pool ‘A’ and face series leaders Fiji, New Zealand and Samoa. Innocent Simiyu’s charges open their campaign against the All Black Sevens outfit at 11:28am. This will be second meeting between the two sides having met in the main cup quarters in Dubai where the Kiwis won 14-12. Shujaa will than meet Fiji in their second pool match at 2:46pm. The sides met twice in the finals of Hong Kong and Vancouver with The Pacific Islanders coming out winners 24-12 and 31-12 respectively. They also met at the Sydney Sevens fifth place playoff where the Fijians won 24-5 . Kenya complete their preliminary fixtures with a tie against Samoa at 7:52pm. The two sides have met twice with Samoa winning 19-15 in Cape Town and Kenya exerting revenge 19-14 in Hamilton, New Zealand in January. Head coach Innocent Simiyu termed the pool as the toughest of the season but said the boys have nothing to be afraid of. “There are no easy matches in Sevens. We will be playing two of the top five teams in pool play. We are relishing the challenge as we seek to gain momentum from London, where we played very well on the second day,” said Simiyu. Simiyu said areas of concern were the kickoff reception and defence which will be severely tested by both the Fijians and New Zealand outfits. “We had issues with our kickoffs in London and we have had a couple of days this week to sort it out. At the same time, we want to improve our defensive alignment and efficiency,” he noted. Skipper Oscar Ayodi said the tough pool is good preparation for the upcoming Rugby World Cup. “It will be a big challenge but the boys are up for it. We know the styles of play for both teams and we have identified weaknesses which we can exploit,” he added. The top two teams qualify for the main cup quarterfinals with the teams placed third and fourth dropping to the Challenge Cup.