Busia will build a modern mortuary with a chapel at the Busia County referral Hospital, Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has said. Ojaamong who mad an impromptu tour of the hospital on Saturday promised to address staffing shortage, buy drugs and equipment and improve infrastructure. Intern clinical officers will receive their stipends before the end of the week, Ojaamong promised. The governor was pleased with the preservation of bodies but said they morgue was packed. The mortuary had 41 bodies yet its capacity is 12. Ojaamong asked health director Melsa Lutomia to expalain why the National Hospital Insurance Fund building had stalled. Health executive Phaustine Barasa said the CDF-funded infrastructure project required an additional Sh7 million to complete. Cancer patient Alex Juma told the governor he had spent Sh18,000 to buy drugs. Ojaamong urged residents to enroll with NHIF to cater for their medical costs. "In honour of my mother, our family will contribute towards the
construction of  Elizabeth Ojaamong Memorial Ward," Ojaamong said. The ward will have a bed capacity of 40. Nominated MCA Cynthia Mutere asked the governor to renew contracts for intern nurses and clinical officers. He  later  flagged off  hospital equipment including beds, microscopes and autoclave machines worth Sh11 million to sub county  hospitals across the county. The Governor started the tour by visiting the  Busia ( Regional) County  Referral  Hospital Laboratory  where  the Lab Manager  Frida Sirima  took the  County CEO  on the operations of the facility.       An Intern nurse  Diana  Pasapasa said she had only one day before her contract ends and wondered  how  only five nurses can handle the entire ward.  Nominated MCA Cynthia Mutere urged the Governor to renew contracts for intern nurses and clinical officers.  Barasa  said a progress report on the construction of the emergency and ICU units will be out in two weeks. County assembly speaker Bernard Wamalwa MCAs have set aside funds from the ward development fund to buy five beds to equip hospitals.. 