The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is not just limping, it is in the intensive care unit, in a deep self-inflicted coma. The internecine war between the commissioners on one hand and the commissioners and the CEO on the other has made it impossible for the commission to effectively execute its mandate. The chairman, in many media briefings, has put on a brave face in trying to tackle some of the tough questions thrown at him. But deep down he knows it is just a matter of time before the entire house comes tumbling down. The commission is suffering a credibility crisis. It is not trusted by both the government and opposition. The opposition for obvious reasons over the manner and style the commission conducted and managed the August and October 2017 presidential elections. On the other hand, the government or characters within it may not trust the IEBC as currently constituted because they probably know too much for comfort. The IEBC’s functions are so important that it cannot be left in this pathetic state. It is an independent regulatory agency anchored in the Constitution. Its mandate was given to it by the people of Kenya. It is not the property of Parliament or the Executive. That is why the people have the ultimate say. The commission as currently constituted, having lost credibility and lacking quorum, cannot help Kenyans meet their aspirations for free and fair elections. The commission is responsible for conducting or supervising referenda and elections to any elective body or office established by the Constitution, and any other elections as prescribed by the IEBC Act. Its mandate includes “...the continuous registration of voters and revision of the voter’s roll, the delimitation of constituencies and wards, the regulation of political parties process, the settlement of electoral disputes, the registration of candidates for elections, voter education, the facilitation of the observation, monitoring and evaluation of elections, the regulation of money spent by a candidate or party in respect of any election, the development of a code of conduct for candidates and parties, the monitoring of compliance with legislation on nomination of candidates by parties.” Reports of tender wars do not inspire public confidence. The holders of public office should act solely for the public interest, not for personal gain. They should not place themselves under any financial or other obligation to individuals or organisations that might seek to influence them in the performance of their official duties. Further, the commission must have people who respect objectivity in carrying out public business, including making public appointments, awarding contracts, or recommending individuals for rewards and benefits. Their choices must be based on merit. They must be people who are accountable for their decisions and actions to the public and must submit themselves to scrutiny. Openness must be the hallmark of these servants of the people so that they are continually entrusted with this very important institution of governance. They should give reasons for their decisions and restrict information only when the wider public interest clearly demands it. Kenyans were
shocked when the internal auditors' report revealed serious glaring anomalies. The abuse of its own internal procedures, including plenary resolutions, delivery of goods out of time, missing key tender
documents and above all noncompliance with procurement procedures, shocked Kenyans to the core. It revealed a commission that had become, in the
words of a senior renowned lawyer Pheroze Norwejee ‘a Bermuda triangle’—a
place where documents, money, minutes and all important materials simply
disappear without a trace. The writing is
on the wall and this commission must be reconstituted urgently to enable this institution to function at optimum level serving the very purpose for which it
was created by the people of Kenya—ensuring that the terms of the social
contract between the people and their elected leaders is fulfilled.  Advocate of the High Court and the former President of East Africa Law
Society of Kenya 