In my view, Jubilee was formed for the sole purpose of gaining power in 2017. The history of political parties right from the Kanu days is clear. Once they gain power, they collapse and new parties are formed. This is because parties in Kenya are not ideological. Jubilee was a creation to deny Raila power. Raila is no longer there. What is the purpose of Jubilee? So in my view, the question Kenyans should be asking is who will be there, not which party, because political parties in Kenya are individuals. There is a likelihood that William Ruto will run for the presidency on a different party other than Jubilee. But let me address the noise in the political party called Jubilee. Before the handshake, very many politicians were getting money and support for the sole purpose of fighting Raila Odinga. Careers were created fighting Raila. But Raila is no longer there. An implosion within Jubilee is likely to occur as happened in Kanu when folded his NDP and joined Moi after the 1997 polls. Right now because there is no external common enemy for Jubilee, the enemy will be within. As such, people within Jubilee will be salivating for example for the position of Majority Leader currently held by Aden Duale. The person Duale was supposed to keep in check — Raila Odinga —not there, so his position becomes the target. There are senators who will be salivating at Murkomen's job too. You saw what happened to Moses Wetang'ula after the handshake. Orengo plotted a coup against him. Clearly, the enemy was no longer Uhuru Kenyatta. The enemy became Wetang'ula. This is the politics that will soon hit Jubilee proper. When there is no perceived enemy, enemies are created within and they begin cannialising each other. So if Jubilee survives, I don't think it will be the party for the election of William Ruto and the rest. Whichever party political leaders will create will be formulated, registered and brought to the market in 2021. Anything now is just a waste of time. NARC was formed three months to the election while PNU was formed six months to the election. History tells us that in Kenya, the more the party stays, the more it disintegrates due to internal battles. Uhuru is a very good student of Kibaki. He is also a very good student of Barack Obama. If a sitting President openly shows preference to somebody, that person loses. Obama campaigned to death for Clinton and she lost; Kibaki was supporting Musalia but central Kenya rebelled. Uhuru has learnt from those lessons. So this time, Uhuru will not support anybody.