Corruption is the main cause of unemployment in Kenya, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said, and expressed concern about the future of youths. Kalonzo also pointed out on Friday evening that at least six million people in this category did not vote in 2017. “Over six million youths who did not vote in 2017 will vote in 2022 elections, so the future is for the youths” he said during the Kamba night show in Machakos County. In March, the 2015/16 Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey reported that at least 1.4 million Kenyans who made up the country's labour force were unemployed. The survey (KIHBS) was conducted over 12 months to obtain up-to-date data on socio-economic indicators used to monitor the implementation of development initiatives. In April, the British Council reported in April that sex is a means of earning money for some young people in Kenya as jobs do not come by easily. Read: 1.4 million in Kenyan labour force are unemployed - KNBS Read more: Business of sex? Unemployment pushing Kenyan youths to the edge Kalonzo threw his weight behind President Uhuru Kenyatta's war against corruption. "I fully support Uhuru’s enthusiasm to slay the corruption dragon, which has greatly affected the growth of the economy. This, in turn, has derailed the development of industries to bridge the unemployment gap." Wiper legislators are among leader pushing for a legal framework for the lifestyle audits of public servants. Mwingi Central's Gideon Mulyungi noted this will ensure fairness. "The team which will conduct the audit must be empowered by the law," Mulyungi said. “We have to put legislations in place to prevent another cut and mouse game." He added that he was confident Kalonzo will emerge corruption-free. Uhuru ordered a lifestyle audit of all state officers, including himself and and Deputy President William Ruto. They will be followed by all past and current 47 governors, Cabinet Secretaries and other state officers in an elaborate new plan to enhance the fight against corruption. On Friday, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua told the President not to succumb to blackmail from those opposed to lifestyle audits. Mutua said those resisting the audits should be the first in line if they have nothing to hide and are not afraid. More on this: Kenyatta: Ruto and I to face lifestyle audit Also read: Don't succumb to blackmail in corruption war, Alfred Mutua tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news 