Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has backed President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive on lifestyle audit of civil servants. However, the second-time legislator challenged the president to also include his late father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta in the wealth review. Jomo was Kenya's first president until his death in August 1978. It remains unclear if the dead or former presidents will also be subjected to the audits. The president, when he gave the order, said Deputy President William Ruto and himself will also face the vetting. Read: Uhuru orders lifestyle audit of state officers, says will take lead, Ruto to follow "We are with the President on this, in fact, more than 100 per cent. We ask everyone to submit to the audit including political leaders and their families." "We will start with Mzee Jomo, then follow with him and the rest of us," Sudi said adding that he is ready to speak of what he owns since his days as a tout. He spoke during the burial of Raymond Kipchumba - a GSU officer, at Chepkoiya village in Uasin Gishu county on Saturday. Rift Valley MPs present said they were ready and willing to provide crucial documents showing how they acquired their wealth. Sudi said he will account for what he owns as well as what his father, who worked as a cook at Moi University, owns. His Kesses counterpart Dr Swarrup Mishra said the audit will help in tackling runaway graft in the country. Mishra said civil servants should not undermine Uhuru’s efforts to fight graft. "Let us submit to the audit instead of planning how to avoid telling the truth." He said that it is the obligation of all Kenyans, irrespective of their status or political affiliation, to ensure public funds are safeguarded. "As politicians, we should support all efforts to fight graft so that we grow our economy to create jobs, improve food production, housing and general welfare of Kenyans," Mishra said. Sudi further said the fight against corruption will enable the Jubilee administration to implement Uhuru’s Big Four agenda. "No one should have fears over the lifestyle audit if they acquired what they have genuinely," he said. The call for wealth audit has arguably unsettled some politicians. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen on Friday joked that "the audit will expose some of them who are enjoying a perceived status of rich men." "I have only one problem with lifestyle audit. We will 'lose' our helicopters, highrise buildings, NYS tenders etc. There is nothing a Kenyan voter hates than a poor politician." Read: Lifestyle audit will 'expose us', Murkomen jokes on Uhuru's call for wealth review Already, the NIS is tracking the source of wealth owned by key state officers, especially those handling corruption cases. Those being monitored include Judiciary staff ranging from judges to magistrates and court clerks. Investigating officers at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and prosecutors in the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions are also on the radar. More on this: Uhuru orders NIS to track lifestyles of top state officials In response to Sudi, Nyeri Town MP Ngujiri Wambugu said his Kapseret counterpart is 'not speaking for himself'. "Oscar Sudi doesn’t speak for himself. So when he says that the lifestyle audit must start from Uhuru's father - he’s speaking for others. Personally I think others is 'tanga tanga squad'." "So, what they need to tell us is; What do they expect us to do if we are to find that Jomo was corrupt? If Jomo was corrupt, do they now believe that they have the right to be corrupt too?," he asked on his Facebook page. He added that those calling for the audit on Kenyatta's wealth should not imagine they "can threaten Uhuru with such stupid demands." "Let them know that lifestyle audits are simple; we check what you have now, and what you had before you got into public office. If the figures don’t add up .. you are corrupt! Period." Click here for the latest political news    