The experience of buying two leaves of pumpkins and a handful of cowpeas leaves for Sh50 when she visited her sister in Nairobi in 2012 prompted Juliet Kareji to start growing indigenous vegetables for sale. Armed with no skills and ready market but optimistic of high returns, the seasoned smallholder maize farmer in Lugari, Kakamega County made a decision to quit do away with the seasonal food crop. ‘After harvesting the usual less than six bags of maize from my four acre piece of land in December 2012, I quickly prepared the farm to embark on a new journey. I have never looked back,’’ said Kareji. In March 2013, she tried cowpeas on three acres and crowded African nightshade (managu) and Spider plant (saga) in the remaining acre, expecting the first harvest after four weeks. ‘’I was more concerned about market than yields. The most important thing was that I had plenty of vegetables which needed buyers urgently. My sister linked me to two traders at City Market and Gikomba in Nairobi who bought a half of it at Sh35,000.’’ Kareji managed to supply the rest to local markets and even donated some to neighbours. This was an eye opener. She learnt the importance of finding market ahead of harvesting. Although she only managed a profit of Sh17,000, this was more than her maize earnings after four months of tedious work. ‘’I managed to mobilise five more buyers in Nairobi and one in Nakuru with the help of my sister to whom I sold my second harvest. I also created a rapport with Nairobi bound bus drivers, who to date are my main transporters.’’ The farmer has added seveve (pumkin leaves), mtoo and jute (mrenda) to the first three varieties, which she rotationally grows on her land and four more acres she she has leased. She also buys from other farmers in the county when demand is high. Indigenous vegetables are easy and less expensive to grow Unlike other contemporary vegetables like kale, cabbage, tomatoes and onions which require a lot of resources and expertise to produce, she said, indigenous crops are cost effective and require less expertise to grow. "Most of indigenous vegetables grow naturally and have high resistance to most diseases and pests. I however go for improved varieties in the market in order to maximise yields and minimise risks,’’ she said. In a good month, Kareji supplies at least three types of vegetables to her customers in various markets. However, cowpeas and managu can be ready for supply after 2-3 weeks as they mature faster. The farmer told the Star that she sells at least 15 big baskets of vegetables weighing close to 1,360 kilos after two months, bringing in Sh150,000. Kitchen Soko, an online vegetable selling platform in the country shows that a bunch of each of those vegetables weighing a quarter a kilo is currently going for Sh30. This means, a kilo of each of those vegetables retails at a minimum of Sh100. Challenges Even though she is earning handsomely from the trade, she faces a several challenges. Cowpeas for instance require 500-800mm of rainfall per annum. Considering that her farms are in Western Kenya, the crop gets two times amount of rainfall required, destroying leaves. Kareji said the humid conditions expose the cow peas to attack by bacterial blight and bacterial pustule. The cowpea aphid is another common pest that strikes especially during wet conditions. The insect feeds on undersurface of young leaves, on young stem tissue and on pods of mature plants. Under severe infestation, there is premature defoliation and death of young seedlings. She however manages the situation by growing resistant seed varieties like Secow 3B, Secow 4W and Secow 5T. The 47 year old farmer is panning to buy her own lorry to ease and cut transportation costs by 2020. She is challenging smallholder farmers to get out of their comfort zones and try high value crops.