Kenya will in two years time know its HIV prevalence as well as data that of sexually transmitted infection such as syphilis and hepatitis in the country. The third household base survey which will be collected across the country in the next six months started today and will cost the government Sh2B. The survey known as the Kenya Population - Based HIV Impact Assessment or KENPHIA, will also establish whether persons on HIV treatment have their viral load suppressed and if at all there are persons who are resistant the medicines in the market. “This is really critical because we want to establish how well the treatment is working. Drug resistance will be measured on those on treatment those not.” Epidemiologist Peter Young from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention said yesterday. He spoke during the launch of the survey that was held at a Nairobi hotel. Kenya is part of 14 other countries globally that are taking part in the survey. Young noted for those on treatment, the their aim will be to establish whether the medicines are effective or not and for those who aren’t they will be trying to see if he resistance was transmitted from one person to another. According to the World Health Organization the consequences of HIV drug resistance, HIVDR include treatment failure and further spread of drug resistant HIV. “This can compromise the effectiveness of the limited therapeutic options to reach the last 90 target of achieving viral suppression and further reduce HIV incidence, mortality and morbidity.” WHO said. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman said that data from the survey will also help county governments understand and plan better in the HIV response “Each county will have reliable data on the burden of the disease, the knowledge, attitudes as well as the unmet need for HIV prevention, care as well as treatment. Head of the National AIDS and STI and Control Program, NASCOP Kigen Bartilol said that 34,160 between the ages of 0- 64 years will take part in the voluntary exercise. NACC executive director Nduku Kilonzo noted that the outcome of the survey will also give results of the HIV stragetgiv framework which is aimed at increasing preventing new HIV infections as well as the advocate for increased domestic funding on matters HIV. “We are tired of dealing with estimates we need evidence based data and research do that we can be able to know what programs are working in the country and which ones aren't" Nduku said. 2015 estimates from the National Aids Control Council showed that 70,000 new infections were recorded then half of which were from adolescents no young people.