It is about to get lit on the streets of Nairobi. Word has it there will be six international artistes heading to Kenya for a two-day festival in August. According to our sources, who are this close to the organisers of The Terminal Music Weekend, the list of the six mega stars jetting into the country include Big Shaq, Keri Hilson, Bobby V (formerly Bobby Valentino), WSTRN and Horace Brown.  Big Shaq. / Courtesy "Yes, their riders are ready and the contracts have been signed. Most of these stars have never been to Kenya and they are super-excited about visiting the country for the first time," the source told Word Is. Big Shaq, real name Micahel Dapaah, came into the limelight after a radio interview on BBC 1Xtra went viral. This saw the his comedic rap Man's Not Hot also developed into a viral meme. Now, Big Shaq has dropped a new track, Man Don’t Dance. He told BANG Showbiz: “For me, it’s the same formula, man. I just enjoy what I do, and that’s the most important thing. I’ll continue just enjoying creating. With Man’s Not Hot, with everything to do with Shaq and any other character that I do, I just enjoy what I do, and I just stick to that.”  Bobby V. / Courtesy Big Shaq will be joined by Bobby V, who is known for his monster hit, Slow Down. He is back with a new album, Electrik, which was released on March 9. The album debuted on the Billboard Magazine R&B Album Chart at #7. Keri Hilson and Horrace Brown will be a great addition to the mature “grown and sexy” audience. They will perform at the KICC on August 3, while the next day will host three other international acts and three local acts in what is touted as “the UK Grime meets Kenyan Hip Hop”.  WSTRN. / Courtesy "Nairobi, Kenya-I'm coming your way on August3!!! I'll be performing and doing some work there with The Keri Hilson Foundation," Keri Hilson tweeted, confirming the news. In a bid to change the music culture in Kenya, the international acts will be supporting the Kenyan acts, unlike what usually happens, where international acts are given more of a priority than the local acts. The Terminal Music Weekend will be an annual event with the aim of bringing people together from all over the world and all walks of life, just like at an airport terminal, to one music weekend.