All public colleges will now be required to help secondary school students select courses and assist graduates find jobs. A new directorate for institutions of higher learning was launched yesterday to help the students make informed decisions in university courses. The Office of Career Services directorate targets 73 universities and constituent colleges as well as 200 public tertiary institutions. The office will work with secondary school heads to help the students make informed decisions on courses. The move was informed by concern from the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service, which stated some courses do not get any applicants – students do not know about them. Analysis of this year’s placement data from the KUCCPS showed some courses did not attract a single student. They include Bachelors in Social Work, Bachelor of Business Management, Bachelor of Environmental Science, and Bachelor of Development Studies. Some attracted less than five applications. The central placement service information also shows nearly half of public universities did not fill at least 50 per cent of the slots they declared, calling their viability to question. University of Kabianga filled 32.2 per cent, University of Embu ( 40.9 ), South Eastern Kenya University ( 35.1 ), Pwani University ( 42.1 ). Education CS Amina Mohamed said, “The Office of Career Services is expected to play a crucial role in improving the quality of training and enhancing students’ chances of landing a job.”  UNEMPLOYMENT The Career office wants to end the high rate of unemployment. University and tertiary institutions will work with industry partners to ensure graduates get jobs. “Unemployment has raised questions on the quality of graduates in terms of career expectations, competence, relevant skills and attitude,” she said. Currently, one million young people enter the labour market every year, with only one in five of these likely to find a job in the formal sector. The institutions will be required to create a data base of jobs available, organise career fairs, organise internships for students as well as create new tracker data base on students who have completed their studies.