"What took her so long to report the rape?" That is a common question from uninitiated onlookers when rape survivors come out a "long time" after the ordeal. Last weekend, a Form Two student was raped at Moi Girls High School, Nairobi. The exact details are still unclear due to multiple accounts, but what has been established is that one girl was raped and two others assaulted. Reports suggest the rape happened at around 2pm and the administration came to know about the attack at around 5pm. There are conflicting reports about whether the girls tarried in raising the alarm or whether the administration took long to respond. There is a version the girls did not scream during the attack, went back to their dormitory and raised the alarm hours later. That got some Kenyans on social media asking questions. But psychologist Eva Kathoni says one has to understand the trauma a rape victim undergoes before asking about the speed in reporting the attack. "Sometimes it takes the victim a while to accept they have been raped. There can be denial and it could take the victim time to come back to their senses." Eva also points to the fear of not being believed. In the Moi Girls case,  Kilimani police boss Michael Muchiri suggested the whole incident could be a way to avoid exams. Eva says victims often blame themselves for the rape, even though it is not their fault. "They start thinking of all the ways they could have prevented themselves from being in the situation." Rape survivor Wangu Kanja knows all too well about the double trauma that can come with rape. The founder of the Wagu Kanja Foundation was raped at gunpoint in 2002 after a carjacking. Wangu was in the company of friends when robbers ambushed them and took their ATMs. Some of the robbers went with Wangu's friends to withdraw the money and she was told to stay behind as collateral. The attack happened as the robber left with her waited for a signal the money had been withdrawn. “He took me to a place near City Stadium. Minutes passed as we waited for a signal that money had been withdrawn. All of a sudden, the man told me to take off my clothes but I refused. He repeated the instruction a couple of times and when he saw I wasn’t budging, he pulled out a gun and said I could choose to sleep with him or die.” Wangu gave in. A little while after she had been raped, the rest of the gang arrived with the money. Wangu says she feared the four men would gang rape her. “I think they toyed with the idea but decided against it because it was close to dawn and people had already started going to work. I don't think I would have allowed them to rape me. I would probably have told them to kill me because I wasn’t going to go through that ordeal again with four other men,” she said in a previous interview.  RELIVING ORDEAL The thugs released her and gave her Sh100 to board a bus to the CBD. “After the ordeal, I couldn’t think straight. Every man I saw appeared like a dark cloud, a shadow. I resented men.” As Wangu headed towards the bus stop, she ran into policemen in a car and told them what had happened, but just the robbery. "I didn’t mention the rape. I didn’t want to relive it.” Wangu says she knew she should have rushed to the hospital but all she could think of was showering. “I felt so dirty and I just wanted to get rid of the filth so I threw away my clothes and took a shower. I kept cleaning myself and even wanted to use jik to wash away all the dirt.” Wangu then told her sister about what had happened and she accompanied her to the police station to record the rape but what they told her left her distraught. “They asked me if I had a boyfriend and advised me not to tell him I was raped because he would dump me.” Wangu said many people are insensitive towards rape survivors. She encountered another round of insensitivity when she went to hospital. “The nurse took an accusatory approach when questioning me. She asked me if I was indeed raped or if I had consented to sex and then changed my mind later and decided to accuse the man of rape.” “The system is pathetic. That I had to wait in line in hospital along with other patients with minor conditions is sad.” Wangu has made it her life's purpose to help victims of gender-based violence through the Wangu Kanja Foundation which was founded in 2005. It focuses on promoting prevention, protection and response in ending sexual and gender-based violence. Eva says rape survivors should always remember the rape is not their fault and has nothing to do with them.  Some of her tips for people to protect themselves from rapists include: 1. Wear fitting clothes: this will make the attacker struggle to undress their victim and by that time, one can try to fight the predator or scream loud and long enough to attract attention and scare away the attacker. 2. Carry a panic emergency alarm in your bag - a loud-mate - that you can set off when in danger to attract attention 3. Take self-defense classes 4. Avoid using lonely paths, especially at night: Walk in numbers and for those who drive, use main roads, even though there may be traffic because shorter routes are usually lonely paths where rapists might be lurking  IN THE MIND OF A RAPIST Eva says rapists attack for several reasons including wanting their presence to be felt. "Some of these people have issues of rejection, some starting from childhood, and they feel their existence will be noticed when they gain control and dominance over someone - which is what rape is usually about - the rapist wants the victim to feel they have power over them." Some rapists are angry at the world and set out to harm people as some sort of twisted "revenge". Eva says rape, whether by a stranger or partner, is never about love or attraction - that is why there are cases of rapists preying on children as young as six months old or younger. Eva says some men have mental illness, while other perpetrators are trying to find a way to rebel against the women empowerment movement - they feel women's issues have received too much attention at the expense and or negligence of men and want women to feel men are in control. Wangu said Kenyan society remains staunchly patriarchal and dominated by traditional and cultural beliefs which mean sexual and gender based violence is rationalised and sometimes condoned. For victims of rape, Eva says the importance of counseling cannot be overemphasised.  WHAT TO DO IN EVENT OF RAPE 1.     Get yourself to a safe place as soon as possible. 2.     Do not shower or throw away your clothes. You need to preserve evidence. 3.      Avoid urinating: if need be, urinate in a bottle and carry the urine to hospital. 4.     Do NOT brush your teeth or cut your nails. 5.     Seek medical assistance by visiting the nearest hospital or health faclity. 6.     Get preventive treatment for HIV-Aids, Sexually Transmitted Infections, pregnancy within 72hrs. 7.     Ensure you fill a Post Rape Care form and take the original and duplicate copies with you. 8.     Report the matter to the police 9.     Seek counselling 10.   Seek legal advice Courtesy - Wangu Kanja Foundation For assistance, SMS help to 21094 