Caroline, an eight-year-old black rhino, was sedated with a dart from a helicopter yesterday, blindfolded with a turquoise-coloured cloth and made ready for the seven-hour trip to her new home. When she ‘awoke’ from the traumatising experience, she tried to escape into a waiting cage. Then a crane lifted the cage onto a truck. And Caroline was on her way from Nairobi National Park to the new Tsavo East Rhino Santuary. She was one of three rhinos ‘translocated’ from Nairobi yesterday. Three more are to shift home tomorrow. An adult rhino can weigh as much as 700 kilogrammes or 1,500 pounds. A few weigh more. A total of 14 black rhinos are to be moved, eight from the Nairobi National Park and six from Lake Nakuru National Park. The Nairobi park has 101 black rhinos but its capacity is only 45. KWS board chairman John Waithaka told the Star Nakuru has 76 black rhinos. He did not give its capacity. The relocation was to start in 2016 but drought prevented movement to parched Tsavo. Thanks to the rain, however, there’s now plenty of food for Caroline and her friends. At 9am yesterday, Caroline was sedated for 20 minutes in an operation Tourism CS Najib Balala described as “traumatising, as the animal could be lost”. A lot of work goes into translocation; within 20 minutes, anything can go wrong, Balala said. First, rangers on foot identify the ‘candidate’. Then veterinary officers armed with tranquilliser darts take aim from a helicopter. Once the animal is sedated, the team comes close. KWS senior warden Isaac Lekolol said vital parameters are monitored to ensure the rhino stays alive. The horn is then drilled and fitted with a microchip to monitor its movement in the sanctuary. Another chip and a transmitter with the details of the animal is fitted elsewhere on the body. Then a cage is lowered from a lorry and placed in front of the animal. By this time, the animal is waking up. As the sedation wears off, the groggy rhino moves quickly into the cage, which is fastened. Then loaded by crane onto a truck. Balala said there were 20,000 black rhinos many years ago but poaching reduced them to 400.Today there are 800 black rhinos and 500 white rhinos, the CS said. Poachers killed nine rhinos last year.