Ten candidates cleared to run in the August 17 for Bassi Chache ward by-election in Bobasi constituency in Kisii have hit the road for their campaigns. The candidates who presented their papers last week to area returning officer Moses Daula will be battling out for the over the 11, 000 votes. The electoral body was ordered to conduct a fresh election by Ogembo court after it nullified Fred Sambu’s victory on grounds that August 7 polls were not conducted in a free and fair manner. Omari Ombeo who petitioned Sambu’s win will be running in an ODM ticket while Sambu will be defending his seat on a Jubilee ticket. Others who were cleared by Daula are Tom Bosire (RPK), Robert Siocha (PDP), Andrew Manyura (Ford-K), Samuel Gwaro(Peoples Empowerment Party), Zaphania Mose (RLP), Vincent Kerosi (KSC), George Maganga (NAP) and Haron Masese (Maendeleo Chap Chap). Among the issues which will be featuring in the campaigns ahead of the mini-polls include roads, water, agriculture and markets. Daula has since warned the candidates against violating the laid down election rules during their campaigns. “I am challenging the candidates to conduct themselves well during their campaigns. They should respect each other,” Daula said. “I am cautioning those who will break the rules that they risk barred from the ballot,” he added. Sambu who contested in a PNU ticket in the last elections exuded confidence that he will recapture the seat. “I am confident that I am going to defeat all my opponents come the August 17 because the electorates have confidence in me,” he said. Addressing residents at Itumbe market, he urged his opponents to avoid insults during the campaigns and instead sell their policies. “I'm urging my competitors to shun from engaging in insults during the campaigns and instead sell their policies to the people,” Sambu added. Speaking to the Star in Kisii town, Bosire said that former MCA Robert Siocha who Sambu defeated did little during his tenure and thus need for change. Click here for the latest political news