The Ministry of Health recently launched a maternal deaths report indicating that most women die at the hands of health workers, with the majority (90 per cent) receiving substandard care. To ensure the health of mothers and babies, some ordinary people in Homa Bay have started clinics co-owned with experts, inspired by the spirit of ‘Ubuntu’ One day in early August last year, Eunice Aoko woke up with an excruciating abdominal pain. The Homa Bay resident was pregnant, and not due anytime soon, but the pain was so intense she thought she was in labour. She was alone in the house, the husband at work. She called a boda boda motorbike taxi and asked the rider to rush her to the nearest health centre, five kilometres away. Aoko clutched onto her stomach as the motorbike beat treacherous shortcut routes through narrow, bumpy pathways. Shortly, Aoko arrived at the health centre. It was abandoned — a ghost public health centre. Nurses were on strike. The country was in election fever and nothing else mattered. “I hopped into the motorbike again,” Aoko recounts months later in her humble home in Kabong’o. “I was driven to another clinic, which again had no one, then on to another…” She never even received a painkiller, and the distance back home was a haze of pain and groans. She was not long back home when, she says, “nilizaa (I gave birth)”. Kabong’o Health Centre nurse-in-charge Byron Emmanuel interjects. He says Aoko had an inevitable abortion, a miscarriage. As she writhed in pain, alone on her earthen floor, devastated by the loss, Aoko was shocked when another foetus came out. She didn’t know she was carrying twins. She had never attended antenatal clinic. There was “no need” as she had previously given birth to four babies at home. The placenta stuck. Aoko’s wails and screams attracted her mother-in-law, who burst into the house and immediately called a ‘mkunga’, a traditional birth attendant. On seeing the state Aoko was in, the mkunga declared that she could not handle Aoko. One of the women who were slowly gathering said there was a new clinic barely a kilometre from them. “They brought her in a wheelbarrow on August 4, 2017,” remembers Emmanuel vividly, as Aoko happened to be his first maternal patient following the clinic’s opening in July. “She was in such a bad state, bleeding a lot. After administering the first line of care, I immediately referred her to the Homa Bay Referral Hospital.” Luckily, Aoko, who Emmanuel ascertained was in her sixth month of pregnancy, made it, thanks to “daktari”, as everyone refers to him, the first health officer to be seen in this area. TAKING THE INITIATIVE Saving Aoko inspired Emmanuel to be going door to door, seeking out pregnant women and offering them antenatal care. This saw deliveries become the most-sought-after service at the clinic. In two months, Emmanuel had helped deliver close to 20 women. “We are very proud of him,” says Joseph Ochieng, a village elder, as over 20 voices, men and women, murmur in agreement. They are having one of their weekly meetings at the centre, which they proudly own. A man arrives with a seemingly sick child, who we later learn is epileptic, and the chairman excuses Emmanuel to go and treat him. “Such children were never taken to the hospital,” he explains, adding that cases like Aoko’s are not unique but the norm. For a long time, this community’s loved ones suffered long distances, and even death, whenever they fell ill. Malaria, upper respiratory tract infection and typhoid are especially ravaging. “We have buried several women here, and are devastated. We declared we can no longer rely on the government, so we formed the Rabungi Self-Help Group. We would save and get loans, and then we thought, why not start a community health centre?” Ochieng says. This idea appealed to the group, which has 67 members. One of them donated land, and hopeful, they called for a harambee, which raised Sh300,000. “This was exciting,” remembers Derick Owiti, the group’s vice chair, “but the money would not be enough to build a worthy clinic.” What followed can only be attributed to the famous Buddha mantra that when the student is ready the teacher appears. The teacher was in the form of two youthful doctors. In 2011, the duo, Sam Gwer and Moses Ndiritu, started what they call the Ubuntu Afya Medical Centres. The Zulu word ‘ubuntu’ implies humanity — I am because you are. Gwer and Ndiritu believe that when people pool together, they can achieve a lot. The Ministry of Health recently launched a maternal deaths report indicating that most women die at the hands of health workers, with the majority ( 90 per cent) receiving substandard care. Gwer and Ndiritu are partnering with residents of rural areas to bridge the gap, inspired by the spirit of ‘ubuntu’. SELF-HELP GROUP On a bright Friday morning, we visit another Ubuntu Clinic, the Gaena Community Medical Centre in Ndhiwa. It is the immunisation day, a few weeks after the nurses’ strike has been called off, and the women who flocked the clinic during the strike are still coming in, bright and early. During the strike, children across the country missed immunisation. Staring at a crisis, the government launched a catch-up campaign to reach mothers and children in Kenya’s most vulnerable counties. The campaign targeted more than 300,000 women and children with critical health services, including immunisation and antenatal care. In Homa Bay, the Ubuntu clinics were quietly offering the service. On this day, Terrance Shiberenje, the nurse-in-charge and assisted by Agnes Awino, a community health worker, is busy vaccinating the children. Shiberenje is overwhelmed by the number of mothers, most of them teenagers, others in their early twenties. Opened in February last year, the clinic seems to have attracted numbers very fast, due to the strikes, and because the community health workers go door-to-door, urging mothers to go for antenatal care and deliver at health centres. Awino and two other volunteers are upbeat because they feel that they ‘own’ the clinic. They are all members of the Integrated Health and Community Development organisation, which started as a self-help group in 2013 with 15 members. They would do table banking, and at some point, they were engaged by an organisation that sought to eliminate the jigger menace in the area. “This gave us an idea of a dispensary,” treasurer George Ochieng says, “as the nearest health centre is far away. But we had no money.” They heard of Afya Research Africa in 2016. “They asked us to get land, but no member had any, so we decided to rent.” ARA provided the clinician, and a well-stocked pharmacy. The members are not exempted from paying. Rather, they get subsidised costs. ENDING ISLAND ISOLATION Miles off in Mfangano Island, we meet Kakiuku Women’s Group, which owns an Ubuntu Clinic. There are only four men against 23 women. It was formed in 2012. Chairwoman Mary Adhiambo says they reached out to ARA when they heard residents of Rusinga Island boast that they now own a clinic. Unlike the other Ubuntu clinics, Mfangano Health Centre is close to the government dispensary. The nurse-in-charge, Polycarp Ochieng, says the dispensary refers patients to them. Mfangano Island’s health problems remain as ingrained as ever. Maternal health here is made worse by HIV and Aids, where one in four people is infected — the highest in Kenya — according to the Kenya AIDS Progress Report 2016. “It is a dangerous combination,” says Health ministry’s Dr Wangui Muthigani, the Maternal and Child Health programme manager. “Such women need constant surveillance, maintaining the four-recommended antenatal visits, and strict adherence to Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission.” According to the Confidential Enquiry to Maternal Deaths report launched recently by the Health ministry, only half of women make the four recommended antenatal care visits. This means health centres must be close to the people. The report also shows that most health workers are not present during off-peak hours. Having a co-ownership model would make the community keep vigil and insist on good services from the health workers in their clinics.