Muslim cemeteries are being defiled by people throwing garbage into them, the Wakf Commission of Kenya has said. The Commission on Monday said it has also received a lot of complaints about infighting over burial places among Muslim factions. Wakf commission chair Zubeir Noor and commissioner Sheikh Juma Ngao said they have embarked on a program that will see all the Muslim cemeteries in the Coast region, especially those under the commission, fenced. “The commission has 25 parcel of lands used as cemeteries between Lunga Lunga and Lamu,” said Sheikh Ngao. “Some of them are fenced while others are not. Those that are not fenced are exposed to land grabbers and the indignity of people turning them into dumpsites. This is wrong,” said the cleric. Noor said unprecedented burial disputes among Muslims defiles the sanctity of life after death. “The dignity of cemeteries must be upheld by everyone,” said Noor. The two spoke after laying the foundation stone for the fencing of the Majengo Sidiria cemetery at Gulshan area in Mombasa. Sheikh Ngao said Muslims all over the world should stop fighting over burial ground. “This notion that this group of Muslims cannot be buried in this cemetery and that group cannot be buried in that cemetery must stop. “Muslims are usually buried wherever they die. All Muslims have a right to be buried without discrimination,” said Sheikh Ngao. “We have one Allah, one heaven and one hell,” the cleric said. Noor appealed to all Muslim MPs to push for the passage of the amendments to the Wakf Commissioners Act. The amendments, contained in the Wakf Bill 2018, align the law to the Constitution 2010 after operating since the colonial times. He amendments will enable the commission trace and regulate al the commission assets which are worth Sh10 billion in the country. Noor said once in place, the new law will also allow the commission to raise its revenue streams and increase its assets worth to around Sh100 billion. Currently, some of the Wakf Commission property fetch the commission a paltry Sh25 a year, the same rate it was in the colonial times.