West Kenya Sugar has confirmed it owns the sugar which was confiscated at a Rai Paper warehouse during a swoop on contraband sugar on Friday. The company - whose owners also run Rai Paper, assured its customers that their sugar is safe for consumption adding they are confident of a positive outcome from the samples taken by authorities for tests. In
a statement, the firm said the concerned government agencies have
verified its importation documents and "have been found to be above
board." "The team left with samples from our godown for further
quality testing to confirm that the same meets the standards. They have
requested us not to process the said sugar until the results are out on
Tuesday next week." "We commend the efforts of the government to
fight the nuisance of contraband sugar that threatens the industry's
growth and moreso, our sugar farmers," the company said. "We would like to assure the public that our sugar is fit for human consumption." This was after Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati demanded answers from Rai Paper following the seizure of the Sh250 million sugar from its warehouses. The sugar was in 59,000 bags each weighing 50kgs, translating to about 2,450 tonnes. It was labelled 'Brown Sugar. Not for Sale'. More on this: Contraband sugar worth Sh250 million found at Rai Paper "We demand answers on Rai's core business at a facility they acquired in not-very transparent circumstances. Is it to mill papers or import sugar? Was the acquisition meant to act as a cover up for sugar smuggling and dealing in counterfeit sugar products?" Related: Keep Rai Paper promise, Bungoma Chamber of Commerce tells Uhuru Also read: Webuye Rai Paper is operating, senior managers say Wangamati argued that the discovery cancels "the old explanation" by the government that Pan Paper was sold to revive it after decades of death. "The government and anybody else who was involved in the sale of Pan Paper must come clean and tell us what the agreement entailed." He said that to guarantee the safety and health of Kenyans, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i should quickly investigate the depth of trade in contrabands adding that police officers aiding the trade need to be punished as well. "While we applaud Matiang'i's crackdown on counterfeits, we also want him to take stern action against officers being used to protect this illicit trade. Trade in counterfeits is an act of economic sabotage. It's criminal and must attract the attention of all agencies concerned," he said. Wangamati added that Nzoia Sugar Company, the county's only one, is on its deathbed as it can hardly sell its sugar with competition from cheap, counterfeit alternatives. The miller owes farmers billions of shillings as a result, he said. Earlier today, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati claimed a "well-known parliamentarian" is behind the trade in contraband sugar. The MP did not give details and the investigation has not been completed. Details: Arati backs war on corruption, claims MP behind contraband sugar Click here for the latest political news