Opening up Kenyan skies could be a major boost to tourism and may offer the hospitality sector the much-needed silver lining to pull up international arrival and domestic numbers. It is projected airfares will drop by 25 per cent when the policy is fully implemented. Driving down prices means that more people will travel and would have more options in terms of airline and itinerary to boost their experience. It is estimated that opening African air routes would add $76.9 million (Sh8.14 billion) to Kenya’s GDP every year. This is the first indicator of the ripple effects to related sectors such as hospitality. The open skies treaty was signed in February during the African Union summit on governance in Addis Ababa. It is set to make it easier for Africans to visit African countries without the back and forth of long paperwork, visa applications or expensive, long-winding air travel. A byproduct is a boost to the continent’s economy. As part of the AU’s move to improve connectivity and integrate countries, our national carrier, Kenya Airways, will enjoy unrestricted access to multiple destinations and any city in the countries under the arrangement. The hospitality sector is expected to benefit from this development through increased inbound traffic. Additional air traffic requires additional resources to handle the greater demand. This will generate employment in the aviation industry as well as supporting industries that form part of the supply chain. Indirect employment is more likely to be many times larger than direct employment. The increase in tourism business to Kenya will also boost local tour operators’ business. According to the International Air Transport Association, an open air policy in Africa will inject $1.3 billion (Sh136 billion) to the continent’s gross domestic product every year, creating 150,000 jobs. The recent deal between Kenya and Ethiopia granting Ethiopian Airlines an additional frequency on the Mombasa route gives some hope towards the implementation of the open sky policy. This agreement will boost coastal tourism, which for a long time has depended heavily on charter flights, especially from Europe. Opening Kenyan skies will deliver hundreds of thousands of visitors to Kenyan cities, who would spend thousands of shillings at coastal hotels, restaurants, shopping malls, attractions, beaches and marine parks. They would bolster tax revenues for communities, increase revenue for airports and provide connecting passengers for domestic airlines such as JamboJet and Fly 540, bolstering their ability to compete with larger carriers. To accelerate sustainability of tourism development at the Coast, the government therefore ought to hasten the opening up of skies, starting with Mombasa so airlines from across the world can operate flights to Moi International Airport. Such development would sell areas such as Mombasa internationally as a Meeting Incentive Conference and Exhibition (MICE) destination. Embracing this policy will complement Mombasa’s attractiveness, especially when it comes to the ease of doing business. Liberalisation of air transport contributes to greater trade and tourism, inward investment, productivity growth, increased employment and economic growth — all this would contribute greatly to achieving Vision 2030. Kenyan cities have recently been ranked among the top 10 global destinations for 2018, according to TripAdvisor. The majority of the clients are young business travellers seeking to gain cultural experiences and to explore the cities. The revolutionary policy can only open more possibilities for the tourism industry. Managing director and founder, PrideInn Hotels