Kisumu residents yesterday opposed plans by the county assembly to move its offices to a rented building for Sh800,000 a month. Residents described the plan as a scheme to “loot” and called on the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate. Barely a few months ago, the assembly used more than Sh8 million to renovate its current offices and chambers. The offices to be relocated are those of Majority leader Kenneth Onyango, deputy speaker Eric Agola, speaker Onyango Oloo and the chief whip. Sh4.8 million has reportedly been paid as deposit and partitioning is underway. Kisumu Residents’ Voice Association chairman Audi Ogada said they will move to court to get a barring order. The majority of MCAs have also rejected the plan. The reps said they were sidelined when the decision was made and it was only discussed by the County Assembly Service Board. The board comprises Oloo, Onyango, two MCAs Agnes Nyagoya and George Abaja and two members of the public. Yesterday, Oloo confirmed a space has been rented at Nakumatt building. Onyango said the plan is temporary, while Agola said they need enough space. Ogada questioned why the assembly decided to rent a building yet vacant buildings, including a one-storey house, are available. “This is totally unacceptable. We’re assuring those behind the plan we will stop any attempt to steal from public coffers,” he said. The residents said public money must be spent prudently. They said persistent wrangling by MCAs hurts development. “We are compiling the names of members with selfish interest and those holding the assembly to ransom,” Ogada said. He said four MCAs, including two senior members, are behind the wars and graft in the assembly. Ogada also accused Oloo of micromanaging the House. The rent will be Sh9.6 million annually. The assembly has been using the buildings of the old municipal council after past plans to build a new chamber stalled. Kondele MCA Joachim Oketch yesterday said renting offices is a misplaced priority and a waste of public resources. "It is so unfortunate to rent a building at Sh800,000 million, yet we lack chairs and tables in the assembly. We conduct house business while standing as most chairs and tables are broken," he said. West Kisumu MCA Paul Okiri wants a new chamber built. Nyalenda B MCA Joseph Olale questioned the motive. Click here for more political news