Britain's interior minister used
an exceptional power on Saturday to release medicinal cannabis
oil that had been confiscated from an epileptic boy who was
later hospitalised suffering from seizures. Billy Caldwell, 12, had travelled to Canada with his mother,
Charlotte, to get the cannabis oil after Billy's doctor was
ordered to stop prescribing it, but when they flew back into
London on Monday customs officials confiscated their supplies
. The boy was hospitalised on Friday after suffering several
seizures. His case has stirred debate on the therapeutic use of
cannabis, with politicians from different parties backing the
family and campaigners calling for changes to the law. "This morning, I've used an exceptional power as Home
Secretary to urgently issue a licence to allow Billy Caldwell to
be treated with cannabis oil," the minister, Sajid Javid, said
in a statement. "My decision is based on the advice of senior
clinicians who have made clear this is a medical emergency." Charlotte Caldwell, who says Billy was free of seizures when
he was using the cannabis oil, made a statement to reporters
outside Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, where her son was
being treated. She called for the law to be changed. "No other family should have to go through this sort of
ordeal, travelling halfway around the world to get medication
which should be freely available to our desperately ill
children," she said. "This is a wake-up call for our country. In the 21st century
we need to have a more humane policy, not panic measures. I hope
the government reflects upon what happened and what they've put
our family through these last few days." The Home Office had previously said that while it was
sympathetic to the child's plight, it had a duty to stop banned
substances from entering Britain. Under British law, cannabis is listed as a schedule 1 drug,
meaning that it is not recognised as having a therapeutic value.
Schedule 1 drugs can be used for research purposes and clinical
trials, but only under a Home Office licence. The Caldwell family, who normally live in Northern Ireland,
have received support from several members of parliament from
different political parties, including Dan Poulter of the ruling
Conservative Party. Billy Caldwell had been receiving medicinal cannabis oil on
prescription by his family doctor for over a year, but supplies
ran out after the Home Office ordered the doctor to stop
prescribing it. Click here for the latest political news