Former US President Barack Obama will attend the official inauguration of the Sauti Kuu Foundation Sports, Resource and Vocational Training Centre in Alego, Nyang’oma in Siaya county on July 16. Obama’s sister, Auma, yesterday said the event will be marked by festive ceremony, entertainment and the unveiling of global standard sport facilities, a first in the region. Auma said an international standard size football pitch sponsored by the German Ministry of Development Cooperation, a basketball court funded by the Giants of Africa Foundation, and a volleyball/netball court and other facilities, including a library, an IT lab and a vocational centre supported by multiple Sauti Kuu supporters will be launched. “I am happy to finally inaugurate this centre after three years of hard work. The space will serve as a safe physical space for children, youth and their families to meet and interact regularly, while participating in different sports and learning activities,” she said. “Through educational, sports and learning activities, the centre will pave the way for a better future for Sauti Kuu children, youth and their families,” she added. She said given the ex-President’s own mission under the Obama Foundation is to inspire and empower people to change the world, his attendance at their ancestral home is of great significance to her. “I am forever grateful for his support to help me realise my vision. This is just the start. We hope to replicate our work in other parts of Kenya and Africa,” she added. Earlier, it had been though Obama would not visit his ancestral land due to his busy schedule. His grandmother, Sarah Obama, had indicated her grandson is “a government, not village, visitor”. “He will be busy so I am not sure, if he will visit the village,” she told the Star. Global icon Oprah Winfrey is among 350 celebrities and notables who will accompany former US President Barrack Obama to Kenya on July 16. Before they head to K’Ogelo, it is reported Obama, his family and Oprah will pay a courtesy call on President Uhuru Kenyatta and meet opposition chief Raila Odinga. US-based Senegalese musician Akon is also in delegation, together with Zimbabwe’s music maestro Oliver Mutukudzi who will be travelling with his daughter Samona. Others who will be in the entourage are NBA Africa senior director Will Mbiakop and billionaire Nigerian businessman Aliko Dangote. Tim Jahnigen, founder of One World Futbol and Laila Alawa, the CEO and founder of The Tempest, are also in the entourage. Read : Oprah in Obama’s delegation to Kenya Click here for the latest political news