   Sugarcane farmers have not benefited from the Sh3.7 billion disbursed to Mumias Sugar Company, their federation has said. Kenya National Federation pf Sugarcane Farmers vice-chairman Simon Wasechere on Tuesday said they have not been asked to resume farming. Wasechere who is one of the miller's contracted farmers said persistent wrangles between the board and managers have derailed the factory's revival. Last week, the board chaired by Ken Mulwa suspended CEO Nashon Aseka for allegedly approving a suspicious transaction without its approval. “Apart from paying part
of what farmers were owed, there is nothing we've seen
other than many managers sitting in offices and earning big salaries,” Wesechere said. “No official has engaged with farmers and asked them to
resume farming." Most farmers uprooted their cane as they adopted other crops due to delayed payments. The miller had contracted 96,000
farmers. Only 20,000 are
still engaged in cane farming. Mumias owes
farmers more than Sh600 million for cane delivered to the factory. Some deliveries happened two years ago. The company’s Nuclear
estate plantation can only supply seven per cent of its raw material requirement. For now, it has to wait for months before the can matures since the plantation had been abandoned
for years. Aseka's suspension has caused sharp differences between MPs from sugar growing areas and Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa. Echesa said Aseka's suspension was necessary to pave way for investigations into suspicious dealings thought to have cost the company billions of shillings. The CS also wants the board to be sacked. He said the
management could not account for Sh1.2 billion from the sale of ethanol. National Assembly Majority whip Ben Washiali, Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Kimilili's Didimas Barasa have faulted the board for suspending Aseka. “The reasons the board gave for the CEO's suspension are flimsy because Aseka acted
within the company's policy,” Washiali said. Washiali who is the MP for Mumias East said Aseka's suspension was cruel because he had only engaged a consultant to scout for financiers. Savula said Aseka had streamlined operations at the miller and questioned the
rationale behind his suspension. The company's policy allows the CEO to pay amounts not exceeding Sh2 million without
seeking the board's approval, Savula said. It is not known the amount involved in the suspicious transaction that led to Aseka's suspension. Kakamega Governor
Wycliffe Oparanya said the giant miller can only be revived with the involvement of the county government and not through "piecemeal financial disbursements" by the state. Oparanya asked the national government to surrender its 20 per cent shareholding in the company
to the county. Mumias is the largest sugar manufacturer in Kenya. At its best, the miller was producing 250,000 tonnes, about 42 per cent of the estimated 600,000 tonnes of annual national output. Savula said farmers must be empowered with a guarantee of prompt payment for delivered cane if the miller is to be revived. Yesterday, Wesechere said the company must first guarantee a steady supply of cane if it has to overcome its woes. Mumias is currently shut down due to lack of raw materials. Sugarcane poaching by rival millers has been blamed for the inadequate raw materials. 