A Jubilee Governor from South Rift is slowly warming up to Kanu chairman Gideon Moi (pictured). It is not the first time the county boss is being accused of being cosy with Gideon who plans to run for presidency in the 2022 General Election. His decision to abandon President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto has not gone down well with Jubilee leaders in the county. They were overheard on Thursday in Parliament saying they will soon teach the governor a political lesson. They are upset that the governor has gone ahead to reject some plans by the national government that were to be carried out at the county headquarters. Just days after Ethics and Anti-Corruption boss Halakhe Waqo told a Parliamentary committee four governors and some two principal secretaries will soon be arrested and prosecuted for corruption cases, a PS who is suspecting he could be in the list is said to be making frantic efforts save himself from the jaws of the law. He could lose his job as President Uhuru Kenyatta has issued a strong warning. He said corrupt officials will not be spared in his administration. A mole told Corridors the PS has dispatched a team of private investigators to find out if indeed his name is in the 48 files that have been submitted to the Director of Public Prosecutions. Just why did President Uhuru Kenyatta opt to sack 15 Principal Secretaries who served during his first administration? Well, corridors has learnt that the Head of State opted to sack all the PSs that did not feature in his second Cabinet early this year. Let’s wait and see who will be next to be shown the door. A fresh Sh15 billion land document forgery scandal involving a tycoon is emerging. The tycoon, a major supplier of space to a leading supermarket, claims to have acquired a 300 acre prime property from two individuals. They were nine and 13 years old when they bought the land, it seems. The two allegedly connived with the Lands ministry to receive Sh200 million compensation for road acquisition which was wired into the Asian tycoon’s bank account. The same amount is what is alleged to have been paid by the tycoon for the purchase of the 300 acres. Technically, the tycoon got the property for nothing. The man has subdivided the land into 760 parcels and is selling them for between Sh18 million to Sh20 million each, totalling Sh15 billion. To ward off inquiries, the fraudsters are citing connections to a senior State House official. Will they get away with it?