Even long before that time comes, volumes of books are
being written about the accidental President and, no doubt, volumes more will
be written long after he leaves office. The man is so uniquely unqualified to hold office as President
of the United States, let alone a small country in some remote part of the
world, media people are simply exhausted in how they cover him and his many
antics and shenanigans. He is fast regressing the progress America has made since
she became a global power, following the Second World War. Wed might end up in
another war, if Trump gets his way. That may, however, not come to pass because of the
resilience of the American people — at least a good supermajority of them —
there’s always an underlying dark side of America (read: the nativists and
racists) but they’ve always been shamed back to the underground whenever they
attempted to rare their ugly heads above ground. All that changed in 2016, when they felt emboldened after
Trump was elected largely because of their coming out of the woodworks and
voting in droves. He is rewarding them by pursuing asinine policies such as the
one he recently announced of separating children from their parents when
apprehended at the US-Mexico border in their efforts to enter the US without a visa.
This has sparked outrage both in the US and abroad. Trump, who prides himself (and his supporters weirdly love
it) for not backing down and even doubling and tripling in his asinine
positions, finally found himself in a position he had no choice but to back
down and this had to do with the public outcry for this policy of separating
children from their parents and holding the children in what others called
Nazi-like camps. He is trying to use this horrendous “tough on illegal
immigration” stance and the children as pawns to get Congress to pass an
immigration law a vast majority of the country doesn’t want. The videos of kids sitting in cages and an audiotape of
wailing children had sparked anger in the US from groups, ranging from the clergy
to influential business leaders, as well as condemnation from abroad, including
by Pope Francis. The man who said he could shoot someone in the streets and
see no supporter leave him finally found out that may be the case, but the rest
of the country would run him and his hoards out of town. We may not have a government policy in Kenya that compares
in its bone-headedness and cruelty but the rampant and wanton corruption of
unprecedented and chronic levels is equally damaging. This is not just to
children who are denied basics of life owing to the greed of these cartels but  it leaves the country stuck in economic
stagnation and regression,1 when this should not be the case at all. Where’s the public outcry? Where is the outrage? Kenyans are very funny, if not tragic bunch, indeed. So long as one of their own is eating, they don’t mind at
all. And the politicians and individuals who are in positions to do something
about the corruption menace, know how to use that fact as a shield when not
making empty promises to fight it. This writer and many like-minded progressives have
implored and continue to implore President Uhuru Kenyatta to do more than is
being done to bring corruption under control and, barring the unknown, this may
as well be the only legacy Uhuru will leave office with: Having left office with corruption under 60s, 70s or even
80s levels, or 10 times worse. The choice is yours Mr President. An awakening of the public conscience and public outcry
clearly putting forth the message enough is enough is the choice for the rest
of us.  Samuel Omwenga is
a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States 