Regional leaders have praised the progress Kenya has made in the construction of the SGR and urged Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan to follow the footsteps. The leaders, who attended the 14th Northern Corridor Integration Projects summit in Nairobi particularly, expressed satisfaction with Kenya’s completion of the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR phase and the kick-starting of the Nairobi-Naivasha phase. “This meeting of leaders praised the launch and completion of the Mombasa-Nairobi phase from 2017 which has now transported many people and cargo,” the leaders said in a joint statement after the meeting in Nairobi on Tuesday. The meeting which was hosted by President Uhuru Kenyatta was attended by Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, Paul Kagame of Rwanda while Salva Kiir of South Sudan was represented by special envoy Aggrey Tisa Sabuni. The meeting was also attended by DP William Ruto and representatives from Tanzania, Burundi, and Ethiopia. Speaking after the meeting, President Uhuru highlighted the advantages of the joint development projects under the regional development of the Northern corridor initiative since its inception in 2013. “There’s no doubt this is good news,” the President said citing the One Stop Border Point as an example of the fruits of the Northern Corridor Integration Projects that has reduced the time and costs of clearing cargo at border points. Read: Museveni and Kagame praise Uhuru for SGR, ask for more partners The President assured the other leaders that Kenya will speed up the completion of the remaining phases of the SGR up to Malaba on the Kenya-Uganda border. The 120km Nairobi-Naivasha stretch is earmarked to be completed in June next year. The rail line will traverse five counties namely Nairobi, Kajiado, Kiambu, Nakuru and Narok, and is expected to be complete by June next year. On his part, President Museveni said he is always happy to attend the meeting because Uganda’s economy depends on the neighbouring countries led by Kenya which is the key export market for maize and milk. Museveni called on officials of the Ugandan Revenue Authority at the Mombasa port to work for longer hours like their Kenyan counterparts and help reduce a backlog of cargo destined for Uganda. President Kagame thanked President Kenyatta for organizing the meeting after a two-year recess. “I thank President Uhuru for organizing again this meeting after about two years so that we may continue planning and executing joint projects that are beneficial to the region,” Kagame said.  The East African leaders emphasized their commitment to foster the relationship between the member states stressing the need to expedite socio-economic cooperation, industrial development and creation of jobs. In a bid to ease the transportation of fuel in the region, the leaders agreed to develop a joint transportation plan as they wait to reach consensus on the transportation of petroleum goods and the construction of a pipeline. The leaders also agreed to set aside funds for the development of refresher schools to boost the quality of staff whose services are needed for the realization of the Northern Corridor Integration Projects. On the launch of a common point for exchange of goods, the meeting was briefed on the required standards for goods to be traded across countries in the region and urged member countries to speed up the actualization of the same. “This meeting calls on all member countries to speed up the strengthening of trading platforms,” the leaders said in the joint statement. The summit discussed and resolved to accept the Safety Agreement and the development of a statistics centre for air traffic for purposes of the development of the northern corridor. The leaders also discussed operations at the Port of Mombasa and stressed the need for concerned agencies to maintain high integrity standards to ensure fairness in clearing goods. Also read: 600 trucks forced out of road by SGR cargo Click here for the latest political news