Kenya maintained their unbeaten run in the ongoing Davis Cup with a 3-0 win over Mozambique at Nairobi Club to take a two-point lead in Pool B. On a day where their closest challengers Namibia threatened to topple them with a 3-0 win over Uganda, Rosemary Owino’s charges capitalised on the home advantage to silence their opponents and subsequently keep their top slot with two points same as Namibia. Fourth seed Ibrahim Kibet led the onslaught in the singles, where he easily saw off Bruno Nhavene 6-2,6-2 before paving way for top seed Ismael Changawa who shook off experienced Franco Mata 6-1, 6-4. The pair of Sheil Kotecha and Kevin Cheruiyot team up strongly to overcome the duo of Mozambique’s Jonas Alberto and Hercilio Rafael 6-0,6-1. Kenya had began with a similar 3-0 win over Uganda on Day One of the tournament and yesterday, the home boys roar in the Simba court was too scary for the Mozambicans. Kibet handed Kenya a 1-0 lead in the first singles, where he conceded four games in the two sets against 16-year-old and Morocco-based Nhavene.The burly home player serves proved too much for the opponent who scattered returns and struggled to adapt to the natural playing surface to cool the nervous Kenyan bench. Kibet attributed the win to taking chances as well as the support from the fans. “I took my chances well and repulsed his attacks keenly. The home advantage and the support from the fans was an added advantage for me as I their presence boosted my confidence.” His opponent observed that inexperience was a big let-down. “I am barely 16 and he is older and has played many matches. I really don’t match his experience and I feel the ground did not favour me. I am not used to playing in natural surfaces.” In the second singles Changawa survived a second set scary from the United States based Mata who managed to scoop four games to make it 2-0. The four time Kenya Open champion and the defending Karen Open champion said that he had to put an extra fight once his opponent leveled the scores 4-4 to win the second set “He is a great player whom I have trained with abroad and he pushed me in the second set. Although I did not struggle to beat him I had to be a little bit smart in the remaining two games of the second set.” The deadly combination of Kotecha and Cheruiyot made it 3-0 in the doubles. Kenyans are set to face unpredictable Namibia tomorrow before tackling Algeria on Friday. The winner of Pool ‘A’ will play the runners up of Pool B while the champion of Pool ‘B’ are set to accost the runners up of Pool ‘A’ in the qualifying match. The winning pair will qualify for the lucrative Euro Africa Group II.