Kenyans on Twitter have attacked Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen after defending Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa's support for DP William Ruto. Jumwa, formerly a die-hard ODM supporter, earned herself the nickname 'mama radar' after she recently joined Ruto's camp. She had been termed an iron lady for tough talk and influence in the Coast region while campaigning for Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Her move has made ODM, her party, to initiate a process to remove her from the powerful Parliamentary Service Commission. More on this: Duale celebrates after Jumwa joins Ruto camp, calls her ‘mama radar’ Also read: I'm ready for you, Jumwa tells Junet on plans to remove her from PSC But Murkomen defended the legislator saying that Jumwa should not be punished for 'shaking hands' with Ruto. The Opposition and the government united on March 9 and since then, their politicians have met and made strategic alliances. At an Iftar dinner and fundraising in Malindi, Kilifi countyJumwa said the era of being in the Opposition was over. "The fact that we are even discussing punishment to be meted on Hon.Aisha Jumwa for having a handshake with Ruto is just simply a travesty," Murkomen said. He added "For the record commissioner Jumwa is going nowhere. She is protected by the Constitution. We shall defend her rights." Murkomen's tweet caused a mixed reaction between his supporters and followers alike. "You think Jumwa can gather enough votes for Ruto? Never ever. Coast is ODM Party .. wacha akule pesa atarudi tu," @bethwel_obondo said. @cliffeBrowns said "There was once a Kamotho, then Michuki. Soon we shall remember there existed a sycophant called Murkomen." @MurungaCalystus said "Tell us what the constitution says about campaigning for another party or promoting other party's agenda. Tell us what you did to Keter and Serem? Anyway, I don't support her removal but she aught not to chest chump because of few coins." "What did you guys do to Alfred Keter? You are worse than ODM. And btw, Juma didn’t just shake hands with DP, she promised loyalty," @richard_nchoe said. @kelvin__mungai said "Stick to issues that help your constituents or other common citizens. This stupidity of succession politics that you politicians keep jumping on when there are issues of graft, misappropriation of funds in your counties and ‘poisonous sugar’ speaks volumes about your leadership." "Hon. Murkomen the time of politicking is over deliver your campaign pledges. Help the government to fight corruption: NYS, Maize and pipeline Scandals," @sammy_siundu said. Jumwa was first to openly declare support for Ruto in Taita Taveta county early this year. She is reportedly planning to succeed Governor Amason Kingi and will likely be key to Ruto's campaigns as she is a crowd puller. The Malindi MP earlier assured the DP that with political changes in the constituency and the Coast at large, he will get sufficient support from the region. She said she had had "enough of the same". Other details: Ruto is next president, Coast MPs says, pledge full support Click here for the latest political news 