Kenya has had a
long history of unstable environment of multi-party democracy. Since Independence,
parties have been unable to sustain momentum of their pre-election campaigns
after the results are declared. The leaders of the parties always seek to
remain relevant in the ever-dynamic politics by reorganising and re-engineering
their existing parties to be responsive to emerging issues. Every electoral
cycle always has new concerns and determinant factors always vary with every
election. Since the reintroduction of multi-party democracy in 1991, no party,
except Kanu under President Daniel Moi, won a re-election. However, both Mwai
Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta have proceeded to win second terms but on different
parties. President Kibaki
was re-elected to a second term in 2007 on the PNU ticket instead of Narc and
while Uhuru won on the TNA ticket in coalition with URP in 2013, he formed the Jubilee
Party in 2016, on whose ticket he won. They jettisoned their ideologue, Onyango
Oloo, the erstwhile voluble secretary general. In all the instances, the
decision to fold up the ruling parties and form new ones is deliberate on one
hand and circumstantial on the other. It is deliberate to enable the sitting President
rid himself of the baggage of the king makers of the first term. It is also a
function of circumstances because the core members of the presidential court
feel betrayed and shortchanged, and thus seek to exert revenge. This fate seems
to stalk Jubilee Party. On another
plane, the confluence of interests of Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga seems to
be the Achilles’ heels of the party. The two are united in their quest to
bequeath a lasting legacy to the nation as they plan to retire from active
politics. As the scions of the founding fathers, they appear to have determined
to leave the country more united. They are weary of being seen as the heirs to
the throne under whose leadership the nation disintegrated.  Talks of secession had gained traction during
the period of disputed presidential elections last year. Calls widespread
economic sabotage civil disobedience were largely successful. This was more as
a result of the rivalry between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader
Raila Odinga. Opinion was divided on whether this rivalry was political and
ideological or family and business. When they
finally found their Damascus moment in March, the symbolic handshake shook the
political landscape in tectonic proportions. They demonstrated rare comradeship
and extolled the virtues of building bridges to heal the country. As the world
hailed the brave act of the leading protagonists of Kenyan politics, fissures
of discomfort and disquiet begun to emerge on party layers. Support for the
programme was muted in both camps by closest of allies. As the political
structures adjusted to accommodate Raila and his shared vision, the bubble
burst. The murmurs became louder and rebellion became open. The newfound warm
working relationship between Uhuru and Raila unsettled the applecart. New
alliances were being crafted and old wounds being reopened. Fallen heroes
watched the unfolding events in glee and sought to replace the jilted allies
with enthusiasm. On the Raila side, NASA fell in one afternoon at Stoni Athi
Resort. Even though Jubilee struggled to maintain a face of invincibility,
pundits started writing the epitaph. The political sea had turned turbulent and
the horizon had become blurred for the party. Party secretary general, Raphael
Tuju was removed from Pangani Jubilee House to State House as minister without
portfolio. The Jubilee Party
had emerged as coalition in the first government of UhuRuto. TNA and URP agreed
to fold up to form one outfit, as they sought reelection. However, the
unification was more on paper than in content. In character the party operated
as a coalition and union of two distinct organisations. The leaders regularly
made reference to the 2013 pre-election agreement, as if they were not one
party. Demands for reciprocity from Mount Kenya to the Rift Valley were made
with reckless abandon. Then the fight against graft assumed unprecedented
gusto. First was the
NYS mega scandal dwarfing the previous one that led to the resignation of
current Kirinyaga Governor, Anne Waiguru. Then, in quick succession, followed
the NCPB, the Kenya Forest Service, and the KPC and Kenya power cases. As MPs
delved into the long-winding road of parliamentary investigations, the country
was treated to the theatre of the absurd: The country had had imported
contraband sugar laced with poisonous metals. The fight
against graft assumed partisan approach, with the URP side of the party crying
foul. Incidentally, each side of the coalition had on opportune occasions
previously accused the other of graft. Corruption thus immediately became the
bane of the Jubilee Party unity. Leaders allied to the Deputy President led by
Majority leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale claimed the fight was impartial. They saw it as
targeted at their side of the coalition and aimed at frustrating Ruto’s 2022
bid. They made it clear they were not taking it lying down and, in any case,
were not willing to be the sacrificial lamb. Then out of
frustration, they mentioned the President’s brother, Muhoho Kenyatta, as a
major importer of contraband sugar. [Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri later said
Muhoho didn’t import]. This might have been meant to scuttle the seizure and
destruction of counterfeited sugar and other commodities. However, it helped
seal the fate of Jubilee as a party since the battle now assumed sibling
rivalry and fought within the house. Therefore, on one hand, the fight against
corruption was buttressing the legacy of Uhuru and building the careers of some
politicians. On the other, it was undermining the prospects of Ruto’s
presidential bid and destroying fortunes of other politicians. Kenyans are now
firmly in a campaign mode and the divide is clear. On Saturday, addressing a
public rally in the Rift Valley, Nandi Governor Stephen Sang’ made a broadside
on Raila with comments bordering on ethnic incitement. Drumbeats of political
war are renting the air and the journey towards the split of Jubilee seems
irreversible. His Senate counterpart, Samson Cherargei announced the formation
of a new party for Kalenjins. The formation of the two new parties associated
with Ruto allies have since been confirmed by the Registrar of Political
Parties, Lucy Ndung’u. The Rift Valley leaders on the Deputy President’s side
can only proceed on this path to secure their bid outside Jubilee. This is a
demonstration of their determination to go the full hog and alone should their
colleagues decide to back pedal on the pledge to support Ruto in 2022. As if in
response, Kikuyu elders were reported to have urged the Deputy President to
retire with his boss. It has been argued by many central Kenya leaders that
both sides have benefitted their fair share of spoils in the government and
thus none owe the other. These claims, coming in the backdrop of recent
historical events of 2007 post-election violence together with the Mau forest
evictions do not bode well for the Jubilee party. It should be
recalled that it is the 2007 post-election violence that brought the grand
coalition of Kibaki-Raila government. The violence was basically wedged by the
Kalenjins against the Kikuyus in the Rift Valley for perceived historical
injustices. It later sucked in the Luos and western tribes in Limuru, Naivasha
and Nakuru. However, the
attacks on these tribes were more as retaliation by the Kikuyus, who saw them
as supportive of the Kalenjins. It is out of this that the charges of crimes
against humanity were preferred against some Kenyans at The Hague. Uhuru and
Ruto found themselves together at the International Court of Justice. The Hague
cases helped both Uhuru and Ruto to weave the most unlikely political alliance
in our region in recent times. Almost at the same time, the government had
decided to reclaim the dwindling Mau forest. This was in a bid to fight the
escalating environmental degradation that was threatening to kill the Mara
ecosystem. This responsibility was assigned the environmentally conscious
Raila, then as the Prime Minister. As Raila pushed the eviction of Kalenjins
from the Mau Forest, Ruto got an opportunity to hit back for his previous
sacking from the Cabinet. Therefore, coincidentally,
as The Hague cases were forging a bond between Uhuru and Ruto, the Mau
reclamation was driving a wedge between Raila and Ruto. Uhuru got Ruto plus the
Kalenjins and bagged the presidency, while Raila parted ways with his erstwhile
partner Ruto and lost the Rift Valley together with the coveted seat. Uhuru and
Ruto reconciled their respective tribesmen. The armistice seems to be coming to
an abrupt close and with it the death of Jubilee as a party. The path to this
painful death is assured.   Kanyadudi, Political and Public Policy Analyst