Nairobi will be the first county to have low-cost houses to be built under President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday said the national government is focusing on the informal settlements occupied by millions of residents. “Nairobi will be the first beneficiary of the programme in a couple of months. In fact the rollout will begin in Nairobi in the next few weeks,” he said at City Hall during Iftar. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Governor Mike Sonko were present. Sonko said he is keen to deliver on his promises to residents. Ruto said water and garbage collection remain major problems. Kalonzo urged the national government to support environmental protection initiatives. The Big Four agenda is Uhuru’s legacy projects. Other pillars are universal healthcare, manufacturing and food security. In a previous interview with the Star, Land and Housing executive Charles Kerich said the county had identified estates to benefit. They include Old and New Ngara, Ngong Road Phase One and Two, Tsuma Pangani and Uhuru. Others are Kariokor, Pumwani, Kaloleni, Bahati, Ofafa Jericho, Maringo, Jericho, Landges Road, Shauri Moyo and Mbotela estates. Kerich said Bahati will have a pilot project. He said most estates did not have title deeds but assured the matter would be solved this month. “What is remaining is the agreement on the number of units, cost and sizes of the houses,” Kerich said. Stalls in Toi market along Suna Road have been demolished to make room for the first phase of the project. The two are among the seven old estates the county plans to redevelop in the first phase of the project. Ruto said the efforts made by the city government to provide land titles is crucial for the success of the projects. “Last month, we gave out 65,000 title deeds and 30,000 more are on the way,” he said. Uhuru issued 50,000 title deeds at Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi East on May 30. He was accompanied by MP Babu Owino, Sonko and the DP. Beneficiaries, mostly in the Eastern parts of Nairobi, included land acquired through site schemes, land buying companies, the National Social Security Fund, civil servant housing schemes, those in informal settlements and public facilities. Ruto said Nairobi City had been forgotten on land issues. “Estates like Buruburu, Umoja and Kariobagi all the way to Tasia were all forgotten, but today, because of the partnership between the county and national governments, we are changing the face of Nairobi,” he said. The DP said the government will only launch new road projects once the ones under construction in Eastlands are completed. Eastlands has many residents, he said. Last month, the Nairobi Regenartion Team said Sh4.1 billion was allocated for Eastlands road projects. The government provided Sh2.6 billion, while City Hall gave Sh1.5 billion. The tenders were awarded to China Wu Yi Company Limited, Sinohydro Corporation and China Roads and Bridges Corporation. The projects are part of the Nairobi Regeneration Programme launched by the President following numerous complaints by residents that the capital was in a deplorable state.