Kenya has been advised to establish an animal health surveillance system for early detection and control of Rift Valley Fever. Seventeen counties are on high alert since the outbreak was first reported in Wajir on June 3. At least 10 people have been killed in Wajir and Siaya. The outbreak is suspected to be a result of heavy rains that caused flooding in semi-arid areas. The World Health Organisation yesterday said Kitui, Wajir, Kajiado and Marsabit counties are reporting high death rates and miscarriage among animals. But accurate reporting and investigations have been hampered by logistical challenges. WHO cited bad roads that have limited access to affected areas. The outbreak has been reported in villages in Moyale while Balesa, Demo, Shuur and Maikona in North Horr have also recorded cases. The world health agency said the outbreak in animals often precedes human cases. As such, the establishment of a surveillance system will provide early warning to veterinary and public health officials. WHO has recommended routine animal vaccination to prevent further outbreaks. However, the organisation discouraged vaccination campaigns, saying they may intensify transmission among herds through needle propagation of the virus. “Awareness of the risk factors of Rift Valley Fever infection and measures to prevent mosquito bites is the only way to reduce human infection and deaths. Public health messages should focus on reducing the risk of animal-to-human transmission,” WHO said in a statement. Animal-to-human transmission arises from consumption of raw or unpasteurised milk or infected meat. Mosquito bites can be reduced through the implementation of vector control activities like insecticide spraying. The UN agency advised against travel or trade restrictions to Kenya but said it was concerned by the high number of reported deaths and abortions in livestock. Last month, the government through the Health ministry and the veterinary department issued an alert warning about the risk of RVF following heavy rains that caused serious flooding. Home slaughter of livestock without inspection by a veterinary has been banned and livestock movement restricted after the outbreak was reported.