Is IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati planning to vet members of the Secretariat? We are told that Wafula Chebukati and the remaining two commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu want to vet senior staff of the secretariat with a view of  “cleaning up the house”. Word has it that the three are hopping that they will be retained in office when the commission is reconstituted. As soon as that happens, then they will immediately start the vetting process in which those adversely mentioned will be removed and replaced by people they have already identified.  Just who are the people behind the importation of contraband goods? We are told that some well-known politicians are behind the importation of contraband goods some, which have been impounded by the police. Some of those involved, have been calling and intimidating police officers and government officials involved the crackdown. So daring are the people that they even have the audacity to insinuate that they could kill the government officials.  A one-term legislator from Nyanza has shocked many people by the way she handles her official functions. At her office, she has employed her close relatives in critical positions. Shockingly, two of her close relatives are official signatories to a key account. Another relative was awarded a tender to renovate an office space, pocketing millions of shillings. Locals are beckoning the EACC to consider investigating the MP who got elected after losing three consecutive elections. The issues of conflict of interest have persistently emerged in many of her official work. ======= An out spoken ODM lawmaker from the Coast, who over the weekend heaped praises on Deputy President William Ruto, has made a haste retreat. The MP reportedly phoned ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday and pledged his loyalty to the opposition chief despite his public outbursts. As to whether the lawmakers who have crossed to the DP’s camp are receiving ‘development tokens’ is obvious, but our mole within the opposition whispered that more ODM MPs could be warming up for Ruto. Reason? They want the DP, who has become the face of development projects; to accelerate their development plans so they can secure their political ambitions. After which, they will return ‘home’.