Who does Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen (pictured) speak for? We are told the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator has upset some people around Deputy President William Ruto by his recent statements. They are particularly unhappy that Murkomen went to a local TV station on Sunday and said, “We have a concern about the existence of a small wing of individuals serving within government at the Office of the President and government ministries who are spending most of their time to plant discord in the Jubilee Party.” A tongue-lashing is on the cards, if it hasn’t happened by the time you are reading this. Is ODM leader Raila Odinga and his party heading to government? There is word that President Uhuru Kenyatta could be planning a reshuffle of his Cabinet with a view to bringing in his new friend Raila and his people into his administration in the spirit of inclusivity. This rumour has sent Deputy President William Ruto allies panicking, with some vowing to fight the President and Raila viciously should they be kicked out of government. Revelations by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri that sugar was transported like sand together with coal and fertiliser is an issue that has raised a storm on the internet. Many people shocked by the revelation have asked the President to disband the Kenya Bureau of Standards for failing to ensure those importing sugar observe all the required standards throughout the process. Makuanei Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior thinks this revelation should be a cue for the DPP to swing into action and see if further charges can be brought against those abdicating their responsibilities. Still on matters Kebs, we are told some of the stickers that were printed were below the required standards. Whereas they were supposed to have security features that could not be photocopied, some stickers were being photocopied with all the security features and sold. The revenue from those sales went to people’s pockets! What is with Peter Kenneth and Deputy President William Ruto? The fact that the former Gatanga MP showed up at a harambee in Eldoret at the weekend and backed DP Ruto shocked many. The move has been the talk of town and many are wondering if there is any deal between the two and if so what the deal is all about. Deal or no deal, others from the Central region who are hoping to be Ruto’s running mate and claim to have been promised the position say they too are surprised by the turn of events. Click here for the latest political news