Nakuru MCAs yesterday formed a committee to probe the Patel Dam tragedy that killed 47 people last month. The 78 MCAs unanimously agreed that survivors be compensated by dam owner Patel Mansukul. They said victims lost close to Sh50 million. The motion to launch investigations into the tragedy was moved by Kabazi MCA Peter Mbai. Members agreed to form a committee to establish the the cause of the tragedy and file their report in two to three weeks. The MCAs questioned the legality of the dam and others on the expansive Patel farm. “All defective dams should be discharged and rivers allowed to flow naturally,” Mbai said. He said survivors were still traumatised and needed support. “The owners of the dam must take full responsibility. Victims should be compensated,” he said. Lare MCA Philip Wanjohi who was the temporary speaker directed environment committee chairman Gathariki Kamanu to lead the adhoc team. Kamanu said they will visit Patel farm and question anyone with crucial information that can help the probe team. Majority leader Stanley Karanja said authorities should be held to account if they are found to have irregularly approved construction of the dam. FOODSTUFF In a statement released days after the tragedy, Patel said bursting of the dam was caused by heavy rainfall in Dundori Forest. The rains eroded the soil, he said even as he promised to help victims. Mbae said he has only provided bread and milk to victims camping at Solai High School. “Donating foodstuff is not enough. We want the families compensated so that they are able to resume their normal lives,” he said. A preliminary report released last week said the tragedy could have been averted had dam owners reinforced an embankment where cracks had opened. The report by a multi-agency team ordered by the Interior ministry said heavy rain only worsened the situation before the tragedy happened. “There was clear evidence the earth wall of the dam had started failing much earlier yet no attempt was made to rectify the situation,” the government report says. The report released last Friday recommended the Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA) and the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) to investigate whether the dam was regularly constructed. MCAs said the probe team should summon both WRMA and NWCPC. “Relevant authorities should be summoned and tell us why it took them so long to condemn the dams,” Wanjohi said. Click here for more political news