The
United Nation  has asked the Kenyan Government to protect witnesses
testifying in Owino Uhuru Lead case. Some have reported receiving death
promises. The
suite was filed by Centre for Justice Governance and Environmental Action in 2015 It seeks to have about 3,000 slum dwellers collectively compensated Sh1
billion after being poisoned by Lead. Until 2014, the Owino Uhuru slum hosted Metal Refinery Ltd that spewed toxic fumes ladened with Lead. It attacked the brain and central nervous system to cause coma, convulsions and even death to over 22 locals. And because Lead is a heavy metal, its presence in the slum is still strong, posing negative health effects to the new born. Four human rights experts from UN spoke. They are John Knox, Baskut Tuncak, Anita Ramasastry and Michael Forst. In a statement, they said the Government must urgently take
measures to protect defenders who have faced harassment
and intimidation after they testified. Alfred
Ogola, Wilfred Kamencu, Anastacia Nambo and
Kavumbi
Munga have been subjected to threats
following the first hearing against the plant on May 17. The experts said they are due to testify again - a situation that risk their lives. “Unknown
people have visited their homes at night repeatedly
banging on their doors," the statement read. The "assailants" yelled at them to come out of
their house, the experts said. One was attacked with an unknown substance, they claimed. "It caused eye
problems and swelling," they noted. They four said it is unacceptable no one has been arrested for repeatedly threatening,
harassing, intimidating and assaulting the witnesses. UN has been consistent in agitating for their safety. In 2014, 2017 and last week asked the State to protect and promote the rights of the
environmentalists. “The
Government should urgently launch a proper investigation
and bring those who are responsible to justice,” the
experts said. The hunted have reported to have recorded statements with police but "investigations appear slow and inadequate". "The defenders fear for their safety and life, and are
seeking for help to be relocated," the statement stated. The four said it is unconstitutional for the locals to face threats,
harassment, and intimidation when they are exercising
their rights legitimately through a legal action. The said they have uphold the law and thus, they should be championed. 