As I come to Kenya for the first time as the head of the French Development Agency (AFD), I must say I'm very impressed by how its economy has grown in the last decade. Kenya plays a key role in the region economically but also in terms of political stability, regional development and global challenges. It is still facing major challenges, for instance on poverty alleviation, urban transport and food security. But it also has major assets that contribute to building a better future for all Kenyans. For the 20 years that we have been operating in Kenya, I'm proud to say the AFD has been supporting these assets through projects worth €2.2 billion. Let me give a few examples. First, we have been supporting Kenya in achieving an energy mix that is very much in favour of renewable energy, unique in Africa and in the world. For instance, we have co-financed the geothermal site at Olkaria and we are financing the development of solar and wind power facilities. Access to affordable power is critical to the manufacturing sector, which creates jobs and opportunities. Secondly, Kenya has a vibrant private sector and the AFD Group is very active in that regard. We directly support commercial companies’ investments through our subsidiary Proparco, for instance on agro-processing with KTDA. We also finance not-for-profit private companies such as Aga Khan Hospitals in Nairobi on cardiology, Mombasa and Kisumu on mother and child health. And we finance private investments on renewable energy and energy efficiency through the Sunref programme channelled through local banks.  By doing so, we make sure that the private sector takes its share of investment to realise the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, which the public investments will not achieve by themselves. This also enables more job creation, more regional integration and more innovations on the digital economy. Third, Kenya’s unique biodiversity is a major asset. The AFD is accompanying projects that contribute to protecting the environment and wildlife. For example, we are supporting KWS on conservation of Marsabit National Park, we are financing investments in urban sanitation and we have supported the Green Belt Movement in its strong steps to plant millions of trees in Kenya. These are necessary to mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. They also have a direct economic impact on the tourism and safari industries, and help create conservancy jobs. Of course, all those actions have a cost. I understand the worries of some Kenyan citizens about the long-term sustainability of their public debt. We actually have the same kind of worry in France too! That is why the AFD is a responsible lender that provides to Kenya only very soft loans that are much cheaper than those taken from the markets, and for projects that clearly have an expected impact on socioeconomic development. We do also provide grants whenever we think it is necessary, for instance for technical assistance, studies, innovative projects, governance or cultural industries. During my stay, for instance, I will sign a grant agreement with Heva Fund. Moreover, we directly finance some parastatals on their own balance sheet, which is quite unique in Kenya and a mark of trust. For instance, I will sign, during my stay here, a credit agreement with KenGen for a new wind farm in Meru county. I believe all this is complementary to what other development partners are doing, especially the European Union, which gives Kenya large amounts of grants from the European Development Fund, out of which around 19 per cent comes from the French taxpayers. I’m proud of the AFD’s work in Kenya and confident that our long-term relationship with continue to improve Kenyans’ everyday lives and inspire France’s transformation, moving us closer to a world in common. We are all in transition and the development policy works both in linking our experiences and our people.  Rioux is CEO, French Development Agency 