A shipwrecked chimpanzee had been clinging for a long time to a slender spar, when a dolphin came up and offered to carry him ashore. This proposition was immediately accepted, and, as they moved along, the chimp commenced to tell the fish many marvelous tales, every one of them a bundle of falsehoods. “Well, well, you are indeed an educated chap,” said the dolphin in admiration. “My schooling has been sadly neglected.” Just then they entered a large bay, and the dolphin, referring to it, said, “I suppose you know Herring Roads?” The chimp, taking this for the name of a fellow, and not wishing to appear ignorant, replied: “Well, I should almost think so! He’s an old college chum of mine, and related to our family by-” This was too much for the dolphin, who immediately made a great leap, and then diving quickly, left the impostor in the air for an instant before he splashed back and disappeared. Everywhere, we have fellows who, like the chimpanzee, will create all sorts of lies and pretend to know everything. They end up wasting most of our time with stories and baseless claims. We are at a time in Kenya when some people have adopted this style of operation to distract the national agenda. We are at war on two fronts — we are fighting corruption and at the same time seeking to rid our country of counterfeits and contraband. But as we focus on these, there are some people who are out to politicise each step of the two wars for their own personal gain. There are those who are telling us that the fight against corruption targets certain individuals, yet they are not the investigative agencies. There is an old adage that says only the guilty are afraid. So, these individuals are either guilty or are just seeking to derail the war on graft. The country and all investigative agencies have been fully engaged on the fight against corruption, and progress is being made as we see people being arraigned in court. Not to be left behind, the public has been conducting their own lifestyle audit of public servants using the #Weknowyoursalary hashtag on social media. Some of the things posted may be sensational but point to a citizenry that is now tired of the corrupt ways of a few individuals. It is, therefore, unfortunate some politicians have decided to politicise the war on graft, and attempt to distract mwananchi from the task at hand. Others have shamelessly decided to attack the Founding Father and the First Family in an attempt to implicate the President. They are playing this kind of politics thinking the President will go slow on his promise to Kenyans to slay the corruption dragon. Politicising the war on graft is aimed at trying to intimidate the head of state, as some know they will be exposed through lifestyle audits. The same negative energy has been directed at the fight against counterfeits, contraband and fake commodities in the market. Smugglers of all manner of counterfeit products, like public fund looters, grabbers of public land and car theft syndicates, bleed the economy daily. Apart from naming and shaming them and ensuring they are prosecuted, the President has shown they can be denied the satisfaction of profiting from the proceeds of their illicit trade. We must quit playing politics with our agricultural industries and our farmers. What we must seek to do is see how we can help our industries recover and transform the nation. Let us seek solutions to our challenges instead of politicising every issue. And like the dolphin, we must learn to ignore these chimps that are out making up all manner of derailing stories.