Vladimir Putin has dismissed calls for Russian women to refrain from sleeping with World Cup tourists. Putin's
spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters: 'As for Russian women, they
can, perhaps, decide it on their own. They are the best women in whole
world.' He was responding to a sex
ban call by Tamara Pletnyova, 70, who said she hoped women would not
date visiting fans and get pregnant. But as controversy raged over the
Communist MP's remarks, the deputy prime minister in Kaliningrad - where
England play Belgium on 28 June - has suggested local women should be
open to sleeping with foreigners. Siberian-born
Pletnyova, head of the Russian parliamentary family committee, said
young women should 'get something clear in their heads regarding
foreigners'. She warned that Russian
women could end up raising mixed-race children on their own, before
referring to the 'Children of the Olympics' after the 1980 Moscow
games. The term was used during the
Soviet era to describe non-white children conceived at international
events after relationships between Russian women and men from Africa,
Latin America, or Asia. Many of the children faced discrimination. Pletnyova
warned Western men could 'snatch' babies from them and she urged
Russian women have relationships with men from their own country. But Alexander Rolbinov, 53, deputy premier in Kaliningrad, accused Pletnyova of turning the clock back to Soviet times. "It reminded me of a phrase during a televised conference between the USSR and America," he said. "When asked about sex, (a Russian woman) said that we do not have sex in the Soviet Union. "But
the heart wants what it wants. Love will surely come. And as for
international marriages, in such families appear very beautiful
children." Journalist and TV presenter Yelena Khanga accused Pletnyova of making 'immoral' comments about mixed-race children. "In the Soviet Union we had a policy of friendship between peoples," she said. "We can now laugh at the USSR as much as we like. But in the USSR it was forbidden and immoral to make such comments." "I would like to look into her eyes and ask what confuses her in children of different races. "I can show her a photo of my daughter. Very beautiful girl. Maybe she will explain, why my daughter is worse than her daughter? "She
has a daughter, apparently, of the same race with her husband. Now if
she has at least one example of how my daughter is worse, then we will
have a conversation." Inna Zhirkova, 28, wife of ex-Chelsea star Yuri Zhirkov, backed the call for a sex ban. She
said: 'I totally agree that during the World Cup it is better not to
have any sexual relations with foreigners. We are decent girls.' Inna was declared winner of an extraordinary contest by a Russian women's online magazine to find the country's 'hottest' WAG. Inna - who has lived in London - strongly backed the MP, saying she only ever wanted a Russian husband. But she admitted 'people fall in love at first sight and it doesn't depend on the nationality. "It is complicated for me to say, as I always dreamed about a Russian husband. "And I have Russian husband. I got married quite early." In the WAG contest run by Spletnik online magazine, also known as Russian Tatler, former Miss Kaliningrad Inna took first place. The magazine said: "Our rating is dedicated to the hottest wives of the main squad of Team Russia. "They are all slender, attractive, hot and damn sexy. But only one of them will get top position.' Second place went to high IQ Katerina Gerun, 31, a model, actress and chemist, wife of veteran goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev. Third
was Olga Berezutskaya, 32, wife of CSKA defender Vasily Berezutski, a
TV presenter and Russian champion in synchronised swimming. Click here for the latest political news