Police were yesterday trying to piece together minute details and the sequence of events to unravel the mystery surrounding the reported Friday night rape incident at Moi Girls, Nairobi. They questioned 30 men — among them teachers, security guards and male relatives of teachers living in the school compound. The men were also notified that they will undergo a mandatory DNA examination. So far, 50 people had been interviewed by the police according to official accounts. Details of the incident are contained in the statements recorded by students, teachers and staff at the school. Jael Mureithi, the school principal, told the police that she got to know of the incident at around 6am on Saturday, nearly four hours after the incident allegedly happened. She directed that the girl said to have been raped be taken to the Nairobi Women’s Hospital where medical examinations confirmed that she had been defiled. It was almost 7am and shocked parents who had received the news had started streaming into the school. She said there was no alarm from either the matron or the students until morning when all students had woken up that murmurs of the alleged rape started spreading among the students. Well-placed sources said the matron had also denied claims circulating in public that students had knocked on her door that night. “She said she did not receive any distress calls from the students and also came to learn of the incident at around 6am when all students woke up,” said the source. Yesterday, a team of close to 10 officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations camped at the school for the second day running, interviewing staff of the school. Read:Six quizzed as Moi Girls Nairobi is closed over rape allegations The investigators, together with officers from the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) questioned the 15-year-old girl who is said to have been defiled for a second time yesterday. Also questioned are two other students who are said to have been assaulted by the suspected rapists. The victim told police that she left her cubicle at around 2.30am heading to the toilet. On the way, she met a man who she thought was a watchman in the school. He enquired where she was going and she informed him that she was heading to the toilets. The man then continued walking towards the opposite direction as the girl entered the toilet but did not lock the door behind her. Suddenly, somebody flashed open the door to the toilet and grabbed her. The attacker warned her not to scream and pulled her towards the cleaning area and forced himself on her. She told investigators she was shocked but did not scream. Save for the three girls, no other student has reported to have heard any commotion on that night. Read:Did Moi Girls' School attempt to cover up rape incident? A second student who was sleeping in the same cubicle as the victim said somebody pulled her out of bed and took her to the washrooms. She found the first girl who was lying around the sinks. She wrestled the man who forced her to the washrooms and took off. She also did not scream. A third girl was also brought into the washrooms by a second man who attempted to touch her breasts, but she resisted. The three girls were left at the washrooms by two men who disappeared after raping one girl and attempting to touch the breasts of the other two girls. What has puzzled the investigators is how the three girls went back to bed and only alerted their colleagues and school principal in the morning at around 6am. Yesterday, police summoned two men who were working at a construction site in the school and questioned them on their whereabouts. The students have since given the description of the attacker as a short stout man of light complexion with squinted eyes. By last evening, investigators had made proposals to charge watchmen at the school as the first suspects of the crime. Investigators propose to press charges of failing to prevent a crime on six security guards who were on duty that night. Timelines: 2.30 am Student on her way to the toilet walks into a man heading the opposite direction. She, suspects he is a security guard and informs him where she is going. Moments later, while in the toilet, the man pushes into door, grabs her and warns her not to scream. He defiles her on the stone slab in the washing area. He leaves her and returns moments later with a second girl. The girl wrestles the man and they are joined by a third girl in the company of a man who attempts to touch her breasts. The two men escape and leave the girls who go back to their cubicles. 5-6 am: Entire school is awakened by news of the alleged rape, as word spread among the students. Principal and matron get wind of the incident. 7 am: Victim taken to Nairobi Women’s hospital for medical examination, doctors confirm rape. Police and parents start arriving. Sunday 9 am: School closed for a week as investigations open. See:DNA tests ordered for Moi Girls' male teachers, workers amid rape probe Click here for more political news  