Deputy President William Ruto, like the proverbial cat, is a man of many lives! He has stumbled and almost fallen in the past but has always picked himself up and run swiftly like the famed Kalenjin athlete(s). He led the Jubilee Brigade in two punishing presidential campaigns and though the opposition boycotted the November election, UhuRuto were controversially declared victors. Often misunderstood and regularly underestimated by opponents, Ruto has been the silent political kingmaker in Kenya for the last one decade. One amongst many of retired President Moi’s political protégés, he undoubtedly turned out to be his most perspicacious pupil. So outstanding was he, that he eventually tore away the leadership of the populous vote-rich Rift Valley from his master, an acknowledged self-styled Professor of Kenyan politics. The two are currently bitter adversaries and Gideon Moi is positioning himself to run for President. Until the March 9, 2018, handshake between Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta, Ruto was sitting pretty as kingmaker and heir apparent. A day in politics, as they say, is a long time and the handshake has come to haunt Ruto. The newfound camaraderie between Uhuru and Raila in the Building Bridges Initiative has baffled many. Raila has taken every possible opportunity to rattle the Deputy President. In the run-up to the 2007 General Election, Ruto was instrumental in crafting a coalition known as the Orange Democratic Movement, which came dangerously close to removing incumbent President Kibaki from power. The resulting dispute over the election results led to nationwide post-election violence that took Kenya to the precipice of civil war. Disaster was only averted after intervention through UN mediator Kofi Annan, who formed a coalition government under the National Accord and Reconciliation Act. Ruto, a Pentagon member, however eventually fell out with coalition Prime Minister Raila and lost his Cabinet position. He never forgave Raila for supporting his dismissal from Cabinet. In the run-up to the 2013 General Election, an undeterred and unbowed Ruto joined hands with fellow ICC accused Uhuru to craft the Jubilee Coalition. The youthful duo marketed themselves on a platform of change, youth and digitalisation. The ICC indictment turned out to be a bonus sympathy vote. Maligned and underrated locally and internationally as an alliance of international criminals, the two shocked the world when they incredibly won the election hands down. Both men stoically faced their accusers at the International Criminal Court and their cases were subsequently withdrawn. With that behind them, the sky has become the limit for Ruto who, upon winning the subsequent 2017 General Election, immediately shifted focus to the forthcoming 2022 election. It is not clear whether there has been a falling out between erstwhile allies Uhuru and Ruto, as both men are playing their cards very close to the chest. Recent events, especially regarding the war on corruption, have exposed fissures in the coalition. The URP wing is claiming to have been targeted in the anti-corruption campaign and is now busy exposing ‘corrupt deals’ in the TNA wing, including the Kenyatta family. To his credit, Ruto has been eerily silent on the matter, perhaps in an attempt not to rock the boat or rub his boss on the wrong side. Like Moi before him Ruto appears ready to sit out the storm until 2022, when he can have the last laugh. In the meantime, he is creating yet another massive national sympathy vote constituency. He is portraying himself as the son of a peasant who dared to dream in aspiring to the presidency and is being frustrated by the Kenyatta-Moi dynasties. And that these dynasties plan to disqualify him on mere allegations of corruption when they are also on record as past beneficiaries of corruption. Anyone underrating Ruto does so at their own peril as he has the best national political networks.