Staff and commissioners at the electoral commission will undergo public vetting ahead of any critical assignment, chairman Wafula Chebukati has said. He said this will give members of the public and other stakeholders an opportunity to raise concerns against the officers. “This is to enhance the Commission’s effectiveness and accountability, as well as restore public confidence,” the commission said in a tweet on Saturday. "The Chair and Commissioners are also ready to undergo the exercise," Chebukati confirmed in another tweet. Speaking during a workshop in Mombasa, the IEBC boss also said that the electoral agency will partner with county governments in rolling out civil education on good governance, democracy and election management. The commission came under sharp criticism over the manner in which it handled the August and October elections over integrity issues. Prolonged internal wrangling amongst commissioners erupted soon after the August polls eventually leading to the resignation of four commissioners this year. [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader On April 16, vice-chair Consolata Nkatha led fellow commissioners Margaret Wanjala and Paul Kurgat in a walk-out from the commission as divisions at the electoral body boiled over. They accused Chebukati of having failed to give proper leadership. Their resignations followed that of their fellow commissioner Roselyn Akombe who quit on October 18 last year. She said the October 26 repeat presidential polls could not be "absolutely" credible as they were being organised by a very "divided commission". The other half, comprising Chebukati and commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu, were left holding on. Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba has also been suspended, twice, by Chebukati pending investigations into alleged procurement flaws of electoral material. Read: Citing death threats, Roselyn Akombe quits IEBC Also see: I will not resign, Chebukati says after three quit Click here for the latest political news