Machakos governor Alfred Mutua now claims he has a list of prominent government officials who benefited from the Sh1.9 billion maize scandal. Speaking on Saturday during a tree planting ceremony at Kalama, Machakos town constituency, the governor said he is waiting for a file that has details of the fraudulent scheme before he makes the names public. “There are several prominent people who got Sh10 million, others got Sh100 million while others got Sh300 million. Big people in government, I have the list,” Mutua said. “I’m waiting for the file so that we are able to tell wananchi ‘these are the big thieves of Kenya’,” he added. Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Mutua urged President Uhuru Kenyatta not to relent on his fight against corruption. He asked him not to cast his net far saying perpetrators of grand corruption were government operatives. “I believe [President] Uhuru Kenyatta has the names too. And those names will soon be known and the rest of the country will know who the thieves are,” he said. “But I’m telling [President] Uhuru Kenyatta not to look far. The thieves are not far. Kikulacho ki kuoni mwaka.” (That which makes you uncomfortable is within your clothes) Read: Uhuru to corruption suspects: 'Your tribe won’t protect you' Mutua said his calls for government officials to undergo lifestyle audits may have annoyed some individuals but he swore to remain firm. “They know they have stolen. They know they will be found out and that is why they are scared. But I must defend the rights of the people,” Mutua said. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Anti-Corruption Authority has since launched investigations into the alleged loss of the Sh1.9 billion at the National Cereals Board. The Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji also directed the Kenya Revenue Authority and the Assets Recovery Agency to join the probe at NCPB. Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyiampe on May 21 suspended eight senior managers of the NCPB, a day after the board’s CEO Newton Terer resigned. The PS also said 59 staff working in the five critical silos where malpractices were reported would be investigated. Read: CEO Newton Terer resigns from NCPB amid probe on illegal maize imports Also read: PS Lesiyampe suspends eight NCPB bosses 