Water rationing will ease in Nairobi as Ndakaini Dam is now 90 percent full, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has announced. While on a tour of Murang'a County on Wednesday, Sonko said Sasumua and Ruiru dams were full. Ndakaini levels had been very low despite heavy rains, a case that necessitated a probe. Read: Water rationing in Nairobi to ease as Ndakaini level rises Also read: Ndakaini Dam volume to reach 73% in seven days, says official Nairobians living in estates along Juja Road had been getting water once a week but will now have it every day. People living along Thika road, in areas including Zimmerman, Survey of Kenya, Mathare North, Thika Road Mall and Safari Park, had been getting it on Monday but will now have it four times a week. Thindigua, Runda and the central business district will also receive more water while Lucky Summer and Dandora get it on three days a week. The Governor said Komarock, Harambee and Kayole will have 12 more hours of supply and that the pressure will be higher. Sonko noted that according to Nairobi's water master plan, a new dam ought to be constructed every 10 years, to cater for the rising population, yet none has been built since 1994. "Our demand stands at 770,000 cubic metres per day yet we are only able to supply 526,000 cubic metres. This disparity has made water rationing part of our lives," he said. But he said that the construction of three dams will have been completed by 2026. "The Northern Collector Tunnel will be completed by December next year and will inject an additional 140,000 cubic metres," he added. The county chief said he had instructed the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company (NAWASCO) to install water kiosks at the 24 boreholes that are being commissioned in partnership with the national government. The kiosks, he said, will sell water at a subsidised price of 50 cents per 20-litre jerrican. Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati, who accompanied the Governor, urged him and NAWASCO to support conservation programmes around the dam. Nduati also asked the company to revamp sewage systems in areas surrounding the dam to improve hygiene and locals' living standards. "The people of Gatanga support the drawing of water from its rivers for our neighbours in Nairobi but we request for support in conserving the dam and its vicinity," the MP said. He added that talks with the government, on matters regarding the sharing of this resource, had borne fruits. Nduati has been leading a campaign for his people to get a share of the water. He threatened not to support the Sh6.4 billion collector tunnel that will see water drawn from three rivers to Ndakaini Dam. He noted that despite hosting the largest dam in the country, Gatanga residents go to rivers. More on this: Gatanga locals to get water from Ndakaini dam Click here for the latest political news