The latest efforts at fighting corruption have taken a new trajectory and all Kenyans are now hopeful that finally we seem to be heading in the right direction. The war on graft, which is headed by a multi-agency team, has political good will from both the government and the opposition and it is prudent that all Kenyans, be they politicians or ordinary members of the public, should rally behind this fight. It means well for Kenya. For this war to be fully won, it requires serious coordination by the office of the Director of Public Prosecution, Directorate of Criminal Investigation, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Judiciary. More on this: [VIDEO] Corruption cases a priority, evidence must be watertight - Maraga What has affected the war on corruption in the past is the investigations and the gathering of evidence. If the process is weak and full of loopholes the result is weak cases being presented in court. This has resulted in many high profile cases being thrown out because investigators and prosecutors are unable to table water tight evidence that can send suspects to jail. Therefore the three agencies should spend the bulk of their time gathering concrete evidence. They have the time and the resources. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto and even the opposition leader Raila Odinag have come out clear that all the leaders should support this war on corruption and we have no option as the political class to abide by that. As we know, it takes two to tango. All Kenyans need to dedicate their energies fully and for a long time to come to rid Kenya of the cancer of graft. Sleaze has stolen the future of many citizens, and if this renewed impetus does inspire us to action, then we are doomed. Corruption in this country has costed us a lot- we cannot create jobs, build hospitals, roads, dams and manufacture when public resources are stolen and privatised. It is my hope that this war on corruption will be carried out professionally and by following all the relevant laws, including the rule of natural justice. Those found to have plundered our resources should be dealt with according to the law while those who are cleared should be left to enjoy their hard-earned cash. No one should feel that this war is a witch-hunt and government officials should not be scared from serving Kenyans. Fear is slowly creeping into top officers when they are made to feel some jobs are too dangerous. That should not be the case. Cheptumo is the chairman of National Assembly's committee on Justice and Legal Affairs. He spoke to the Star. Related: DPP studying fresh ‘high voltage’ cases Also read: More on this: Keep EACC, replace Wabukala with Edward Ouko to end corruption - Wandayi Click here for the latest political news