Kenya Civil Aviation Authority will on Thursday release preliminary reports on investigations of a caravan plane that crashed in the Aberdare ranges killing its 10 passengers. Director General Gilbert Kibe on Tuesday told the National Assembly Committee on Transport that the report contains factual findings of what happened before the fatal accident. “KCAA's role is now to assist AAID to ensure that the cause of the accident is established as swiftly as possible,” Kibe said. The DG had earlier on said crucial aircraft components will be analysed and data that might provide critical information extracted. The investigations involve US, Canada, Fiji and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), in line with international statutes. It was reported that the plane was serviced regularly and had flown to Homa Bay and Maasai Mara before the crash on Tuesday. Its pilots were described as experienced but it was said that they may have flown into bad weather over the Aberdare Forest in Kinangop area, Nyandarua County. The plane's signal was traced to this area and teams from several organisations deployed. The members included AAID, the National Disaster Management Unit, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Defence Forces through the Air Force, Kenya Forest Service, National Police Service, Red Cross, the national government and the county commissioner's team. The FlySax plane was headed to Nairobi's Wilson Airport from Kitale but was diverted to JKIA due to bad weather. KCAA had also refuted claims that poor communication coordination from Wilson control tower and JKIA's radar could have been the cause of the crash. Read:All 10 bodies recovered from Aberdare plane crash site Also Read:Families identify bodies of plane crash victims, probe begins Government pathologist Johansen Oduor who conducted postmortems said the victims in the ill-fated plane died from similar injuries "The bodies had similar injuries to the heads, chests and limbs, a clear indication that the deaths were as a result of the crash," he told a press briefing. He said, however, that some samples were taken for further analysis. Oduor said he conducted the examinations with the homicide team from the DCI, officers from the Government Chemist, Red Cross, National Police Service and a team from FlySax which operated the ill-fated plane. Read:10 in FlySax plane died from similar head, chest injuries - postmortems