Infrastructure damage caused by flooding in Garissa, Wajir and Tana River counties is still disrupting access to markets. The floods that started in March killed 186 people and displaced 291,171 others across the country. The report by International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said limited or no access to food and essential commodities increases the risk of malnutrition. The floods submerged 68,780 acres of farmland, irrigation systems and farm equipment were destroyed. Roads and transport were destroyed. “Planting had commenced as long rains and flooding starting, resulting in huge losses of standing crops,” the report said. Affected households are likely to need continued humanitarian assistance through October this year as people have little or no income. The Red Cross said it is imperative the damaged irrigation systems in Garissa, Tana River and Makueni counties are rehabilitated to avert further disasters. The most affected counties reporting agriculture and livestock losses include Garissa, Tana River, Kilifi, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana and Marsabit. Unfortunately, a majority of these counties were also affected by the drought that preceded the floods. The Red Cross report says no cases of malnutrition have been reported, however, there could be a malnutrition if families are not supported with food on a medium-term basis. In addition, the IGAD Climate Predication and Application Centres forecast for June to September indicates that the Northwestern part of the country is more likely to get more than average rainfall. This, according to the report, is likely to cause more displacement of populations living around flood-prone areas, particularly in the Coastal region. Years of neglect by previous regimes has led to Northeastern lagging behind in development. This has been due to many issues, including dilapidated roads that hamper movement of goods and services. Unlike in many parts of the country that have had tremendous growth in tarmacked roads, in Northeastern such roads start and end in Garissa. The national government embarked on a phased tarmacking of major roads within the region. The aim is to connect the three major towns of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera.