 The Elgeyo Marakwet county assembly has slashed printing and advertising cash to procure an air
conditioner to warm the MCAs. On Thursday,
the assembly reduced Sh2 million from the two votes after ward reps claimed the
house was becoming extremely cold, especially for aging members. In an
amendment moved by Tambach MCA Musa Limo, they said the assembly is no longer
conducive for members to discharge their mandate. Limo
proposed that Sh500,000 be cut from printing and Sh1.5 million be slashed
from advertising to make the house warmer for ward reps. “We need not
to be in such a house that is not good to our health. We need a palatable
assembly as honourable members,” Limo said. His amendment
was supported by majority leader Nathan Chelanga who said older MCAs are at
higher risk of contracting respiratory illnesses. But Embobut MCA Paul Kipyatich opposed the move, saying an AC is unnecessary for the house. The statement presented by Budget and Appropriation Committee chairman John Yator (Emsoo), showed a decline in local revenue and proposed employment of 30
additional enforcement officers. Kipyatich
told the house a revenue office in Kondabilet in Moiben/Kuserwo ward collected Sh8,000
in six months. At least 61
per cent of Sh5 billion of the 2018-19 budget will go to recurrent expenditure,
leaving only Sh1.9 billion [38 per cent] for development. The budget proposed
a county staff audit that may lead to sacking of redundant staff in a bid to
manage the rising wage bill. A sum of Sh12 million
was allocated to the county public service board to effect the staff audit
within the first quarter of the 2018-19 financial year. “This audit
is expected to offer controls to the wage bill,” a report by the budget
committee reads. A committee
member Salina Kimito (nominated) said seven drivers of the
county government earn salaries but they are not working. Kimito said
the county has 149 revenue clerks who are paid Sh52 million out of the Sh100
million the county collects annually. The budget
proposed a lowering of the county’s local revenue target from Sh160 million per
year to Sh130 million after the county failed to hit the target since 2013. 