It may sound like a dreadful thing to say but the
recent corruption headlines have only come to highlight just how weak our
procurement laws have become. What exactly qualifies as value for money, when
it comes to government procurement? This is a question policymakers have
grappled with and failed to address, the failure of which has led to the birth
of tenderpreneurs, both local and international: Their only primary mission is
to circumvent our laws and enrich themselves Counties have now emerged as a fertile ground for
contracts and tenders due to the huge spending on public services and
infrastructure. But the key question I pose to policymakers is, how has
procurement in counties benefited economy at the grassroots level? International best practice, as far as procurement
is concerned, advocate less restrictive procurement policies that accommodate
fair competition. In counties, tenders are floated and bidders from across the
country are invited to submit proposals. But the question remains; are counties
getting the best deals? What cost has this liberalisation policy have on local
suppliers and entrepreneurs based in the 47 counties, who constantly find
themselves lacking the financial and resource capacity to compete with national
agents? The need for affirmative action informed the
enactment of the 30 per cent Access to Government Procurement Opportunities
for persons with disabilities, women and the youth. The intention of this law
has failed in its implementation. We have read cases where the faces of
directors in companies act as mere pawns for the more established tenderpreneurs, defeating the sole purpose of the aw. To complement the Agpo legislation, I propose counties to develop
procurement policies that restrict a certain quota for only local SME’s and
suppliers.  As I have advocated repeatedly,
it is time counties localise policies to reflect their social, cultural and
economic uniqueness. It could be argued the focus on competitive bidding and
free market liberalisation has not achieved the intended purpose as far as
procurement is concerned.  Maybe it’s
time counties borrow a leaf from Tanzania President John Magufuli and adopt
discriminative procurement policies for the sole purpose of benefitting their
residents. I am completely alive to many policymakers, who
would consider this approach as counter intuitive. Many will be downright
disgusted. But I am of the greatest conviction that counties should put
safeguards to restrict open competition in their procurement because at the end
of the day, if locals don’t benefit from the devolution pie, then what was its purpose
in the first place? The restrictive procurement policies I advocate
should, however, be temporary and based on continuous evaluation to gauge their
impact. As counties grow and prosper, local companies and suppliers will mature
and be able to compete with the national players, hence affording room for new
entrants to partake of the devolution pie. This is not to say these policies
will not have challenges. It is unethical to roll out policies arbitrarily. Experimentation
can’t happen in isolation. What may work in Narok may not necessarily work in
Kiambu.  Transparency and public
participation will be necessary if we are to avoid the usual pitfalls that
bedevil procurement legislation. This policy, if implemented well, has an immense
potential in job creation and promotion of entrepreneurship. To make this
happen, It will require all relevant parties including politicians, civil
servants, and the procurement and accounting officers to show leadership. But, as with everything in Kenya, it is how
it is done that is crucial. 