The Kenya Wildlife Services has commenced translocation of 14 black rhinos from Nairobi and Lake Nakuru National Parks to Tsavo East National Park rhino sanctuary. KWS says this is part of the broader plan in partnership with Wild Wide fund for nature-Kenya (WWF-K) to create more secure space with suitable habitat for the rhinos. This comes amid public outcry over the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway through the Nairobi National park. The exercise that was launched today by tourism CS Najib Balala will take three-weeks. Read:Building SGR in Nairobi Park begins despite court order “This is a key milestone in the conservation of black rhinos that are listed as Critically Endangered after their numbers declined by over 90% over the last three decades – majorly as a result of poaching pressure. The current national population of black rhinos stands at 745 as at end of 2017. The new Rhino Conservation Strategy (2017 -2021) aims to achieve at least 5% p.a growth rate and attain a population of 830 by 2021,” Balala said. Balala added that through the partnership with WWF-Kenya and other partners, KWS has been able to spearhead Rhino conservation efforts in the country. Read:State to take 100 acres of park for SGR He added that the efforts have seen the population pick-up from about 400 Rhinos to now close to 750. “Last year alone saw the birth of 109 newborns and an overall decrease in poaching. I would like to thank WWFK for their continued support of this noble cause as we seek to preserve our heritage,” he said. WWF-K made a donation of two landcruisers, three motorbikes, night vision cameras, tents, GPRS equipment, binoculars and boots. WWF-Kenya’s CEO Mohamed Awer said that the sanctuary has been well secured to protect them from poaching following the heighten security. He said supporting the translocation of the 14 black rhinos – 8 from Nairobi National Park and 6 from Lake Nakuru National Park. ‘’In the last 3 years, we have supported KWS work in Rhino conservation to the tune of approximately Sh 220 million which translates to about 70 per cent of all rhino conservation work in Kenya. Most recently, we have supported the establishment of 100Sq Kilometers rhino sanctuary with a complete solar-powered electric fence that the 14 rhinos will now call home.’’ Awer said. Click here for the latest political news 