Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici has denied involvement in importation of illegal sugar. She has accused some police officers of dragging her family into the scandal. Neither my husband Andrew Ngirici or I are part of the scam. The Woman Rep, flanked by her husband, spoke at Thiguku village in Ndia constituency during a medical clinic organised by Ngirici and Sons Rescue Team. "I am innocent. Let the DCI director arrest me if he finds that I am linked to the sugar deals," she said. There is crackdown on importers of contraband sugar which has has been found to contain mercury and yeast, therefore unfit for human consumption. Ngirici told police to come clean and name individuals behind the shady deals. She said the state knows the owners of the implicated companies. It is wrong to generalise, Ngirici said. On Wednesday, police raided Paleah Stores and impounded 1,365 bags of illegal sugar from warehouses in Eastleigh, Ruiru and Nairobi’s Industrial Area. The store is connected to Ngirici's brother. Parleah director Patrick Kuria and her wife Leah Njeri on Thursday obtained a Sh200,000 conservatory bail from Kerugoya High Court blocking the police from arresting them. Judge Lucy Gitari cited the application as urgent. She asked the applicants to appear before her on June 21 for the Attorney General, the DPP, and police to respond. In a sworn affidavit, Njeri said they are licensed by Kenya Sugar Board to import, re-package and distribute sugar. She said they purchased 600 bags and were given copies of importation documents. The sugar was cleared as fit for consumption, she said in her affidavit. Through their lawyer, Ndegwa Njiru, the judge prohibited police from arresting the director or his agent. Njiru confirmed the police raided his clients' home and arrested Kuria, his son and a manager. They were taken to Milimani law courts and were released. At the Paleah Stores, 581 bags of 50kgs sugar labelled Brazil, 49 bags labelled Zambian Sugar, 238 bales containing 10 packets of 2kgs each, 132 bales containing 20 packets weighing 1kg each, 8 bags of un labeled sugar and 409 bags purported to be from Nzoia Sugar were confiscated. A mixer machine which the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said was being used for mixing genuine and harmful sugar before packaging was also found at the warehouse. Although Kinoti did not mention the names of the people suspected to be involved in the illegal business, he said some people arrested so far will aid in the investigations that will see the arrest of the main barons running the complex syndicate.