Nzoia Sugar coach Bernard Mwalala has made a passionate appeal to current SportPesa Premier League top scorer Elvis Rupia to stick with the club. Mwalala said Rupia 22, stands a better chance to grow and win the ‘Golden Boot’ if he stays at Nzoia. “If Rupia stays at Nzoia, he will be top scorer in the league but if he leaves, I doubt he will achieve that dream because settling in another team will not be easy,” said Mwalala. He added: “I have sat with him and advised him to at least see off this season at Nzoia before deciding on his next move at the end of the season.” Mwalala confirmed that several top flight clubs are eyeing Rupia’s signature in the current transfer window which opened on Saturday. He said some of his players have also been approached by other teams. “As a community club, we don’t have the financial muscle as compared to the other clubs and so we are not able to prevent our players from leaving,” he added. The coach also said due to financial difficulties, the club might not make any significant signings in mid-season. In April, Rupia bagged the Player of the Month award that comes along with a 49 inch LG television set and Sh100,000 from Sportpesa. Rupia is on record having said: “I’ve received many offers from rival premier league clubs but I would like to stay and see off the season here. I do not want to break the rhythm I’ve gained here because moving to another club mid season can really unsettle a player.” Meanwhile, Mwalala is targeting a top five finish in the league. “We did not start strongly at the beginning of the season but after four matches, we picked up momentum. We are now fifth on the log and I want us to finish in that position if all goes well,” said the former striker. He however said his target may not be achieved if some of his dependable players leave. Mwalala is also targeting to lift the SportPesa Shield. “Each team taking part in the tournament wants to win and represent Kenya at continental level. That is also our target and we are taking this tournament with the seriousness it deserves,” added Mwalala.