Some Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission employees have been receiving protection money from governors under investigation. We are told the employees deliberately hide information or simply do shoddy work that goes nowhere because they are on the take. Some of them travel to Dubai, where they receive the cash.  Claims of an influential figure with state connections being behind the importation of contraband sugar are all over. There are reports one of the barons behind the impounded poisonous sugar is a well-connected businessman with links to the House on the Hill. A top investigator who is among the sleuths pursuing the poisonous sugar is said to have been surprised with the revelations that one of the architects of the smuggled sugar has connections to powerful forces. Does this mean the war on contraband sugar is likely to abort in the coming days to pave the way for the unscrupulous businessman? All eyes are on Interior CS Fred Matiang’i.  Still on the fight against contraband sugar, some police are said to have taken advantage of the ongoing ruthless war and mounted a parallel crackdown to enrich themselves. An officer imbedded in the operation whispered to Corridors there is intelligence information that some commanders are raiding private warehouses and stopping long-distance trucks on major highways with the aim of extorting money. Some of the officers already on the intelligence radar on Saturday stormed into a warehouse on Mombasa Road but despite having found counterfeit products, walked out all smiles without making any arrests. Aren’t actions like those of irresponsible officers besmirching the war on contraband sugar?  Last week, we told you of the smoldering disquiet in the Ministry of Health, Public Health Directorate. But even before the dust settles, we are told some top dogs in the ministry never go on leave. In fact, one of the senior officers who is accused of having a fake PhD is whispered to have dodged taking leave for the past 13 years. The question being asked is what the man is protecting. There are allegations they could be out protecting business interests.  a former Nyanza MP who was pushed to political oblivion by a youthful rival is tired of waiting for a state appointment. The ex-lawmaker, who used to threaten his opponents with impunity during his heydays, has become broke and risks having his property auctioned. The former lawmaker used his influential position in the 11th Parliament to cut deals with Jubilee honchos who even promised him a plum job had he lost in the polls. He lost miserably, but the Jubilee brigade has forsaken him.