President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday launched the national payment program to persons above 70 years Kenyatta said the program is aimed at ensuring that senior citizens, live in dignity by being able to afford some level of financial independence "This programme will ensure that our senior citizens get a Kshs 4,000 stipend to live a dignified a respectable life." Kenyatta said. He spoke during the launch of the Inua Jamii program at Inchuui Primary School, Tigania East, Meru County. Over 40,000 elderly persons in Meru county will benefit from the programme. Kenyatta also kicked off the issuance of 65,000 title deeds to Meru residents at the event that also doubled up as Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya’s homecoming party. At the height of last year’s campaigns in June, President Kenyatta announced the expansion of the existing Older Persons Cash Transfer programme into a more inclusive programme that provides cash transfers to elderly persons that was to start at the beginning of the year. The Ministry of Labour and Social Protection through the State Department of Social Protection, Pensions and Senior Citizens Affairs undertook the registration of persons above 70 years between July and August 2017 and a total of 523,129 new beneficiaries were successfully registered In April and May this year, the Ministry validated and enrolled 411,013 new beneficiaries into the programme through electronic bank account opening countrywide. Emphasising the importance of unity for development, President Kenyatta urged Meru leaders to shelve political differences and join hands to serve the citizens. "We want the people of Meru to be united under their leaders for development to realised. You are all brothers and sisters, the political bickering between the people of Imenti, Igembe and Tigania must come to an end." Kenyatta said. Deputy President William Ruto also urged leaders to work together to serve Kenyans, adding that those who want to start early campaigns should wait for the next elections. After Meru Kenyatta made stops in Isiolo, Timau and Nanyuki towns where he called on Kenyans to live and work together to build the nation. Click here for the latest political news