Kenya Sheil Kotecha and Ismael Changawa beat Ugandan opponents 2-0 on Day One of the Davis Cup tournament at Nairobi Club. Kotecha mauled David Oringa 6-4 ,7-5 while Changawa silenced Boris Aguma 6-2, 6-1. The week-long tournament, which was officially opened by Sports Principal Secretary, Kirimi Kaberia, saw Kenya take a 1-0 lead in the first match courtesy of Kotecha recovered from a game down to shoot down the battling Oringa. Changawa made it 2-0 after seeing off the Ugandans, who were without the services of their top seed, Duncan Mugabe, who is currently serving a suspension. In the first match, the players had to put up with the chilly weather conditions witnessed in the city as they strived to bag the first victory of the tournament. Having won the nod to serve first, Oringa made good use of it and clinched the first game but Kotecha fought back to restore parity. The homeboy broke his opponent’s service in the third game and extended his lead in the fourth game to take a two-game command. However, the Ugandan pulled one back but Kotecha responded in the subsequent game to restore his lead. Scattering of returns by Kotecha gifted his opponent in his fourth game of the set but corrected his mistakes in the subsequent two games to win the first set. Kotecha came firing from all cylinders in the second set and grabbed the opening two games with ease. His under-hand tactics, were however, a let down as he conceded the third game to the Ugandan. Kotecha bagged the fourth game to stretch his lead to 3-1 but swallowed a game to whittle down his advantage. The Ugandan gained momentum and pushed the match to a tie break but Kotecha won the final two games to see him off 7-5. He attributed the win to the home support and the ability to identify and capitalise on his opponents’ mistakes. “It was a tough match especially in the second set but I am happy I made good use of his mistakes. The first match is always nervous but the fans helped me grow in confidence.” Kenyan head coach Rosemary Owino observed that the home support played a major role in Kotecha’s victory. “It was a bit nervous but the fans played a crucial role in overcoming it. It’s a good start for us and we hope to maintain the winning momentum till we achieve our goal.” In the second match Kenya’s top seed Changawa taught his opponent tennis lessons as he conceded a paltry three games to cruise to victory. Changawa had a relatively easy time on the court and his combination of short hands and volleys earned him applauses from the opponents bench. Kenyans are set to face Mozambique opponents today.