South Africa suffered
power outages for a second day on Friday as workers protested
over wages at national electricity provider Eskom, in a test of
President Cyril Ramaphosa's resolve to cut costs at struggling
state companies. Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan said late on
Friday Eskom and the unions had agreed to resume talks
immediately on conditions that include Eskom makes a pay
increase offer and operations return to normal. "The parties have agreed that the current disruptions at
Eskom that resulted in load-shedding since yesterday are not
beneficial to either party nor the country and the economy,"
Gordhan said in a statement. Eskom, which produces more than 90 percent of South Africa's
power, said it would implement outages throughout the day
because of an "illegal protest action" by some of its employees. The rand currency weakened after Eskom announced
the outages and said there was a high risk of further
disruptions over the weekend. Cutting costs at troubled state entities such as Eskom is a
top priority for Ramaphosa, and the unrest will test his
administration's commitment to reforms aimed at putting a
struggling economy on sustained growth path. In 2015, severe power constraints caused a prolonged period
of outages, hitting growth. Eskom is regularly cited as a threat to South Africa's
credit rating because it has more than 220 billion rand ($16.4
billion) of government-guaranteed debt. Eskom started controlled outages - known locally as
"load-shedding" - on Thursday after it said protesters had
blocked trucks carrying coal and buses ferrying staff to power
stations. "INTIMIDATION AND SABOTAGE" Two large labour unions, the National Union of Mineworkers
(NUM) and National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa
(NUMSA), have threatened a total shutdown of Eskom's operations
unless it meets their demands for a 15 percent pay rise. Eskom, which has obtained a court order declaring the labour
protests unlawful, has offered no pay increases. Eskom spokesman Khulu Phasiwe blamed the power cuts on acts
of "intimidation and sabotage" by union members, but NUM and
NUMSA said their members were respecting the court order and had
done nothing illegal. Ramaphosa oversaw the appointment of a new board and chief
executive at Eskom in an effort to stabilise its finances after
it became embroiled in corruption scandals under former
president Jacob Zuma. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga said: "This is about more
than salaries. The government has lost the moral authority
because of the looting that went on at state firms like Eskom. "If Ramaphosa doesn't intervene the lights will stay off and
people will start asking: where is our president?" Click here for the latest political news