Many pregnant women now keep away from Mbagathi Hospital for fear of their lives after a fire broke out in one of its maternity blocks last month. Before the May 23 fire, county engineers had condemned the 120-bed capacity building. The administration had however not evacuated mothers and their newborns. It only obliged after the fire. Mbagathi used to record between 60 and 80 births a day, but the number has drastically reduced to between 12 and 20, nurse Boaz Muchai said yesterday. He is also the chairman of the Kenya National Union of Nurses (KNUN) Nairobi chapter. Pregnant women are now accommodated in an old maternity block which has only five beds. The fire broke out at the main electricity meter box at the postnatal ward, causing a blackout throughout the entire maternity block. This disrupted services at the maternity, postnatal and labour units and kangaroo baby care room. Medical superintendent Loice Mutua said the fire was caused by a system overload. “The incident only affected the newborns who were depending on the incubators,” she said. Yesterday, Health executive Hitan Majevdia said Public Works ministry engineers are still analysing the building’s integrity. “We are still accommodating patients in the old wing as our engineers scrutinise the building. But we have asked them to fast-track the process so we make a decision,” he said on the phone. Muchai said safety concerns are to blame for the reduced number of deliveries. “We are not turning away any mother. It seems mothers are already informed of the threat here,” he said. KNUN national secretary general Seth Panyako urged nurses to avoid the building for their own safety. But Muchai said they will work in the building if the ongoing audit gives a positive feedback. In April, county engineers found the block built in 2014 structurally unsound after cracks developed on the walls and ceilings. Former Health chief officer Thomas Ogaro wrote to Public Works chief officer Fredrick Karanja to assess the building’s structural integrity soon after the cracks emerged. Karanja recommended the closure of the maternity wing and evacuation of all patients. He also suggested that a team of professionals — architects and structural, electrical and mechanical engineers — carry out another audit. “Inadequate strength of the structural elements of the building is evidenced by the appearance of the cracks on the walls, slabs and beams,” Karanja said. The team found deformation and sagging on the beams and leakages on the walls, floors and roof. It said the building also lacked a proper drainage system.