Deputy President William Ruto’s plans to woo the Coast ahead of the 2022 election have been punctured by the sacking of Catherine Mturi-Wairi as MD of the Kenya Ports Authority. Mturi was sacked last Wednesday, with the board saying she was unable to provide leadership amid persistent congestion at the port. The decision was reached after a special board meeting convened by Transport PS Paul Maringa and chaired by KPA board member Michael Maina. The board appointed Daniel Manduku to replace Mturi in a two-month acting role. But the move has rattled leaders from the Coast, including new-found allies of Ruto. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and several MPs have condemned the sacking, saying it denied locals the opportunity to lead the giant parastatal. The leaders said Coast appointees have often been sacked before completing their terms at the helm of the KPA. “It has become the norm. It’s a tradition. Our people have been taken for granted,” said Mombasa Woman Representative Aisha Hussein. She spoke at Tononoka Grounds during Madaraka Day celebrations on Friday. Hussein urged Coast leaders to defend their people. Earlier, former nominated Senator Emma Mbura described the KPA top job as a political position often used to hoodwink locals to vote in a certain way. Mturi was appointed MD in July 2016 following the sacking of Gichira Ndua. Mbura said Mturi was given the job because the government did not want to anger Coast politicians with President Uhuru Kenyatta then keen on reelection. “Her sacking is nothing different. But we’ll not sit back and watch. We must be felt,” Mbura told the Star on the phone yesterday. “Uhuru and Ruto ran the show. They hired Mturi and have now fired her. They know what is happening.” Mbura said KPA is the biggest cake for the Coast. “Take it away from us and we have nothing to be proud of,” she said. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya said Mturi’s sacking has confirmed that the government does not value residents of the Coast. Sources close to Mbura, a close ally of Ruto, said she will today file a suit against Mturi’s removal. Addressing residents during Madaraka Day celebrations at Karisa Maitha Grounds in Kilifi, Kingi said such actions have made leaders reluctant to fully support the government. “These are some of things that make us not speak confidently about the handshake,” Kingi said. The governor is seen as Ruto’s biggest catch at the Coast after he declared he would support the DP in 2022. Kingi said there are many parastatals at the Coast yet none was being managed by a local.