Tanzania ordered all
unregistered bloggers and online forums on Monday to suspend
their websites immediately or face criminal prosecution, as
critics accuse the government of tightening control of internet
content. Several sites, including popular online discussion platform
Jamiiforums, said on Monday they had temporarily shut down after
the state-run Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority
(TCRA) warned it would take legal action against all unlicensed
websites. Regulations passed in March made it compulsory for bloggers
and owners of other online forums such as YouTube channels to
register with the government and pay up to $900 for a licence.
Per capita income in Tanzania is slightly below $900 a year. Digital activists say the law is part of a crackdown on
dissent and free speech by the government of President John
Magufuli, who was elected in 2015. Government officials argue
the new rules are aimed at tackling hate speech and other online
crimes, including cyberbullying and pornography. "All unregistered online content providers must be licensed
before June 15. Starting from today June 11 until June 15, they
are prohibited from posting any new content on their blogs,
forums or online radios and televisions," the regulator said in
a statement on Monday. The statement said legal action would be taken against any
unregistered websites posting new content. Anyone convicted of defying the new regulations faces a fine
of at least 5 million shillings ($2,200), imprisonment for a
minimum 12 months, or both. Jamiiforums, a whistle-blowing website, said it had shut
down its online discussion platform after the threat from the
communications watchdog. The website has been enmeshed in a
court battle for nearly a year to keep the site online. Its slogan is "where we dare to talk openly". Most
users post their comments under pseudonyms, but the website has
been accused by authorities and individuals of allowing people
to post fabricated allegations. The Paris-based Reporters Without Borders group has said the
new online content rules "will kill off Tanzania's blogosphere". This year neighbouring Uganda and Kenya have also moved to
regulate internet uses with new laws, though their new rules are
less strict than Tanzania's. Click here for the latest political news