  Some 26 quarry workers who were arrested on
security grounds will continue being at the Mandera GK prison for the next two
weeks. The miners who were arrested on May 24,
2018 for what police sources said was 
“for their own safety”, were later charged of  causing disturbance in a manner likely to
cause a breach of the peace by shouting and blocking entrance to county
commissioner’s office in Mandera town on May 21. During the arrest police sources said the
miners risked their lives when they chose to walk to Nairobi from Mandera. “We could not sit back and wait to be
blamed for any attack on this group of individuals who had threatened to trek
to Nairobi from here after quarries were closed,” the officer, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. According to the police, Al-Shabaab was
planning ambushes on Mandera roads and letting the 26 walk to the capital would
have been dangerous. “These people are all non-locals who are
targeted by Al-Shabaab and they left Mandera on Tuesday morning .they raised a
lot of attention on the roads as they were singing and shouting,” he said. The police gave the protesters a chase and
arrested them at Qarbogole area, some 20 kilometres outside of Mandera town. They all pleaded not guilty to the charge
before Mandera Senior Resident Magistrate Peter Areri yesterday. They were each granted a Sh50, 000 bond
with a surety of a similar amount or a Sh10, 000 cash bail. Resident magistrate Duncan Mtai directed 18
of the accused to continue being remanded as senior resident magistrate Peter
Areri was in Nairobi for official duties. The miners asked the court to release them
on a free bond as they could not raise the Shs.10, 000 cash bail nor the Shs
50,000 bond with surety of the same amount. Mtai said he could not overturn the earlier
deliberation by his senior and asked them to raise their concerns when the case
come for mention. Mtai advised the workers to talk to the
complainant in the case, county commissioner Mr. Kutswa Olaka to see whether
they could be forgiven. The government closed the quarries on May 4
on grounds of security after a security alert that the Al Shabaab was planning
to attack the workers at the mines. The government announced closure a week
after four miners were killed by suspected Al-Shabaab militants at Shimbir-Fatuma
quarry in Mandera South. On May 7, the miners took to streets
against the closure but county commissioner assured them that it was a
short-term measure, pegging it on insecurity. Mandera Governor Ali Roba on May 12 asked
the miners to ignore the directive and return in quarries but it came to pass. The governor accused the local security
team of coiling back on the security challenge in Mandera, suggesting that the
situation in Mandera needed a head-on tackle. “We believe we have security challenges
here but our lives cannot stop because of these challenges,” he said. Roba said it was sounding ridiculous or
cowardly to interfere with construction industry in Mandera just because there
was a terror attack somewhere within. Stone miners complained that keeping them
out of quarries and idling in town was exposing them to greater risks. It is not the first time stone miners are
finding themselves on the wrong side of the ‘law’. In 2015, 21, 60 of them were arrested and
fined Ksh60, 000 or serve six months in jail for breaching a quarrying ban. Ali Madey, chairman Mandera Quarry Owners
Association, said the arrest of their workforce was a surprise. “Government knows why it is holding
innocent people but on our side there is nothing we can do since our businesses
are closed,” he said. “If the stone miners could have been left
to walk to Nairobi then this would have been the second group to cover the
1,200km distance on foot”. ENDS  