Should this sugar
rigmarole be inconclusive, we have ourselves to blame. We are asking the wrong
questions and getting the right answers, whereas we should be asking the
appropriate questions to get the factual answers. How do I mean? Historically, when
governments wage war, their first line of attack is to destroy each other’s
economies through trade embargos. In economic-speak, this is protectionism,
which is the shielding of domestic industries from foreign competition.
Therefore, when a government is pro-protectionism, it inflicts harm on itself in
peacetime, what its enemy does during wartime. Sugar is one of the
commodities that is managed under a protectionism policy by the Sugar
Directorate. This institution regulates sugar level imports, ostensibly to
protect farmers and millers. In March, they dropped importation by 75 per cent to
protect local millers, who were holding huge stocks. One of the protectionist
methods applied in our industry is quotas. This is a direct restriction on the
quantity that can be imported to meet our deficit. It is enforced by issuing import
licenses to a few companies. The Sugar Directorate has licensed 162 companies
to import 350,000 tonnes of sugar annually. With campaign promises
of job creation, it is easy to see why protectionism sounds a great idea. But
sadly, it is a false belief and the converse is what obtains. Allow me to
illustrate. In a
land faraway, the candle makers union petitioned their parliament. They
complained of competition by a foreign rival, who had such superior skills of
producing light, that he was flooding the domestic market with it. His prices
were incredibly low, which depressed their sales. This competitor was the Sun.
The union asked their MPs to pass a law requiring all buildings to close their
windows, doors, curtains and any other fissure through which sunlight could
enter to shut off all access to this natural light. They reasoned that blocking
the Sun would increase the demand for their candles, thereby protecting their
jobs. The
Sugar Directorate and the MPs in support of the sugar protectionist policy are our
rendition of the candle makers union. They
have told the country that farmers need to be protected from foreign
competition because importing cheaper sugar will kill the local milling
companies, which support farmers’ livelihoods. They say blocking cheap sugar importation
will increase the demand for locally produced sugar, never mind our production
costs are $870 per metric tonne against the region’s $400 per metric tonne. A
basic economic tenet states the higher the price of a good, the less of it will
be demanded. So, how will the high cost of locally produced sugar increase its
demand? Low demand of goods results in low revenues for producers, which
ultimately leads to layoffs. When the sugar companies and related industries
face a revenue crunch, they are unable to meet their contractual obligations to
farmers, leaving them impoverished. Hence, blocking sugar importation to
protect jobs is simply counterproductive. In effect, it increases unemployment
and farmer poverty levels. Additionally,
low demand of goods leads to low supply. And with low supply, the price rises,
which forces consumers to either buy less of it or less of some other good.
This also results in low revenues in various sectors and eventually
unemployment. This hurts the economy negatively twice. Protectionism
also impedes competitiveness. This causes industries to be complacent and slow
to innovate. The consumer pays the price through low quality and high cost of goods
resulting from inefficiencies of archaic production processes. The
reality is that protectionist policies benefit only the privileged few — in
this case sugar millers and importers — by sheltering them from the
vicissitudes of competition. The result is a net loss for society because a
favour bestowed to one is a disfavour bestowed to others. The
wrong questions we have been asking are ‘who are the importers?’; ‘how did the
contamination occur?’; ‘where were the regulatory and enforcement authorities?’
And for these we will get the right answers. However, the appropriate questions
we should be posing to get factual answers are; ‘why do we continue to support
a protectionist policy for an industry that has proved inefficient,
unproductive, uncompetitive and unsustainable despite several bailouts?’, ‘why
should tax payers continue bearing the cost of protecting a section of sugar
farmers, millers and importers at the expense of all other Kenyan consumers?’ When trade is viewed
from an economic lens, there is no significant value in separating foreign and
domestic goods. This is simply an artificially imposed political boundary. When
a Kenyan from Mombasa buys sugar from another Kenyan in Mumias, there is
nothing uneconomical about it. The same applies when Kenya in the aggregate
buys sugar from Brazil because in reality, it is individuals from Kenya buying
sugar from individuals in Brazil. In
the case of the candle makers’ petition, the Sun’s superior skills in producing
light lowered its cost and, therefore, increased its demand. Likewise, other
countries have perfected their efficiency in sugar production, which has
lowered their costs. Why then should a protectionist policy limit consumer choices
and affordability? Why should it enslave sugar farmers into a sector they do
not have a comparative advantage? Most people are misguided
into thinking trade is a zero-sum game, where only the seller wins. But I
submit that to create wealth and jobs, we must permit free trade to thrive.
This means allowing consumers to buy from abroad as freely as they buy goods
domestically because trade is a positive sum game. Finally, my unsolicited
advice to protectionist proponents is, when you discover you are riding a dead
horse, the best strategy is to dismount, not to buy a stronger whip or harness
several dead horses together to increase the speed.  If
goods cannot freely cross borders, armies will – Frédéric Bastiat 