Vincent Rono and Grace Wanjiru powered their way to the Africa Senior Athletics Championships as they respectively won the 10,000m and 20km walk races at the national trials at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani yesterday. Rono ran a controlled race to clock 28:17.2 with former world junior 10,000m champion Josephat Bett clinching the second automatic qualification spot by posting 28:24.85. Kipsang Temoi narrowly missed out after finishing third in 28:27.55 ahead of Stephen Arita ( 28:3079 ) and Peter Kiprotich ( 28:32.95 ). Dominic Kiptarus set the early pace by charging into the lead in the fourth lap closely followed by Nicholas Kosimbei and Jonathan Ndiku. The trio could, however, not break away from the pack as athletes jostled for positions under warm conditions. Wilfred Kimitei tried to shake things upfront by injecting pace in the eighth lap but the chasing pack soon caught up by the start of the 10th lap. At the halfway point, Temoi surged to the front closely followed by Rono and Bett. The trio were to break way from the rest of the pack and they could not be separated for the next five laps with none looking to break away. Rono seized the opportunity and with six laps to go, increased the tempo, leaving the rest in his wake. Bett tried to give chase in the final two laps but it was too little too late as Rono held on for victory. “I am happy with my victory and I look forward to having even a better showing at the Africa Championships. I really needed to make the team and to do it with a first place finish ahead of all these talented runners is really motivating. The job is only half done though. I’m praying for strength and health to enable me do well in Nigeria,” an ecstatic Rono said. Wanjiru, of Kenya Defense Forces powered her way to the women’s 20km walk glory in a 1:33:45 performance. 2015 World 400m hurdles gold medalist Nicholas Bett’s poor showing this season continued as he posted a slow 51.81 in the semifinal but nonetheless eased into the final. Bett led Geoffrey Mutai and Kipkoech Rono in the second semifinal to book a place in today’s final.