Ongata Rongai residents have called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to personally intervene and end the traffic menace in the area. The situation is blamed on an overstretched infrastructure. The area is served by a narrow road which gets congested owing to the high traffic through the route. Fred Gori, the chairman of the Kiserian and Ongata Rongai Residents Association, asked the president to fulfill his campaign pledge of fixing roads in the area. This followed after protests that were held over the deaths of seven people at the Fatima South Bridge after heavy rains on May 4. The bridge, which is in Kajiado county, reportedly does not meet the standard engineering requirements. "Mr President, we cannot endure another five years of misery. We not only pay taxes like all other Kenyans, but we also contribute to the economy in more fundamental ways as a fast-growing business district next to the capital city," Gori said. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy William Ruto had promised the residents that the government would prioritise on improving Magadi Road key links. This was to deal with the traffic menace and open up the region for business. The residents, in a statement on Monday, asked the county government of Kajiado and various road agencies to ensure that the roads are constructed to bitumen standards. They further called for the upgrade of all bridges along Magadi Road to prevent loss of lives during the rainy season. On May 8, Rongai residents staged a peaceful demonstration after 10 people died following flash floods at the killer bridges. Transport CS James Macharia, with officials from the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) inspected the damage caused by the rains. During the tour, he said the bridge will not be constructed to the required standards immediately following a plan to upgrade Magadi Road to a dual carriageway. But the residents asked the CS to "come up with a concrete, time-bound plan to progressively improve the infrastructure in the area and not wait for the next disaster". "The narrow, potholed Magadi Road can no longer sustain the huge number of cars. Motorists have to dodge goats, donkeys, handcarts, boda boda cyclists, crazy matatu drivers and traders of Kware market, who have literally spilled over to the road." "When it rains, we have to wait for the water which submerges the bridges to clear before people can reach their homes," Gori added. Click here for the latest political news