The player in the thick of the surprise revival of once beleaguered Kenyan Premier League outfit Nakumatt, Boniface Mukhekhe has been rewarded with the Sportpesa Player of the month of May award. The 19 year-old right-winger became the first player from the club to win the coveted monthly award since their promotion last season. During the cash crunch affecting football clubs in the country, Mukhekhe pocketed Sh100,000 and a 49-inch LG television set while the rest of Nakumatt playing unit will share a further Sh50,000. Mukhekhe was partially as an offensive winger and a full back too but still scored three goals and provided a similar number of assists to help Nakumatt register three victories and a draw, the best performance of the month. Nakumatt collected maximum points over Zoo, Tusker and Posta Rangers then forced a two-all draw with AFC Leopards. The 19 year-old got on the score sheet against Zoo and twice against Rangers while chipping in with assists in the remainder of their fixtures. He was among three players shortlisted for the vote with his teammate Cornelius Juma and Sofapaka hot shot Kepha Aswani the others. Mukhekhe then garnered 21 votes to Aswani’s 17 while Juma was a distant third at 11. The former GFE 105 player who is featuring in the top-flight division for the first time is upbeat about his future prospects. “It is humbling, almost shocking to win this award. I had only seen people win it. I never envisaged it coming my way. All I did was give my best but not once did I think I would win it. I now believe all things are possible with hard work,” said Mukhekhe. “We have managed to turn around our performances because a sponsor has given us some help and conditions are better than when we started the season. It was terrible then but we want to get even better as a team.” Following their fine run since May, Nakumatt have extricated themselves from relegation embers to the comfort of mid table and now sit 12th on the log. The team has set a top five target by the season’s end and the first individual award to a Nakumatt player has only strengthened their belief. “We have come a long way and we still have work to do with eyes fixed on 5th position when the season come to a close. There is great talent in the team and we also want to beat some of the fabled teams in the league just to boost our confidence and entrench that mentality of winning into our players.”