The government should not be intimidated and should ensure all elected leaders and civil servants are subjected to a lifestyle audit that was ordered by President Uhuru Kenyatta, an MP has said. A legislator from Kiambu asked the government to be careful with the politicians fighting the exercise alleging that it was targeting Deputy President William Ruto. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi alleged that the legislators could be looking for an excuse to avoid being subjected to the important exercise. "If the DP made it clear that he was ready to be subjected to the audit and that he wasn't fearing, why are so people and especially elected leaders alleging that it was targeting him" the MP wondered. Mwathi said the group of legislators was destroying Ruto's name and reputation, that he has hired them to protect him, since they were not getting followers. "People who don't know Kenyas politics might analyse it as those opposed to it had been paid to protect the DP. It is so bad and very unfortunate, not unless they come out clearly telling us that they don't want to be subjected to the lifestyle audit and why" the legislator said. Mwathi was speaking at Kwambira market yesterday, where he applauded President Uhuru's style of war against corruption. Mwathi noted that it was only President Uhuru's government that cabinet secretaries (ministers), principal secretaries and senior government officials have ever been charged in the graft wars. "We have had cases of major grafts, but very steps were taken. Uhuru's government had taken to court ministers, PS's, directors and other senior government officials so that they can be a lesson to others" he said. Mwathi noted that Uhuru publicly warning that he cannot protect his brother Muhoho Kenyatta if found guilty was an indicator that he was ready to fight corruption to the deep end. On Wednesday, President Uhuru said he will not protect anyone involved in corrupt deals, including his brother Muhoho, if he is involved. He warned Kenyans against politicising the efforts to rid the country of corruption and economic crimes. “I have full confidence in the agencies that we have to do the right job. People were there bashing my brother yesterday. I have said, if he is guilty and I say, let them charge him,” Uhuru said. He spoke at UN headquarters in Gigiri. 