Armed thugs have killed at least five security guards in Kisii in three months. Residents live in fear and say the situation has not improved, despite assurances from police chiefs. After killing guards, thugs then loot shops and vandalise vehicles, residents say. Recently, attackers in a car shot dead two night guards in Nyabigege in South Kisii subcounty, then vandalising two lorries. On May 24, thugs killed guards Mokora Okoi and Rosana Asugo, both age 60. Residents were appalled that elderly men would be targetted. Kisii county acting police boss Maurice Assilar said guards who raise alarm are killed. After the May 24 killings, residents mobilised boda boda operators and chased the killers who abandoned their vehicle and escaped on foot. Assilar said the residents burned the killers’ Probox car, thus destroying crucial evidence. Early this year, two other night guards were murdered in Gesonso in South Kisii subcounty. Car parts were stolen. UNDER COVER Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has since said officers from the Special Crimes Prevention Unit will be sent to Kisii to investigate the shootings of the night guards. He warned culprits will be found and murderers would not go scot-free. Speaking on a vernacular FM radio station last week, Matiang’i said the team will arrive unnoticed to embark on investigations. “We want justice for the affected families. That is why I have instructed county commissioner Geoffrey Kigochi to expedite investigations,” the CS said. He also warned chiefs and their assistants they risk sacking if they fail to fight illicit liquor. Matiang’i directed Kigochi and his Nyamira counterpart Isaiah Nakoru not to spare administrators who abet the illicit business. On Monday this week, Tabaka MCA Apepo Ombasa led residents in a day-long demonstration against crime. He called on the government to intervene, saying residents were living in fear for their lives, not knowing when killers will strike again. “It is so saddening that old men who were discharging their duties can be shot by thugs. The government must assure residents of security,” Ombasa said as the residents barricaded Kisii-Migori Road. In a separate incident in March, a group of people in Suneka abducted Pastor Esther Oyugi from her Boikire home over a land dispute. The family and police searched for Oyugi for almost a month and found her body in a sugar plantation in Awendo, Migori county. The pastor’s brother Robert Nyamwange said the abductors were demanding his sister to sell them land but when she refused, they threatened to kill her. County commissioner Kigochi said many deaths in the region are linked to land disputes. “I am urging residents to use peaceful ways of solving disputes,” Kigochi said. Ten people have since been charged at the Kisii court with abduction and murder of Oyugi. Kigochi said police now make regular patrols.     