Kenya Medical Research Institute is set to establish a research center in Northern Kenya to address the health challenges in the region. The facility will be in Marsabit County and will sit on 100 acres of land provided by the Marsabit county government. The research center bids to ensure residents can access healthcare services from local facilities that has lagged behind for years. Speaking in Loiyangalani yesterday, Marsabit Governor Mahamud Ali said the research facility will give access to treatment for neglected health conditions. Mahamud further noted that the facility would increase the surveillance and reporting of the health situation. The facility will give prominence to infant mortality issues, nutrition, malaria, diarrhoea, respiratory tract infection, measles and tuberculosis, among others the governor said. "By making resources readily available within reachable distances in the remote villages, we will be in a position to boost the health in the northern region," Mahamud said. Also Read:Mandera and Kemri to build center for disease control Maternal mortality rate ratio in Marsabit stands at 1127 per 100000 live births, the fourth highest in the world after Mandera, Wajir and Turkana all counties in the northern part of Kenya whom majorly practice pastrolism. Mahamud further pointed out that the county will invest in construction of a modern laboratory that will help in diagonizing complications previously mistreated for other illnesses. Pastoralists face dwindling resources, uncertainties and poor health—related to malnutrition, the pastoralist life style, the AIDS/HIV pandemic and economic difficulties. According to a 2017 report by the UN, proximity to animals they suffer from diseases such as anthrax and brucellosis. The report further reveals that the consequence of their keeping livestock is that their diet is limited with milk and meat as a main ingredient. The nutritional value of this diet is mainly protein, causing problems of malnutrition. See:Kemri Sh68m procurement questioned Click here for the latest political news  