This excerpt is from – Betrayal in the City – a play authored by Francis Imbuga. He uses it to illustrate how poor governance can wreck a country. In this scene, a father is
standing over his son’s grave. He is displeased that corruption is so ingrained
in his nation called Kafira, where even the dead are bribed as an appeasement
policy. Kafira is depicted as a post-Independence African country plagued by
the ills that are enabled by poor governance such as corruption, nepotism, and
violation of human rights. A prison warden who says, “you need a tall relative
to get anything in Kafira”, best captures the dire situation in this fictitious
nation. This week, we have
witnessed several ‘tall relatives’ in the National Youth Service, the National
Cereals and Produce Board and in the Kenya Forest Service. The questions many have
rhetorically grappled with are whether we have enough laws and regulations to
curb corruption or chastise its perpetrators; or whether the constitutional institutions
with the mandate to do this have the teeth to bite; or whether there is
political will to annihilate graft. These are good questions
given all the deterrent provisions in place. It seems no matter what we try, corruption
simply refuses to die. In fact, the more we try to obliterate it, the bigger
and more brazen it grows. So is the cure more
laws? More constitutional bodies? More taskforces? Or more parliamentary
committee appearances and questioning? Albert Einstein told us
insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different
result. In past corruption scandals, ‘suspects’ have stepped aside;
investigations carried out; prosecutions undertaken; and finally acquittals
given for lack of sufficient evidence to convict beyond reasonable doubt. Are
we going to allow the same charade to serenade us this time round? If we do,
does this qualify us as insane? Or is it time we changed tact? I submit that to slay
this dragon, we should do the unthinkable. Legalise the illegal. We should, without
apologies, decriminalise corruption. In free market
economies, there is a concept called willingness-to-pay. This is the maximum
amount a consumer is willing to pay for a certain good or service. For instance,
if a football fan is willing to pay Sh1,000 for a ticket to watch a match from
the VIP dais, rather than Sh200 to watch from the bleachers, they have profited
by Sh800. In economic-speak, this is called consumer surplus. If a company
could charge each client the amount they are willing to pay, they would capture
the entire consumer surplus as profit. This is why companies
employ a strategy called price discrimination. This is a pricing strategy that
charges different prices for an identical product or service. The seller
categorises clients based on certain attributes and charges each category a
different price. Price discrimination allows the seller to generate the most
revenue possible on a product or service. A good example is the
aviation industry. Airlines allow travelers to self-select from a set package
of goods and services. Despite the fact that they will all fly on the same
aircraft to the same destination, some travellers will have extra legroom, some
a fully reclining seat, some will receive more pampering and attention, and
still some will not queue at all. For a comfortable flight experience, some passengers
are willing to pay more and to capture this consumer surplus, airlines offer
additional options to them. Other sectors that offer
price discrimination are express laundry services, where you pay more for same
day service, or happy hour where drinks are cheaper for a fixed period of time
or day of the week. Likewise, to legalise
corruption, the state should employ price discrimination by categorising
different suppliers that it transacts with. Those that wish to charge a higher
price for the cost of their supplies, should be lawfully allowed to do so in
exchange for premium goods and services. For example, they should supply silk
not cotton towels; flannel fleece not woollen blankets; or veal not beef. They
should also pay higher taxes, licensing and registration fees so that the state
can collect the most revenue possible from this category of suppliers. To
qualify, they should deposit with the state a sum equivalent to their bid,
which will be fully refunded upon confirmation of receipt of the said goods and
services. For ordinary citizens who
are in a hurry to be served, they should pay a premium price to receive an
express service. For example, if one applies for a passport for same day
issuance, they should pay directly to the state at least five times the
ordinary cost of acquiring one. They should also pay higher income tax returns
based on all the express services they received in that year. The Salaries and
Remuneration Commission should also price discriminate on salaries to allow state
officers to self-select from different ranges. This means officers who wish to
benefit from transactions with non-state entities, would opt for a lower salary,
zero benefits, higher tax bracket and fewer years of State service. As things currently
stand, the state has monopolised corruption. However, being a free market
economy, anyone should be free to transact as long as there is demand and
willingness-to-pay. Allowing free legal entry and exit into this corruption
sector will not only reduce corruption, but also earn the state extra revenue
from consumer surplus. Most importantly, it will give the citizen the
variability in value they receive over the price they are willing to pay for
goods and services. Finally, my unsolicited advice is, when all else fails, try the inconceivable.  Why
join the navy when you can be a pirate? – Steve Jobs