Zimbabwe's President Emmerson
Mnangagwa told foreign investors on Friday that his ruling
ZANU-PF party would still be in power after the July elections
and dismissed the political opposition as "barking puppies". The 75-year-old Mnangagwa was propelled into office in
November after a de facto military coup ended 94-year-old Robert
Mugabe's near four decades rule. Mnangagwa has set July 30 for presidential, parliamentary
and council elections, which he is counting on to bolster his
legitimacy as he pursues a promised break with Mugabe's
repressive policies while trying to woo investors. He told thousands of party supporters in Chegutu town, 100
km (60 miles) west of the capital Harare, that his government
was handling many investment requests from Europe, Asia and Arab
countries. "Yes, there are those who come to scout and make
arrangements and say 'we would like to come in immediately after
elections'. Then we say 'you can wait if you want, but those who
want to be early birds go ahead'," Mnangagwa said in a speech in
the local Shona broadcast on state television. "Things are not going to change. Nothing will be different,
ZANU-PF is in power and will continue in power." The military justified its action in November saying it
wanted to remove criminals around Mugabe and arrested some
cabinet ministers for corruption. Mnangagwa's main challenger in the July vote is 40-year-old
Nelson Chamisa, leader of the Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC), who says the president will not win a free vote. The MDC said it will hold a peaceful march next Tuesday to
demand reforms it says will ensure a credible vote. "Wherever we go in all provinces, there are multitudes of
people, so why should we fight with puppies. Let them bark and
continue to bark," Mnangagwa said. On Friday, Savior Kasukuwere, a former Mugabe loyalist who
opposed Mnangagwa's rise appeared in court charged with
illegally leaving the country after the November coup. He
returned to Zimbabwe last week after months in self-imposed
exile. Kasukuwere was set free after posting $300 bail. Read: Zimbabwe sets first post-Mugabe elections for July 30 Click here for the latest political news