Capital Markets Authority has renewed its pursuit against former directors of Uchumi Supermarkets after filing a notice of appeal in a case against former Uchumi finance director Chadwick Okumu. This is the third time this year for the regulator to announce a fresh hunt against the troubled retailer ex-directors following court rulings clearing them of any charges.  In the last two occasions, CMA issued fresh notices to show cause to three directors James Murigu, Bartholomew Ragalo and and Joyce Ogundo in February this year. In May they filed a notice of appeal seeking to overturn Justice George Odunga’s verdict issued in April that found ex-CEO Jonathan Ciano had been taken through a faulty disciplinary process.  Okumu served as Uchumi’s chief financial officer from January 2007 to June 2015 when he was sent packing pending investigations over questionable dealings. Part of the dealings found out by audit firm KPMG included acceptance of conflicted suppliers, substandard products and dubious trade agreements. At the time, Uchumi owed suppliers at least Sh1 billion. The Mativo ruling also quashed all orders issued by CMA against Okumu. It said that it was wrong for CMA to act as the investigator, prosecutor, judge and executioner. Last month,CMA also filled a notice of appeal to overturn Justice George Odunga’s verdict in April that found ex-Uchumi CEO Jonathan Ciano had been taken through a faulty disciplinary process.  CMA had filed fraud charges against Ciano and other three directors over a flawed Sh895 million rights issue of 2014, however the High court cleared them on grounds that the regulator used non-existent offences to charge them.  However,  in February, CMA began fresh hunting of the three directors, who are James Murigu, Bartholomew Ragalo and  Joyce Ogundo when it  issued fresh notices to show cause.  In its ruling, the court said that the regulator had not furnished the former Uchumi boss with the required information in time to enable him prepare for his defence.  Ciano had been slapped with a Sh5 million penalty for the loss as his actions were seen to have caused shareholders. CMA also sought to seize some Sh13.5 million proceeds of crime because he failed to declare a conflict of interest to the Uchumi board.  The Capital Markets Authority (CMA) had based its charges on a forensic audit report by KPMG, which found, among others, that Mr Ciano and his wife were among Uchumi’s largest vegetable suppliers.  The regulator has since expressed her dissatisfaction over the ruling saying that it is a threat to investor confidence and company shareholders.  In a statement to the Star, CMA said that it acted within the CMA Act that gives powers to investigate and take action.  “Section 11 ( 3 ) (h), Section 13A and B of Capital Market Act gives us powers to investigate while Section 11 ( 3 ) (cc ), and Section 25 A of the Act gives us powers to enforce,” a statement from the authority said.  