First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has received more support from the United States for the Beyond Zero campaign, which seeks to improve maternal and child healthcare. In an official visit at Cambridge, Renowned health researcher Mark Dybul pledged to support the initiative after the First lady drummed up support for the second phase of the Beyond Zero Strategic Framework 2018-22. The initiative is in aligned to the Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC), a key pillar of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda. The highlight of the First Lady’s engagements in the US – at the ministers Harvard University Leadership Forum, at the Lancet Global Health Commission on High Quality Health Systems and at the Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health – was the emphasis on access to quality healthcare as a crucial component of the UHC in the Sustainable Development Goals era. She underscored the importance of ensuring good health as key to harnessing the demographic dividend and maximising human capital investment, particularly for women and the youth. Margaret endorsed the demand for quality healthcare as a key component in promoting UHC. Dr Dybul is the Faculty Co-Director of the Center for Global Health and Quality, and Professor in the Department of Medicine at Georgetown University Medical Center. Trade, affordable housing and port management yesterday dominated bilateral talks between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Singapore Deputy Prime Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam The leaders, who met at State House, Mombasa, emphasised on deepening trade and focused on initiatives to promote partnership agreements for the prosperity of the two countries. Uhuru was briefed on the successes of the Singapore government in providing affordable housing, port management and aviation. Currently, 80 per cent of Singaporeans live in government built apartments. There are about one million Housing and Development Board (HDB) apartments, largely clustered in new towns that extend around the city’s coastal core. On port management and aviation, Singapore’s logistics sector has built a world-class infrastructure and processes. The Singapore Deputy Prime Minister has met with various leaders and stakeholders in government and private sector, among them Cabinet Secretaries Henry Rotich, (Treasury) Monica Juma, (Foreign Affairs) and James Macharia (Transport). Click here for more political news