Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua would splash up to Sh18 billion in his 2022 presidential bid, rivaling wealthy billionaires who have thrown their hats in the ring. Mutua on Sunday said he will unleash a strong financial war-chest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta after the next general election. “That’s the kind of money needed. It is worth it if you want to move this country to a new age. You have to do it. A time comes when you say you are doing it for the people,” he said on Citizen TV. The governor has moved to the Supreme Court, challenging a Court of Appeal decision to nullify his August 8 victory. He said he is aware a presidential run is an ‘expensive affair’ and would not cost less than Sh15 billion.  FOR THE PEOPLE “It opens the way and I have my own cash ... I can compete on the same level as others,” he said. “It is worth it because I’m not doing it for me, but for Kenya.” Mutua said he has what it takes to present a formidable challenge to his 2022 presidential opponents, including known wealthy politicians like Deputy President William Ruto and opposition chief Raila Odinga. “I’m not pushing myself ... it’s the people. It’s going to be a tight race. There are big boys like Ruto but I am confident. We need a paradigm shift,” Mutua said.  CAMPAIGN CAPS New campaign financing regulations formulated by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission last year caps presidential spending for a candidate at Sh5.2 billion. Parties are supposed to spend Sh15 billion. Parliament suspended the implementation of the regulations during last year’s general election to 2022, when the rules will be applied. However, candidates usually ignore spending ceilings by the electoral commission. The Maendeleo Chap Chap leader said he has assembled his campaign machine to lay ground for his bid. “Consultants from oversees are fashioning my campaign. I am very serious. Mutua puts his head in something and doesn’t waver,” he added. The party leader, however, said pumping a lot of money into presidential campaigns can be counterproductive. “You need money to reach a certain stage,” he said, adding that he has the money to beat Ruto — the country’s foremost presidential aspirant. Mutua said he will unleash his marketing and public relations skills to position his candidature to ensure it resonates with the wishes of the electorate.