Youth who have missed out on university enrollment over the years will from Wednesday have an opportunity to join technical training institutions under government sponsorship. The Kenya Universities and Colleges Placement Services (KUCCPS) will open a portal for online applications for diploma and certificate courses in national polytechnics, technical training institutions and vocational training centres. “The students who enroll into these institutions through KUCCPS will henceforth benefit from government fee subsidy and generous HELB loans,” KUCCPS said in a statement on Tuesday. Applicants were advised to visit the KUCCPS website for guidance on how to apply. The closing date for applications is June 27. This will be the first time in the country’s history for students in TVET institutions to be eligible for HELB loans and fee subsidies by the government. Traditionally, only students who achieve the minimum university entry points to public universities are entitled to the privileges. Last year, only 63,404 students out of the 615,773 KCSE candidates were placed in universities and colleges for degree and diploma courses. Another 5,747 students out of the 69,151 candidates who achieved the minimum university entry mark of C+ missed out on placements. This means that at least 552,369 students missed out on both university and college placements last year alone. KUCCPS encouraged youths to take advantage of the opportunity and apply to join training institutions so as to benefit from the programme. “Kenyan youth, rise and take up these opportunities. Enroll into our polytechnics, technical training institutions and vocational training centres and acquire technical skills and competencies for gainful employment and be self-reliant,” KUCCPS said. It said placement service officers had been deployed to TTIs across the country to guide and support the applicants. President Uhuru Kenyatta is focused on investing in TVET as an important pillar for the fulfillment of his Big Four Agenda on food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and affordable healthcare. This is because technical training offers practical skills needed to realise food security (through farming), housing (through construction) and manufacturing (through working in industries). These are high human resource intensive sectors that require a big number of skilled people if the Big Four is to be realised. More on this: How Kenya can fix its massive skills gap problem Other details: Youths to get TVET training in World Bank partnership Click here for the latest political news