Residents of Embu want travel funds and a building project for the governor’s house in the 2018-2019 budget slashed. Joseph Kivuti from Kiritiri town said the proposed Sh11.3 million allocated to the office of Governor Martin Wambora and allowances for foreign travel was too much. The governor’s official residence is estimated to cost Sh50 million Kivuti spoke on Thursday at Kiritiri Constituency Development Fund Hall in Embu during a public participation forum for the Sh7 billion budget. Other residents also supported him. They asked the committee on Budget and Appropriations to carefully evaluate the proposed expenditures to prevent extravagancy. Kivuti said an additional Sh7.1 million allocated for domestic travel should be channelled to development projects. He said using the cash on accommodation, air tickets, mileage allowances and daily subsistence for a few individuals is wrong. He said if the governor and his team needs to travel locally or abroad, there should be a clear explanation on how the county will benefit from the trips. The county government should only incur travel expenses for the governor if whatever investment he brings will be more than the public funds he spent, Kivuti said. However, Majority leader Michael Njeru told Kivuti the governor was like a head of state. He received invitations from other counties and overseas. The Kithimu MCA said the governor needs a travel budget because he attends workshops, seminars, symposiums and trainings. Residents who gave their views said the money for the governor’s house should instead be used to improve water supply and roads. In the previous budget, the county government missed its half-year revenue collection target of Sh450 million by Sh348 million. Chairman of the county assembly Budget and Appropriation Committee Robert Ireri on March 1 said, the county had only managed to collect Sh102 million by December 31 last year. Ireri said there is uncertainty on whether the county would hit the annual mark of Sh900 million revenue collection by the close of the 2017-2018 financial year on June 30. He described the revenue deficit as extremely serious and called for concerted efforts to ensure more revenue is collected to fund county projects. Ireri, who is also the Kagaari South MCA, spoke at the assembly after the County Fiscal Strategy Paper was tabled in the house by deputy majority leader Murithi Kiura. Temporary speaker Nathan Mwari said the county’s meagre revenue collection painted a bleak picture on development. During the budget-making process last year, Ireri said the county gave its revenue target to supplement the allocation from the national government. He, however, acknowledged the target was ambitious.