A man has allegedly stabbed her wife to death in Marakwet East. Richard Ruto, 36, sneaked into a house where Peris Jemaiyo was staying with their seven children and stabbed her three times in the chest before fleeing. The two quarreled a week ago, prompting Jemaiyo to return to her parents home in Kapkonder village. Ruto attacked her on Saturday night. Kipkaner chief Joseph Kiptanui said the couple had been quarreling for a long time. He said Jemaiyo, 26, vacated her matrimonial home in Kachepkosir village after she was fed up with the fights. Ruto is said to be a confrontational man. He is nicknamed al Shabaab due to his temperament. “We were shocked to learn that she killed his wife in front of his mother-in-law,” Kiptanui said. He continued: “Police have recorded statements from family members and witnesses. The body has been taken to Kapsowar Mission Hospital for autopsy.” Angry youths from Kapkonder stormed Ruto’s village and torched seven houses belonging to his relatives in retaliation. The revenge happened barely an hour after the gruesome murder. Marakwet East police boss Lemmy Njiru said they are pursuing both the killer and the youths who torched houses. Jemaiyo’s mother Tula Chelanga said she did not hear the suspect sneak into her house because she was asleep. Jemaiyo was still preparing a bed for her children when the killer struck. “We had just finished supper when I heard Jemaiyo scream. When I turned, the suspect was already running, leaving my daughter in a pool of blood. The killing happened in less than five seconds,” a tearful Chelanga said. Ruto vanished into the darkness as Chelanga screamed for help from neighbours. The children witnessed the cruel killing. “I’m asking well-wishers to help me seek justice for my daughter and her young children,” Chelanga said. Jemaiyo’s father Chelanga Kipkiror was in a separate room. He is old and disabled. “I heard the commotion but I could do nothing,” he said. Kipkorir’s leg was amputated decades ago after illness.