A total of Sh142.3 billion has been allocated towards national security in the estimates for the 2018/2019 financial year. National Treasury CS Henry Rotich said national security remains critical to economic stability and attracting investments. He said a stable environment will in turn usher in accelerated economic growth and create employment, especially for the youth. Rotich said out of the Sh142.3 billion, Sh9.2bn will be for the lease of police motor vehicles, Sh9.0 billion for enhanced security operations, and Sh29.8 billion for police and military modernisation. He said Sh3.0 billion will be for border security, Sh4.8 billion for police and prison officers medical insurance scheme, and Sh1.7 billion for Group Life Insurance for police. In regards to the war on graft, Rotich said the government is keen on strengthening investigations with a view to sealing all loopholes used by fraudsters to embezzle funds through IFMIS. "To strengthen various institutions mandated to fight corruption with the country, I have allocated Sh2.9billion to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Sh2.9 billion to the Directorate of Public Prosecution, Sh161 million to Asset Recovery Agency." Further to this, Sh587 million has been allocated to the financial reporting centre, Sh4.8 billion to Directorate of Criminal Investigations, and Sh5.1 billion to the office of the Attorney General. Rotich said the government has seized of the fact that a key enabler for achieving the Big Four is the eradication of corruption. He said that without a serious war on graft, the country will not achieve its aspiration of becoming a middle-level country with a high quality of life. "We have, therefore, allocated Sh36 billion to Parliament and Sh15.2 billion to the judiciary to enable them to carry out their oversight role as well as help in recovering corruptly acquired assets," he said. Rotich further said measures have been taken to revamp the procurement process so as to minimise expenditure. He reiterated President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive for all accounting officers to publish details of all the tenders they award to various contractors. Names and designation of tender committee members, names of directors of companies awarded the said tenders, the contract sum and period of the contract will be published in line with the new directive. Click here for the latest political news