The Nyanza region secondary schools boys’ under-19 final between Kisumu Day and Ringa Boys will be played today at St Mary’s School, Yala. The game failed to take off at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho two weeks ago due to security concerns. The game was moved to Kisii School but Ringa fans surrounded the school bus and prevented them from traveling from Cardinal Otunga. Yesterday, Nyanza Region Secondary Schools Sports Association secretary Tom Odhiambo said they opted to host the game in Yala which is a neutral venue. Fans from both teams will not be allowed into the venue. Ringa Boys coach Martin Okwany said they will play under protest accusing the regional sports office of manipulating the game in favour of Kisumu Day. “We are ready and prepared to play but the playground is not level. The venue is near Kisumu and we are not happy with that. Our fans didn’t interfere with the game in Kisii and we should not be punished. We played against a school from Kisii and there was no trouble,” Okwany said. He added that claims by losing semi finalists, Nyarach that Kisumu Day fielded ineligible players and should be investigated. Kisumu Day beat Nyarach 4-1 in the semis while Ringa Boys defeated Kisii County’s Gesero 1-0. However, Kisumu Day coach Dan Otieno who trained as a coach in Netherlands and Brazil defended his team from the allegations of fielding ineligible players. A case filed by Nyarach against Kisumu Day was dismissed by the jury. “I’m aware of consequences of fielding non-students. At the moment, I’m in school preparing form fours and if I fielded ineligible players, I would not be here,” he said. He dismissed the claims as gimmicks aimed at distracting his players ahead of the final. “The team I have graduated from under 16 last year. If they feel players are not students, there are procedures to follow through KSSSA and Ministry of Education,” Otieno noted. He added: “I have asked my boys to play a good entertaining game. It’s sad that fans may not be allowed into the venue to enjoy our game. We are not under any pressure.”