An independent consulting firm will be engaged to work with the PSC to vet public service officers targeted in the war on corruption. The Star has established that the government would head-hunt a reputable company that will conduct polygraph tests on procurement and accounting officers of state agencies, departments and parastatals. The Public Service Commission (PSC), the statutory body that employees state officers, is expected to play a logistical role as the consultant handles the technical aspect. The firm will draw a schedule on interviews starting with the already affected officers heading procurement and accounting units of government to ensure that is completed by June 30. The officers targeted in the first batch are estimated to be 1,000. Acting government spokesman Mwenda Njoka, holding brief yesterday for Eric Kiraithe who is out of the country, refused to confirm the details. The government will give an update at the appropriate time, which is not today. Kindly hold your horses for now,” Njoka responded to a text message inquiry by the Star. But a source at the Presidency said the government is keen on using a consultant. “PSC has been asked to identify a firm with the capacity to use lie detectors,” said the source in confidence. Already PSC has put up a team of officers to receive documents from affected officers at Harambee House’s Office of the President. On Monday, the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua sent out a memo asking the officers to step aside for a month to pave way for the vetting that intends to net corrupt individuals. They were to, by Friday this week, submit KRA PIN, ID card numbers, passport numbers, email addresses, mobile phone numbers,  as well certified copies of mobile money statements, including that of their spouse, for the last six months. They were also required to provide driving licence numbers. Read: Court suspends notice on fresh vetting of procurement heads Also read: DPP studying fresh ‘high voltage’ cases Click here for the latest political news