The Senate ICT committee has backed the move to suspend sections of the Cybercrime Act, saying itsinput was never sought. A week ago, High Court Judge Chacha Mwita suspended 25 sections of the controversial law after complaints that it infringed on freedom of expression. Read: Suspend 'oppressive' Cybercrime law, petitioner asks court More on this: Court halts enforcement of Cybercrimes law Committee chairman Gideon Moi told the press in Naivasha on Friday that the Act originally came from the Senate but was "hijacked" by MPs. "The Act generated from the Senate. The National Assembly did not bring it back to us for our input and ended up publishing it, hence the current crisis." The Senator announced plans to introduce a Data Protection Bill in the Senate for protection of personal information. "Under this Bill, personal information will not be released to any quarter or institution without consent," he said. The Baringo Senator said that the two-day workshop was a meeting of non-state actors to help the committee understand challenges in the sector. "We want to forge a common front so that the country can have a robust and modern media and ICT sector in the coming years," he said. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua noted that there is no law that regulates the use of personal information on social media. "We are committed to making sure that the data protection bill sails through all personal content is regulated," he said. On the Cybercrime Act, Wambua said that any law that affects counties should pass through the Senate before it is published. This was not the case with this law, he said, adding: "It is time that the Senate was involved in regulation of the media across the country in line with the Constitution." Media Council of Kenya CEO David Owoyo said plans were underway for the creation of a fund to support community radio stations, which he termed very crucial. He said many of the stations have community interests at heart but cannot sustain their operations due to lack of enough revenue. "The number of radio stations has risen from 30 to 175 in the last 10 years and majority are targeting communitiesbut cannot operate due to lack of resources." Click here for the latest political news