Recently, certain renowned
international NGOs have received negative
publicity as a result of some of their employees engaging in sexual abuse, exploitation
and harassment against fellow workmates or beneficiaries. Following the advent of the #MeToo campaign against
sexual abuse, many victims have since come forward to share their experiences
and enhance dialogue about the issue. Any form of sexual
abuse is prohibited by the law as per the Kenya Sexual Offences Act (2006) as
well as the Employment Act (2007). Even though most institutions are struggling
to find solutions to the problem, the stakes are much higher for NGOs as most
Kenyans hold them in high regard. To avert sexual offences,
NGOs need to develop internal policies with tough penalties for abusers. Such an approach is paramount as
most offenders usually choose to abuse others (especially their juniors) not
because they are unaware that what they are doing is wrong, but because they
know they can get away with the crime. When employees see such
policies being enforced continuously, they gain courage to alert the
organisation when incidents occur or when they spot workmates behaving
inappropriately. This will go a long way in
breaking the spiral of silence among victims of sexual harassment or assault,
who usually choose to remain quiet for fear of being victimised by their seniors
or being branded as liars by colleagues. Indeed, a study conducted by
Report the Abuse (an NGO that works to break down silence on sexual violence
amongst aid workers) revealed that about 87 per cent of NGO workers knew a
colleague who had experienced sexual violence in the course of their
humanitarian work. However, amongst those that
reported the abuse to their employers, just 17 per cent were happy about how it
was handled. Prevention also entails training
staff on what sexual abuse entails, so they can become conscious when such
behaviours occur. In addition, employees need to
be aware of correct channels to follow while making such complaints.
Whistle-blowers seeking to remain anonymous also need to be protected from
potential threats. Here, technological innovations
can come in handy as apps exists that can enable people to report critical
incidents whilst remaining anonymous. It is equally important for NGOs to be
proactive in their goal to fight sexual abuse by ensuring they engage regularly
with staff to get feedback on the effectiveness of policies put in place to
fight the crime. This enhances the success of such interventions and provides
continuous avenues for improvement. Organisations also need to work on a solid
recruitment process - with checks and balances - to ensure that they do not
open their doors to abusers in the first place. There have been concerns that
upon resigning or being fired from their respective organisations, most
perpetrators of sexual abuse usually join other NGOs where they repeat the same
behaviours among unsuspecting employees. Such unfortunate
incidences continue to thrive as most NGOs usually consider it 'none of their
business' to interfere with the lives or career progress of former employees. As much as privacy of ex-employees’
data is important, the entire sector needs to work together and come to a
consensus on types of information that should be shared among all players for
the benefit of the entire NGO sector. Preventive measures are never infallible.
So despite existing policies, sexual abuse may still happen. Organisations need a framework that provides a clear
understanding of practises and processes to be followed while supporting
affected employees to minimise the impact of the ordeal. For instance, victims of sexual violence
such as rape require post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) drugs fast to prevent HIV
infection, emergency contraceptives to ward off unwanted pregnancies as well as
on-ground evacuation services for urgent medical attention. Any evidence of the
rape should also be collected and preserved as it will come in handy if and when
victims press charges. Thereafter, psychological
support will be required - probably for a long period- to enable the victims to
come to terms with the traumatic experience. But this should not be a one-way
process where ideas are imposed on the survivors. Therapists should instead aim
at empowering those affected to make good decisions on how to effectively cope
with the ordeal. Aside from physical health
complications such as injuries and sexually transmitted infections like HIV,
victims of sexual abuse can experience a wide range of psychological and
emotional disorders including shock, anxiety and depression that impedes on
their productivity and life quality.  Global NGO director, Cigna Foundation 