Did President Uhuru Kenyatta really blast his Deputy William Ruto in his jibe over the latter’s frenetic weekend tours? In his uncharacteristic element on Wednesday while touring Eastlands, Uhuru appeared to derail from what forms formal reference to a leader of the stature of the DP when he ridiculed his numerous weekend tours. But several WhatsApp groups including those administered by MPs were abuzz with insinuations of sorts. While in one of them most of the lawmakers argued that the President’s slur was a soft crack not meant to humiliate the DP, others held the view that the President went overboard by referring the Ruto’s tours as ‘kutangatanga’. Was the President saying his deputy is not working or he was just joking? Only time will tell. ***** The recent crackdown on corruption by the multi-agency team mandated by President Uhuru Kenyatta has precipitated panic and anxiety among executive directors working at various state corporations. Pressure has mounted in the Ministry of Agriculture where CS Mwangi Kiunjuri is spreading his net wide to nab officials connected to graft in various agencies. Kiunjuri has already confirmed that 59 senior officers at the National Cereals and Produce Board are under preliminary investigations. He has sworn that he will crack the whip on all rogue officials working under his ministry. Corridors has since learned that Uhuru’s wrath against graft has not been received open-heartedly by some beneficiaries of the vice. ***** Still on the war against graft, questions have been raised why different committees of the National Assembly are probing the scandal pitting the National Cereals and Produce Board. Public Accounts Committee started the probe by inviting PS Richard Lesiyampe but the Agriculture Committee went a notch higher by inviting both Lesiyampe and CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. The Public Investments Committee has also invited top NCPB top officials to shed light on the alleged Sh1.9 billion scandal. Let’s wait on the outcome of the parallel probes. ***** The commemoration of the 16th annual National Prayer Day graced by political titans from Jubilee and Nasa yesterday was not received warmly by a section of Kenyans. Majority of city residents took to the social media after they were curtailed from accessing the prayer venue – Safari Park Hotel. Well, majority of them who were blocked at the gate lamented why they were sidelined whereas only invited individuals were allowed access. “These prayers should have been held at Uhuru Park where we can all access the venue. It seems they are meant for the high and mighty only,” posted one of the aggrieved residents. Should the prayers have been held at a public venue?