Claiming Central Kenya leaders and MPs made a pact to
support Ruto in 2022, more than 10 Kikuyu MPs are fighting Uhuru over their
loyalty to the DP. They say they owe Ruto a debt for his support in 2013 and
2017 elections, which they say must be paid. Basically, the debt between Ruto and these MPs was made
during Jubilee nominations, when Ruto made every effort to root out those in
Central and the Rift Valley, who were not his supporters. Consequently, all
those who won in the nominations and the election, thanks to Ruto, feel
indebted to him. Important to note, neither the Kikuyu community nor other
people made the same pact with him. In a democratic society, voters cannot be
blackmailed into voting for someone through threats of attack if they don’t. On account of this pact, many Kikuyu MPs have
abandoned Uhuru and gone to Ruto. They are now busy campaigning for him,
despite the President urging people to contrite on development. But if we must talk about communities and political debts, the
Kikuyus owe Ruto no debt. He got the Kalenjin people to support Uhuru for President,
and Uhuru made the Kikuyu to support him for the deputy presidency, ending any indebtedness
to one another. In any case, communities cannot be made to carry debts for
individuals. And if communities must do so, it is the Luo whom the Kikuyu can
be said to owe. Jaramogi Oginga Odinga refused the colonial offer to form a
government when Kenyatta was still in detention. Raila Odinga later supported
Mwai Kibaki for President. So, if the Kikuyu are indebted to the Luos and other
Kenyans for their support of Kenyatta and Kibaki, they are also owed for their
sacrifice to bring about Independence and other liberties, which others also
fought for. If Central MPs are fighting the President for Ruto and their
loyalty to him is suffering due to their premature campaigns and their
opposition to the fight against corruption, which they claim targets the DP,
while the others are fighting Uhuru’s accommodation of Raila for national
unity, whom will the people support? Already, the Kikuyu Council of Elders has made a statement
that the community may not support Ruto because they believe he should quit
politics together with Uhuru, with whom they were elected with. They say when
Uhuru’s term ends, it should also end for Ruto. But Ruto and his supporters
believe Uhuru’s presidency should last 10 years, as the DP serves for 20 years
— as deputy and as the President. History is repeating itself. When the British government
asked Kenyan leaders if they could form an African government without Kenyatta
and his colleagues, who were still in detention, many of them, including Tom
Mboya, Julius Kiano, Eliud Mathu and other Kikuyu leaders accepted the offer,
claiming Kenya had new leaders and no longer needed Mzee. However, Odinga almost single-handedly rejected this
betrayal by Kikuyu leaders, and instead demanded for the release of Kenyatta
and his colleagues as a condition for independence. Though dangerous, Odinga made this demand twice — once in
London and the second in Legco, which was Parliament then. When he made this demand,
he was condemned, not just by the White but  also African leaders accusing him of insanity. When Odinga was thrown out of Legco, he called a public
rally in Kisumu asking people whether they supported Kenyatta’s release or not.
In unison, the entire meeting called for the release of Kenyatta. Thereafter, he
called another meeting in Nyeri, which also supported Kenyatta’s release and
leadership. When African and Kikuyu leaders saw this, they turned round
to supported Kenyatta. When I look at today’s conflict between Uhuru and Raila on
the one hand and Ruto and Central MPs on the other, I feel a sense of
historical dejavu. When Uhuru and Raila take their case for national unity and
elimination of graft to the people and get their support, Central Kenya MPs and
many other leaders will turn round, abandon Ruto and support them.   