The Coast Regional Peace and Security Architecture that seeks to end Violent Extremism has started its work. The document is being worked on by Civil Societies Organizations, security apparatus and scholars from the region. This follows a series of severe terror attacks and recruitment of gullible youth to militant groups that led to the collapse of the economy. The Architecture will incorporate Action Plans for CVE developed by Mombasa, Kilifi, Lamu, Kwale, Tana River and Lamu. Taita Taveta is the only county at the Coast without the Action Plan. Read: Counter-violent extremism programme hitting a snag Besides historical injustices, these Plans state triggers of violent behaviours by locals and how it can be tackled. The team to work on the Architecture is holding a forum at Temple Point Resort in Kilifi organised by Muslims for Human Rights and Search for Common Ground. "We are not going out of policy issues contained in the national document on CVE," MUHURI executive director Hassan Abdille said, noting the Architecture will have "human face". A researcher and Professor of Sociology at Pwani University, Halim Shauri, said the Architecture will incorporate the plight of widows. "About 58 per cent of women whose spouses have died from violent extremism have minors. This category is critical for the future programming and must be safeguarded against VE," he said. Shauri said radicalization tactics are getting sophisticated and everyone is susceptible. "It is no longer happening at the Madrassas," he said, noting it is through the internet and 'Maskanis' - idling joints. The economy of the Coast collapsed by 48 per cent when terrorist started attacking 10 years ago, Shauri said. "Recruitment is going on at a lower magnitude unlike before. People are still crossing to Somalia but not in large numbers," the professor said. The researcher, however, said danger still luck as push factors have not been addressed. Search's program manager Judy Kimamo said access to land and natural resources have been fuelling extremist ideologies. Most locals claim they are yet to get title deeds to their ancestral lands. Jubilee Government has been issuing this document. Abdille urged police not to take away life in the pretext of combating criminal behaviour. Search Tanzania director Maxwel Saungweme said the Architecture must also focus on the aged. "Only one per cent of youth are involved in VE. We tend to focus more on men than women," he said. He said the proposed document should include disengagement, amplifying of constructive voices and prevention. Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said the police are getting professionals and are committed to restoring peace in the region. Kanyiri called for cooperation between actors. "If we pull together, we will develop the document and succeed," he said. On Tuesday, it emerged that county assemblies are yet to formalize the Action Plans to strengthen the war against the scourge. This means no budget has been set aside. To be approved, assemblies must pass a bill and set operationalization structures. Mombasa is the only county with the director of CVE. Also read: Poverty, bias fuel extremist views and violence in Lamu Click here for the latest political news 