Did serious work at the Ministry of Education end with the exit of now Interior CS Fred Matiang’i? Though she was praised for her work as Foreign Affairs CS, many are saying Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed (pictured) is taking too long to learn the ropes at the helm of the ministry. Education stakeholders have been abuzz with concerns on social media that the CS’s apparently laid-back approach could allow cartels, which had been crushed during Matiang’i’s era, to bounce back with gusto. Is the CS waiting for an ‘appropriate’ time to strike? ***** Just who is this popular MP in the 12th Parliament who is behind the importation of contraband sugar? While a section of MPs who convened a press conference on Thursday failed to name the lawmaker, the indications were crystal clear that they know the suspect. But why they fear revealing the identity of the MP is what has puzzled many Kenyans. This raises questions about powerful and individuals within the the corridors of power. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has indicated that those behind contraband goods trade are rich and powerful, even capable of killing! ***** A governor from Western Kenya is under siege after a former MP in the battle to succeed him in 2022 asked for a lifestyle audit of the county chief. The former lawmaker, who has been scheming to inherit the seat in the next election, has claimed the governor recently bought a chopper. How the governor managed to acquire the chopper despite his modest earnings as the county chief has perplexed most politicians from the region. The governor is also said to have bought a high-end hotel in Kisumu as he amasses a strong financial war-chest ahead of the 2022 General Election. The former MP hopes the President’s order for a lifestyle audit will net the governor. ***** An MP from Central, critical of Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid, has panicked. The lawmaker who fears Ruto could sponsor a strong opponent to defeat him in 2022, has been crying foul of late. He believes the DP, through his political machine, has started laying groundwork for the lawmaker’s successor, four-and-half years to the election day. His recent onslaught against some MPs from the region allied to the DP, is seen as part of the panic that has gripped him over fears he could lose his seat. Why can’t he concentrate on delivering on his pledges to the electorate first, instead of directing barbs at opponents? Isn’t it self-defeating? Well, it is only a matter of time.