Kenyan cricket selectors has once again gone for experience as they named seasoned players in the national team to the annual Kwibuka Cricket for Peace tournament in Rwanda. Veterans Margaret Banja, Sarah Bhakita, Quinta Aoko, Mary Wambui, Sylvia Kinyua, Daisy Wairimu and Vanessa Adhiambo have once again been drafted in the squad that consists of 11 players who took part in last year’s World Cup Qualifiers in Namibia. Other experienced players in the side, which leave tomorrow for Kigali, are Faith Mwende, Esther Wangare and Barbra Ambiyo. However, Kenya’s rivals, Uganda the defending champions have once again opted to field a school select side for the event that starts on Thursday. The selection of school select has worked positively for Uganda as a number of players who have played in the at the event, including last year’s were part of the team that qualified for this year’s ICC Women World Cup Qualifiers after beating favourites Zimbabwe. Banja and Bhakita are the most experienced ladies cricketers in the country having been members of the team since 2001. Wairimu makes a return to the team after a year’s absence after being involved in a road accident. Pennina Kithome, a former member of the U19 team has won her first call-up into the team. Mercy Aono who had a brief stint in the team in Kenya’s maiden appearance in the Rwanda event, makes a return into the team too. Kawangware Primary School pupil, Alice Muoki, has also been retained despite being under-utilized in her past two selections. This will be Kenya’s first assignment since last September’s World Cup qualifiers. The team will be coached by Lameck Onyango and managed by Fatuma Dafala, who replaced Lydia Kaparo. The event organized in memory of the victims of the 1994 Genocide also includes the hosts and debutants Zambia. After playing Uganda in their first match, Kenya will take on Zambia on the following day before winding up the preliminary round matches against the hosts.  Squad: Margaret Banja (Captain), Daisy Wairimu, Mary Wambui, Quentor Aoko, Penina Kithome, Vanessa Adhiambo, Sylvia Kinyua, Ruth Mwihaki, Esther Wangari, Alice Muoki, Vanessa Adhiambo, Flavia Atieno, Veronica Abuga, Mercy Aono Coach: Lameck Onyango; Manager: Fatuma Dafala.