KFC is embroiled in a vicious fight with a contractor that it hired to build five of its branches in Nairobi, Nakuru and Nanyuki. Gemineye Construction argues that KFC underpaid it by Sh34 million for works it did on the fast food franchise's Thika Road, Nakuru and Nanyuki branches before the two firms fell out. The two firms have engaged an arbitrator—Nyagah Kithinji—to intervene. Gemineye says it did extra works not in the original plans, and that KFC kept releasing funds for supplies late which caused delays and plunged it into debt. But KFC wants a Sh18.1 million refund for supplies bought but not used, overpayments and loss of revenue from completion delays. It adds it was forced to hire another contractor to redo some works. Gemineye says the Nanyuki and Thika Road buildings were different from their architectural designs, and that they rebuilt some structures. The firm previously worked on KFC's Jubilee House and Westgate Mall branches in Nairobi. “After we had commenced work and invested labour and materials, the (Nanyuki) landlord protested about the design and layout of the entire drainage system, and as a result we had to demolish all completed works and start afresh using a revised layout which increased expenses greatly and delayed the works by approximately two weeks.” “(For Thika Road) We had to request an extension because the scope of work we had originally been contracted to do had increased. In addition it was found that the structure built by Vivo Energy's main contractor, Siki Construction differed greatly from the architects drawings and had numerous build quality issues. KFC says its review of Gemineye's invoices showed that some items billed for the project should have been settled by the contractor. KFC adds that Gemineye unfairly closed the Thika Road site following a dispute over the Nanyuki and Nakuru. “Kuku Foods Kenya received Gemineye's demands and sought to carry out a valuation of the same and discovered a lot of erroneous records and expenses that had no relation to the project. Gemineye without due regard or issuing any notice to KFK, closed Nakuru and Nanyuki sites on October 24, 2016 and caused the project to delay beyond the agreed date of completion.” “This closure was a material breach of the agreement rendering it impossible to carry out any more work and this led KFK to terminate the agreement,” KFC said.