The FlySax aircraft that crashed killing all 10 passengers on board and crew was diverted to the JKIA upon the request of the company. The National Assembly Transport and Public Works committee was yesterday told three passengers were to catch another flight at the airport. Professional negligence and poor communication between the crew and air traffic controllers in Eldoret had been cited as possible reasons for the plane crash in the Aberdares three weeks ago. The Transport team chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing questioned Kenya Civil Aviation Authority MD Gilbert Kibe. Read : KCAA to release FlySax crash report on Thursday The MPs asked why the pilot was not directed to change altitude after the plane was diverted from landing at Wilson to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. The plane was enroute to Nairobi from Kitale and was being flown by Captain Barbara Wangeci. Kibe told the committee FlySax requested the air traffic control tower in Eldoret to change the route. However, even with the pilot being cleared to fly at 13,000ft, she chose to retain the initial flight height at 11,000ft. “Why they could not fly above that is subject to ongoing investigation,” Kibe said. Elephant Hill, where the plane crashed, is said to be above 12,815ft. The members urged Kibe to explain why even after the crew chose to remain at 11,000ft, the KCAA could not provide professional and technical guidance. MPs Chris Wamalwa (Kimini), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East), Tom Odege (Nyatike) and Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa were present. Also read : All 10 bodies recovered from Aberdare plane crash site They asked why the plane was not diverted to the JKIA through other routes since such a plane is prohibited from flying beyond 14,000ft. Usually, an aircraft from Kitale airstrip would fly through Eldoret, Njoro and Kajiado route. Kibe said air conditions at the JKIA were unfavourable for the plane to follow the usual Ngong Hills route. The traffic controllers instructed Wangeci to fly over the Aberdare Forest. Transport ministry chief investigator Martyn Lunani said a report of the crash will be out tomorrow and will be made public. Click here for the latest political news