National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi yesterday rebuked the Judiciary for quashing a law conferring immunity on Parliamentary investigations. Muturi’s statement to the House last evening created fresh tension between Parliament and the Judiciary over the independence of each arm of government. The speaker said Parliament will not allow the Judiciary, led by Chief Justice David Maraga, to derail the functions of Parliament. “There is no harm in making further pronouncements, but we will look with disfavour on attempts to derail the functions of the Legislature. Within the context of separation of powers, is it right for a judge to say what you have been doing is hogwash?” Muturi asked. Must read : Blow to MPs as court allows their decisions to be challenged He was responding to a ruling on May 21 by Justice John Mativo who nullified a provision shielding Parliament’s business and decisions. He nullified the law granting MPs immunity from legal challenges to their decisions. The speaker said interference by the Judiciary in the functions of Parliamentary committees would paralyse House operations. The Executive and the Legislature have locked horns with the Judiciary over exercise of power, with each resisting attempts to limit them. “No proceedings or decision of Parliament or the Committee of Powers and Privileges acting in accordance with this Act shall be questioned in any court,” reads the annulled Section 11 of the Powers and Privileges Act of 2017. Mativo ruled, “In our constitutional dispensation, it is not Parliament or the Executive or the Judiciary that are supreme, but the Constitution.” Muturi said, “When you put an injunction on a committee of the House, you are essentially telling the House not to work. It is like telling the House to pack and go until you tell us when to sit.” “It is time we started looking atwhether the Supreme Court should solely be allowed to deal with Constitutional matters and advise the government,” Muturi said. See this : Judiciary respects Parliament, obey courts as well, Mwilu tells MPs Click here for the latest political news