DP William Ruto’s allies in Rift Valley on Sunday hosted former Gatanda MP Peter Kenneth in Eldoret where they hinted at a possible political deal between the two ahead of the 2022 elections. More than 20 MPs and Senators from Central and Rift Valley urged Kenneth to unite with Ruto as he is a "suitable running mate". They, however, accused NASA leader Raila Odinga of fighting DP Ruto politically but vowed to ensure he does not wreck jubilee from within Kenneth described DP Ruto as his close friend and said his invitation to the region was a sign of things to come and promised that more would follow. Read: Ruto seeks new allies over 2022 fear of ‘betrayal’ The former MP said he had been meeting with DP Ruto many times to build bridges and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen was among those who knew how they had been working together. “DP Ruto is my friend. We are age mates and we didn’t know each other because he is DP. We must build bridges everywhere for people who want to genuinely build this country then we must work together to resolve issues affecting Kenyans”, he said. Kenneth said he fully supports the build bridges and work together”, said Kenneth during a church fundraising for churches at Kaptinga in Kapseret constituency where he was hosted by area MP Oscar Sudi. “I was invited for a church function but the politicians have turned it into politics and that is a clear sign of what is ahead. You know when there are heavy clouds then the rain is about to fall and as you can see we have very heavy clouds here,” said Kenneth. Kenneth said there was a need for unity of all Kenyans and noted that since President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto began working together Kenya was more peaceful. “We must all preach peace and unity”. He said the handshake between President Uhuru and Raila should not cause panic because there was no problem with the two working together. Murkomen and Senator Kithure Kindiki said Kenneth had made the best and wise decision to work with DP Ruto ahead of 2022. “The jubilee house is big and we welcome you wholeheartedly," Murkomen said. He said Uhuru and Ruto were blessed for always giving back to society and churches. Murkomen denied that the two leaders were no longer working together. “We are now being told that Uhuru and Ruto have each their own people now. We know this is propaganda brought by the handshake man,” Murkomen said. Read: Ruto rejects Raila 3-tier system, says devolution structure works Also read; You won’t ruin our 2022 plan, Ruto allies tell Raila Click here for the latest political news 