Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday said some businessmen may have misused the gazette notice issued by Treasury to import sugar unfit for human consumption. Appearing before the joint committee co-chaired by MPs Kanini Kega and Adan Haji at County Hall, Nairobi, Kiunjuri said that while the gazette notice was specific on the quantity and quality of powder milk, it was not specific on the type of sugar to be imported. Gazettte Notice No. 4536 issued by Treasury CS Henry Rotich at the height of last year’s biting drought when the prices of sugar and unga skyrocketed opened the window for anyone to import sugar duty-free. They however needed to obtain licences from the ministry. The notice gave a blanket cover to anyone who imported sugar with “effect from the date of this notice to the 31st August.” Kiunjuri who was kicked out of the committee after the MPs could not get clear answers, promised that he would take legal action against the companies or individuals who misused the window to import industrial sugar that was not meant to alleviate the situation. “We expected that only registered importers would import little did we know that others were also importing. We will take action against them,” Kiunjuri said. Read:Prolonged drought opened window for sugar import - Kiunjuri The CS told the committee that the role of his ministry was only to advise the Treasury on the quantity that was needed to bridge the deficit saying the issue of quality and where the commodities would come from was the sole responsibility of the Kenya Bureau of Standards and Treasury respectively. “The Ministry does not have the mandate to impound contraband sugar or its products. However, the ministry collaborates with relevant authorities under whose mandate this falls, by providing any information required of any,” he said. He added: “Kebs has the mandate, capacity and procedures to determine quality as per the applicable standards. There are government agencies whose mandate is to ensure that no counterfeit goods are brought into the country — Kebs and Anti- Counterfeit Agency”. Waiver was only for table sugar Top government officials were yesterday hard pressed to explain how raw sugar found its way into the country. Treasury, KRA and the Ministry of Agriculture faced a barrage of questions from MPs seeking to get to the bottom of the crisis that has dogged the country for over a week. Appearing before the National Assembly’s joint committees on Agriculture and Trade, Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the waiver issued last year was only for table sugar and not any other type of sugar. The move was aimed at arresting a looming shortage, he said. “The importation was time-bound and not quality-bound because of the previous experience of unfairness in the importation. It was therefore decided that the importation window be open to everybody but for a short time,” Rotich told MPs. Read:KRA, Kebs officials face arrest over Sh1.8 billion contraband sugar “The Gazette notice only waived the duty on the sugar, but all other regulatory requirements, including standards, were to be adhered to,” he said. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri said he learnt that huge quantities of raw sugar had been imported into the country during the waiver period. KRA Commissioner in charge of Customs Julius Musyoki, in trying to justify the illegal importation, told the Committee there is no difference between raw and table sugar sparking off protests from angry lawmakers. The MPs accused the government of masterminding the collapse of state- owned companies through its arbitrary decisions. “All sugar companies are on their deathbeds. Why are private companies doing well while the state-owned are making huge losses?” posed Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe.Rotich however refuted claims that the sugar that entered the country had elements of copper and mercury, conflicting an earlier claim by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. He admitted there was possibility of contamination of the imported sugar due to storage and handling challenges. Matiang’i who was to appear before the joint Committees to shade more light on the poisonous sugar did not show up. Kieni MP Kanini Kega who chaired the joint sittings directed the CS to appear before them today and threatened to take unspecified action if he fails. “It is not a question of choice. He has to appear before this Committee tomorrow (today) at 10 am. It is so ordered,” directed Kanini. Ministry failed to coordinate agencies Trade Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed blamed the Interior ministry and sugar regulation agencies for failing to curb the entry of illicit sugar into the country. He cited lack of coordination between the Fred Matiang’i-led ministry and other agencies. “There is need for a framework of information sharing between security agencies and bodies involved in regulation of sugar, which can be used to make the necessary proactive intervention,” Mohammed said. “The agencies concerned with regulation of sugar do not get intelligence briefs on issues to do with illicit trade,” he said. The CS further told the committee co-chaired by Kanini Kega (Kieni) and Aden Haji (Mandera South) that porous border points could have contributed to the penetration of the sugar not authorised for human consumption. “Most of the sections along the boarder are porous and consequently there is potential of smuggling of sugar and other products across the country... There are 44 designated land boarder entry points with some not manned by all the requisite agencies,” he said. The CS said that 95 percent of the sugar came through the port of Mombasa and they are demanding all importers to avail certificates of conformity for each shipment to the Kenya Bureau of Standards. Mohammed said that as at last Friday, 587,668 bags had been impounded from 20 companies. Information culled from his presentation shows that 212,521 bags of 50kg were found at Menengai Oil Refineries in Nairobi followed by Hydery Limited which had 116,525 bags of 50kg sugar. “This data is provided by the multi-agency operation. These sugars have been seized for the purpose of establishing compliance with relevant standards,” he said. “The Eastleigh and Ruiru sugar may have been contaminated due to poor handling during local transportation and storage. It is noted that the sugar has had significant exposure to humidity due to recent weather conditions.” He said the multi-agency team will, upon conducting proper tests, destroy all seized sugar in public. Also See:Kebs MD Charles Ongwae released on Sh15 million bond Click here for the latest political news  