Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has asked western leaders to solve their differences and embrace each other in the spirit of the handshake. The minister said he will reach out to Senator Moses Wetangula, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Cyrus Jirongo, Ken Lusaka, Musikari Kombo, and Ken Marende on the bid. Wamalwa asked the leaders to come together "so that western is not left behind as the country moves forward in the quest for unity." "I will bring them together with leaders from western. We want to see handshakes here too for us to speak in one voice," he said. Wamalwa said the handshake by various leaders who had political differences in the country is healthy and ushers in peace. The CS was addressing parents, teachers and pupil’s at St Theresa girls in Kimilili constituency Bungoma county on Friday during an AGM. The Devolution CS says it is only through the truce that the community will achieve the unity that has eluded and disadvantaged it over the years. "Western leaders who have had a long-standing dispute should embrace the handshake which is moving on across the country from Lake Victoria to the Indian Ocean, from Lake Victoria to Turkana." "Let all of us, from those in Ford Kenya party, ANC, New Ford Kenya and other small parties to put their differences aside and speak with one voice," the CS said. Wamalwa applauded President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga "for setting a good example by setting aside their differences." Also read: Ruto, Kalonzo reaffirm 'hugshake' as Sonko hosts them for Iftar dinner The CS noted that the Jubilee administration wants an agenda that helps all residents regardless of their background ethnicity and living standards. "If we have a teacher here who is not from our community, let’s not look at what tribe he is but let's support him fully," he added. "I want to urge the community and local leaders to support our school heads that were recently transferred so that they may teach our students to better their future." Kimilili MP Didimus Brasa and Bungoma politician Evans Kakai were present. Click here for the latest political news 