THE Kenya police have applied for an extradition of the house help alleged to have killed her employer and three month old baby in Muhoroni, Kisumu County. The lady was arrested in Uganda on Sunday following alerts by the Kenyan Police concerning the incident. While confirming this, the county commissioner John Kamau told the Star that indeed the woman had been arrested and still being held by the Ugandan Government. Kamau said following the incident that occurred on Friday, the circulated the story having been told that the woman might from the country. “Indeed we have been liaising with our counterparts from the other side and confirmed that the lady is a Ugandan citizen, hence we must apply for an extradition for her to be released to us,” he told the Star. The county commander disclosed that when the woman was spotted in the country, the people wanted to lynch her but was rescued by the police. On Friday, the deceased 26 year Old Elizabeth Achieng and her son were found in their house in Shauri Yako Estate in Muhoroni by neighbors. Achieng' worked as a community health officer at Kadenge Health Centre in Muhoroni. Her body had several knife wounds on the chest and burns on the left side of her body which her husband, Evans Otieno earlier stated was inflicted by a hot iron box that was found beside her dead body. He told the media, that on Thursday night, he tried reaching the wife through phone but it went unanswered and even called the sister in law who also told him she was trying to reach her, only to receive a call from a neighbor the next day about the incident. According to the family, the houses help who had lived with the deceased for only one month was recommended to them by a family friend. When some of the deceased colleague who were worried since her calls went unanswered went to see her, the found the house help eating chips outside the house bit told them the woman had ten her baby to the hospital. Later on Friday when she was nowhere to be seen, the neighbors decided to get into the house and that’s when the discovered the deceased and her child’s body lying lifeless on the floor. The body is currently at the Star Morgue. According to a close family friend Lydia Etyans, the husband is still trying to come to terms with the incident. Etyans said burial arrangements have already been made and the deceased with her baby will be removed from the morgue on 22nd and buried at her husband home in Oyugis in Homabay County on 23rd of this month. End…