Deputy president Wiliam Ruto has challenged Samburu leaders to set aside their political party differences and deliver their political pledges to the people. Speaking in Baragoi over the weekend when he attended a funds drive for settling a school bus bank loan for Baragoi boys secondary school, Ruto advised leaders to put aside put aside divisive politics. “What I want to ask you is that let us all unite and work together, let us abandon politics of division based on political parties and communities, this is not time for discussing issues of political parties, tribes and religion, we are supposed to use our time now to cooperate to speed up development of Samburu and Kenya as a whole country,” he advised. This came up after Samburu county woman representative Maison Leshoomo complained that a section of politicians from jubilee party were dividing the community along political party lines. Leshomo noted that Samburus do not know much about political parties and dividing them along that line would be uncalled for. "Samburus do not know about parties, even when they go to vote they don't look at that thing called party, they vote for individuals," she said. The woman representative added that any leader, from any political party, who goes to Samburu to help the residents in form of fund drives is welcome. She said that the Samburu residents want to see developments. "Our people want us to work for them, let us leave party issues until 2022," she said. The representative said that political parties are like bridges that connect leaders to elective positions. Senator Steve Lelegwe, speaking on Madaraka day had accused a section of leaders from KANU party of misusing Samburu and using it as a platform to launch their campaigns. He was speaking in reference to Baringo senator Gideon Moi for attending a funds drive in Samburu east where a section of Mps endorsed his presidential bid. Lelgwe said that Samburu was a jubilee strong hold and only jubilee leaders had the capacity and will of the people to campaign in the region. He had accused leaders from other political parties of disrespect. Speaking in Samburu east recently, Samburu central legislator Naisula Lesuuda warned a section of leaders to respect the KANU party leader.