Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has invited ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula to join him in fighting for Luhyas’ space in national politics. The governor has declared interest in running for the presidency in 2022 saying he is ripe for the competition having bagged 1 million votes in his political career. "I’m going to the national table. I’m ripe, having been in politics for 25 years as an MP, a minister and a governor for two terms. My brothers should come with me," Oparanya said. He said all three — himself, Wetang’ula and Musalia — should shelve their party affiliations and join hands to have a say in national politics. Oparanya said the Mulembe nation is a vote-rich region, which cannot be overlooked by anybody eyeing the top seat. He spoke on Saturday in Eshikhoni, Navakholo constituency. “For 25 years, nobody from Kakamega has been in the national politics, we have just been supporting people from other places and that is why I have made up my mind to go full length this round,” Oparanya said. “I’m ready to sacrifice my ambition and support Musalia or Wetang’ula if they prove stronger than me. They should be ready to do the same if I prove stronger than them.” Oparanya said he has vied for political positions five times and has never lost. The county boss said he has one million voters in his bag and President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto, Raila Odinga or any other person in national politics must listen and consider his political need. The governor asked Wetang’ula to stop being “double-minded” and focus on either the presidency or the Senate seat. “I have told Wetang’ula to stop asking for presidency votes and thereafter run for senator. If you are interested in the senator position, declare it early so we can eliminate you from the presidential race,” Oparanya said. He urged his party leader Raila to support his bid. “I’m asking Raila to throw his support behind me. The Mulembe nation wholeheartedly supported him in the 2007, 2013 and 2017 presidential elections. I want him to rally his people behind me in 2022. If not now, when will he ever support us?” Oparanya asked. “We cannot continue waiting because nobody can bring this thing to our doorsteps, we must go for it. Just watch me.” In April, Oparanya said he would find another way to ensure he is on the ballot should ODM fail to endorse him. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi have also declared interest in the State House race on the ODM ticket. Click here for the latest political news