ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi doubts Parliament's ability to probe the contraband sugar effective. He said yesterday a special commission of inquiry should be formed to investigate the matter. He spoke at a press conference at the party's headquarters in Nairobi. Mudavadi asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to form the commission to probe the conduct of public officers or institutions linked to the sugar. “That will help us unmask the people who have been giving us sleepless nights. Although we have parliamentary inquiries, the MPs may be infiltrated,” he said. Read : Western miller boss arrested in probe of contraband sugar Mudavadi the proposed commission endorsed by his party members will not be the first in Kenya's history. He cited past commissions including one on the Goldenberg scandal in which public funds were looted. “There is systemic problem with public institutions that abet and looting of public resources. The ongoing investigations and intended prosecutions are limited in scope to third-tier culprits,” Mudavadi said. His fears on MPs independence and ability to inquire into illicit sugar in the country comes as National Assembly's Agriculture committee is expected to grill four cabinet secretaries today over the matter. The cabinet secretaries include Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture), Adan Mohamed (Trade and Industrialization), Fred Matiang'i (Interior) and Henry Rotich (National Treasury). National Assembly's Trade, Industry and Cooperatives committee chaired by Kanini Kega is also conducting parallel probe into illicit sugar saga worth millions of shillings being impounded in the country by a multi-agency team. “If the current corruption scandals are not in public interest, then nothing is. The Commission of Inquiry will enable the public and whistle-blowers to participate, truth will be told, culprits identified, shamed and jailed,” Mudavadi said. The ANC leader reiterated setting up a special commission is not against the law since Chapter 102, Section 3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act gives the President powers to constitution a commission of inquiry. The commission, according to Mudavadi, should not limit itself to sugar but also probe reported scandals maize and fertilizer scandals. Also read : Another 240 bags of suspicious sugar seized in Emali “Through the commission of inquiry, solutions will be found and recommendations given that will form the basis of legitimisation to end future recurrence of such vices. The sugar industry is dead and farmers are suffering. This has to stop,” Mudavadi said. He pointed out that the country's coffee and pyrethrum industry which commanded international markets collapsed due to cartels similar to ones that have derailing the sugar industry. The ANC leader wants the commission once formed to probe whether National Treasury warranted imports were time-bound and waivers were conditional to companies as required by law. “How complicit was the Treasury to the extent that it failed to seek the permission of Parliament before granting the waiver as lawfully required,” he said. Mudavadi also wants security agencies, officials at Kenya Ports Authority, the Kenya Bureau of Standards and the Executive be among government institutions to be questioned by the proposed commission of inquiry. Click here for the latest political news 