NYERI wives are a stressed lot because their husbands have been refusing to come home at night following recent opening of a strip club in town. And now calls are being made urging the county government to deny the clubs operating licenses. Nominated MCA Beth Nyawira sparked the debate when she said the new culture in the area will ruin families. "These ladies come from Nairobi and dance naked doing immoral things that I cannot mention here," she said. Nyawira was speaking during the launch of internship program by the county government at the Nyeri town hall grounds yesterday. She called on the county government to regulate the clubs saying there is an outcry from young women that their husbands have been avoiding sleeping at homes and instead frequenting the clubs. She said women claim husbands are only spending two nights in their matrimonial homes per week as one of the clubs hire the services if the strippers from on Monday and Tuesday while the other engage them from Wednesday to Friday. She called on men to spend time with their wives and children if they want to have stable homes. "The entertainment joints should either be closed down or regulated to save our young wives from the agony," she said. She said she will present a motion in the county assembly and called on other MCAs to support it to ensure such clubs are regulated. She said if immediate action is not taken, there will be an explosion of such clubs ruining the young generation. "I am a mother of a baby boy and I wouldn't imagine him hearing such stories of joints where ladies dance naked," she said. She advised young people to be focused and avoid things that might spoil their future. But Nyeri Central Deputy county commissioner Kimutai Ngeny wondered what people go to watch at strip clubs that they have never seen. He advised people to be watching their own bodies when in bathrooms. "What is the difference between your body and the one you are paying to watch there? Or is it the twisting? Are you not able to twist yours when taking bath?" he posed. He advised married couples to get into an arrangement where the two can undress and view each other’s naked bodies when bathing and 'stop that nonsense' of paying money to view strippers in clubs. He said the bars ought to have their operations streamlined and deny licenses to those that do not adhere to regulations. But Governor Mutahi Kahiga, when he rose to speak, advised the 200 young interns enrolled by the county government not to spend their money in such things. The interns will be earning Sh 10,000 per month each.  