After his transfer from Nairobi to Turkana, policeman-cum-gospel artiste Sammy Ngare has not stopped his humanitarian call for the less fortunate children in the society, which he started in Nairobi. He helps poor children under his foundation Askari ni Binadamu. He is also a founder of PamSon foundation and a director in MaxFacta Rescue Centre. Speaking to Word Is, he said he has been nominated in the ongoing Diaspora Awards for Kenyans who have done extraordinary things in the world. "I had appealed to Kenyans to nominate me because I deal with matters affecting the less fortunate children in the country," he said. He works in Kibish, an interior location in Turkana county, where education is not considered a basic need and girls are married off for dowry and not taken to school. Sam has recognised that and has met some who he wants to take to school. "These are Turkana girls in a village called Kibish tribe Kwatela. Kibish is 450km from Lodwar town. In this village, there is only one school, and the people here depend on relief food from the government. It's also hard for parents to even afford school uniforms and books, making it hard for kids to attend school. Kibish is on the border of Ethiopia and southern Sudan," he said. "The fact that our camp is near Kijiji, as they call it, makes it easy for them to come for food and water, since we are supplied by the government, so I was able to meet some girls. Turkana people are nice and most of the times when we are attacked here, they always come for our rescue." His main agenda is to help the girls attain education. "My main agenda is to encourage the community to know the benefit of taking kids to school. The kids ndio wanafanya job ya kupeleka ngombe malishoni, and girls go to fetch firewood. They value a girl child more because she brings wealth to the community after dowry of 50 cows, a 100 goats and 10 donkeys," Ngare said. "I appeal to leaders like the woman representative, area MP and governor to support their education. Through my initiative Askari ni Binadamu, together with my Pamson Foundation, I will ensure they get good life." He looks forward to leaving Kibish for a better place. "My transfer to Kibish in Turkana county is a blessing to this people. God knew why I was transferred here. I will leave the place better than I found it," Ngare said, adding that serving Kenyans is what he was called for.