‘Take it away’ Baringo County Governor Stanley Kiptis causes humor by ordering his ‘Governors stand’ away saying he is not comfortable with it. Kiptis was addressing World Environment Day at Marigat High School grounds in Baringo South Sub-county on Tuesday. “Take it way, I can stand on my own” Kiptis ordered his aides saying he does not need it at the moment. A ‘stand’ is an honored platform being assigned for use by an honorable leader like the president or Governor while reading speech or addressing people. However, the governor’s aides had to honor his plea, an action that caused laugher among hundreds of residents who attended the event although some it a show of humility. Kiptis who had just finished planting some trees at the school compound, therefore chose to stand some three-steps away from the stand to address the members of public who turned up during the global event. The function was also attended by his wife Ivy, County Director for Environment Jeniffer Kipkazi, Department Executive committee Scolah Kimeli and Marigat Ward Representative Nixon Lemlem. It is the mandate of the communication department in every county to carry the Governor’s stand to wherever he or she tours across the county, but it seems not a fashionable phenomenon here for Kiptis. However, the second for Baringo has not been spotted while addressing previous public functions using his officials stand. The stand had been used frequently, even while addressing a meeting in a remote village by the former Governor Benjamin Cheboi. Earlier on April 7, Kipits caused another humor by ordering his aides to pick for his a court he forgot inside a chopper at Chemolingot in Tiaty Sub-county. “Can someone rush to get my coat inside that chopper before it flies off” Kiptis shouted amid his speech. The chopper was boarded by Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui, Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi and his Deputy John Mwaniki who attended homecoming of Tiaty Member of Parliament (MP) William Kamket. Click here for more political news