Circle Art Gallery in Nairobi is stepping back in time with an exhibition of works by early contemporary artists of East Africa. Called Vanguard I, there are 27 artists on show, all of whom were leading names in the '80s and '90s. The event aims to “reintroduce them to a contemporary audience and to consider their enduring influence on the Kenyan art scene”.  One of the first pieces I saw when I walked in was a large painting of animals by Zachariah Mbutha. Called Struggle, the painting is created in Mbutha’s distinct style of prominent figures in unusual colours, horns and limbs intertwined as the beasts struggle to drink from a small pool of water. Born in 1948, Mbutha left his job as a primary school teacher to become a full-time artist.  Another artist who gave up his teaching career for art is Sane Wadu. At the show are two densely covered canvases of expressive figures. Wadu often comments on sociopolitical issues or taps into biblical stories. His eccentric and expressionist technique has won him many admirers at home and abroad. Next to Sane is work by his wife, Eunice Wadu. Her paintings are woodcut prints on paper covering city life and family relationships.  From the prolific Yony Waite are signature landscape illustrations created in a limited palette of black, green and grey. Waite, 82, co-founded the now defunct Gallery Watatu. Many of the artists showing at Vanguard I passed through the doors of Gallery Watatu.  One of them is Ancent Soi and he is shown with vibrantly coloured paintings of village scenes and modern life. Soi first tried his hand at painting in the 1960s while working as a curio seller at the City Market. A highlight of his career was being selected to design the 1972 Olympics Games poster.  Long-time Kenyan resident Jak Katarikawe is known for his imaginative, story-telling paintings. On display, however, are two monochrome woodcut prints on paper. Ugandan-born Katarikawe is producing less work nowadays and already these paintings have snapped up by a buyer.  From Tanzania comes Robino Ntila with pen etchings on paper, a style he is particularly adept at. Ntila frequently exhibited in Kenya and in this exhibition there are pen drawings of passenger boats inspired by everyday life in Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar. Along the same wall is a whimsical impressionist landscape called Little Paradise by Tabitha wa Thuku, one of very few female artists of her generation.  At the centre of the room is a tall wooden carving of a couple poised to dance by the late Samuel Wanjau. It is called Mwomboko and named for the Kikuyu partner dance, drawn from the European-style ballroom dancing. Wanjau used to carve curios for tourists before delving into fine art with thought-provoking statues of animals and people.  Others on display include Wanyu Brush, Shine Tani, Rahab Shine, Charles Sekano, Annabel Wanjiku, Robin Anderson, King Dodge and stone sculptor John Obaso Diang’a. The exhibition continues until the end of June. 