The Court of Appeal is set to decide Embakasi East MP Babu Owino's poll case pitting him against Jubilee's Francis Mureithi. He is seeking the court to uphold his election and overturn a High court decision which nullified his election. Owino's election as MP was nullified in March in a ruling made by Justice Joseph Sergon. His lawyers James Orengo and Jackson Awele, during the hearing, argued that Justice Sergon disregarded the evidence which Owino presented in Court in his defence. Owino further told the court that the irregularities cited were not substantial to affect the election result. "I urge the court to uphold my election and reinstate me as the MP because even a scrutiny and recount of votes cast in the August 8 General elections did not change the results," Owino insisted the court. Mureithi, who is the petitioner, urged the court to dismiss the appeal through his lawyer Hum Lagat. He said the evidence tabled in court was sufficient to nullify the election. The appeal judgement will be delivered by Justice Mohammed Warsame, Kathurima M'inoti, and Daniel Musinga. While nullifying Owino's election, Justice Sergon ruled that Owino’s election was marred with violence and systemic irregularities. Justice Sergon said Mureithi of Jubilee Party, had proven the entire exercise was marred by violence, intimidation, and other electoral malpractices. "Considering all the evidence tendered before me, I find that elections in Embakasi East were not free and fair as the entire process was dotted with violence occasioned by the voters and supporters of Owino," Justice Sergon ruled. Owino also wants the appellate court to set aside the ruling on scrutiny and recount of Embakasi East votes. He has invited his supporters to the court for the ruling expected to start at around 9am. "I urge all my supporters to show up in solidarity with our course at the said court from 8:30am," Owino said. " This is our battle as patriots against agents of impunity who are out to deny Embakasi East residents an opportunity to have the best representation in the Parliament." Click here for more political news