Nairobi county has written to the National Land Commission asking for revocation of a private title for land belonging to St. Catherine Primary School in Mukuru. The land, registration LR.209/11881, is situated opposite Mater Hospital in South B. It has been the subject of a dispute lasting 24 years. In a latter to NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri last Thursday, Cecilia Koigu, acting for the county secretary Peter Kariuki, says the land was irregularity allocated to the private entity. “We have seen several correspondences clearly indicating the subject land indeed belongs to the school and should not have been allocated for private use,” reads the letter seen by the Star. Land executive Charles Kerich said the parcel should not have been allocated for private use as it is the only open field available for needy pupils from Mukuru slum. Yesterday, NLC vice chairperson Abigael Mukolwe confirmed knowledge of the case but could not provide details saying she needed to refer to the file. She was out of the office at the time. The dispute over the ownership of the land started back in 1994 when the director of city education allocated the plot to St. Catherine Primary School. The school was founded in 1992 by Grace Ndungu in collaboration with Mukuru Promotion Centre, a network of schools for poor children residing in Mukuru informal settlement. The institution was initially situated in Mitumba slum in South C. But in 1993, part of the slum including the school was demolished, forcing the former Nairobi city council to relocate it to Mukuru. In December 1994, the local administration informed the founder Ndungu that part of the school land had been allocated to one Simon Limo. “In January 1995 when the school reopened after the December holidays, teachers and pupils were shocked by the arrival of hired goons armed with pangas and axes who threatened to forcefully evict the school unless the school administration agreed to move out of the portion of land,” head teacher James Otieno said in a latter to Swazuri in 2015. He urged Swazuri to resolve the conflict and issue the school with a title. The school later established that the land was issued to M/S Hamco Kenya Limited , which was presumed to belong to Limo, on February 24, 1995. In 1996, M/S Hamco Kenya Limited sold the property to the National Social Security Fund, which in turn sold it to Nelson Kamau in 2004. Kamau has unsuccessfully tried to evict the school. In 2007, Mwangi went to court demanding Sh12 million as compensation for damages. He argued St Catherine School had trespassed upon his private property. The civil case Number 237 of 2007 is yet to be determined. “This matter remains unresolved in court for more than seven years after it was filed and as a result the school continues to labour under the perpetual threat of eviction from the disputed property,” the county letter says. Grabbing of school land is not a new phenomenon in the city. In January 2014, children’s playground belonging to Langata Primary School was grabbed by a developer, igniting protests.