Sam Gwer was inspired by his poor neighbours in Western Kenya, who started referring to him as “daktari” when he was still a medical student, and they would demand he treat them whenever he was on holiday. “Daktari nitie (the doctor is around),” Gwer remembers the villagers’ excitement when he was around. He obliged and would feel ill equipped as he carried his stethoscope, a blood pressure machine and a patella hammer around the village. “Many times, I sent my patients for investigations or with prescriptions to the nearest town. The nearest public health facility was a distance away, which many times did not have medicine and was served by a clinician who would seldom report to work, or would be drunk and rude during working hours,” he says. Gwer left the country to study for post-graduate and doctoral research, focusing on children with coma and other severe illnesses, and the words, daktari nitie always nagged him. Back in Nairobi, like many educated professionals in Kenya, Gwer got employed, but luck would come shrouded in a boss who fired him. He decided to start his own outfit called Afya Research Africa and opened a centre in Malindi, which today is a successful epilepsy outreach programme, the other of his passions besides mother and child health. It is this later passion that led him to the Cambridge-educated Moses Ndiritu, who had an interest in paediatric research and child health. Ndiritu is also a techie sort of guy, and he has innovated a smart electronic health management system, which connects their now 27 Ubuntu Health Clinics. INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS For instance, the HMIS Stone, as they call it, is programmed to do a myriad of things, from archiving patients’ records and even assisting in diagnosis. We see how it works when an epileptic boy is taken through the process. Kabong’o Health Centre nurse-in-charge Byron Emmanuel had entered the boy’s symptoms as the dad described them, and the results on Stone HMIS was as he had predicted. The system went ahead to show the kind of medication needed. In a country where medical records are still done manually, meaning that one’s medical history cannot be traced in the next centre, Stone HMIS is a great innovation if scaled up, especially in this era that the government is promoting Universal Health Coverage. Experts believe that to achieve UHC, primary health care is key. So it helps to have such clinics close to the people, and health officers like Emmanuel visiting ‘clients’ in their homes and recommending basic preventive and promotive measures, such as sleeping under treated mosquito nets and boiling drinking water, which is a replica of the much-touted Cuban model. When Ndiritu joined, they pioneered the Ubuntu model. The first centre was in Ngong, Eastleigh, which they say failed miserably. They focus mostly on reproductive, maternal and newborn health. The community secures the partnership through acquisition of land, labour and locally available materials. “We provide the initial investment to establish the centres and support the development of appropriate infrastructure and initial start-up costs,” Gwer says. The profit is shared at 51per cent for the community and 49 per cent going to Afya Research Africa. The organised groups are also encouraged to invest through table banking, and they are provided with seed-capital for small businesses. Venturing into Homa Bay recently, ARA was privileged to be backed by the UKAid-funded County Innovation Challenge Fund. Fund manager Kimani Karuga says they support organisations that have creative ideas and innovations, which save mothers and newborns. Apart from the Ubuntu clinics, the fund supports telemedicine through the Gertrude’s Children’s Hospital, where a medic in Muthaiga, Nairobi, helps diagnose a patient in the marginalised Dadaab via video link. They also fund a device called Uterine Balloon Tamponade, which solves one of the biggest killers of mothers when giving birth: bleeding after delivery. The UBT is a catheter fitted with a condom, which when filled with water, is put into the uterus to apply pressure to the walls, stopping the bleeding.