An English language arts curriculum without literature—real named books of lasting importance—is no English curriculum at all.—Diane Ravitch A few years ago, the Education ministry sent out a circular to principals advising them against introducing English Literature set books to students other than those in Form Three. The communication followed concerns that some schools were prematurely introducing set books to students in Form Two. This practice grossly negated the aims of the integrated English curriculum as well as the principles of language learning and teaching prescribed by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. The integrated English syllabus aims at teaching students to develop listening, reading, speaking and writing skills. Students cannot acquire these competencies without exposure to the rich web of intellectual and cultural heritage found in great works of fiction and nonfiction. The ministry and KICD have provided a systematic approach to integrated teaching of the language syllabus to develop these skills. It stresses grammar, composition, functional writing and literature. Premature exposure to set books in Form Two means the students will never read any text worth reading other than the set books. They will thus not develop the authentic literacy a curriculum of English envisions at the end of the 12 years of basic education. Curriculum experts point out that extensive reading should be at the core of the English language syllabus. The key features are reading large quantities of material or long texts for global or general understanding, with the intention of obtaining pleasure from the text. Students derive many benefits from extensive reading. It helps to build learners’ vocabulary, introducing them to words and language that may not be included in short texts, and gives them a sense of common word partnerships. It also develops their understanding of grammar by allowing them to see all sorts of grammatical structures in use. A language is acquired by exposure, and it is factors such as the level of difficulty, quantity and variety of texts that influence learning outcomes. Because learners choose what text to read, this increases their motivation and confidence, and creates a more positive attitude towards reading and learning the language. Premature exposure to intensive reading of the texts students will be examined in is counterproductive. While intensive reading is important, learners never become fluent and confident readers if this is the only extent of their reading practice. Knowledgeable and skilled teachers of English expose students to as many books as possible while in forms one and two. They also strongly advise school administrations against continuous teaching during normal class hours and outside class hours as this denies the students the opportunity for the independent exploration that extensive reading requires. Some of the most profitable extensive reading is done outside normal teaching hours. Students can complete high school having read the finest novels, plays, poems, essays and biographies of great men and women in the English language. Some of the most accomplished people in academia and the world affairs—business, politics and government—nurtured their intellect and all that we admire in them through extensive reading. Premature exposure to set books is caused by the rush to finish the syllabus earlier than the curriculum developers prescribe to make room for exam revision. This strategy grossly undermines the goals and objectives of quality education and lifelong learning recommended by Unesco. Singapore Education minister (Schools) Ng Chee Meng advised principals of primary and secondary schools on December 29 last year that they should not seek to cover the syllabus, important though it is. “Remain open and curious; expand your horizons and explore the world of knowledge and skills with your students; and seek not to ‘cover the syllabus’, but to ‘uncover’ the world together with your students.”  