The government has warned politicians against giving views that could compromise the crackdown on substandard goods. Spokesman Erick Kiraithe said on Wednesday that any politicians who know the people in the illegal trade should notify police. Kiraithe's warning, at a press conference in Mombasa, came after National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale said Interior CS
Fred Matiang'i and Treasury's Henry Rotich should be held
responsible. The spokesman said: "Any political opinion that suggests that you have gone for criminal A but we think you should have gone for criminal B and C is diversionary, useless and a wasted effort. "If there are politicians who know criminals who ought to have been targeted, they should know that going to public channels and trying to seek sympathy by protecting what they think are their constituencies is not useful." He noted that authorities will go after the suspects if sufficient reasons are given. WHO ARE THE REAL CULPRITS? Duale also claimed that unscrupulous sugar barons were being protected and that several companies have been given the duty-free status. The Garissa Town MP criticised Matiang'i's war on contraband, saying authorities were turning the blind eye on the "real culprits". He claimed he had reliable information that the person behind the imports is also involved in the illegal logging that is wiping out forests. “The
culprit is walking free in this town. We want to know who is
protecting him. The same guy is the biggest logger in our country,” he said on Tuesday. Read: Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Related: Duale defends Somalis after cops seize sugar in Eastleigh While threatening to name members of the "untouchable cartels", Duale said it is
unfortunate that the crackdown is focused on "chicken thieves and watchmen while real culprits catwalk around". "Mr Speaker, I hope the Interior CS is watching me. The problem in this
country is that people look for chicken thieves and watchmen. We are
being taken round [in circles]. One million bags of the contraband sugar
are lying at a warehouse in Nakuru while thousands others are at
godowns in Nairobi and Mombasa," he said. “I [am asking] the Interior Cabinet Secretary to go to godowns in Nakuru," he also said, adding one company imported about 185,000 tonnes through four others. Duale said
Kenya Revenue Authority, Rotich and Kenya Ports Authority should clearly state their positions. Investigators suspect that officials of the KRA and the Kenya Bureau of Standards conspired with owners of the companies used to import the sugar. At least 25 people have been arrested in raids in Meru, Nakuru and Eldoret in Uasin Gishu. KRA officials seized 3,000 bags of contraband sugar at a godown in Meru town and another 400 bags in Nakuru. More on this: KRA, Kebs officials face arrest over Sh1.8 billion contraband sugar Also read: West Kenya disowns illegal, poisonous sugar on market On June 15, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati claimed that a "well-known parliamentarian" was behind the sugar impounded in Eastleigh, Nairobi. Arati said politicians cannot take advantage of communities and that "we would rather eliminate individuals with the intention of killing us all." The MP did not give details and the investigation has not been completed. Details: Arati backs war on corruption, claims MP behind contraband sugar Also see: Randomly sample and test all sugar, MoH tells counties Click here for the latest political news