A team of MPs wants National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri investigated in connection with the Sh3.2 billion Ruaraka land saga. The Ruaraka land dispute involves two private firms and two public schools. The parcel hosts Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School. It neighbours GSU headquarters, De La Rue and the Kenya School of Monetary Studies. Afrison Export-Import Limited and Huelands Limited stake claim to the 13.7 acres. The firms’ directors say they sold the land to the government for Sh3.2 billion and have been paid Sh1.5 billion. See: Lands boss Swazuri ‘to be charged’ over Ruaraka land scandal Yesterday, Lands committee chairperson Rachael Nyamai tabled a report, which recommends that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations probes the NLC chairman for the cash paid to the firms. The National Assembly team wants Swazuri, commissioners and other NLC officers to take personal responsibility for the payment. The legislators say the NLC failed to conduct public participation that could have included the two schools. "The NLC failed to secure the interests of the government on the land in terms of ensuring the title documentation in respect of the land being acquired were delivered to the registrar and registered," the report reads. Read: MPs quiz Swazuri team over Sh2.8bn payout for SGR land The committee also wants Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji to prosecute all public officers implicated in corrupt dealings over the land. The report says, "The National Land Commission should immediately secure the interests of the government on the land compulsorily acquired in portions of LR. No. 7879/4 by formally taking possession of the title documents of the said land in accordance with the provisions of Section 121 of the Lands Act, 2012". Nyamai later told the Star on the phone they anchored their recommendations on the Constitution to ensure credibility and accountability. "We were very firm. That’s why it took long," she said. Also read: EACC recovers Sh17m after raids at Swazuri, senior NLC officials' homes Click here for more political news