Nakuru West MP Samuel Arama will appear before a Nakuru court today to answer corruption related charges. Arama, who was arrested on Friday night, spent the weekend at Railways police station after he was denied a cash bail. A group of MPs and his supporters spent hours at the station demanding his release. They included Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria, Kuresoi South’s Joseph Tonui, Sammy Seroney (nominated) and Nakuru county branch secretary Mtumishi Cheruiyot. Read : Arama to be charged with abuse of office, misleading investigator in land fraud - DPP They said their efforts to secure bond for the MP flopped after officers holding him said they were waiting for instructions from the DPP. Even demonstrations from his supporters yesterday afternoon trying to secure his release bore no fruit. Police dispersed them.  ILLEGAL TRANSFER The youths destroyed police sign posts and others belonging to a church. They chanted “Release Arama. We want his immediate release. No peace without our MP’s release.” Some youths said they would rather die than see Arama remain in custody. The MP was arrested together with lawyer Kennedy Onkoba while having supper with his friends at a restaurant. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Saturday confirmed he had approved the charges against the lawmaker. According to Haji, Arama will face charges of abuse of office, conspiracy to defraud, making a document without authority, uttering a document with intent to deceive, obtaining registration of land by false pretence and knowingly misleading an investigator. The MP was accused of colluding with officers from the Nakuru registry to illegally transfer land. “This is as a result of investigations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission after a complaint from a resident was received in relation to the manner in which Arama acquired a plot in Nakuru Municipality,” the statement read. According to the detectives, the MP and four others, including the lawyer, conspired to defraud Ahmed Nisar by means of dispossessing him of plot 6/95 between August 3, 2015 and August 11, 2015. The EACC had recommended that Arama face several counts of corruption involving land transactions and abuse of office contrary to Section 46 as read together with section 48 ( 1 ) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003.