Labour and Social Protection PS Susan Mochache has proposed the use of M-Pesa to avert delays in remittance of cash for the elderly. She said that payments done through M-Pesa are likely to reduce instances of fraud. "Some
elders can’t access banks due to lack of an account with recommended
banks while others can’t commute hence should be paid
through M-Pesa," she said. She said this in Homa Bay where about 33,000 elderly persons have benefited from the Inua Jamii programme. The national government has spent more than Sh635million in the current financial year to cater for the elderly persons in the county. The state pays the senior citizens a monthly stipend of Sh2,000. "The national government wants to ensure persons who are 70 years and above live a decent life at their old age," Mochache said. Mochache said the national government set aside Sh1.6 billion to cater for the two groups nationally. Read: State enrols 500,000 elderly for Inua Jamii cash, says CS The PS spoke at a function hosted by Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga on Thursday. Nominated MP Denita Ghati was present. She paid out Sh2 million for the construction of disability-friendly classrooms at Nyaburi Integrated School, Karachuonyo constituency. Mochache said her ministry is committed to ensuring the rights and interests of people living with disability are protected. She also distributed 25 wheelchairs, a welding machine, blow drier, and an additional Sh300,000 to different disabled groups in the county. "I want to assure the PWDs the government is committed to promoting their well-being," the PS said. Wanga raised the concern of parents in the county who have a tendency of hiding children living with disabilities, noting that such parents deny the children their rights. "We should know that disability is not inability hence parents shouldn’t deny the affected children a right to interact or showcase their talents," she said. "Let our Chiefs help us protect the rights of PWDs by ensuring they inspect and comb-out all homes which still keep disables indoors," Wanga said. Ghati asked school heads to consider constructing classrooms and latrines for children with disabilities, citing the lack of these in most schools. "We urge the government to construct learning facilities which are not discriminatory to people living with disabilities," Ghati said. The MP urged those with special needs to register to ensure they benefit from the national government funds allocated for them. Click here for the latest political news 