The newly upgraded Outering Road has been the scene of 23 deaths since January, making it Nairobi’s most dangerous highway. Waiyaki Way follows closely with 22 deaths, Mombasa Road 21 and the Eastern and Northern bypasses with nine deaths each. Thika Road is sixth with nine deaths. The statistics are contained in the latest report by the National Transport and Safety Authority covering January to May. So far 1,348 people have lost their lives countrywide since the year began, NTSA says. There has been a public outcry about accidents on Outering Road. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority delayed setting up footbridges along the road, forcing pedestrians to jump over the highway barricades and risking their lives. Pedestrians also put their lives at risk by crossing the road wherever they wish because there are no designated crossing places. Drivers complain the road is poorly lit, which makes it dangerous at night. Road signs are not visible, they say. Read: Outering Rd project disappoints, causes misery, long traffic jams Kura had said 11 footbridges would be built across the 13 km stretch but so far only one has been erected at Baba Dogo. The national statistics for January through May show that Nairobi has the highest number of deaths at 186. Kiambu county follows with 114, Nakuru with 92 and Machakos with 69. Other high-risk roads mentioned in NTSA’s 2018 report are Kangundo Road, Jogoo Road and the Gilgil-Nakuru, Marigat-Loruk roads. Across the country, the NTSA report says 515 pedestrians have died since the year began compared to 497 last year. A total of 291 passengers have died, compared to 335 for last year; 257 motorcyclists compared to 222. The report shows 145 drivers have died compared to 147 last year. Commercial vehicles were most involved in accidents compared to last year when private vehicles topped the list. Private vehicles involved in accidents were 224 while motorcycles were 193. Last year, the Nairobi-Mombasa highway was ranked the deadliest road in the country followed by Thika Super Highway and Waiyaki Way. In 2016, Thika Super Highway was the top high-risk road, with the Nairobi-Mombasa road in second place followed by Waiyaki Way. Last year, commercial vehicles contributed 24 per cent of road accidents, PSVs 20 per cent and motorcycles 17 percent. The commissioner in charge of operations in the traffic department Mary Omari said last month that motorcycle operators and pedestrians account for the highest numbers of road accidents. “We are concerned by the rising number of fatal accidents in the country, mostly caused by speeding and careless drivers,” the officer said. Also read: KURA erects first footbridge along Outering Road in Baba Dogo after public outcry Click here for the latest political news