Hamisa Mobetto is fed up with Diamond Platnumz’s family getting into their relationship. Diamond’s sister went on National TV to say that Diamond has been having stress, something that got fans saying it was all because of baby mama Hamisa Mobetto. “Watu wengi wanapenda Diamond kuwa na Zari. Hata mimi nime-mmiss. Anafuliwa na mamake, anapikiwa na mama. Hayuko okay. Yale mahitaji alikua anayapata sasa hivi hayapati. Ako na stress.” Previously, Esma told a Tanzanian Vlog that she and Hamisa were not friends, even after spending time together during family events. Drama didn’t end there. Recently, Diamond's mother Sanura Sandra, aka Mama Dangote, beat up Hamisa for sleeping at her house with her celebrity son Diamond. “Yaani kiufupi simpendi na simtaki na kila akikanyaga hapa kwangu ni kipigo tu.Alipokuja kiwizi usiku ule na kulala nyumbani kwangu, alipaswa kuondoka kabla sijamuona kwa nini alisubiri mimi nimkute maana siku hiyo asubuhi yake nilitoka na nilivyorudi ndipo nikamkuta," she said. “Diamond Yupo na yeye ndiyo alimsaidia kumuamulia mimi nikabaki na wigi la sivyo ingekuwa shida.Alikimbia na viatu mkononi, maana nilikuwa nimeshavitupa nje ya nyumba yangu. “Kwanza tu siyo mwanamke wa kuoa (wife material) hajui kutandika hata kitanda wala kufanya tu usafi ni shida.” Well, the Kwa Ngwaru hit maker has stirred beef between Hamisa and his own family. He posted: “Unajua bado nakutafakari. Hivi dadangu ile interview yako ya jana, ni Swaumu ilikuwa kali ukaamua umalizie Hasira zako kwangu ama? Maana kusema Pengine Ulilewa kwa mwezi huu mtukufu Hapana….Yani jana, kama sio wewe vile uliyekujaga na Hamisa kwenye Birthday, na 40 ya Nillan na sare Mkashona, na kutunza juu….Dah Mungu anakuona." Evidently they all want Diamond to leave Hamisa and go back to Zari. Well, Hamisa has penned a long message to the star, telling him to warn his family. She says she has done everything to treat the singer right but his family hasn’t accepted her, even after being in a relationship with him. "Well, marry the woman that your family, fans and your dear manager want you to marry. Everyday things are getting out of hand. I haven't tied you up. Has your sister failed to advise you? She runs to talk on TV and social media. Doesn't she have your number or the address of where you stay? After all these, I've kept silent, don't you think the TV she runs to don't ask for my interviews? I stay quiet so that when our son Daylan grows up, he doesn't see all this drama. But your family is talking too much. You are a man with power to end all this talk. Tell them you need a wife and not a housegirl. Was I not cooking for you and your family? Today, they are saying Hamisa can't cook or do house chores. Who washes your house after we've slept? Or they wanted me to wash their underwears and wash their bedrooms? They failed to respect me, then let them respect your blood."