The government of Kitui will set up a Sh500 million empowerment fund to support local entrepreneurs and contractors. Trade and Investments executive Philip Mumo on Tuesday said the bill on the establishment of the fund had been presented to the assembly “for scrutiny, debate and approval”. Mumo said he was optimistic it would get the assembly’s nod since it was for the benefit of the Kitui electorate. He said the money would, however, benefit entrepreneurs who are members of cooperative societies, as loans from the revolving fund have to be paid back. He spoke to contractors who won the Sh288 million Community Level Infrastructure Development Plan tenders. He also started a programme to distribute local purchase orders to the over 400 contractors in the county. “Projects under CLIDP do not exceed Sh1 million each. The county set aside Sh288 million in the 2017-18 financial year for the projects in the 40 wards, meaning Sh7.2 million per ward,” Mumo said. He said Governor Charity Ngilu’s administration was keen on engaging all merchants in business. “We will not have cases where only a few people do business with the county government as was the case in the past,” said the executive. He said the majority of the contracts fall under the water, health and education sectors in line with Governor Ngilu’s pre-election manifesto to improve the quality of service. Mumo said the county would not compromise on the quality of work. “Shoddy work will not be allowed. Those of you who will do substandard work will be blacklisted for future contracts,” said Mumo. He further cautioned that contractors who will not complete their work within the stipulated three months or do not adhere to the provided bill of quantity will have their contracts revoked. The executive directed that all projects be initiated latest by end of this month. He said the projects have increased employment opportunities and created multiple opportunities for private investments growth. Additionally, Mumo said the projects will contribute significantly towards realising the five-pillar manifesto Ngilu unveiled during her campaigns. Click here for more political news