Kwale Cement Factory and its sister company Rising Star Commodities have engaged Chase Bank in a court battle over five pieces of land the lender wants to auction to recover a $11.2 million (Sh1.12 billion) loan. High Court judge Anne Omollo last month stopped Chase Bank from auctioning the land, saying the lender had not proven it furnished the two firms with a 40-day notice before putting its assets up for sale. Chase Bank said it sent out the notices via registered mail in November 2016. The judge held that Chase Bank failed to attach receipts from the post office to show it sent out notices to the two firms. “In light of the uncertainty of the dispatch date and lack of proof of postage, I am satisfied that the applicants have shown that the provisions of Section 90 of the Land Act was not properly complied with. This non-compliance means the applicants have demonstrated that they have a prima facie case with a probability of success,” the judge held. sell for a song But the judge gave the two firms 30 days to clear its debt, and allowed Chase Bank to issue the notices if payment has not been done by the end of the grace period. The 30-day window lapsed yesterday. Kwale Cement and Rising Star admit they have failed to clear their debt owing to financial constraints, but said Chase Bank must follow the law before selling their land. The two firms argue failure to follow due process will lead to their property being sold for a song. “If the intended sale proceeds, the properties will be sold at a price that is below the best available price due to non-compliance with the law which will result in the plaintiffs suffering irreparable loss and damage,” the two firms argued. Chase Bank said it had earlier sold goods owned by Kwale Cement and Rising Star worth Sh89.1 million to Thai Group Limited. Rising Star is a distribution firm. call for licence cancelling Rising Star was adversely mentioned in Parliament in 2015 when the Agriculture Committee called for cancellation of its trading licence alongside two other companies. The committee held that Rising Star was a major player in the illicit sugar trade, where it repackaged into locally branded bags to avoid detection by authorities.