Once upon a time, a king had a dream in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion. Afraid the dream should prove true, he built his son a pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a lion. When the young prince saw this, his grief at being thus confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said, “Oh, you most detestable of animals! Through a lying dream of my father’s, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account in this palace: What shall I now do to you?” With these words he stretched out his hands toward a thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he might beat the lion. But one of the tree’s thorns pierced his finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young prince fell down in a fainting fit. A violent fever suddenly set in and he died not many days later. It was a lesson to all that we had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them. We are at a point as a country that we must face our troubles and especially deal with corruption head-on. If we do not act now, we may end up being consumed by this monster that threatens to eat up all our public resources. On Madaraka Day, President Uhuru Kenyatta took another major step that may help the country to tackle one of its major troubles. The President announced that all officers handling government procurement would be vetted as one way of dealing with corruption. Four days later, the President ordered all procurement and accounting heads to step aside, hand over to their deputies and undergo a thorough lifestyle audit on their assets and liabilities. There was an attempt to block this process using the courts but the Judiciary ruled that an employer has all the rights to take any administrative steps, including sending people on compulsory leave. This move must be commended and supported because most corruption and fraud in government either starts or ends up in procurement departments. This is the heart of corruption and the rot in procurement must be dealt with head-on. The vetting is a good first step and should be extended to all other officers who may indirectly or directly deal with procurement. Some such as storekeepers are also involved in this process and at times sign for deliveries that were not made in exchange for some financial benefits. The move is also a good opportunity to identify likely ghost workers and possibly help the country deal with its ever ballooning wage bill. There are some people who only appear on paper and in their documentation used to transact business for government. It is worth noting that the President has issued an executive order requiring more transparency in government procurement. This way, the public will be aware of who is getting what contract, for how much and the public officers involved in the process. It will make it easy for Kenyans to know what is being spent and who is actually being given what work to carry out. Kenyans can also get the opportunity to raise questions if issues arise in the procurement process. Requiring that the names of directors of companies that win contracts be made public will also open a new era of transparency. We have had cases where, as in the first National Youth Service scandal, fictitious companies owned by the same individual were paid for work not done. We must win this war on corruption. It will not happen if we do not support some of these initiatives such as the vetting of public officers. After all, only the guilty should be afraid of falling into the net. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda