Private premises offering parking services in Nairobi will be charged new levies by the county. Speaking at the assembly on Tuesday, during the pronouncement of the 2018-19 budget, acting Finance executive Charles Kerich noted that private owners had taken over most open parking spaces. "Many residents are being subjected to charges in premises such as shopping malls, supermarkets and hospitals. I will propose a fee for all private parking spaces that charge their customers hourly," Kerich said. "The county will start giving incentives to people interested in creating parking slots outside the city centre." Supermarkets which charge customers for carrier bags will also incur extra costs in the county's new revenue collection strategy. "We want to introduce a fee so that when shoppers spend money, the supermarket provides carrier bags for the commodity. They used to give out free paper bags before the plastic ban. These probably cost the same amount as the carrier bags which are now on sale." The executive also said the county was working on more measures to ensure higher revenue. The figure dropped from Sh12 billion to Sh8 billion in the last financial year. Kerich told the assembly that the county is also targeting more revenue from building plans, outdoor advertising, gambling, gaming and lotteries. Related: Nairobi details plans for quicker building approval, end to collapses The budget was slashed by Sh2 billion and Sh21.1 billion allocated to recurrent expenditure and Sh10.83 billion to development. The county is set to receive Sh16.5 billion from the national government and wants targets to collect Sh15.5 billion in revenue, a goal Kerich admitted will not be achieved easily. County Secretary Peter Kariuki, County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka and executive members of trade, ICT, transport, education and health were also in the assembly. Read: High default rates lead to Sh3 billion drop in Nairobi revenue targets Also read: Parking fees to fall from Sh300 to Sh200 to increase revenue Click here for the latest political news