At least 13,000 children are set to be beneficiaries of the Nairobi government's move to abolish nursery school fees. During the launch of the programme on Friday, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko directed that every child be allocated Sh3,815 in 2018-19. In the budget presented on Tuesday, Early Childhood Development Education was allocated Sh70 million. Sonko presented cheques for 13,848 children in the 205 ECDE centres within Nairobi. "Today is a big day for education. It is a day when we come together to celebrate an important milestone that will have a positive impact for years to come," he said. "It is also a day that I fulfil one of my key election pledges, to improve the quality of education in the city, and make it accessible for all children." This initiative is expected to increase enrolment from 15,295 to 17,000 by the close of the year. "With free ECDE in Nairobi, the capital city is ahead of other counties in looking after the needs of our nursery school children," Sonko said. He directed all levies in all public ECDE centres be scrapped immediately. A nursery school child is charged up to Sh10,000 per term. This has resulted in many parents taking their children to non-formal schools, which lack basic facilities. The county government has finalised plans to hire an extra 520 ECDE teachers to handle the growing number of children. Sonko warned against the misuse of ECDE funds. "I want to see strict and transparent steps taken to ensure these funds are used for the intended purpose. Make no mistake, anyone who misuses money set aside for ECDE will be arrested and prosecuted," he said. Education executive Janet Ouko said the money has already been wired to the centres' accounts. “Today was just a launch but the money is already in the accounts and it will be effective as from Monday,” she said. County assembly Majority leader Abdi Guyo said he will ensure the governor's policies are implemented in the House. Knut Nairobi secretary Danson Mugwe raised the issue of bursary delays, which he said is a setback to education. He said many children are stuck at home for lack of fees. “I hope we will have them soon so that our children get back to school,” Mugwe said. Early this month it was reported that Sh297.5 million bursary funds were "mistakenly" sent to an account in Maryland, Australia. The county government explained that accountants had mixed up the health donor fund account details with the bursary account. The bursary cheques are however yet to be disbursed. Mugwe urged the county to provide funds to sustain street children enrolled in school. "The street children have a right to education, don’t neglect them," he said. Kenya Primary School Heads Association Nairobi chairman Johnson Nzioka urged head teachers to ensure children receive quality education. He raised concerns over the lack of water and sewage problem in most schools. "With these conditions around our children they are prone to get sanitation-related diseases," he said. Those present included executives Charles Kerich (Lands), Allan Igambi (Trade), Emmah Mukuhi (ICT), Mohammed Dagane (Transport) and Hitan Majevda (Health), as well as county attorney Lydia Kwamboka, majority whip Chege Mwaura, ward reps and public school headteachers.    