Insurance agents fear they may lose their jobs once a new directive requiring premiums be paid directly to underwriters comes to play. In last week’s budget reading, Treasury CS Henry Rotich proposed to amend the Insurance Act to prompt policy holders so that they pay insurance firms directly eliminating the need for brokers and insurance agents. “The current provisions of the Insurance Act allows the insured to pay for insurance premiums through an intermediaries. The intermediaries delay the payments for the premium thereby putting the insured at risk,” he said. Data by the Insurance Regulatory Authority shows there are 6,483 licensed underwriting agents and agencies and 201 insurance brokers. Bima Intermediaries Association of Kenya chairman Washington Ndegea told the Star that the decision by government was ill advised and would greatly cripple the industry. “This will frustrate further the public from consuming insurance products. Criminalizing touching of premiums by intermediaries is frustrating our work and the government is a little bit misadvised on that one,” he said. Ndegea said there are already laws in place to protect policy holders from misappropriation of premiums by the insurance middle men. “These would have been strengthened, than telling the insured to pay directly to insurance companies,” he said. Rotich said the new provision which would enhance timely insurance coverage, would be driven by an expansion in payment modes through digital platforms. He also proposed to amend the Insurance Act to criminalise fraudsters in the insurance sector to protect consumers. “We have witnessed increased instances of insurance fraud in the insurance sector mainly due to lack of adequate provisions to govern the sector,” Rotich said. Rotich’s budget also wants to introduce index-based insurance to increase uptake by farmers who had previously been insured under indemnity-based policies. He said the requirement for an assessment of losses to be conducted before payment had crippled uptake of agriculture insurance in the country. The government allocated Sh300 million to boost agriculture insurance under the 2018/19 budget. Though a welcomed move by agents, Ndegea said should the proposal go as is, there would be no one to advise farmers on the new developments. “Who will advise these farmers on these developments if not the insurance intermediaries who the government seems to want to kick out of the industry,” he said. “Where will these potential insurance customers come from if not through insurance agents?” 