Kenya Ports Authority wants the reinstatement of former MD Cathrine Mturi-Wairi set aside. Judge Erick Ogola on Tuesday issued orders reinstating Mturi-Wairi, following her dismissal by a special board on May 30. The High Court judge also barred anyone from taking over pending the hearing and determination of the matter. More on this: [VIDEO] KPA boss Catherine Mturi-Wairi sacked over incompetence Also read: Courts reinstates sacked KPA boss, suspends Daniel Manduko appointment On Friday, however, the authority said the order had thrown its management into a dilemma as the woman had not reported to work despite being served with the conservatory orders. Noting that the organisation had also posted a notice in a national daily, KPA's lawyer Cecil Miller said the standoff had disabled smooth operations at the port. The court barred  Daniel Manduku from serving as acting Managing Director. Miller further noted that the conservatory orders were
premature as the MD is going through disciplinary proceedings. Mturi-Wairi had been sent on a two-month compulsory leave for this. "The process is ongoing. The applicant ought
to have waited for the outcome," the lawyer said. Ogola's ruling was on a petition at the constitutional court that was filed by Mombasa resident Emmanuel Kenga. Miller said the court lacks jurisdiction to hear and determine the matter as the dispute arose from an employment
contract. He argued that the matter should be determined by the Employment and Labour Relations Court, where a similar suit was filed by activist
Okiya Omtatah. "Only the Labour court has powers to determine matters
touching on infringement of constitutional rights as per article 165 of the Constitution," Miller said. Judge Ogola ordered KPA to serve parties including the Attorney General who is listed as a respondent alongside the KPA. Mturi-Wairi and Manduku are interested
parties. Ogola directed that the matter be heard on June 12. Related: Maina Kamanda's son sacked from KPA board days after Mturi's removal Read more: Mturi dismissal blights DP Ruto Coast offensive Click here for the latest political news  