Chief Justice David Maraga has reiterated the need for evidence so courts can convict criminals. Maraga noted on Tuesday that investigators and prosecutors tend to present "half-baked" cases then point the finger at the Judiciary when suspects are acquitted. “No one should
expect a conviction if no incriminating evidence presented
in court,” he said, during the swearing-in of judge William Ouko as the President of the Court of Appeal. "The Judiciary will not be used as a scapegoat in the war against corruption." More on this: William Ouko pledges integrity at swearing-in as Court of Appeal President Maraga noted that the lack of evidence is a disservice to victims, the Judiciary and the public, whose level of trust in judicial and legal systems declines. With sufficient evidence and proper investigations, he said, Kenyans would be
justified in expecting a conviction. The CJ termed corruption the single biggest threat to the social and
economic development of the country. He noted that public anger has reached new levels as corruption cases have continued to surface. Maraga pointed out that the government loses up to 30 percent of its
national budget to corruption every year. He said the Judiciary will play its role in containing the vice as it is now a national security concern. “I have called for
more capital and human resources and for cases of
corruption to be prioritised to ensure rials are concluded
expeditiously,” he said. The Chief Justice also said he had given
firm instructions for corruption cases to be heard daily. "The days when such
cases took up to five years or even longer to determine are a thing
of the past.” said Maraga. “The drill and
discipline in this game is simple; present to the court a case that
meets the criminal threshold and expect a conviction. Anything else
is misguided, illusory and an exercise aimed at passing the blame to
the courts.” More on this: [VIDEO] Corruption cases a priority, evidence must be watertight - Maraga Related: EACC yet to recover over Sh8 billion in illegally acquired assets - report Click here for the latest political news