I think there has been some good progress on Devolution given that it is only a few years since it started. There have been challenges, but it was never going to be a walk in the park, it is something which was new for the country and therefore it was prone to challenges. The National Assembly and the Senate did very well to pass various Acts of Parliament that enabled Devolution to move forward. But there are challenges which have to be addressed, and one of them is re-assessment whether we did not create too many counties, and whether we do have too many Members of the County Assemblies. It might be difficult to downsize counties because once people have a county, to take it a way from them in this country can create and uproar even a conflict. What we therefore need to address is the numbers of Assemblies even the number of MPs needs to be addressed. There is a big problem of over staffing and double staffing where you find counties have too many members of staff who they do not need. Of course, there are political challenges around that because every politician feels that they would lose support if they retrench or downsized, but this is a challenge that must be addressed. The other one that must be addressed is wastage, there has been a lot of wastage and corruption in some of the counties, there has been misconduct in procurement.All these need to be addressed. There has also been challenges around balancing tribe or members of various communities within a county. For example, if it is a place like Taita Taveta, it was not expected that you just hire people from Taita community to the exclusion of other communities who live there like Giriamas and Digos. In a scale of 1-10 where 1 is Poor and 10 is the Very Good, I would put Devolution in the country at 4 because we still have a long way to go. We are in right path so long as we are also prepared to take the bull by the horns and address the many challenges facing Devolution. Click here for more political news