The government has formed a task force to inspect dams and establish whether all regulatory requirements were met. The action followed the loss of 47 lives after the collapse of Patel Dam in Nakuru County on May 10. Hundreds of people were left homeless. The preliminary report, by a multi-agency team ordered by the Interior ministry, said heavy rains only worsened the situation before the tragedy happened. “There was clear evidence the earth wall of the dam had started failing much earlier yet no attempt was made to rectify the situation,”the report says. More on this: Solai Dam walls cracked long before tragedy, says report Also read" Uhuru makes grand promises to victims of Solai dam tragedy The Water and Sanitation ministry, which gazetted the task force, said it will assess operations and regulations on the safety and general status of dams in the country. The team will be chaired by Samuel Alimia from the Ministry of Water and Sanitation. Members include Job Kihamba Kegoye (Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company),Peter Nyagah (Water Services Regulatory Board), Boniface Mwaniki (Water Resources Authority), Charles Ngugi (Interior ministry). Others are Johnson Kamau (Nakuru County), Zablon Kamau (University of Nairobi), Willis Ochieng (KenGen), Paul Nganga (Murang`a County), Michael Wainaina (Association of Consulting Engineers of Kenya), Bishop Daniel Chemon (community representative), Paul Murage (Kenya Metrological Department) and Benedict Omondi (Kenya Forest Service). The joint secretaries are Henry Cheruiyot (Rift valley Water Services Board) and Joseph Kamau (Athi Water Services Board). The gazette notice by Water CS Simon Chelugui said that the task force will be in place for 60 days and will give its interim report in 30 days. “The Secretariat will be based at Maji House, Nairobi, and all communication will be addressed to the chairperson,” Chelugui said in the notice dated June 6. The team will review policies as well as legal and regulatory frameworks for planning, design, construction, operation and decommissioning of dams. Members will document the operational conditions of Kenya's dams and look into procedures and conditions of issuance of permits and licences to determine adequacy, fairness and appropriateness. The task force will also look at the effectiveness of monitoring and surveillance mechanisms, and the procedure of registration of consultant and panel experts. Related: Task force formed to look into mystery of Ndakaini Dam levels Click here for the latest political news