Former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau has called on the government to ensure that the ongoing war against corruption leads to high profile prosecutions and convictions. The ex-lawmaker said the "big fish" were the real masterminds behind the looting of public funds and challenged the government to spare no one. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Jamleck said it is high-time tough action was taken against graft suspects, especially by jailing culpable senior state officials. Read: DPP to charge four governors, two PSs face arrest over graft "Corruption has morphed into a national disaster that now threatens future generations. The war on graft is long overdue and each individual has to be held accountable for their own actions." "Let everyone carry his or her own cross, when you go to steal or misuse public resources, you do it as an individual, and you should be punished as an individual," he said. His remarks came hot on the heels of the vicious war against corruption which followed President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive to investigative agencies to spare no one in the purge. Notable scandals under probe are the NYS Sh9 billion scam, the Kenya Pipeline, Kenya Power, and NCPB scandals - all running into billions of shillings. So far, 46 people, including Youth and Gender PS Lillian Omollo and NYS director general Richard Ndubai, have been charged with corruption at the National Youth Service. Jamleck said individuals involved in corruption cases must not hide behind their tribes, political parties or status in government. "There is nothing like this or that community has stolen more. Corruption is corruption and must be dealt with firmly," he said. The former MP also urged the investigating bodies to widen their scope to restore the waning public confidence in their work. He said the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Director of Public Prosecutions must work closely and to complement each other if the war against graft is to be won. Related: DPP studying fresh ‘high voltage’ cases Also read: Corruption has grown 240% over 5 years – PS Kibicho Click here for the latest political news