The government will make public projects being undertaken by the private sector under the Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) in abid to promote transparency and end graft. This was announced by National Treasury CS Henry Rotich when he launched the PPP Projects Disclosure Portal, a website portal that will provide timely data on the infrastructure investment deals with the private sector. The new portal is available on the link www.pppunit.go.ke/disclosure portal. Kenyans will be made aware of how projects perform under implementation stages, cost, completion date and the contractors. Read:New bill proposes public-private partnership schools Stakeholders will also find PPP Project information such as projects in pipeline, procurement documents, winning bidders, commercial deal structure “The National Treasury and Planning will starting today disclose to members of the public, media, civil society and other interested parties key project data on Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) deals signed in the country,” “As we partner more with the private sector in modernizing the country’s infrastructure, we are keen to enhance openness and transparency in all contracts signed. This will ensure Kenyans are well aware of the expected level of services, key commercial terms in all signed contracts, and obligations on both sides,” Rotich said. He added that the Disclosure Portal was unique and the first of its kind in Kenya, bringing all programmatic data under one roof. This development comes at a time when the government has rolled out an ambitious pipeline of infrastructure projects, which it hopes to undertake in conjunction with the private sector. The partnership with private sector will be key in supporting the four key strategic areas – manufacturing, housing, universal health and food security – that the government has identified to drive economic growth, under the Big 4 plan. Rotich added that currently Kenya has a PPP Project Pipeline of over 70 percent Projects at various stages of implementation. Among these are major projects in the transport, housing, energy, water, health, agriculture, manufacturing, education, and tourism sectors, drawn from both National and County Governments. Read:Govt, private sector in hostel partnership deal Speaking during the portal Launch, World Bank Country Director Diarietou Gaye hailed the move as one that will improve citizen’s support of government’s infrastructure agenda and ensure quality contracts are entered into. “This proactive disclosure by Kenya is highly commendable. It will undoubtedly result in better projects that will deliver value to Kenyans and also enhance the overall credibility of Kenya’s PPP program in the eyes of her citizens, investors as well as development partners,” Gaye said. The disclosure framework adopted will see the Government reveal key information data on projects during project identification and preparation, procurement phase, at the point of contract signing, as well as during construction and operation. Click here for the latest political news  