Owners of gaming machines in Embu have gone into hiding to escape a crackdown. Embu Town chief  Titus Mugambi yesterday told the Star that police have confiscated few machines. Before the crackdown, most kiosks and stalls had gaming machines. “It appears the owners have hidden the machines. Anyone who thinks he can hide the machines and use them later will be in for rude shock because were are not going to relent,” Mugambi said. The crackdown was ordered by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i last month. Hundreds of machines have been confiscated or burnt as investors and traders count losses. Matiang’i said stern action will be taken. “All those involved, be it a chief or an assistant chief, should be fired, arrested and charged,” Matiang’i said when he  oversaw destruction of machines seized from Nairobi entertainment joints. In Embu, Mugambi said they were on the trail of traders who have hidden their machines. “We are going to catch up with them. The machines will be destroyed,” he said. The Embu crackdown is led by regional commissioner Wycliffe Ogalo. It began on June 11. A Chinese citizen and Kenyan women were arrested. They were operating a workshop where the machines were assembled, pollice said. Christine Muthoni, 42, was arrested alongside the man only identified as Jay Jay, 24, at a secured house in Karurina market in Embu West. Police seized 192 machines. The machines were burnt at a dumpsite in Embu Town. The bonfire was  presided over by Ogalo. Embu commissioner Esther Maina, AP commandant Daudi Mohammed and his Kenya police counterpart Samuel Mathu  were present. Ogallo blamed the gaming machines for increasing school dropouts as students look for quick money. Farmers have neglected their fields and flocked to gambling kiosks, the official said. Children stole coins from their parents for gambling. “These machines have become a security risk in homes,” Ogalo said. The official asked women to stay away from gambling, saying they risekd losing their savings. “Even foreigners who have made this region a place to carry out illegal activities will be arrested and  and prosecuted,” Ogalo said. There have been cases of university students committing suicide after losing fees in gambling.