University Education and Research PS Micheni Ntiba is of the opinion that accomplished men and women called upon to give student talks should avoid talking about abstract concepts. “It is important to let students know about their lives, the paths we have taken up to where they are,” he argues. “Don’t talk to them about how important mathematics or physics is.” Their teachers talk about this almost everyday anyway. He made the remarks when Education CS Amina Mohamed invited him to address high school students at Jogoo House last week. Students, or young people, are looking for inspiration, for motivation, for reasons to soldier on when the going gets tough. In his address to schoolchildren in September 2009, President Barack Obama observed, “…it’s not always easy to do well in school. I know a lot of you have challenges in your lives right now that can make it hard to focus on your schoolwork.” High-flown statements about how mathematics or physics lead to attractive careers don’t make sense to students facing various challenges. All the students want is someone to touch their hearts and souls. They want to be inspired. They want someone to build or rebuild their self-belief. A speaker is only effective to the extent he is able to calm fears and raise hopes. No one can do this without appealing to emotions, needs and values. And true to form, Mohamed told the students about the first day she joined Standard One at Kakamega Primary School. How her older brothers chased her away from the school gate, saying she was too young. How she settled on her career after reading the Sherlock Holmes series at the school library. Mohamed has spoken to students before about her experiences growing up. Ntiba too spoke of his childhood moments and dreams. The point is the men and women children see shaping opinion and policy, and running government and the private sector were once boys and girls. They had dreams just like the students. They struggled with studies and the challenges of life. They fell and rose again. The point is to show students that their lives too had zigzags; highs and lows. But they persevered through it all; that they are who they are today because they lived an ordinary life, just like the students and their parents. The students — all Form Ones — appeared worried about the impending changes in the curriculum. They asked why the government wants to change the system. “What is wrong with 8.4.4 system of education? It is a great system. We are great students!” Students must relate with what the speaker is talking about. People, least of all, students, don’t want statistics in a speech. Nobody wants to hear about numbers or dry policy statements. All they want are stories. Stories about their lives or people like them. Stories provide the emotional peg that get people to understand a problem or an opportunity. If they remember you and remember your story, there was a lot of thinking going on.