For the longest time, Lamu residents believed theirs was a lost cause, until Save Lamu was born in 2009. A lot was happening that threatened the very existence of the Lamu archipelago, ranging from massive land grabbing to all manner of historical injustices, which touched largely on the region being marginalised and their resources being overexploited by ‘outsiders’. As Save Lamu’s veteran chairperson Mohamed Abubakar puts it, “There was an urgent need to save the Lamu Archipelago.The community needed to unite to save Lamu.” Back then,there existed just a handful of organisations that struggled with activism, which Abubakar says wasn’t as effective in fighting for the rights of the Lamu archipelago. In 2009, the then Lamu Environmental Protection and Conservation group spearheaded an initiative to unite all these groups and individuals in a campaign aimed at saving the Lamu Archipelago. The groups coalesced to form Save Lamu, the most vibrant activism body in Lamu’s history. The organisation operates under the banner of ‘Lamu Moja Sauti Moja’, which simply translates to ‘One Lamu One Voice’. “We are stronger together under one umbrella body of Save Lamu. Unity is strength because we have achieved so much as one body that we couldn’t have done separately, though we still have a long way to go,”Abubakar says. Over the years, Save Lamu has grown from just 12 local members to the current membership of over 40, including civil society organisations. Abubakar credits the growth of the organisation to the increasing support from partners and friends, “not to mention our growing zeal to defend our rights and those of our people at whichever cost”. Among their major supporters are the Development Policy Management Forum-DPMF, a think-tank examining land and resource issues at the Coast. “We receive immense support from organisations like the Natural Justice and INUKA Kenya Trust,” he says. Save Lamu secretary general Walid Ahmed says their vision is guided by an urge to attain a culturally,socio-economically and politically empowered community. Through all these, their core mandate is to strive to secure the natural resources in their region, while ensuring a sustained green environment. “The Coast region has immense resources. Lamu as a county has so much, including land. Our people pride themselves in our ancestral lands, which must be guarded at all costs, and that’s where we come in. We keep an eye on all these for our people and the generations to come,” Walid says. INCLUSIVE DEVELOPMENT Save Lamu’s mission is to engage communities and stakeholders to ensure participatory decision-making, achieve sustainable and responsible development, and preserve the environmental, social and cultural integrity of the Lamu community. Walid says the group is formed around seven major objectives, including: raise awareness on the environmental, social and political challenges facing the peoples and environs of Lamu, document and raise awareness on community knowledge, practices and rights over natural resources, foster sustainable and responsible development and use of natural resources and preserve the cultural and social identity of the marginalised indigenous communities in Lamu. Other objectives include advocating and lobbying for the recognition of the community’s natural resource rights, building capacity for the local community in natural resource rights advocacy and enhancing partnerships between local, national and multinational groups to carry out any of the above objectives. “We initially just did land advocacy and such like, but as Lamu began opening doors to more bigger industrial projects like the Lapsset and others, we knew we had to come in because our people easily fall victim to cons and injustice. We remind our people daily of their rights and shall walk with them all the way,” Walid says. Save Lamu is partnering with several national and international partners. “We are also partnering with other civil society organisations in Northern Kenya to collaborate in advocacy activities,” Walid says. ”Right now, all our efforts are focused on stopping the coal plant from setting base in Lamu, and we are receiving immense support, I must say.”