The family of a GSU officer killed by al Shabaab militants on June 6 have demanded compensation. They have also urged the government to withdraw Kenyan troops from Somalia to stop loss of lives. They spoke during the burial of Justine Kiprop, 22, from Maregut, Barwessa, Baringo North. He died alongside four other officers when their truck ran over an explosive. Three other officers suffered severe injuries. The officers were on a routine patrol along the volatile Liboi border in Garissa — two kilometres from Somalia. On Saturday, Baringo residents criticised the government for deploying “recruits with zero experience” to zones easily targetted by al Shabaab. “If the government can ignorantly send a soldier fresh from college to a battlefield, what do you expect?” Baringo North resident Joseph Makilap told mourners during the burial of GSU officer Justine Kiprop in Maregut, Barwessa. “The state should also compensate the families of those who have lost their lives in attacks in various parts of the country,” he said. He said a family member should be recruited to replace Kiprop. Kiprop passed out of the Embakasi GSU training camp in 2016. He was selected to join the Recce Squad, an elite rapid-response team. Kiprop also trained in VIP protection,recognition and demolition of explosives and anti-terrorism. He was eulogised as an obedient young man who had a promising future in the Kenya Police Service. He made great contributions to his family and community, they said. In 2016, the government promised financial support to families of the 11 GSU officers who died in the Naivasha accident on December 10. The offi cers were among the 43 people killed after a lorry with flammable materials rammed 14 cars and burst into flames at Karai on Nairobi-Naivasha highway. The officers were attached to the presidential guard at State House. “I take this opportunity to offer my family’s heartfelt condolences to the families of the fallen soldiers. We can condole with you but we cannot say that we feel the same way you do,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said. “We’ll ensure your lives continue normally with the support we’ll give.” In May last year, two AP officers were killed after their vehicle ran over an IED in Garissa county. A month later, four military officers were seriously injured when their vehicle hit an improvised explosive device in Gerrile, Wajir county.