Things are bananas, even for the untouchables. No one should be left to feel safe or protected. It’s reported the overtaxed public lost another Sh7 billion, again, in a Ministry of Health procurement scam. Sounds like loose change compared to hundreds of billions pilfered. However, health is about life and there was outright theft. The 37 CT scans should not have been or were not procured. In 2015, under the Managed Equipment Service, the Jubilee government ‘leased’ the machines for Sh42 billion and forced them on counties. The scanners should not have been procured separately but they were, though they were part of the ‘leased’ equipment. Their cost was inflated to Sh227 million instead of Sh148 million, at Sh40 million per unit in 2016. It’s all in the Auditor General’s report. If they were supplied the pay was Sh81 million. If not, and it’s likely because the MES had taken care of them, Kenyans were Sh227 million poorer. Though the procurement was between the Kenya and China governments, the skimmers preferred a single-sourced company. It does not stop there. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi raised the earliest alarm. From Lamu, he warned and questioned the veracity of the MES in early 2015 as the government forcibly installed equipment in county health facilities with no space or personnel to operate them. The government single-sourced suppliers for consumables of the Sh42 billion equipment such as X-ray films, in what amounted to corrupt gain. This amounts to profiteers stealing thrice; through the initial procurement, secondary CT scans and in single-sourced supply of consumables all glossily inflated. The counties are repaying the cumulative Sh49 billion at Sh10 billion a year, for equipment that is not in use. This equipment is rusting at health facilities’ yards. Where counties have found space for the equipment, they are unable to operate them for lack of installation, qualified personnel and highly prized consumables. The heist schemers that ducked the Kenya-China agreement are in government, known, culpable and should be charged for stealing public money. Indeed, promised installation and maintenance by the supplier identified by the ministry remains a pipe dream. These point to the escalation of the rip-off to include money paid for undelivered services. This is a far cry from the tall tale new Health ministry PS Peter Tum enthralled the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee with. Tum was either reading another’s script or was being effusive, obstructive or evasive. He feebly attempted to justify the theft, saying the unit cost included construction of new buildings, air conditioners, special thermal film printers, report printers, warranty and spare parts for five years, et al. Cornered, Tum said installation of the equipment was currently “ongoing at Kenyatta and Eldoret referral hospitals, and 34 other county referral hospitals’. It’s four years since money was spirited away and it’s sufficient to put handcuffs on the likes of Tum. At the onset, government ensured screaming headlines to prepare the nation for the scam. The screaming “Cancer equipment set to reduce trips to India” and “China deal to boost scan kits in 37 county hospitals” were the order of the day. The complacence that followed indicts the people manning the ministry’s gates — James Macharia, now Infrastructure CS, and Nicholas Muraguri, now Lands PS. It does the President no credit to appear to have rewarded them with more financially expansive and sleaze-prone dockets. Anyhow, the President is now an avowed crime-fighter. Let him not let this specific malady in the Health ministry go unpunished. There will be no universal healthcare without this corrective measure. Let him not be lied to. Let him order the shadowy perpetrators who signed off this theft be identified, fired, prosecuted and the proceeds of crime recovered to instal and operate the abandoned equipment. Only then can Kenyans begin to give his war cry the benefit of the doubt. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com