The national human rights lobby has released a report on insecurity in North Rift. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights accused politicians, KDF, the police and other security agencies of violating human rights in volatile areas. The KNCHR released the ‘Mending The Rift’ report at a leaders’ meeting in Eldoret town yesterday. Chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori said a public inquiry showed that last year KDF were responsible for 21 human rights violations against women and children in 2014.  MURDER, TORTURE The violations were carried out after 19 police officers were killed at Kasarani in Turkana East. The violations allegedly committed by KDF include murder, people’s disappearances, torture, destruction of property, slaughter of livestock and looting. The commission wants investigations started and action taken against the officers and politicians mentioned. They are said to have abetted violence and attacks in Baringo, Pokot, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet and Samburu. Mbogori said, “We recommend that the President, the IG and Chief of General Staff should acknowledge the violations and apologise to the children, women and those living with disability.” She said they should also apologise to the Pokot community.  RECOMMENDATIONS The report recommends a comprehensive disarmament and other measures to stop proliferation of guns which compromise security. The enquiry was conducted between May and July last year in 12 locations. They include Marigat, Kabarnet, Lodwar and Eldoret. The agency organised 27 public hearing sessions, where 165 individuals presented oral testimonies. Mbogori said there was acute underdeployment of security agencies in the affected regions. The report says between 2005 and 2015, some 573 people were killed, 1,752 injured, 589 houses destroyed and livestock worth Sh478 million stolen. More than 38 schools were damaged. The communities have limited access to clean and safe water, education, healthcare and worship — more than 29 churches were destroyed. “Causes of insecurity include historic, cultural, contemporary administrative lapses, political incitement and marginalisation,” Mbogori said. She added that the cultural causes included high bride prices set by communities, forcing youth to engage in banditry. Contemporary causes include incitement by politicians from some of the communities.  BOUNDARIES NOT A TRIGGER Mbogori said administrative boundaries between counties had been clearly marked since 1932 and did not cause conflicts. The agency added that the Pokot community had been engaged in conflicts with neighbours Ilchamus, Marakwet, Tugen and Samburu. The fight was sparked by longtime marginalisation by successive governments that led to general under development. The report said the quality of education is in its death bed in Tiaty, Pokot Central and Pokot North. Thousands of children are out of school. Some schools, the report indicates, have been shut down for 20 years. Those operating have few or no teachers. The KNCHR says Tiaty constituency has 54 health facilities in insecure areas, with 14 hospitals closed. The constituency is listed as the worst affected, with only 48 nurses to serve more than 173,000 people. “The average distance for residents to health facilities is 40km and many residents, including pregnant women, die on the way to hospital,” Mbogori said. Thousands of people remain homeless due to insecurity, the report ads. The chairperson said efforts to resolve the conflicts require multi-approaches at the national, regional and local levels. “We recommend an audit of displaced persons so they can get help through a national fund to be established,” said Mbogori.  COMPENSATION She said victims should be compensated by the government for its inability to protect them and their property. The human rights agency says government officers whose rights were violated should also be compensated. Mbogori said there should also be an audit of human rights violations by KDF and other security agencies. The report by the commission adds that the National Police Reservists played a role in improving security, however, their recruitment, training and disengagement was unsystematic.