The convenient location of the Ole Sereni Hotel is enriched by the scenic views and a peaceful ambience. I stayed in a Club Room, which has a sitting area next to tall windows facing the Nairobi National Park. The wilderness was lush and green after the rains, and five buffaloes spent the day at the nearby waterhole.  The rich red colour scheme of the room creates a vibrant atmosphere, complimented by paintings of tribal art by contemporary Kenyan artists. The double-glazed windows kept out the noise of planes and traffic from the busy Mombasa Road. I peeked into one of the suites. It is a spacious chamber with separate living room and bedroom, dining table, four-poster bed and Jacuzzi bathtub. It was drizzling so I did not get to enjoy the swimming pool overlooking the park. Instead I indulged at the Duma Spa in the hotel’s health club, popular with both in-house guests and outsiders. I opted for a full-body aromatherapy massage offered inside a stone-wall room with soft background music playing. I followed up with a session in the steam room and left feeling totally relaxed. The other popular spa treatments are the Swedish massage and Deep Tissue massage. Early bird customers can take advantage of their special offer of a free manicure, when you book a one-hour massage between 6am–12noon. In the late afternoon, we gathered for cocktails and snacks at the first floor lounge, which, along with the adjacent Waterhole Bar, were busy with an afterwork crowd and vibrant jazz music. Dinner was in the fourth floor Eagles Restaurant, a fine dining eatery with lofty views of the park. Tall gas lamps kept away the chill from our veranda table as we dined on excellent steaks and good wine. Eagles has a private dining room, uniquely designed with a yellow-barked acacia tree stretching up to the ceiling. Breakfast the next day was in the Big Five restaurant, an all-day dining room with the option of indoor or outdoor seating. The staff were warm and friendly, while the food selection on the buffet was extensive.  Location: Mombasa Road Contacts: 020 3901000, 0732 191000, info@ole-serenihotel.com  Star Rating: 4/5