A showdown is looming between Kakamega MCAs and the executive over the removal of the ward development and bursary funds from the 2018-19 budget. The executive led by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the two funds are unconstitutional and should be scrapped from the Sh13 billion budget set to be tabled in the assembly before end of this month. Neighbouring Bungoma, Busia and Vihiga counties have retained the two funds and have already disbursed bursary cash to schools. Kakamega MCAs are now threatening to shoot down the budget when presented in the assembly for approval. June 30 is the final day all counties must have their budget approved by their assemblies. MCAs started a three-day retreat in Kisumu yesterday to interrogate the proposed estimates. They want to retain the two programmes or use the retreat as a session to reject the 2018-19 budget. A group of MCAs are collecting signatures to impeach speaker Morris Buluma. They accuse him of being Oparanya’s hatchet man in the plot to bulldoze through the budget when it is tabled in the house against the wishes of the majority. “We want to use the retreat to interrogate what is in the budget and what is not in and why. I can tell you that the ward and bursary issues are the elephant in the room,” Minority leader David Ndakwa (ANC) said. Though ODM enjoys the majority in the 89-member assembly, scrapping of the two programmes seems to have rattled the ward reps across the board. Idakho East MCA Benson Manuni (UDP) said centralising all resources by the governor is meant to force MCAs to lick his boots so he can give them favours. “When you remove the two programmes, you have in essence cut us off from the electorate. The same governor will go there and tell voters how their MCAs are not performing,” he said. Residents in the 12 subcounties demanded the two funds be included in this year’s budget during public participation by the assembly Budget and Appropriation committee. The residents said the absence of the two funds would affect development and education of bright children from poor families. On Thursday, Budget committee chairman Willis Opuka said the panel has created ward based projects in to take care of the two scrapped funds.   