Nairobi County Assembly Clerk Jacob Ngwele yesterday defended himself against claims of irregular transfer of Sh45 million meant for MCAs' car loan. Auditor General Edward Ouko had flagged out the transfer in his report saying it was done contrary to the provisions of Public Finance Management (PFM) Act. The funds were transferred from MCAs' Car Loan Account to the Operations Account without the consent of the county Finance executive. Appearing before the Public Accounts committee, Ngwele, who is the assembly's chief accounting officer and the Car Loan Funds administrator, explained that he transferred the money to operations account so as to pay to pay salaries and imprests to MCAs and staff. This, he said,  was ocassioned by the delays by the county treasury to  release money for the members' salary. “The treasury had delayed in releasing cash meant for salaries. But I deposited back the money immediately we received it from the county treasury," Ngwele said. He also told the commitee led by Mabatini MCA Wilfred Odalo that the actual amount transferred was Sh42 million and not Sh45 million as captured in the auditor's report. The clerk,  who is also the chief legal advisor to the assembly said that the law allows for his office to borrow from one account to another, provided that they notified the finance executive. Auditor seconded to the county by the auditior general however faulted Ngwele for not writing to finance CEC to authorise the transfer. “We agree that the money was returned but was there approval? You might not have committed an illegality but you definitely committed an irregularity by going against the PFM act,” said the auditor said. But he explained that he notified the then finance CEC. "He (the then finance CEC) was hard to deal with and that can be confirmed by even the committee itself. We had a very difficult CEC who did not approve the transaction. We however availed detailed correspondence to the committee on how the money was spent and paid back,” he said. Chairman Odalo asked why the office of the clerk took long to deposit the money back to the loan account. The clerk said the money was deposited back immediately they received it from the county treasury. Kilimani Mca, Moses Ogeto who called on the clerk to adhere to the PFM Act. The auditor had done a special audit on the Nairobi County Assembly Service Board car loan scheme fund, that had indicated the amount of Sh45 million was irregularly transferred to five other accounts for unexplained purposes. “A review of the funds cashbook revealed that the money was irregularly transferred in 2016-17 from the fund account to various accounts without approval of the county executive committee member for finance. Consequently, the County assembly was in breach of law,” read the report in part. 