An NGO has urged the Mombasa government to expose the companies contracted to clear garbage. In a letter to the Environment executive Godfrey Nato, Muslims for Huma Rights protested the county’s “despicable” condition of solid waste disposal and management. Nato is yet to respond to the June 17 letter addressed by executive director Hassan Abdille. On Friday, he acknowledged recipient and through director of communication Richard Chacha, said the letter’s contents did not warrant his response. Prior to sending the letter, Muhuri said it conducted a fact-finding mission and established “the allegations are true”. “Heaps of garbage lie all over the county,” Abdille said, citing Mishomoroni, Kisauni, Kongowea, Changamwe and Majengo. Abdille said residents’ health is at risk. The executive director said the efficient solid waste management has not been achieved in Mombasa. He said the city’s aesthetics have deteriorated and sustainable waste management has not been achieved. “Unfortunately, essential services are severely lacking or minimal, exposing residents to all sorts of environmental-related diseases,” Abidlle said. Muhuri said cases of cholera, malaria and chikungunya keep recurring because of mounds of garbage.  LEAVING LEGACY “Families are living with waste in their houses feeling dehumanised,” Abdille said. But the executive termed the allegations “baseless”. “We have not contracted anyone one to do garbage collection. We are doing it ourselves. The trucks are ours,” he said. Abdille demanded the budget to clean Mombasa be made open. According to Mombasa draft budget for the financial year 2018-19, the department of environment, waste management and energy has been awarded Sh531 million. The county also intends to set up a Sh6.5 billion recycling plant to tackle the garbage menace that has hurt Governor Hassan Joho’s development record. The governor has given a five-year time frame for the project in a move considered to be about his desire to leave a legacy. Joho last Sunday said Kibarani dumpsite will be shut down this month. “Fifty per cent of work is now complete. The dumpsite will be recreated to a level never seen before,” Joho said. He said punitive measures will be taken against illegal dumpers. “Their cars will be seized for one month and daily fines of Sh10,000 will be charged. This is a law that I want passed,” Joho said. The governor said some residents dirtify the town and post pictures on social media to show he has failed. Meanwhile, ANC said it will be forced to sue the county for failing to keep the town clean. Coast secretary general Jimmy Azangu said, “We may be in one coalition but the life of the locals is more important.”