A parliamentary committee has cut funding for the National Youth Service (NYS) after two corruption scandals, the committee's chairman said on Thursday. Dozens of senior officials and business people are being held in custody and face charges related to the theft of nearly $100 million from the youth agency. Kimani Ichung'wa, the chairman of the influential budget committee in the National Assembly, told Reuters they had cut the proposed budget for the agency for the financial year starting next month by Sh8 billion ($79.40 million) to stem the rampant theft of funds. The state-run NYS trains young people and deploys them to projects ranging from construction to traffic control. The Treasury had proposed to allocate 18.36 billion shillings to the agency to fund its programmes for the 2018/19 fiscal year. "Any ministry department or state agency that is subject to investigation for misappropriation of public funds, we will ensure that we take measures so that we don't give them more money to steal," Ichungwah said. "We will just ensure even for NYS we give them money to continue with ordinary operations but not excessive budgets which could be subject to abuse." Read: Threats to national security, peace: Why NYS suspects were denied bail More on this: NYS suspects accuse magistrate of rushing case, say rights violated The current scandal follows one three years ago at the same agency. Earlier this year, a court acquitted nearly two dozen NYS officials of charges related to the alleged theft of Sh48 million in 2015. In 2016, the then-head of Kenya's anti-graft agency said Kenya was losing a third of its state budget - the equivalent of about $6 billion - to corruption every year. While the Finance ministry disputed the losses were that large and instead blamed poor accounting, President Uhuru Kenyatta acknowledged that corruption had reached levels that threatened national security. He has vowed to fight graft in his second and final term and has unveiled a range of measures including compelling officials who work in government procurement departments to take lie detector tests. Ichung'wa said his committee had also lopped Sh450 million from the proposed allocation to a government programme for planting trees in schools, which he said had already gobbled up Sh2 billion. Parliament has to adopt the recommendations of Ichungwah's committee before they can take effect. Other details: Uhuru now goes after tender officers in graft war Also see: NIS dossiers drive Uhuru's war on graft Click here for more political news