Belated birthday wishes are in order for my city, Nairobi. In the last week of May, she turned 119 years of age. It was in 1899, a day somewhere in the middle of the last week of May, that Nairobi came into existence. If you haven’t read up on the city’s history, I suggest you do. It is an action-packed thriller with dabs of comedy, tragedy and misadventure. A colourful character as Nairobi, full of pluck and who has led such an eventful life, has so much to teach us about life’s truths. I’ll give you just three examples. One. Life will always throw you a curve ball, and so, expect the unexpected. Back when we were kids, we were taught that before you cross the road, look right, look left, then look right again. If the road is clear, walk across the road. The logic behind this is, if you’re standing on a pavement in Kenya, vehicles approaching you from the right will be of more immediate danger as they’ll be closest to you the moment you step off the pavement. And so you look to your right first, then to your left, which is farther away, and then look right a second time, just to be doubly sure. The reasonable expectation here being nothing will be immediately coming at you from the left. Now, if you live in Nairobi, not only will a matatu bear down on you from the left, driving on the wrong side of the road, you might also get run over by a boda boda from either side while you’re still on the pavement. The unexpected is guaranteed in Nairobi, so expect it. Life truth two. Never underestimate the human capacity to believe in fairy tales. People do actually believe that Nairobi is a place of wealth. They see big expensive cars, homes with pools, brand-name coffee houses, spectacular malls and they think, ‘See how people in Nairobi live. I can have that, too, if I go to live there.’ So they all troop to Nairobi, which would explain why almost 10 per cent of the Kenyan population is crowded inside one little city, in a country that is the 47th largest in the world in terms of land mass. Humans see glitter, and believe the castle is made of gold. The facts in the face of the fairy tale stand little chance. And here are the facts: very few people drive those big cars, and of those who do, even fewer can afford to both maintain the car and get out from under the debt of buying that car. As for grand homes with pools, or even a house with indoor plumbing, the fact is most people in Nairobi live in informal settlements. Sixty per cent of the city’s population (according to World Population Review), resides in shack-jammed slums. And the slums are jammed because they occupy only six per cent of Nairobi land. Nairobi is not a castle of gold. For most, it is a cardboard shack they can barely afford to pay for.  But people will believe what they want to believe, even if it’s a fairy tale. Three. Almost nothing in life is free. Not even hospital parking space. Ask any Nairobian, born and bred, lungs saturated with city smog, and they’ll tell you, if it’s free, it’s suspect. Nairobi is an experience. ‘Experience is the teacher of all things.’ — Julius Caesar. What a city.