Mike is
up first thing the next morning. “I have to go for a meeting,” he tells me.
“It’s OK, go back to sleep,” he says as I try to get up. “I’ll be back by
11am.” I doze
off again. He leaves me a fresh towel to use after I take a shower and leaves.
He’s being so nice to me that I begin to think that the shift I sensed last
night was all in my head. He returns at 11am on the dot. “Are you still mad at
me?” he asks. I look
over at him and say nothing. He takes his clothes off and joins me in bed.
“What are you watching?” he asks. “Nothing
interesting,” I respond. This
time, we make love. First, he does nothing but kiss me for a very long time.
He’s actually a really good kisser. But in all fairness there’s very little
Mike doesn’t excel at in the bedroom. For some strange reason, probably because
of the shift I sensed in him last night, I do something really idiotic. This is
the type of stuff I write editorials about. This is the type of stuff they tell
you not to do in schools, locker rooms and the local donut shop. This is the
type of stuff your 12-year old sibling would laugh at you for because you
should know better. This is wrong on so many levels – Are you ready for it? Although
in my defence, this crap happens all the time. You meet someone, have sex a few
times, then, for some unfathomable reason, you think you’ve absolved each other
of any communicable diseases the other may have and bam! No condom. This is what
I’m letting happen right now. I don’t really know anything about this guy and
he has no idea what I get up to either – Why are we having unprotected sex? He
seems to be loving it at any rate, he’s making all sorts of declarations. “I’ll do
anything for you,” he says. “Daddy will give his baby girl anything she wants.” Really?
Is this a true story? Or is he role-playing? Could this be the whole
‘anything-a-man-says-when-he’s-inside-of-you-doesn’t-count’ shit? Either
way, a man saying he’ll do anything for you, will make you come - Very quickly.
He cuddles me when we’re done. “Are we
not using condoms now?” I ask. He
ignores me. “Did you hear what I asked?” I insist. “I’m OK.
You’re OK. What’s the issue?” he snaps back. The
shift I sensed last night is back. He gets out of bed and heads to the spare
room. He lies down there and makes some calls. I get out of bed and head to the
kitchen. His fridge is empty. I call for some take out. “Are you
hungry?” I call out. He
responds in the affirmative and I order some food for him as well. I go into
the spare room and find him lying on the bed. He’s naked. I lie across him, my
head on his tummy. “Why are
you hiding away in here?” I ask. “I’m
just making some calls,” he responds. The food
gets there soon after and we eat. “I have meetings so I need to leave,” he
says. “Would you like to go to Mt Kenya tomorrow?” “OK…” I
say. It’s a weekend plan, why not? “You
should go home so you can pack,” he says. “I’ll pick you up tomorrow.” He seems
to be in a hurry to get rid of me. I remember that just this morning he left me
there to go for a meeting. And a few days before, he had done the same. He’s
never asked me to leave because he needed to go somewhere. What has
changed?   