MPs were shocked on Monday to learn that the Interior ministry bought four multi billion-shilling helicopters for the National Police Service without approval by the House. The Committee on Administration and National Security made an impromptu visit to the NPS Airwing in Nairobi. The team chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange was told that the aircraft, valued at about Sh4 billion, will arrive from Italy on Tuesday. Director Rogers Mbithi told the lawmakers that the helicopters will be received at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. He said procurement was done by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and the NPS led by Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. The helicopters were bought from Augusta Westland Company. “As Airwing, we only gave specifications and left the rest to the ministry and the National Police Service,” he said, adding that another two choppers will arrive at a later date. Koinange said: “The committee was not informed. Members were surprised that aircraft can be bought without their knowledge. But we will follow up to the end." Fred Matiang'i is the Cabinet Secretary in charge of the Interior ministry. Mbithi showed the committee two aircraft at the Airwing that were not being used due to lack of repairs.  He said police risk losing chopper licences from the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority because they don’t have insurance cover. “We have a big fight with KCAA because our aircraft are not insured,” he said. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa and Koinange questioned why police aircraft were being serviced by external agencies. “This department plays a critical role in enhancing the security of our country. This trend of having other organs repairing aircrafts is very worrying,” Koinange said. Barasa said: “The amount of money the government is spending on KWS for the repair of police aircraft is huge yet the same government is spending a lot of cash training experts in this Airwing." Mbithi said their choppers are repaired by Kenya Wildlife Service because they have not acquired the Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO) status from KCAA for it to service them. “This Airwing is governed by the KCAA unlike the Kenya Air Force which is independent. We are in the third stage of acquiring the AMO. We have well-trained personnel but we can’t service the aircraft,” the Director said. Click here for the latest political news