A magistrate has ordered Kisumu Central AP boss Benjamin Koima to provide the list of officers deployed to the subcounty between August 8 and 16 last year. The order is in relation to the inquest into the death of Baby Pendo. Koima told the inquest that he did not know the AP officers who were deployed to the area. Earlier, former Kusumu Central OCS John Thiringi said he was not aware of the number and names of those deployed. A team of GSU and AP officers were deployed. Thiringi said details of those deployed were contained in an operation order, a document with the list of officers and firearms assigned to them. The team was under the command of former Kisumu Central police boss Christopher Mutune. When presented with the list of AP officers who were deployed to his area, Koima said he did not know them.  DIG ORDER “I’m seeing this list for the first time. The officers are stated as APs but they were not under my command,” Koima said. Magistrate Beryl Omollo who is leading the inquest told Koima to provide an email sent to him by the Deputy Inspector General (DIG) in charge of Administration Police. Omollo directed Koima to also provide the list of APs deployed in Kisumu Central between August 8 and 16 when election-related chaos rocked the lakeside city. Koima said he redeployed APs in Kisumu Central to guard polling stations, government installations and VIPs. He acted on an order from the DIG in charge of APs. “He should also produce a duty roster of the officers under his jurisdiction that he redeployed,” Omollo said. Sixteen witnesses have so far testified in the public inquest into the klilling of six-month-old Baby Samantha Pendo. Pendo died in August last year after she was allaegedly clobbered by police at their home in Nyalenda. Government consultant pathologist Dickson Mchana said the infant died of internal bleeding due severe head injuries. Mchana told the inquest the injuries were caused by blunt force trauma and not a sharp object. He stated that there was bleeding above and below the brain cover and into the brain. Pediatrician Sam Oula who attended to Pendo at the Aga Khan Hospital said the minor’s death was due to bleeding in the brain. Oula said Pendo did not respond to treatment. She was pale and had a swelling on the head. Pendo’s parents Lenser Achieng and Joseph Abaja have also testified. Those yest to testify are former county commander Titus Yoma, Mutune and GSU officers who were deployed to Nakumatt, Kachok and areas bordering Nyalenda estate. In an emotional testimony, Lenser told the inquest how police first broke into her brother-in-law’s house where they heard screams for help. She said she pleaded with the officers not to beat her, saying she had a baby.  SESSION HALTED “One officer allowed me to pass but the other tried to hit me. Another hit me on the back and my baby was also hit as I turned,” Achieng said. “Pendo grabbed and held me tightly. There was foam in her mouth and her head immediately swelled.” She said her husband was beaten. The session was temporarily halted as Achieng was overwhelmed by emotions. Achieng said another officer asked her to perform first aid on the baby. Pendo was rushed to hospital after the officers retreated. 