Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa on Friday launched the construction of Sh20 million ultramodern education offices in her constituency. Speaking during the groundbreaking ceremony, Jumwa said the project would go a long way in helping to uplift education standards of Kilifi County. The MP has been trending on social media since Thursday after reports emerged that her ODM party was planning to oust her as a Parliamentary Service Commissioner after she recently declared her support for DP William Ruto(Jubilee). “In politics, I am on top and in development am leading, I am trending until now and I will be trending more on development matters,’’ she said. The MP said she will not accept to be controlled by people who were opposed to development as she is the one who will be answerable to the electorate after five years. Jumwa told the education officials not to sympathize with her because of the current threats of removing her from the Parliamentary Service commission as she is a politician and those fighting her were also politicians. “No gold can shine without fire, the current wars are being spearheaded by politicians and am a politician. I shall fight with them, we shall talk with them and a solution will be reached,’’ she said confidently. In July the legislator said she would officially launch the first girls’ national school in the constituency as part of promoting the girl child education. Already construction work for the one storey modern education offices building has started and shall take four months to be complete. “Today is a big day for seeing the initiative for Malindi breaking the ground for the first education office that will be an eye-opener even for other neighbouring sub-counties,’’ she said. Jumwa pledged to fulfil her campaign agenda to prioritize education and promised to focus on projects that shall assist students, teachers and parents. She said once the building is complete she would ensure the building is fully furnished. Charles Ndegwa the Deputy Coast Regional Coordinator of Education who was also present lauded the MP for initiating such a project saying it would be one of the biggest in the region as other counties had no offices of their own. Also read: KOT roast Murkomen for praising Aisha Jumwa's support for Ruto Click here for the latest political news