Germany Vs Sweden Saturday 9pm No-one would have expected the world champions to lose any group game in this tournament let alone their opener against Mexico. Even though Mexico could not be underrated given that they have always been in the top 20 in the world football rankings; Germany have been at number one for a while and has a squad to die for! But it seems that their envious squad is all talk and little action. They won the Confederations Cup last year in Russia with very youthful players but selected their aging players to play when it really mattered. Perhaps Joachim Leow needed to acknowledge that times have moved on and not selected names but performers. He paid for. Today, they play a Swedish side that won their opener against South Korea with a penalty and the only goal of the game. Even though Sweden played well in their opener, they will be up against a German Machine that cannot afford a second slip up. The world champions’ experienced squad have more mental strength than just about any other side at the games. They know that they took Mexico for granted last week, and it won’t happen again. Fact is, the Germans played well last week but they couldn’t score. Today, they will and I sort of feel sorry for the Swedes. My Prediction: Die Mannschaft 3-1 The Blagult  England Vs Panama Sunday 3pm England’s opening game of the World Cup against Tunisia was not as easy as analysts may have predicted. Given the talent in Gareth Southgate’s squad this time round, it looked as if the Three Lions would sail through the group stage with ease but the North African side gave them a run for their money. In fact, the English needed Harry Kane to rescue them in injury time of the 90 minutes to earn maximum points from the tie. It did at some point look like England would go down the road of the likes of Argentina and Brazil who registered draws in their opening games. Panama, however, struggled through their opener against Belgium and lost 3-0 but we have seen teams that were thrashed in their openers coming back stronger in their second game. Panama, like Morocco do not want to be out with a game still to play so they will give the English a hard time. I, however, don’t believe they have the pedigree in their squad to do so. England also know they have to step up following the scare in their opening game. My Prediction: Three Lions 2-0 Los Canaleros  Japan Vs Senegal Sunday 6pm Japan surprised a lot by dismissing Colombia 2-1 in their opening fixture of the World Cup. Shinji Kagawa, who was in such great form, and the team around him delivered as well. Japan has been rising in world football ever since they co-hosted the world showpiece in 2002. They play a very quick attacking game but so do the Lions of Taranga. Africa’s pride and joy were very impressive at a time when all hope in African football was dwindling. The West Africans at some point looked like they were going to smash Poland but I think fatigue caught up with them late in the game and they began to lose concentration. That saw them concede a goal when they should have added a third, making for a very nervy ending. I must commend head coach Aliou Cisse, the only black coach at the tournament this time round, of working on a great defense. As long as the backline can keep their concentration for a full 95 odd minutes, then no team will score against them. They will especially need to be on their toes given Japan’s quick frontmen. My prediction: The Blue Samurai 1-3 The Lions of Taranga