Survivors of the Gikomba market fire tragedy are grateful to be alive. It's sad. I spoke to three youths who jumped from a sixth floor and broke their legs. It's unfortunate that a Kenyan goes to sleep and doesn't know whether they'll awake safe and secure. We need to do much more in fire and disaster response. Many counties take emergency response for granted. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr has introduced a Bill on Disaster Risk Management. About six institutions, including the Red Cross, police cross, police and county governments simultaneously handle disasters. We need a coordinated disaster response to end duplication and save time. We want roles and resources defined. Disaster response is not only about immediate action but also early warning. We have been seeing Gikomba market razed all these years, so why don't we have a permanent fire engine there? Governor Mike Sonko presented 17 fire engines but where are they? Nairobi has 17 constituencies and small fire engines that can reach tight places should be stationed in every ward. We, politicians, are tired of visiting victims of Gikomba market fires in hospital. A few months later we say sorry after another fire. Citizens may even think we're happy about fires. We praise new DCI George Kinoti for his good work in fighting corruption and ask him to help us end the Gikomba and Muthurwa market fire tragedies. Suppose this fire occurred in Kileleshwa or Lavington — people would have been fired. MCAs, counties and agencies should get serious. We shouldn't take Gikomba fires as the norm because they affect 'lesser' people. We've become complacent. Who fights for the poor in Nairobi and Kenya at large? In Kenya we have accepted fire tragedies but many countries do not. The Senate will summon and question agencies responsible. As leaders, we will personally support victims but we ask the government to also help. We are going to clear all victims' hospital bills and we want to ensure that those left homeless receive shelter. The Nairobi county senator spoke to the Star   