Two prisoners serving between 10 and 15 years imprisonment escaped yesterday morning from the Malindi GK Prison under what authorities said were unclear circumstances. Jacob Deche from Kaloleni and Karisa Katana of Kilifi town reportedly escaped on foot moments after they were assigned their duties in the prison farms. It is still not clear how they ran away in spite of surveillance in broad daylight. One of the prisoners broke the news to the press by sending a text message. He said his colleague had fled due to torture and mistreatment from wardens after serving more than 10 years at the prison. Journalists could not immediately confirm if the SMS was from the prisoner. After sending the message, the phone went off. In the message the “prisoner” said they were being subjected to hard labour and torture. “Juzi kuna wenzetu waligoma wakenda kuwatoa nguo uchi wa mnyama wakawapiga sana baada ya kujua kuwa waliambia wanahabari (Two days ago our colleagues went on hunger strike; they (officers) went and undressed and beat them thoroughly after realising they had leaked the matter to the media)”. The inmate revealed that there are prison warders in the area who are notorious for torturing prisoners. At the Malindi GK Prison there was tension as officers spoke in low tones. Journalists were first informed that the officer in charge, Jonathan Mwavita, was holed up in a meeting with deputy commissioner of prisons and regional commander Joseph Mutevesi. Mutevesi later confirmed the escape, saying he came to the prison after receiving reports of two prisoners missing from the facility. Addressing a press conference at the prison, he said the circumstances surrounding their escape were still not clear. However, he said they have launched investigations to bring the culprits to book. Disciplinary action against officers will be taken, he said. He said the incident had taken them by surprise as it has never happened for long. “The information we have is that they had left the prison for work,’’ he said. Click here for the latest political news