Residents of Kimilili Constituency in Bungoma have pleaded with the National Assembly for sniffer dogs that they believe will help curb insecurity. They said this on Friday in a memorandum to the Committee on Administration and National Security. The 10-member team met residents of the constituencies’ four wards of Kamukuywa, Maeni, Kimilili and Kibingei. The people told the team that they want officers to use dogs in their tours of Makhonge-Kundan village in Kamukuywa, Matili village in Kimilili and Chebukwabi market in Kibinge. The tours are part of an inspection of areas prone to crime. The committee members asked security agencies in the area to be alert and to ensure all criminals are punished. Chairman Paul Koinange welcomed the idea of sniffer dogs while noting that insecurity affects development, business and education. Koinange said they were gathering crucial information that would help them raise the insecurity issue in the Assembly. The Kiambaa MP noted that they will not tolerate police officers who collude with criminals. “We are here to listen to your grievances. We want to find a lasting solution to the insecurity menace in this place," he told the meeting at Makhonge-Kundan village. Kimilili has been rocked by a series of crimes including an incident last week, in which AP officers manning the home of Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka at Mapera area helped repulse thugs who had attacked villagers in the night. They patrolled the area with MP Didimus Barasa for about four hours. Barasa pledged to facilitate the construction of a fully functional police station at Makhonge/Kundan area using the Constituency Development Fund. He said Chesamisi AP camp will remain to boost security in the area. "I don’t want to see my people being attacked day in day out,” the lawmaker said and asked the government to transfer all security personnel found colluding with criminals. “Let the government deploy enough security agents to Kimilili so that they patrol and keep at bay all criminals from Mt Elgon. We don’t want our people to live in fear." Resident John Were said that most of the criminals in the area come from the neighboring Mt Elgon Constituency where  has imposed a curfew due to insecurity. Read: Politicising crime in Mt Elgon will fuel SLDF, G-5 reunion Also read: Revoke 'ineffective' Mt Elgon curfew, Bungoma leaders ask Matiang'i Sirisia John Waluke and his Kanduyi counterpart Wafula Wamunyinyi asked the government to crack the whip on all criminals. “We will not tolerate insecurity in the country. It is affecting businesses and education. Let criminals be dealt with accordingly,” Wamunyinyi said. Waluke asked Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to withdraw the curfew in Mt Elgon to help residents heal. “We need education and businesses to pick up again. Where there is insecurity there is no development,” he said. Resident Patrick Wafula asked police to keep their sources protected so residents have confidence in them and to prevent mob justice. He added that bond terms should be stringent as suspected criminals harass residents when they are released. The committee will tour other parts of Bungoma on Saturday before proceeding to Busia County. Click here for the latest political news