Moi Girls' school administration is on the spot following accusations of an attempt to cover up the rape of one student and sexual assault of two others at the school on Saturday. Multiple interviews with students, some school staff, parents, and survivors of the ordeal point to a well-orchestrated scheme by the school to conceal all evidence and details. One of the survivors told the Star the school's administrators had promised to offer them scholarships if they remained silent on the matter. Students said a man donning a pair of shorts and a hooded jacket stormed their dormitory at around 2am and raped one of them before attacking two others with a similar motive. A survivor told the Star that she escaped after pleading with the man, who had already torn her clothes, that she was on her periods. "He tore my clothes to confirm. He slapped me severally threatening to slit my throat if I shouted. He groped the third girl before taking off having panicked," one of the girls said. She said that as the man assaulted her in the toilet, she could hear voices of other people around the place. See: [VIDEO] DCI probes alleged rape of three girls at Moi Girls' school Nairobi During a school assembly called 14 hours after the incident, the students who spoke narrated how they tried in vain to seek the intervention of the matron and the school administration. "One of us has had her entire precious life deflowered. But it saddens that when we tried to raise our voice on the issues, the school said the affected girls were pretending." "We were told that we should blame the ordeal on lesbianism," one girl said during the assembly attended by parents, the school's principal Jael Muriithi, and Ellyas Abdi - a director at the ministry of education. "You may say we are rebelling. No, I am just speaking out my heart. Today it is them tomorrow it might be me," one of the students said as they protested the schools' lack of seriousness in dealing with the case. "Just like the fire incident that killed 10 of our colleagues, we have not been told of what became of it. We hope on this one won’t be assumed on grounds we are not interested," she added. Another student said a female teacher instructed all those who were affected to take a shower, details which were corroborated by the survivors who spoke to the Star. The students said they had to pressure the school to take the girl to a hospital at around 7am after daybreak. It took the students' intervention to have the girl who was raped taken to Nairobi Women's Hospital in Hurlingham at around 8am. The girl's parents, who complained about the manner in which the test was handled at Nairobi Women's Hospital, said they sought a second opinion after a medic at the facility told them the results were negative. "We insisted to get a second opinion. It was then that another gynaecologist told us the results were positive," the parent said. They were later discharged back to school at around midday. Parents, who arrived at the school on hearing of the occurrences, said they were baffled by the contradictions in the results and demanded a second test. At around 2pm, the school was forced to take the girl to Kenyatta National Hospital together with officers from Lancet Kenya who carried out further tests. The results confirmed that the girl had been defiled. The girl and her parents were released from the hospital at about 1am Sunday. While addressing students and parents, the principal said they learned of the incident at about 5am though the girls said they reported the matter as early as 2am. But the principal blamed the students "for failing to be their sister’s keeper" by not informing the administration on time. Murithi and Nairobi Women's Hospital CEO Sam Thenya did not respond to the accusations of an attempt to cover up the incident. Parents blamed the school for not being proactive in dealing with the security situation at the school, having raised the same during last year's fire incident. "We learned about this through the media. The school didn't bother to inform us about this issue. Even when we turned up the security guy had been briefed to play daft," one parent said. The school, according to a senior investigating the matter, has not presented the other two affected girls to give their accounts to help in the probe. Administrators sent the girls home for one week as investigations into the incident continue. More on this: [VIDEO] Moi Girls' school sends students home for one week amid rape probe Click here for the latest political news