   MPs want public participation conducted before the government prepares the budget. The Budget and Appropriations Committee wants the Public Finance Management (PFM) Act reviewed to allow views of Kenyans included in the budget. The move will ensure the budget focuses on priority areas, the lawmakers said. The committee wants the Parliament to conduct public hearings on budget proposals between October and November every year. The process should start immediately after the Budget Review Outlook Paper (BROP) is submitted to the House. The committee, chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa, says the changes will address poor public participation in the budget making process. “This House should therefore amend the PFM law to ensure public participation
on the budget is conducted in the months of October and November,” Ichung’wa said. The BROP sets the basis for the share of the budget to be distributed to different sectors. MPs want it to include the views of taxpayers. If
the changes are adopted, MPs will embark on the public hearings to collect views of Kenyans on priority areas before
the Budget Policy Statement is finalised. The
national budget policy statement is often submitted to the House by the Treasury before February 15 of each year. The MPs also want to be informed on contractual agreements between the government and the private sector or donors. They want the Treasury to seeks House approval before
entering into financial agreements above Sh1 billion. Concerns have been raised on capital intensive projects undertaken by the executive
through Public Private Partnerships for the next five years. Lawmakers said they only become aware of the multi-billion
shilling agreements after they have commenced. "Any
contractual agreement worth more than Sh1 billion should be pre-approved by
Parliament beginning July 1,” the committee said in its
report to the House. The committee also recommended that resources allocated
to infrastructure, manufacturing and the agricultural sector be ring-fenced. “Any budgetary changes within the year should not affect the projects unless substantial reason is provided along with a plan on how
this will be mitigated,” the report on the 2018/19
budget states.    The powerful panel has also lauded the government’s vehicle leasing
programme and proposed that the project be extend to all other government
departments and the entire public sector as it is cheaper than purchasing of motor
vehicles.  The committee says the proposed changes will accelerate the government's Big Four agenda that forms the bedrock of the Sh2.5 trillion budget to be unveiled tomorrow. Treasury CS Henry Rotich will table in Parliament the budget estimates, with
key spending focusing on the President Big Four agenda. The Treasury has said1.9 trillion of the budget will come from tax collections
and the remaining “Sh600 billion will be plugged through loans and grants from
development partners or local borrowing. President Uhuru who took office in 2013 when Kenya’s budget was about Sh1.4
trillion bets on this year’s estimates to power ambitious projects tailored to
secure his legacy. While Rotich had proposed to the powerful parliamentary appropriations
committee a budget of Sh2.5trillion budget, the panel has proposed that the government’s
spending ceiling be put at Sh3 trillion. The Jubilee administration is pumping the biggest chunk of its budget into manufacturing,
improving food security, enhancing healthcare as well as improvement of living
conditions through affordable housing. Unlike last year when the Rotich read the budget 2 months earlier than usual
as the country was preparing for the August 8 polls, this year’s annual estimates
will be unveiled in line with the regional tradition.