The creative industries are coming of age
in most African countries and are arguably the most dynamic sectors in these
economies. Africans are more and more interested in content made in Africa: From Nollywood to Riverwood and Bongowood, Africans are
glued to their television screens watching local narratives produced by local
artists. Artists are breaking the
glass ceiling to make their mark in the international cultural, entertainment
and media space. Analysts and commentators in
major global publications have attempted to describe this creative renaissance
in Africa. Even sceptics have accepted it as an emerging market boom, as the
cautiously optimistic consider it a sleeping giant. The pragmatic envision it
as a possible alternative sourcing region of jobs and products to Asia. Its
converts are celebrating the sector, at times dubbed the orange economy, as
among of the world’s fastest-growing business arenas. While these opportunities for growth are exciting for practitioners, it is also
true that this success has primarily been built on an entrepreneur-driven
model. This produces great success for leading players, but is also occasioned
by massive skills gaps in the wider sector, infrastructure deficits, and low
coverage by public policy, which limits growth potential after any initial
surge. In Kenya, the government’s Big Four agenda is
the driving strategy for economic growth. At the heart of this
strategy is the creation of jobs, especially for young people, who are
the largest population demographic. Kenya’s youth population enjoys a good
education, a diverse cultural background and a dynamic entrepreneurial culture.
With these qualities, creatives in this demographic can easily produce high-quality products—music, film, gaming, fashion, design, visual and performing
arts, etc—create employment and make significant economic development, if accompanied by a catalytic policy and business
environment. In the absence of meaningful integration of
the creative and cultural industries into Kenya’s development plans, we
deliberately ignore a sector with a notably high multiplier effect—affecting
living standards and wages, as well as playing a role in crafting a nation’s
unique cultural identity. It also creates room for direct services in other
sectors, including hospitality and tourism, events,
insurance and education. In ignoring the creative and cultural industries, we
perpetuate age-old resource underutilisation, which is a major driver for
relocation and migration of creative capital to other countries. The industry contributes 5.3 per cent of the GDP, according to the Kenya
Copyright Board. If given the right business environment, development
incentives, and market opportunities, it presents a
tremendous opportunity to create jobs. It also presents a chance to export our unique cultural identity to the global
marketplace and position Kenya as a global destination for tourism,
the arts and entertainment. There is therefore a great need for strategic
alignment of private sector and public policy work towards the growth of this
essential sector. As currently set up, creative sector
practitioners carry a disproportionately high production cost burden compared
to other sectors. Music producers, filmmakers, fashion designers, game
developers and others suffer high taxes on importation of inputs, hardware and software,
as a result of under-investment in production and performance infrastructure. Studios, theatres, producers and others absorb high set-up costs, compounded by
high cost of credit due to an increased risk coupon, as well as the glaring
absence of public subsidies or incentives. This not only limits the ability of
practitioners to build capital, but impedes the growth potential of creative
businesses past the start-up phase. The regulatory environment for creative
industries suffers from competing mandates set up in different institutions
which require multiple and sometimes overlapping fees, licences and
permissions. The recent wave of arbitrary arrests of DJs and music performers,
high costs of drone operation licences, wanton restriction of films and
advertisements, threats on online content producers, complicated and opaque
zoning laws for entertainment, piracy and weak enforcement of intellectual
property rights, and poorly regulated importation of secondhand clothing, all
point to alarming amounts of red tape and poor application of laws
severely complicate the business environment. The question of skill gaps and talent
pipeline is also critical to future growth potential and competitiveness of the
creative industry. Beyond today’s successful practitioners, the need to invest
in the sector’s growth and development, and in the education of its
practitioners across all creative sector value chains, cannot be overstated. These challenges provide immense
opportunities for public-private collaborations. Once these bottlenecks are
adequately addressed, the creative sector will provide unparalleled prospects
for young people to build high-value businesses, where new ideas will come to
life, and where the highest potential for great profits, great jobs and happy
people will be found.  George
is the managing partner at HEVA Fund—a finance and
business support facility for creative industries in East Africa. www.hevafund.com   