SportPesa Premier League side Posta Rangers have completed signing former Tusker and Kenyan international forward Edwin Lavatsa for a three-year long contract. Lavatsa was axed at Tusker over the weekend alongside Collins Shivachi, Lawrence Kasadha, David Okello and David Mwangi as Robert Matano cracked his whip and off-loaded players who were not in his plans. According to Rangers’ chairman John Tonui, Lavatsa penned a three-year long deal and expressed hope of capturing two more players within the week. "We have signed Lavatsa for a three-year contract and we are confident we will bring in another quality player. We are in negotiation with another top player, who is likely to join us by this weekend." The striker was once touted as the solution to Harambee Stars striking menace but the lanky forward was forced to endure turbulent football life after exiting Gor Mahia in 2014. He was snapped by Gor after clearing his secondary school education at the talent rich Upper Hill High School in 2011 having impressed in the school games. He defied odds to cement a place in the starting eleven despite his young age. His dribbling artistry and formidable combination with Rama Salim and Dan Serunkuma scared opponents and this saw him earn his national team call up the same year for the Cecafa Senior Challenge. After donning the Gor Mahia jersey for three years, Lavatsa joined Algerian side MC Alger on an 18-month contract and fortunes were on his side as the club won the Algerian Cup after edging JS Kabaylie 4-3 in post match penalties to enrich his profile having also bagged KPL title for Gor in 2013 and Cecafa Senior Challenge trophy in 2012. Despite the good start in his international career, Lavatsa picked a nagging ankle injury which reduced his playing time and was released after six months. He had a brief stint with Mathare United in 2015 before decamping to Bandari in 2016, where he aided the dockers in lifting the Kenyan Super Cup after flooring Gor. Reoccurring injuries at Bandari reduced him to a bench-warmer and eventually found a new home at Tusker in January 2018. His four goals against Muhoroni in the penultimate match of the 2017 season caught the attention of the then Tusker interim coach Francis Baraza and was handed another platform to rekindle his career. However, the arrival of a no-nonsense head coach Robert Matano in April saw Lavatsa and four other players axed. Click here for the latest political news