Residents of Huruma in Nairobi, where a condemned building collapsed on Sunday, have accused county and national government officials of taking bribes to halt demolitions. They further claimed on Monday that the officials shield the developers. This is not the first time that a substandard building has collapsed in the area. ON April 29, 2016, a building collapsed after heavy rains leaving at least 52 dead. Read: Pregnant woman among three killed in Huruma tragedy Also read: Huruma death toll rises to 51  Huruma residents follow proceedings during a public forum on the demolition of unsafe buildings in the Nairobi estate, June 4, 2018. /JOSEPH NDUNDA Residents who spoke to the Star said sub-county and ward administrators, chiefs and their assistants have been compromised to allow developers to remove notices to vacate from their structures and allow them to carry on with construction. A developer forced to cut two storeys from his building, by the inter-agency committee on unsafe buildings, added three after reportedly offering cash to officials. Other unscrupulous developers paint over the notices and continue renting the houses to unsuspecting tenants. The residents also accused the officials of helping developers to put up buildings without approvals after receiving bribes. A police officer who requested anonymity recounted how unnamed county officials faked attacks by hired goons to stop demolitions during a previous exercise. The junior officer claimed the officials took bribes of Sh500,000 from a developer whose building had been marked for destruction. "We were here when they claimed to have been attacked. We did not see any of the militia they said were armed to attack them," the officer said.  Huruma resident Sadat Mukwaya speaks during a public forum called over the demolitions of unsafe buildings in the Nairobi estate, June 4, 2018. /JOSEPH NDUNDA On Monday, police offered to company the officials to thwart any such attacks as they marked the buildings on road reserves. Ward administrator Kiarie added that county officials did not know if the mandate to implement recommendations on unsafe buildings lay with them or with National Government Administration Officials. The complainants also accused the Nairobi Building Inspectorate (NBI) of failing to share details of reports on the death traps in the area, leaving them at the mercy of the landlords. "Today they have announced that 388 buildings are unsafe and must be demolished from tomorrow. We don't know whether we are living in those houses but we  are required to move," said Amos Kithinji. "The government did not inform us of the buildings which were found unfit and only those in this meeting know there shall be demolitions tomorrow. We should have been told whether we are living in unsafe buildings so as to prepare to move out."  Residents of Huruma in Nairobi at the site of the collapse of a condemned building, June 4, 2018. /JOSEPH NDUNDA Nairobi Regional Coordinator Kangethe Thuku announced that the government will begin the demolitions on Tuesday, whether or not the people move out. NBI Secretary Moses Nyakiongora said Nairobi has 650 unsafe buildings, 388 of them in Huruma. He said the government can only demolish one or two a day because of lack of equipment. On March 22, residents of Nairobi's Zimmerman estate accused National Construction Authority officials of selectively demolishing unsafe houses in the area. They asked the EACC to probe the authority, the NBI and Nairobi county officials who identified houses to be demolished. Related: Are building demolitions a cash cow? Zimmerman residents complain Click here for more political news