Former Kenyan Premier League side Ulinzi Stars will be seeking to arrest their poor run in the league when they host a high flying Gor Mahia side today at Afraha Stadium. After wrapping their first leg with back to back wins, Ulinzi have faded in the second leg of the season where a four-match winless streak has left them off the premiership title chasing pack. The two teams warmed for this high profile match with midweek SportPesa Shield assignments where Gor dispatched a little-known KenPoly 5-0 while the soldiers sailed to the round of 16 without breaking sweat as their opponents Kakamega Homeboyz failed to turn for their match. Ulinzi are seventh with 30 points, 10 behind Gor, who have four matches in hand. Statistics for the last 20 matches between the two lean on Gor’s side where they have won eight compared to their opponent’s four. Eight matches have ended in draws. Ulinzi will be seek to end their five-year winless run against Gor having celebrated their last three points off the champions in March 2013 courtesy of a double from Evans Amuoka. Meanwhile, a clash between former champions Bandari and Tusker highlight the 13 SportPesa Shield matches lined up for this weekend. Bandari, who clinched the title three years ago host the brewers at Mbaraki Stadium, Mombasa. Last year’s runners up Kariobangi Sharks will be up against a misfiring Wazito at Camp Toyoyo before paving way for a clash between KCB and Leysa. KPL side Posta Rangers travel to Kericho Green Stadium for a date with Kisumu Hot Stars while National Super League leaders Ushuru confront Mwatate United at Wundanyi Stadium. NSL debutants Kisumu All Stars host Riverplate at Moi Stadium Kisumu as Modern Coast Rangers entertain Ligi Ndogo at Hope Centre grounds. Tomorrow, Camp Toyoyo will host a double header where 2014 champions Sofapaka will face Baba Dogo United shortly before Zetech University play Friend Zone. Karuturi grounds host two encounters as Vihiga United play Vegpro while defending champions AFC Leopards will accost Rainforest. KPL promotion hopefuls Western Stima and Bidco United battle at Moi Stadium Kisumu while Nzoia Sugar will be seeking to end their three-match winless run against Kenya Police. Bungoma Superstars face Transfoc at Sudi Stadium.