It is becoming increasingly dangerous to walk on Mombasa streets at night, thanks to gangs that mug pedestrians from as early as 7pm. The Star has established that criminal gangs have reemerged in the Coastal city's Central Business District. They mostly target lone pedestrians. Mombasa county commissioner Evans Achoki said police are tackling the matter. “They walk in groups of about 10. When they spot a potential target, they divide themselves in two or three groups depending on the size of the victim,” Stanley Ouma told the Star. Ouma is night guard stationed at the TSS Towers. He said one group approached the victim from the opposite direction as another attacks from behind. “They ensure they corner their victims, leaving them with nowhere to run,” Ouma said. Most muggings happen after 10pm when the streets are deserted. Earlier, the gangs concentrate on unsuspecting victims making phone calls. Some members are as young as 17 years, Ouma said. “They snatch phones from both pedestrians and commuters in matatus stuck in jams," he said. "I was making a call around Posta when someone snatched my phone and walked towards Old Town. I was so confused and frightened that i could not even shout,” Michael Wainaina said. The gangs are most concentrated around Markiti, Posta, Saba Saba and along Nkrumah Road. They usually run towards Old Town after a successful attack. Police have convened several meetings to find a way to deal with the gangs. "We've noted residents concerns. Action is being taken," Achoki told the Star on Friday. The muggings were rampant in the small alleys along Jomo Kenyatta, Moi and Haile Selasie avenues some six months ago. A police crackdown eliminated the gangs. Their reemergence comes even as Mombasa prepares to host the 79th International Association of Travel and Tourism Professionals between October 17 and 21. The conference is expected to attract about 10,000 international guests from across the world. Mombasa county commissioner Evans Achoki said they have noted the residents’ concerns and are tackling the matter. “We have noted with concern. Action s being taken,” said the commissioner.