The architects of the US Constitution opined that certain rights are fundamental and are guaranteed to every individual. Kenya’s 2010 Constitution borrows heavily from the US one. It is therefore the right of any Kenyan to revive the referendum debate. It is only by facilitating an open and effective dialogue that we can have a sober discussion of this issue, which is bound to divide Kenyans since we cannot all agree on one way to do it. Kenya is a constitutional democracy with numerous constitutional freedoms. As a result, Kenyans are at liberty to express reservation with their governance system, where it fails to live up to their expectations. There is a growing body of opinion that the current arrangement falls short of legitimate expectations. Elections have taken the ‘winner-takes-all’ model, while the voter is the greatest loser in the equation. The system should be all-inclusive, even to losers, taking into account the fragility of African democracies. Tiaty MP William Kamket proposed an amendment bill that seeks to alter the governance structure. This has elicited mixed reactions. The bill introduces three new positions: That of prime minister and two deputies. It proposes a ceremonial president, who will serve a single seven-year term, elected by a joint sitting of Parliament (Senate and the National Assembly). To many, the bill is an alternative to exclusion and marginalisation. Others see this as a move to take away from Kenyans their right to choose their leader. The opposition is pushing for the Bomas Draft, which proposed a bicameral legislature and a dual-executive system, with a prime minister as head of government and president as head of state. It contains cures for the problems of inclusion, strengthening of devolution, the shape of the executive and security reforms. In a sense, there is a looming discussion on constitutional amendments and a referendum. The changes will significantly alter the governance structure. In a country where communities want to see ‘one of our own’ in powerful positions, we might have brought some stability to our polarised politics. This could be an opportunity to review the Constitution, to address its shortcomings and foster national cohesion. It could also be the same vicious circle we find ourselves in, a debate that often dies on arrival. Is this the best way to deal with the underlying problem of economic exclusion? Is it perhaps time to assess the formula used in budgetary allocations for the county and national governments? Civic engagements should be encouraged so this discussion happens in a consultative manner, just as happened during the drafting of the current Constitution. The committee met people in their communities and sought their views in a most satisfactory manner. Similarly, we should seek the views of youth. The majority of young people will be in leadership in the next three elections. They have ideas that can be vital additions as we seek to amend the Constitution. It is against this background that Governance Pillar Organization, in partnership with Katiba Institute, the University of Nairobi Law Journal and the Debate Club, will host the inter-campus debate on inclusivity in our governance system on June 6. The referendum debate should not be clouded with 2022 succession politics and seen purely through a political lens. It should be a chance to address the Constitution’s shortcomings, which have made national cohesion in word and practice so elusive. Executive director, Governance Pillar Organization ankuubi@governancepillar.org