Roofing materials estimated to be worth more than Sh46 million were among items recovered on Friday in a joint government operation on counterfeit products. The raid along Enterprise Road in Nairobi's Industrial Area, recovered more than 70,000 pieces of roofing materials at a go down owned by a Chinese businessman. Kenya Revenue Authority said while the trader who was not present during the raid is legally in the country, the goods are not certified. “We will investigate further to verify whether the business is also tax compliant. The materials will be collected immediately for further tests by Kebs (Kenya Bureau of Standards) before being destroyed,” said KRA commissioner for strategic operation Githii Mburu. The second raid at Trufoods on Jogoo Road recovered 20 tonnes of various consumable items that did not have standardisation marks among them peanut butter, tomato paste and Choco Primo drinking chocolate products. They goods estimated to be worth Sh2 million all lacked the Kebs standardisation mark. The multi-agency task-force, comprised of KRA, Anti-Counterfeit Agency, Kenys Police, Weights and Measures Department, Public Health and Pharmacy and Poisons Board. Anticounterfeit Agency enforcement manager Linsey Kipkemoi said the country is choking under products that should not be in the market as Kenyans take short cuts to riches. He said the agency is employing a multi-pronged strategy to deal with such products, including 100 per cent inspection for verification of consolidated cargo consignments at the port, tightening of operations at border entry points to stop tax evasion and monitor the quality of goods coming into the country. Kipkemboi said whatever is already within the country will be nabbed using intelligence operations “We are now working as a team with all the regulators so that anything that gets in, even through non-gazetted routes, will be seized by the time they are at their destinations,” said Githii. He said transfers of officers in border posts is underway while those who have been found guilty of aiding the entry of such goods have been sacked.  