Supermarkets are up in arms over City Hall’s bid to introduce tax on shopping carrier bags. Finance executive Charles Kerich last week announced a raft of measures, including new levies and a review of the prices of the bags, to raise more revenue. Supermarket leaders have opposed the measures, saying the introduction of the levy is a “total madness that we must oppose.” Naivas Supermarket managing director David Kimani said the move should be opposed by all means because it will hurt business. “We will not pay. I would rather close down all the supermarkets in town and let residents buy items from City Council [county government] shops than pay the fee,” Kimani said. He said the county has often complained that the banned plastic paper bags were dirtying the city. “They even asked us to start selling the plastic bags, saying people were not responsibly disposing them off. Now that we are selling the carrier bags and they want to charge us. We’ll not allow that,” he said. During the budget reading last week, Kerich said City Hall expects to raise Sh15 billion in revenue during the 2018-2019 financial year. “Since the ban on plastic bags, many supermarkets have taken to charging their customers for shopping carrier bags. Such supermarkets will be required to pay a fee,” Kerich said on Tuesday. Retail Trade Association of Kenya CEO Wambui Mbarire said they will engage City Hall on the new proposal. “We will give them our position and come up with the best way forward for all parties,” Mbarire said. The Counties Amusement and Gambling Society of Kenya (CAGSK) has, however, welcomed the proposal to introduce tax on gaming, gambling and lotteries. CAGSK chairman Samuel Kahiu said they were willing to pay the charge, but urged the county to engage for an agreeable fee. “Gambling, gaming and lotteries are devolved functions. We are willing to engage the county and come up with law to guide us,” Kahiu said. Kahiu said the society has already proposed a fee of up to Sh700,000 for annual license. “We want those licensed to belong to a registered society to promote responsible gambling,” he said. Kerich also announced the introduction of levies on private premises offering parking services where motorists are billed on hourly basis. Parking defaulters will also be charged for towing services. “Many Nairobi residents are being subjected to parking charges in various premises like shopping malls, supermarkets and hospitals. I will be proposing a fee for all private parking spaces that charge their customers hourly parking rates,” Kerich said. ABOLISHED A charge will also be introduced for households and businesses for waste they produce to enhance solid waste management to ensure the city remains clean. Kerich said City Hall will give incentives to private players who wish to develop new parking bays outside their premises to increase the number of parking slots. City Hall abolished the Sh25 charged on mama mbogas operating in the estates. However, the but incentive will not affect traders operating in designated markets and discernible commercial areas, who will be required to pay the fee.