Manufacturers stand to make great headway with new provisions under the the 2018/19 budget. Treasury CS Henry Rotich's budget highlighted a keen interest in promoting local production by imposing stringent tax measures. With key focus on the Steel and Metal, Paper and Paper Board, Textile and Leather sub-sectors, the government plans to increase import duty by 10 per cent to 35 per cent. “The pronouncement to increase import duty of materials in these sectors is a welcome move which is expected to increase the production capacity for local companies and stimulate local demand for the end products,” Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga said. In line with the Big Four Agenda, the government dedicated Sh400 million for the establishment of Industrial Sheds for leather processing, Sh400 million for textile and Sh1.4 Billion for the Rivatex and New KCC support. Edible oil manufacturers will also benefit from the proposal to increase import duty of similar oils to $500 per metric tonne or 35 per cent- whichever is higher. Pesticide and cooking stove producers also stand to increase production given they import raw materials under the EAC duty remission scheme at 100 per cent. To cut production costs, Rotich said the government would amend income tax to provide 30 per cent deduction of the total electricity bill incurred by manufacturers from corporate profits. This, in addition to normal deductions, will be subject to conditions set by the ministry of energy. Consultancy PwC however feels the deduction will lower manufacturers' power bills but may not be enough to reduce production cost. "While this measure would provide relief the high power costs incurred by manufacturers, it may not be sufficient to alleviate the high cost of production in Kenya," the firm said in its budget analysis. The budget proposes a 20 to 30 per cent increase on private passenger motor vehicles with 2500cc engine capacity for diesel and 3000cc for petrol powered cars to promote local car manufacturers and assemblers. With Rotich proposing a repeal of the rate cap and the introduction of the National Credit Guarantee Scheme, this is expected to positively impact private sector credit growth which has been stunted since the rate cap law was effected in August 2016. “This will ease the current financial constraints experienced by SMEs, encouraging the growth and profitability of their businesses,” she said.