Leaders and elders from Rift Valley have come
together in a bid to unite rivals Deputy President William Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi ahead of the 2022 General Election. The
team led by senior politicians, including Franklin Bett and former
Tinderet MP Henry Kosgey, are trying to marshal the region's MPs to speak with one
voice. Also involved in the reconciliation efforts are Cherangany MPJoshua Kuttuny  and chairman of the Kalenjin elders John Seii. On Wednesday evening when they met in Nairobi, the two former ministers said there was need for unity of purpose to achieve socio-economic and political milestones. Kosgey said it was too early to share the details of their meeting, indicating that more meetings have been lined up and the team would be
expanded to include professionals, church leaders and community leaders
from all the Kalenjin sub-tribes. “We do not
have much to share now, these are is are the initial stages of our talks,”
Kosgey, the former minister for Industrialisation, said after the meeting. Bett, who met Ruto on Thursday,  said that it was time the leadership of Rift Valley
had dialogue to shape the future of the
community. “As elders in Kalenjin land, we feel that we need to have
a dialogue within ourselves for the betterment of our community and the
country at large. We have that responsibility to unite our people,” Bett said. While
Ruto expects to succeed Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022, Gideon as hinted that
he will be Kanu's  presidential flag bearer. According to Ruto's lieutenants, Gideon's candidature will spoil the DP's chances of clinching the presidency. Gideon, the last born son of retired President Daniel Mo,  told
the Star last year that he could not rule out supporting the Deputy President's bid for
State House. He said that he had  "never crossed any path with Ruto and that he loves him as much as Ruto loves him". On
Friday, Kuttuny a former State House political adviser and a leading
player in the ongoing talks told the Star that there is  no
need for animosity between supporters of the two camps, adding that it
was fueling further divisions within the community. Kuttuny said
the top agenda of the team was the economic wellbeing of the
region which has become a hotbed of politics because of the camps
allied to Ruto and Gideon exchanging public spats
almost every weekend. "We have become a laughing stock , Rift
Valley is politicking every day like elections are taking place soon. As a
result, the community is being left behind in terms of development,"
Kuttuny told the Star on phone. He added: " These talks will
eventually result in political unity of our leaders from the region.
There is a silent revolution in the offing and we want
to disengage our leaders from public outbursts. We want to bring on
board the perceived critics of the deputy president in the region so
that we can pursue a common political journey". Kuttuny who was elected for the second time after five years in the cold insisted that the
infighting among Kalenjin leaders  is negatively affecting the  community’s plans to succeed President Uhuru . He said it is time the elders and the church leaders are given a chance to bring the leaders together. “It
is time we have to listen to ourselves, Kosgey, Bett and Seii
are political heavy weights and leaders who have been there and seen it
all, there council will be wise and nourishing to the community," Kutuny said. "The direction they have taken is not good
for the political journey that will see Ruto occupy State House after
President Uhuru finishes his term. "The
political wrangles pitting Kalenjin leaders are putting
Ruto’s presidential quest in jeopardy. It
is disturbing that we are creating an impression that the region is
divided and the DP has no solid support. It is time that leaders talk
and end the political impasse,”  Kuttuny said.