President Uhuru Kenyatta has overhauled the boards of parastatals implicated in graft in changes that give a lifeline to poll losers and some allies of Opposition chief Raila Odinga. Chief of staff in the defunct Office of the Prime Minister Caroli Omondi was appointed to the board of National Oil Corporation, a key parastatal that is likely to play a major role when Kenya starts major oil exports. Caroli was close to Raila from 2007 when he donated lots of cash, cars and even a house in Nairobi's upmarket Kilimani area where ODM headquarters have remained until now. Another Raila ally rewarded is immediate former Ndhiwa MP Augustino Neto. He was appointed a member of the NEMA board. Former Rangwe MP Martin Ogindo joins the board of Agricultural Development Corporation. On Monday, current and former Luo Nyanza MPs met at Nairobi Club where they drew up a list of people they want appointed to government. The list, according to sources, will be handed to Raila who will pass it on to President Uhuru for appointment. Yesterday Uhuru also made sweeping changes at the National Social Security Fund, Kenya Pipeline, National Cereals and Produce Board, Geothermal Development Company and Kenya Ports Authority. These are among State corporations caught up in graft allegations as Uhuru fights to secure his legacy in his second and final term. Also riddled with graft claims, and where Uhuru made broad changes, are Kenya Forest Services and the National Irrigation Board. In the changes, former chief of the Kenya Defense Forces Julius Karangi will be the new NSSF chairman . He takes over for a period of three years from former Kaiti MP Gideon Ndambuki who was kicked out. The President also brought on board two new trustees. These are ex-Laisamis lawmaker Joseph Lekuton and Kabianga University don Marion Mutugi who chaired a task force that produced a damning report on the state of forests in Kenya. The appointments of Anthony Munyiri and Teresa Chebet who have been trustees of the multi-billion State pension fund were revoked. The Auditor General has blamed NSSF officials for outright theft and flouting of procurement rules. In one incident, the NSSF management scaled down the Hazina Towers project from 36 storeys to 15 but failed to alter the contract sum of Sh6.7 billion. Just days after Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri sent packing NCPB managing director Newton Terer and a host of senior officers over the Sh2 billion maize scandal, Uhuru has also swung into action. The President appointed David Wafula as the new NCPB chairman in what is seen as a strategy to inject new strategic thinking. Senior NCPB officials are suspected to have been involved in smuggling of cheap maize from Uganda, dealing a staggering blow to the genuine Kenyan farmer. Read: Poll losers reap big as Uhuru appoints ex-Raila aide, Chipukeezy to parastatal boards At GDC, however, Uhuru reappointed lawyer Gershom Otachi as company chairman. There are three new entrants to the GDC board: Nelly Yatich, Kamau Kuria and Ann Too. GDC is currently embroiled in a Sh3.3 billion tussle with a firm over compensation for termination of a tender. In the changes, former KNUT boss Mudzo Nzili takes over as the new National Irrigation Board chair with an almost entirely new board. Members include former Kwale Woman representative Zainabu Chidzuga, Grace Kiptui , Wambui Nyutu, Stanley Ntutu , Francis Gichohi and Japheth Rutere. NIB is critical in the realisation of food security, which is part of Uhuru's Big Four agenda. But the agency has been dogged by audit queries, with a number of stalled irrigation projects. Uhuru has also unveiled a new board at Kenya Forest Services, just a month after a task force recommended investigation of senior officials. Some KFS top brass have been accused of turning into loggers and poachers. In the changes, Peter Kimathi Kinyua is the new chairman. Peter Gibendi , Mary Ngare , Conrad Thorpe , Kariuki Njiri and Alice Mwaisaka will serve as board members. KPC, which is under probe for suspected multi-billion scandals, has three new board members. These are Jinaro Kibet , Rita Achieng Okuthe and Winnie Mukami. Investigations by a multi-agency team from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations have centred on claims of inflated prices for procurement deals in the parastatal. Uhuru also made changes at KPA just days after the management board sent parking managing director Catherine Mturi-Wairi. He appointed Retired General Joseph Kibwana as the chairman for three years. The President not only gave jobs to known lieutenants of Raila in what is seen as the fruits of the handshake but also offered a lifeline to political losers. Former Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi will be chairperson of the Agricultural Development Corporation. The President appointed his Coast point-man Suleiman Shabhal as chairperson of the Kenya Trade Network. Shabbal, a known tycoon, ran a well-oiled campaign against Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho for the county's top job. Ex-Isiolo Governor Giodana Doyo will now be be the non-executive chair of Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. "The appointment of Mark Bor is revoked," Uhuru said in the notice. Former deputy IEBC chairman Lilian Mahiri-Zaja has been appointed a commissioner at the Energy Regulatory Commission. Former Nominated MP Abdalla Amina will be a member of the Coast Development Authority Comedian Vincent Mwasia alias Chipukeezy joins the Nacada board. "I would like to take this opportunity to thank God, the President and the Deputy President for the appointment to the Nacada board," Chipukeezy said. "This is very humbling and I promise to work hard towards ensuring that the task ahead is accomplished as per the expectations.” Click here for more political news