To begin with,
let’s dispense with the mistaken belief that Kenyans and their leaders have
(ever) been on the same side. That, as implied by the title of Mukurima
Muriuki’s article of May 26 in this paper, that once upon a time, Kenyans and their leaders
“walikua pamoja” (they were on the same side) is simply not true. The famous (or
infamous) Wanjiku has always been left to their own devices and when she has
been on the “same side” with her leadership, the union has been momentary and
occasioned by political expediency that, more often than not, benefitted said
leadership. The current
rapprochement between erstwhile antagonists Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga is
a case in point. Without a
comprehensive and well-defined roadmap for a joint approach to tackling core
issues that divide Kenya along ethnic lines and grinds its economy to a halt
every election cycle, the tenuous and shaky nature of the bonhomie between the leadership
on one side and voters on the other is palpable. Populism works like that. It allows
demagogues to craft a believable message of compassion, approachability and
accessibility that convinces the masses they, demagogues, have the public’s
best interest at heart. They don’t. The late MP for
Nyandarua North JM Kariuki said Kenya was a country of “10 millionaires and 10
million beggars” shortly before he was assassinated. That was in the early
seventies. The country’s
rich/poor gap has only gotten worse since. The wealth gap
has not deteriorated because of some structural (economic) factors as seen in
places such as the Silicon Valley ie digital divide, access to adequate
educational opportunities, innate differences between individual drive and
ability etc. The reason for
the gap is no longer open for debate nor the subject of laborious pondering or
punditry: The gap JM
alluded to has been driven by (the) normalization and, indeed, encouragement of
the siphoning off of state funds  —
either blatantly, through shady accounting practices and “tenderpreneuring”, as
the practice of inflating tenders and issuing phantom LPOs is blithely referred
to. Official
corruption is exactly what JM decried against shortly before his lifeless body
was found in the outskirts of Nairobi. “Integrity is hard to find,
so it becomes herculean to achieve accountability.” Mukurima’s article claims the quality of “being honest and having strong moral principles; moral uprightness”
is “hard” to find. It also opines “assigning;
ascribing responsibility, liability and/or answerability (presumably to an
individual or individuals for actions taken) requires great strength or effort”. Let me offer the
counter-narrative that given Kenya’s professed religiosity, being honest and
moral should not require great strength of effort. The country’s frequently displayed
collective faith should allow citizens to ask for forgiveness during the many
“prayer rallies” and “prayer breakfasts” it convenes almost at a drop of a hat. Unfortunately,
along with normalising abuse and outright theft of public property, Kenyans
have cheapened what is supposed to be sacred — one’s relationship with their
deity of choice. This they have done by professing faith and fidelity to Holy
Scriptures, while acting in manners completely antithetical to the teachings
therein. Maybe that’s why
the writer reflects a melancholic and lonesome tone in his piece. Maybe that is
why President Kenyatta blows hot and cold on matters of basic competence and
common decency. Maybe it’s
because Kenyans have realised they only have themselves to blame when it comes
to creating a country; a society they can not only be proud of, but one that
gives them hope given the current zeitgeist. Even the most
skeptical and jaded citizen cannot question Uhuru’s ability to articulate (his)
thoughts elegantly. Graduating from the rarified air of Amherst will, at a
minimum, imbue one with that ability. Deputy President
William Ruto, for his part, is a self-described “hustler” and “chicken
salesman”. He believes he “jipangad”
strategically, not into his current Number Two spot, but for the ultimate prize
— succeeding his boss as the country’s Numero Uno. Kenyans lapped
up the up-by-the-bootstrap narrative spun by either man even as they
acknowledged how phony and/or contrived some of the stories were. All told, these
same Kenyans save the duo’s die-hard supporters, sycophants and toadies have
now internalised a reality – that Kenyatta and Ruto – who marketed themselves
as the “Digital Duo” are a throwback
to the “analog” days of Kenyatta
Pere, Moi and Kibaki — all in approximate amounts: Kenyans have
seen a Jubilee government that is part-forward-looking, part-atavistic and
authoritarian but always focussed on satisfying its duopolistic base – thanks
to the hyper-ethnicised nature of its ascension to and maintenance of power – before
the handshake. The foregoing factors have combined to
create a perfect storm of hubris, impunity and unbridled greed — all with the
blessings of (a) a plurality of those who voted on October 26, (b) malleable
and co-opted yet supposedly independent and co-equal branches of government –
Parliament and Judiciary, (c) NGOs that are part-compliant, part-toothless and
part-apathetic, (d) an international community that is fully complicit and (e),
a clergy that is as much in the pocket of the incumbency as are the country’s 4th
and 5th Estates/blogsphere. And in the wake
of this storm is a cavalcade of scandals involving gross avarice and
abuse/misuse of public resource that rivals any that Kenyans have seen in the
country’s 50-plus years of Independence and self-rule. Circling back to
the beginning of this counterpoint, the resulting scandals that are now known
by their  one or two-syllabled acronyms a
la Brazil’s Starting Eleven have not surprised most, given the history of the
very people Kenyans elected into office: NYS II, KPC
(Kenya Pipeline Corporation), the NCPB (National Cereal & Produce Board),
KPA (Kenya Ports Authority) to name just a few, did not happen in a
vacuum. These scandals,
involving inordinate amounts of money, were previewed by some of the very
people the same Kenyans elected into office less than nine months ago. Starkly put,
Anne Waiguru and Josephine Kabura previewed Lillian Mbogo-Omollo and Anne
Wanjiku Ngirita. Eurobond I and the
“Hustlerjet” were precursors to NCPB and Afya House scandals with direct links
to State House. The fact is that
one was elected as governor and the duo that gave Kenyans Eurobond I and a host
of other scandals were awarded a second term in office. And for good
measure, those who (originally) protested the kleptocracy and abuse of office,
even from the safety of their parent’s arms, were mercilessly crushed. So, no, Kenyans
and their leaders have never been on the same side  — and based on their past actions, the two
sides have always known that.  The writer is a US-based
Kenyan biotech professional, author and Huffington Post contributor