Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has warned Nandi Governor Stephen Sang against igniting political tensions ahead of the boundary review next year. The governor has repeatedly claimed that seven towns in Kisumu county belong to Nandi, allegedly based on colonial boundaries. They are Chemelil, Muhoroni, Kibigori, Miwani, Kibos, Koru and Kopere. Speaking on Saturday in Bondo, Siaya county, Raila said it is not the governor’s obligation to determine which towns are in his county. The former PM said demarcating boundaries and resolving boundary disputes are the obligations of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. “There is going to be a boundary review shortly after IEBC issues (appointing new members) have been sorted out and any discussion about boundaries before that time is meaningless,” Raila said. He said there are many boundary disputes at the ward, constituency and county levels, as well as between Kenya and neighboring countries. There should be no alarm about the Nandi-Kisumu boundary. He urged Sang to present his issues to the IEBC for a “civilised discussion”. “If you have your own political issues with your people, stop lying to them that you can secure any town from Kisumu for them,” Raila said. He said the provincial boundaries were drawn in 1963. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo also cautioned Sang against an unnecessary debate about boundaries at the expense of development. Omollo said boundary disputes can be very dangerous, especially at the time when the country is healing after a bruising political period. “We are in a country that is already fragmented and Sang should not add salt to the wounds,” Omollo said. He said the Constitution is clear about such issues and if any boundary must be reviewed before review time, then a commission must be appointed. The MP said he believes the debate aims to cause conflict in 2022 politics and make it appear that Luos and Kalenjins are at odds. Earlier, Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o had also dismissed Sang’s boundary demands. Muhoroni MP Onyango K’Oyoo asked the government to investigate the Nandi governor for incitement.