Kenya Ports Authority managing director Catherine Mturi-Wairi was sent on compulsory leave because she failed to provide leadership. Mturi, the first woman to head the authority, was abruptly removed at the helm on Wednesday. The sacking means she did not complete two years in her position following her appointment in July 2016. A special board meeting convened by Transport Principal Secretary Paul Maringa and chaired by KPA board member Michael Maina appointed Daniel Manduku to replace her in a two-month acting role. Manduku was the CEO of the National Construction Authority. His appointment to KPA did not come as a surprise, sources told the Star. Manduku was among candidates interviewed for the job in 2016. He reportedly scored highly. But his appointment was blocked by Coast politicians who demanded that the position be given to a native of the region. Behind-the-scene deals culminated in the appointment of Mturi who was serving as the acting MD following the sacking of Gichira Ndua. Must read : [VIDEO] KPA boss Catherine Mturi-Wairi sacked over incompetence Sources said the Jubilee administration confirmed Mturi to the job with eyes on the 2017 General Election. The government did not want to anger Coast politicians with President Uhuru Kenyatta then keen on reelection. Her removal was however mooted soon after the election period. The matter was put into serious consideration in March after some government officials complained about the slow pace of SGR freight services. The delays were attributed to congestion at the port. The matter was reportedly raised during a Cabinet meeting at State House, Nairobi where it was agreed there was need to shop for a replacement. Apart from kicking out the MD, two other managers were asked to ‘show cause’ why they should not be relieved of their duties.  WITCH-HUNT The two, and the manager were on the spot over the recent breakdown of cargo evacuation systems that led to serious congestion. Several ships were reportedly kept waiting in the deep seas due to lack of docking space. The board attributed the poor services lack of leadership. “The above situation can only be explained by lack of effective leadership at the top, a non-responsive work culture, consistent failure to implement board resolutions and either absence of explicit performance targets or failure to implement them,” Maina said. “Given that the MD is responsible for all these aspects of leadership and guidance on expected delivery of service, the board has resolved to send her on compulsory leave with immediate effect.” Maringa said the move was not orchestrated by witch-hunt. “This is not sabotage or a witch hunt. It’s all about performance. We have been experiencing congestion at the port for the last seven days,” Maringa said. He confirmed that he had been at the port since Wednesday last week during which he was joined by Cabinet Secretaries Adan Mohammed (Industrialisation) and Peter Munya (East African Affairs). Hours after Mturi’s sacking was announced, Manduku arrived at the port yesterday morning to take over. He promised to revamp operations. Read : KPA denies congestion at Mombasa Port, says cargo operations normal Mturi’s exit comes barely two months after several general managers were transferred from Mombasa to Kisumu. They were accused of frustrating standard gauge railway cargo service operations. The poor performance of the SGR freight services is suspected to have been one of the main reasons for Mturi’s ejection. KPA also operates in conjunction with other government agencies including the Kenya Railways Corporation, Kenya Maritime Authority and Kenya Revenue Authority. However, Maringa said it was regrettable that there was minimal or no visible coordination of the multi-agency activity within the port.  LEADERSHIP Maringa said they expect the new MD to provide efficient leadership at the facility. “He will be fully accountable. We expect the port to be run like a private company with daily reviews of performance because this port is like a shop. You do not deliver today, you are closing the shop tomorrow,” Maringa said. Also read : KPA amends free storage periods, tarrifs for containers in Embakasi Click here for the latest political news