Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua is planning to spend up to Sh18 billion to achieve his goal of becoming President in 2022. In an interview on Citizen TV on Sunday night, Mutua said the "expensive" affair will cost him at least Sh15 billion. "It opens the way and I have my own cash ... I can compete on the same level as others," he said. "It is worth it because I'm not doing it just for me but for the people of Kenya." The Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader noted, however, that having too much money can be bad for candidates. "Anything you spend beyond that will not help. You need money to reach a certain stage," he said, adding the funds will be used to get Kenya from a dark age to a new era. "That's the kind of money needed. It is worth it if you want to move this country to a new age. You have to do it. A time comes when you say that you are doing this for the people." The Governor said he can beat Deputy President William Ruto as the next four years are "all about marketing". He noted that politicians win races not because of money but because of representing the people. "People have seen that I am a man of my word. My presidential bid is not a way to get a government position in future," he added. Regarding his chances of taking over from President Uhuru Kenyatta, he said he is bound to replace him. "After I am done being Governor, what am I supposed to do? You need to declare your presidency bid early so people can see your mission and vision," he said. Mutua has formed a team to strategise on his victory come that general election. "Consultants from oversees are fashioning my campaign. I am very serious. Mutua puts his head in something and doesn't waver," he said. "I'm not pushing myself ... it's the people. It's going to be a tight race. There are big boys like Ruto but I am confident. We need a paradigm shift." The politician, who is serving his second and last term as Governor, has started visiting various counties to market himself ahead of the race. Details on ambition: [VIDEO] 'Prepare for shock': Alfred Mutua announces 2022 presidency bid Read: Fit for president in 2022? Alfred Mutua makes inroads in Rift Valley Click here for the latest political news   