Embattled Youth Affairs PS Lilian Omollo and NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai have filed individual applications at the High Court seeking their release pending their trial in the NYS scandal. Omollo, who is admitted at the Kenyatta National Hospital private wing, wants her prosecution suspended pending the hearing and determination of the application. Through lawyer Stephen Ligunya, Omollo argues that her rights will be violated if the trial is not suspended. She accuses the DPP of being malicious for breaking her three counts into 10 different charges relating to the charges each of the 10 suppliers faces. Read: Day of reckoning as 33 charged over NYS The PS said she was shocked by the turn of events as she had been informed by the DCI officers that she was facing one count of conspiracy. "Under article 50(1)(b) am entitled to be informed of the charges with sufficient details. I believe this had been done until my appearance in court when multiple charges, 30 of them which are a violation of my constitutional rights," Omollo said. The PS submits that the primary charges that relate to her are abuse of office, failure to put in place checks and balances and conspiracy to commit economic crimes. On his part, Ndubai said that senior Magistrate Douglas Ogoti of the Anti-Corruption Court did not consider arguments in their bail application before remanding all the 43 suspects. Read: NYS suspects denied bail, to remain in remand until end of trial He claimed the prosecution made mere allegations when opposing bail, the same allegations that the court relied on to deny them bail. Ndubai said the prosecution did not provide a single proof that he was a flight risk or that he would interfere with administration of justice or that would commit fresh offences. The NYS boss argued that all the accused persons have not been convicted by any court on the charges they face and are therefore presumed innocent pending trial. On Tuesday last week, the court denied all the 43 suspects bail and directed that they remand in remand until the end of their trial. Chief Magistrate Ogoti noted that the economic crimes are facing are serious crimes. Read: NYS suspects accuse magistrate of rushing case, say rights violated In her application, PS Omollo further accused detectives of wanting to subject her and her family to intimidation and public ridicule. She said the DCI deployed a contingent of 20 armed officers to raid her house on the night of May 27 in a bid to arrest her. According to her, she has never been a flight risk or failed to attend police summons. "I did send my lawyers to ward off the police and to undertake to them that l would present my self at the DCI officers the next morning, but they were adamant and remained camping outside my house until 7:30am next morning when l presented myself at DCI headquarters, " Omolo claims in the papers. The PS claims that she was presented in court late on May 29 instead of 9am in what she believes was a deliberate move by the police to ensure she would not be processed for bail if granted one by the court. "The DPP applied for each file to be treated on its own merits on the issue of bail, a calculated move to ensure that bail was multiple and unattainable," claims the PS. The DCI George Kinoti has meanwhile scheduled a private doctor to visit the PS on Monday at the Kenyatta Hospital to conduct medical examinations on the PS. This follows claims that she may have colluded with some doctors at the facility to be granted admission under the pretex that she is unwell to avoid being kept in remand. Read: PS Lillian Omollo admitted to KNH after collapsing in Langata prison Click here for the latest political news 