Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria wants Nasa principals Moses Wetang'ula and Musalia Mudavadi to join the government to increase the Luhya community's chances of ascending to power. Kuria noted that the Ford Kenya and ANC leaders have been "making noise", saying Opposition leader Raila Odinga betrayed their political cause when he shook hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9. He said they should instead defend the handshake that he described as a catalyst for peace and unity. The lawmaker further asked Wetang'ula and Mudavadi to stop shedding "crocodile tears" following Raila's political turn, and told them that it is "needless and useless" to complain. “I am asking [them] to stop crying and making noise about political betrayal and Luhya unity. They should instead join Raila and [Wiper leader] Kalonzo [Musyoka] to support Uhuru to deliver much needed services to Kenyans," he said.“ "I challenge them to come on board in the pursuance of unity of purpose. I’m ready to take them to meet the President. Don’t be cheated ... Luhya unity will [not] help attain the community’s presidential unless its leaders joined the rest." Read: 'My heart is at peace', Kalonzo says of Uhuru-Raila deal Kuria defended the unity deal saying it has resulted in peace and unity and drawn Kenya closer to economic prosperity. “Any right-thinking Kenyan should not ask why the two leaders shook hands. Their decision is laudable because the country is enjoying peace. A Kikuyu can now go to Nyanza without fear. This is the kind of environment we need for the prosperity of Kenyans," the MP said. He added: “Luhya leaders should not isolate the community from the government of the day. Working with the government and other communities is a sure route to achieving the community’s presidential quest. This is workable." He spoke at Namanajala Catholic Church on Sunday during a funds drive organised by Kitale Catholic Church Bishop Maurice Crowley for the infrastructural development of the church. Kuria was with host Ferdinand Wanyonyi (Kwanza), Oku Kaunya (Teso North) and Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache). Onyonka and Kaunya said the country will move forward and grow economically when the political class unite. “Let us stop wasting time politicking and dwelling on presidential succession while Kenyans sleep hungry. The country’s unity is fundamental so let us discuss ... let us discuss that are ailing us such as corruption," said Kaunya. More on this: How Uhuru broke ice between Raila, Ruto Also read: Uhuru spanks Ruto, says handshake with Raila intact Click here for the latest political news