Treasury CS Henry Rotich on Thursday arrived at Parliament wearing his characteristic smile, which has become synonymous with budget reading in Kenya, at least for the past five years. However, his black hair has thinned and is greying, not surprising given his tough stint at the Exchequer. Over the years he has handled a total Sh13.4 trillion more than all his predecessors combined. The 49-year-old technocrat, who first joined the National Treasury in March 2006 as the head of macroeconomics, has had to deal with high public debts, huge deficits, wanton corruption and a series of negative microeconomics that has hit the country since President Uhuru Kenyatta was elected. Word has it that the father of two recently bemoaned how his job description has shifted from being that of a planner for the growth of the economy to that of ‘a circus juggler, whose primary duty is to painstakingly sift through mountains of debts, looking for the red glaring ones that need to be paid off immediately and those that can be postponed’.  HIGH DEBT OBLIGATIONS Indeed, in the coming 2018-19 financial year, Rotich is expected to spend more than a half of the country’s domestic revenue to clear maturing debts, including the controversial Sh220 billion 2014 Eurobond. He took a lot of heat, mostly from opposition chief Raila Odinga. According to 2018-19 budget, the debt service for the year is expected to reach Sh870.6 billion. This includes the expected repayment of Sh194 billion principal payments for the tap-sale component of the 2014 sovereign bond, and two syndicated bonds. This difficult scenario is not new to Kenya’s second-longest serving Finance boss, after Mwai Kibaki, who served for 11 consecutive years. The debt servicing budget has risen since 2013, reaching Sh466 billion in 2015-16. In 2016-17, Kenya spent Sh460.6 billion before slowing to Sh435 billion in the current financial year ending June 30. Kenyans have witnessed the highest public debt to GDP ratio during Rotich’s tenure, with the debt currently threatening to break the Sh5 trillion ceiling. According to the Central Bank of Kenya, the country’s total debt reached Sh4.95 trillion last month, with external and domestic debt standing at Sh2.51 trillion and Sh2.44 trillion, respectively. An analysis of Kenya’s debt for the past decade shows Rotich set a new high debt to GDP record in 2015-16, when he reached 52.5 per cent. This surpassed Uhuru Kenyatta’s record of 48.1 per cent in 2010. It reached an all-time high of 56.2 per cent in October last year.  BUDGET DEFICIT During budget reading, Rotich announced a deficit of Sh562 billion, one of the lowest in his five0year term. Even so, this is more than Kenya’s annual total budget from Independence up until 2006. In 2006 Finance minister Amos Kimunya, now Kipipiri MP, presented a Sh550.1 billion budget with 1.4 per cent deficit. However, he bowed out of Treasury in 2008 due to immense public pressure following the controversial sale of the Grand Regency Hotel. High deficit and low revenue collection has seen Kenya go for some of highest debt instruments in the global market under Rotich’s watch. This includes the 2014 Eurobond and the Sh200 billion borrowed in February.  BROKE GOVERNMENT In early March, Rotich sensationally confessed the government is broke and is facing difficulties in financing its development projects. He was appearing before the Senate Committee on Finance and Budget. That created an uproar and pressure mounted on him to recant. So the Treasury CS later dismissed media reports that the government was broke as “fake news”. Similarly in 1998, Finance minister Simon Nyachae went on record saying the economy was in the Intensive Care Unit. Rotich said the tough financial situation is partly the result of the Kenya Revenue Authority not meeting its revenue collection targets. To prevent a glaring financial shortfall, he detailed a proposal to slash funds to the county governments by Sh15 billion to Sh17 billion. However, the CS on Thursday announced an addition of Sh12 billion to the counties’ allocation. He also introduced tough tax policies to increase revenue for the government, to realise the Big Four. Many measures will requie Kenyans to dig deeper in to their pockets to put food on the table.  INTEREST RATE CAP When introduced in 2016, the interest rate cap became the best news for small and medium enterprises, which are believed to be the drivers of the country’s economy. Like SMEs, the government was also happy the economy would grow since credit access to the SMEs would be easier.The expectation was that companies and individuals would be more willing to take loans from financial institutions due to the lower prevailing rates. The excess money borrowed would then increase consumer spending, which would then boost production. Savings would increase due to higher deposit rates from financial institutions. The increased savings would then encourage financial institutions to lend more to the economy, creating a virtuous cycle that would eventually spur economic growth. Nonetheless, this turned out to be a headache to Rotich who in March heeded the call by the International Monetary Fund to make adjustments to the law. The IMF said the cap is undermining the effectiveness of monetary policy aimed at ensuring price stability and supporting sustainable economic growth Despite being in control of over Sh10 trillion since 2013, Rotich, as his predecessors, has had to face mounting corruption in which billions have been lost, weakening economic growth. Unfortunately, the multi-million-dollar scandals have failed to result in high-profile convictions. The opposition led by NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi recently called for Rotich’s resignation over the latest National Youth Service Scandal. At least Sh468 million has been lost; initial estimates placed the loss at Sh9 billion. Unlike his predecessors, who succumbed to public pressure to resign, Rotich has managed to hold out, head held high. Previous office bearers who succumbed to pressure include David Mwiraria, who stepped down in 2006 in the heat of the Anglo Leasing scandal, and the late George Saitoti, who resigned over claims he was a beneficiary of the Goldenberg scam. Other scandals include the misappropriated Sh2 billion in the National Cereals and Produce Board, the Sh180 million Youth Fund scandal and the Sh24.6 billion school laptop scandal. This caused the Public Procurement and Administrative Review Board cancel the tender awarded to an Indian firm, Olive telecommunications, citing irregularities. In 2015 President Uhuru Kenyatta declared that corruption had become a national security threat. In 2016, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission said Kenya was losing a third of its state budget — the equivalent of about $6 billion (Sh608 billion) — to corruption yearly. The capital is equivalent to half of the 2011-12 budget and is almost equal to the 2007-08 budget of Sh693.6 billion. Despite these challenges, the holder of Master’s Degree in Public Administration from Harvard University is relied upon by President Kenyatta to raise funds to achieve the Big Four Agenda. Rotich is also expected to help the economy rebound from last year’s prolonged elections, negative effects of interest cap and ravages of climate change, which saw GDP drop to a five year low of 4.9 per cent.     