Kenya Bureau of Standards MD Charles Ongwae and three of his co-accused have been released from remand prison after complying with bond terms. Ongwae and six other people were charged on Monday with allowing substandard fertiliser into the country. The six include Quality Assurance Director Eric Chesire, Inspection Manager Peter Kinyanjui, and Coast Region Director Martin Nyakiamo.  The others are Kilindini Port Health Officer Pole Mwangeni, Kenya Revenue Authority Supervisor of Customs Erick Kariuki and Bollore Transport Clearing Agent Benson Ngesa. At the court on Monday, the seven denied charges of attempted murder and conspiring to defraud the state of Sh882 million. The terms for their release were issued on that day. In the count of attempted murder, they were freed on Sh10 million bond with sureties of Sh3 million each and asked to deposit Sh2 million cash bail each. In the count of conspiracy to commit fraud, the accused were granted release on Sh5 million bond with a surety of the same amount and asked to deposit Sh3 million cash bail. Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruyiot directed the accused to deposit their passports in court and see the investigating officer once a week. The suspects were accused of intending to cause the deaths of people in Narok and Eldoret by releasing to 5.8 million kgs of substandard OCP (K) fertiliser, which allegedly contained mercury. Read: OCP suspends Kenya operations, denies fertiliser vessel 'fled' Police said the committed the offences November 13, 2017 and June 7. They were also charged with conspiracy to defraud, aiding commission of a felony and breach of trust. It is alleged that they entered into a contract for supply and delivery of Kebs quality ISM stickers, complete with a trace-ability system, yet Madras Security Printers Private had no capacity to deliver. More on this: Kebs MD Charles Ongwae charged with murder, abuse of office Also read: Kebs MD Charles Ongwae released on Sh15 million bond Click here for the latest political news