Fifty Early Childhood Development Education centres in Samburu have been upgraded to primary schools to accommodate more pupils. County director of Education Zachary Mutwiri said on Thursday that enrolment in primary schools has increased by 20.4 per cent in one year. He spoke at AIC Moi Girls Secondary School grounds in Maralal town. “We have been able to raise enrolment for primary schools from 49,000 to 59,000 from last year to this year,” he said. Mutwiri said upgrading of ECDE centres to primary schools will reduce distance from one school to another, which will encourage many children to enrol next year. The Teachers Service Commission director in charge of Samburu, Suleman Odipo said the county is facing teacher shortage. “I urge leaders, parents and residents to consider employing Board of Management teachers as the government embarks on employing more teachers,” he said. The TSC boss said crowding in classrooms has contributed to poor handwriting, which hurts performance in the KCPE exam. He urged parents to protect and guard their children’s future by taking them to school. The TSC director said some teachers walk long distances to and from school, causing fatigue and hurting their own performance. “A teacher walking for 30 kilometres to and from school cannot deliver as expected. They are always tired and they do not report to school on Fridays, because as normal human beings they find excuses,” Odipo said. He urged residents to build rental houses near learning institutions to save teachers from long walks. In February this year, Mutwiri urged primary school head teachers to trace pupils who sat last year’s KCPE exam and ensure they join secondary schools. He said most Samburu parents do not take their children to school due to the low value placed on education and to harmful cultural believes. “You will find some parents not taking their daughters to school and asking them to herd goats instead, in the belief that goats herded by girls will always give birth to twins,” he said.