Suspended Mumias Sugar Company Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Nashon Aseka has denied knowledge of his suspension by the company board. He said yesterday that he had no received official communication of his suspension. "I was communicated to verbally about it but that really doesn’t make sense. It is not clear what I am being accused of," he told the Star on the phone yesterday. Company board on Wednesday announced Aseka’s suspension and in his place appointed the company's head of Agriculture Patrick Chebosi to act. Aseka was earlier touted as the right man to take over the firm’s turnaround plan and bring it back to profitability. Aseka is reported to have violated regulations by engaging certain foreign investor without approval. But yesterday, Aseka said that he engaged a foreign consultant to scout for an investor or financier who would inject money or advance a loan to the ailing sugar firm to steady its operations. He said that the company is currently grappling with a whopping Sh13 billion debt owed to banks alone. The government has so far pumped Sh 3.7 billion into the company in the last five years in its bailout plan. "The debt is much bigger than that and these loans continue to accrue huge interests. Besides, the company could be penalized for failing to clear the debts as per the agreement reached by the lenders," said Aseka. He said the plan was to bring the board into the picture once the consultant has identified an investor, a research done and a proposal made to that effect. "There was nothing I would have reported to the board since the said consultant is yet to get the financier," he said. Aseka argued that an investor would not have ploughed money into the sugar firm without the approval of stakeholders and the board. He read mischief in his suspension saying the decision was informed by ill motives. Someone on the board has been sending individuals to look for information particularly mistakes committed at the company in order to pin me down, he said. Aseka said the factory, which has since closed shop; require billions of shillings to get back to its knees. "We cannot quantify the exact amount of money required but if we get little funding, there can be progress and that is why we need to get a financier," he said. He said that even the national government has had challenges in assisting the miller adding that it would be unreasonable for him to sit back and wait when financiers can be found. He said that his fast pace of doing things at the helm of the miller may have made the board uncomfortable. Click here for more political news 