When I interviewed Ukrainian Ambassador to Kenya Yevhenii Tsymbaliuk in November last year, he said since Ukraine and Kenya established diplomatic ties, the two states have achieved much better level of political dialogue. This is well manifested by the new exchange of diplomatic visits between the two countries. Without denying, despite similarities and complementary interests, relations between states in Eastern Europe and those in Eastern Africa over the years have not been very close. However, Ukraine appears committed to change this trend. In that interview, Ambassador Tsymbaliuk said their Foreign minister would be happy to visit Kenya to achieve “the next step of our dialogue and establish a framework for signing bilateral agreements in the legal and economic spheres”.  It is in this regard that on May 21, Ukraine Minister for Foreign Affairs Pavlo Klimkin made the first visit to the country in the history of bilateral relations of the two states. He held negotiations with Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma, met the Speakers of both Houses — Justin Muturi of the National Assembly and Ken Lusaka of the Senate  — and other high-level officials.Klimkin also participated in the celebration of the 25th anniversary of establishment of the diplomatic relations between Ukraine and Kenya, as well as on the occasion of the Africa Day. Importantly, he also opened the Honorary Consulate of Ukraine in Mombasa.  Mombasa is the sea gateway to East Africa, a hub where trade routes from across the world converge. This is a clear indication of steady deepening of bilateral relations, both at the national and regional levels. However, there is still need to enhance inter-sectorial cooperation by concluding the various agreements signed to ensure development of trade and economic cooperation, including through an increase in volumes of bilateral trade, which grew over the last year in two and a half times. These agreements include avoiding double taxation, promoting investment and establishing a Bilateral Commission. There is also the need to promote people-to-people ties to strengthen friendship between the two nations. To do this, there is an urgent need work on the draft agreement establishing direct flight connection between Kenya and Ukraine. This will help in increasing the number of Kenyans students studying in Ukraine, as well as encouraging cultural diplomacy.  There are about 200 Kenyan student in Ukraine, and there is probably need to increase them. However, while Ukraine invites the Foreign Affairs CS, Speakers and other senior government officials, it is important that it extends this to other players such as businesspersons, academia, media and artists. This will ensure the cascading of information and knowledge, and promote people-to-people relations.Kibii comments on foreign affairs