The head teacher of Moi Girls School, Nairobi, has opted to go on early retirement. This is according to Nancy Macharia, who is Chief Executive Officer of the Teachers Service Commission. Principal Jael Mureithi's decision followed allegations of the defilement of a student and the assault of two others. Read: Six quizzed as Moi Girls Nairobi is closed over rape allegations Also read: DNA tests ordered for Moi Girls' male teachers, workers amid rape probe Macharia said on Tuesday: “The TSC has accepted the request. Notwithstanding the early retirement, investigations will continue and action will be taken thereafter." She announced that deputy head teacher Florence Omusula was appointed in acting capacity pending the appointment of a substantive principal. BOARD DISSOLVED The Board of Management of the school has also been dissolved amid investigations into the allegations. “An interim BOM comprising ministry officials and the Teachers Service Commission will be put in place immediately to oversee the management of the school until a substantive board is constituted," Education CS Amina Mohamed said in an announcement on Tuesday. She added that the school’s Parents Association also stood dissolved and that members should meet there at 10:30 am on Thursday to elect new officials. All non-teaching staff at the school, including cooks, librarians, cleaners and office messengers, will be vetted. Amina said these decisions were based on the preliminary report by a team of quality assurance officers from the ministry and the TSC. The team found that there were security gaps at the institution when the student was allegedly defiled and two others assaulted. As a result, the ministry ordered an overhaul of the entire security system, including the replacement of all agents and guards. The Cabinet Secretary said they consulted their Interior counterparts on the deployment of police to man the school round the clock. “In that regard, the ministry has provided five armed security officers who will be guarding the school,” she said. "The ministry will continue with security assessments at the school until all security loopholes are sealed." SAFETY MEASURES The CS said she could not give a time frame of when the DNA results of male teachers and non-working staff will be released. “Any staff found culpable for last weekend’s incident or any other will face the full force of the law,” she warned and assured parents of their children's safety. She asked them to take their daughters back to school on June 10. “We also wish to reassure the alumni association that we will work around the clock to restore the status of the school,” Amina added. As a precautionary measure to avert defilement cases in schools in future, the Minister said all coaches and trainers in boarding schools must be teachers approved by the TSC. Further, students at all public schools will not be visited until end of term. Related: Sossion demands tight security at schools amid Moi Girls' probe Click here for the latest political news