Deputy President William Ruto is campaigning for 2022. He goes on development tours and basically he is operating on state resources. He uses state transport, state security and accommodation and, of course, he is still drawing allowances. Ruto will tell every body else that we should not to talk about the 2022 campaigns but in all his functions you can see a heavy presence of politicians who all talk about supporting him in 2022. The DP is the only one who doesn’t talk about the next general election, but everyone else is. So far, he is still the front runner, although you can’t say victory is assured because Kenyan politics is very fluid. As for the people supposed to be competing with him: we’re not sure whether Raila will run or not because he has not come out categorically to state his plans. His handlers, the likes of Siaya Senator James Orengo, are the ones out there saying that he has changed terms and he’s going to run but Raila himself has not said as much. Read: Ruto plots raids on Raila strongholds Also read: Raila calls urgent meeting over ODM's future plans If he indicates now that he is going to run, it means he has to abandon the handshake business and focus on the campaign. As of now, Ruto is already invading former ODM strongholds, putting a lot of emphasis on Coast and Western, which have been predominantly ODM. He is making serious headway because the people who used to be Raila diehards look as thought hey are shifting allegiance to Ruto — starting with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, lawmakers Aisha Jumwa and Suleiman Dori, chairman of the Coast Parliamentary Group. At the Coast, the person left standing with Raila is Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, deputy chairman of ODM. Ruto has managed to get the others. Of 45 Coast MPs, he has lured more than 30. In Western Kenya, the DP has elected Jubilee foot soldiers. If Raila were to run, he would be a formidable candidate but it all depends on how he plays his politics. The political analyst spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news