Title: Testimony 1990 Artiste: Khaligraph Jones Genre: Hip-hop / Rap Release: June 28  Let's be honest here. We really didn't expect an album of great magnitude as Testimony 1990 from Khaligraph Jones. Judging from his earlier catalogue, he has never really exhibited an effort of such an elaborate and tremendous quality. In fact, ask around, most of his fans will consider this his only significant compilation ever - first because of the hype leading up to its release and second, due to the fact that it houses a compilation of unheard tunes.  The album's first track is the inescapable Testimony featuring Sagini. It's a narration of Khaligraph's triumph and arduous road to success in the music scene. It's then followed by an appreciation tune Blessings, which probably exhibits the rapper's most self-effacing drop ever.  The unexpected tracklist has somehow placed the artiste's album at the top since it appeared on streaming platforms around the world. Which is incredible on a few fronts. Undeniably, Khaligraph can be quite uncreative. Just cast a brief look at the album cover art: Man's too basic.  That aside, Khaligraph still shines with his dexterous flow, and on Gwala he is joined by Nigerian rapper Ycee on one of the albums most significant tunes. Fortunately, despite his impressive verbal agility, we also get to experience Khaligraph's vocal ability on Make Babies.  Listening through 17 tracks in one hour six minutes for an album whose scope reveals itself as limited can be quite preposterous and disappointing. But luckily Khaligraph Jones counters this with numerous guest appearances. Well, based on skillful delivery, Fena outshines on No Change.  Probably, a Ray C feature on Aisee was the last thing we would have expected, but it gets even better when Khaligraph settles for the Afro Beat tune on Superwoman featuring Mr Eazi. The album also features Tanzanian Rostam on Now You Know, Esco on Go Hard, South African KO on Don Know and Ria on Complicated.  2018 is the year for full-length LPs and already Testimony 1990 stands to be counted among the best. In the true spirit of rap, it really isn't something to write home about, but considering the artiste's past efforts, it's the closest he's come to creating something remarkable without necessarily getting controversial. Obviously, it's a sincere effort - but is it breaking any walls?  Star rating: 3 out of 5