Seventeen foreign experts have camped in Kerio Valley to design two hydro-power mega dams that are to be cnstructed at a cost Sh68 billion. The Arror and Talal Kimwarer dam projects are by the Kerio Valley Development Authority, which is working with experts including engineers from Europe. KVDA CEO David Kimosop said on Saturday that the work was progressing faster as disputes over land compensation were resolved. "The two projects will transform Kerio Valley and create more than 3,000 jobs," he told a media briefing in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu county. The dams that are funded by Italian banks and the Kenyan government will be completed in four years. Read: Sh35 billion Arror dam faces delays as residents go to court Speaking separately, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said the government will fully compensate more than 1,000 families that will be displaced for the construction of the dams. Tolgos asked communities in the region to support the projects as they will all benefit. “We will ensure they are fully compensated for their land. All their other interests will be catered for by the government," he said on a tour of Kapsiya village near the Arror dam site. The government has released Sh2.5 billion to KVDA for the purchase of land for those who will have to move. Kimosop said they identified pieces of more than 5,000 hectares in Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu counties. Also read: Land commission to acquire 4,000 acres for Arror, Kimwarer dam projects The amount released by the government is part of the cash required to buy the land and Trans Nzoia has already approved purchase of the first 2,000 ha. “We are following due process to ensure that we purchase what is suitable for the families," he said. The CEO said the authority held more than 60 consultative meetings with communities but needed to address a few pending issues to ensure the smooth implementation of the projects. “Extensive consultative meetings are necessary for all stakeholders to get on board," he said. Last week, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and leaders from the region met residents at the dam sites to educate them on the projects. Kimosop said they want President Uhuru Kenyatta to visit the region for the groundbreaking ceremony this month. Click here for the latest political news