Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba has urged Kenyans to welcome back to society alcohol and drug addicts who have been rehabilitated. She said this is needed to avert relapse and ensure they engage in community development. Wamuchomba said many of those who have gone through rehabs fall back because of seclusion. They need to be accepted back and loved by their families and communities, she said. “They need to be shown they are important,” Wamuchomba said on Friday at her Mama Care Rehabilitation Centre in Kiambaa. Some 36 recovered addicts were released. This was the first batch of the 72 addicts enrolled at the centre three months ago. One was a teacher and another a police officer. Wamuchomba said they will be redeployed. Ten others will be admitted to the Kilimambogo Technical Training Institute for artisan courses, she said. The legislator donated 15 wheelbarrows to the rest. She told them to start businesses. The rehab will continue checking on their wellbeing to ensure it transforms their lives. Wamuchomba founded the facility through the National Government Affirmative Action Fund. She urged young people to avoid alcohol and drugs and focus on acquiring skills that enable them to earn income. Residents thanked her for committing to bring out the best in men so they become responsible. Elizabeth Wacheke urged the government to close all outlets selling alcohol and launch and offensive against drug abuse. “Our men used to get drunk as early as 7am. It was discouraging since they would come home late at night hungry, tired, drunk and even having urinated on themselves,” she said. Wacheke said many men ended up taking care of children they did not sire with their wives because women had to look for alternatives. “Women in this county have suffered a lot. They have held demos to demand action against alcoholism. Some men became useless. Some women looked for men elsewhere and sired children,” she said. AIPCK archdeacon Paul Njenga said many families have lost young people to drug abuse and alcoholism and called for guidance. “Our young people have died after drinking illicit drinks. We’ve seen others become addicts. Let’s support ideas that will help our society become responsible and productive,” he said. Wamuchomba said more families are registering their sons for rehab. Another group will be admitted once all members of the first group are out.