The Solai Dam, which burst killing 47 people last month, was constructed without an environment audit. The National Environmental Management Authority yesterday said the dam and others on the Patel farm in Nakuru were built long before Nema was established. Therefore, they were not subject to an Environmental Impact Assessment. “The dams were established before EMCA and hence have no EIA license. The farm submits environmental audits for the farm and the last one was submitted to Nema on April 10,” Nema director of compliance and enforcement David Ong’are said. He testified before the Senate select committee on the Solai dam tragedy at County Hall Nairobi. The dam is on property owned by Patel Mansukul. The committee kicked out officials of Nema and the National Construction Authority (NCA) for poor preparation and failing to detail measures to prevent another tragedy. Almost two months after the tragedy NCA acting boss Mauris Akech said a forensic audit would be carried out. Senators said the probe took too long and they should have done the audit themselves. Read:Solai Dam walls cracked long before tragedy, says report Ongare said the farm had carried out an environmental audit for the year 2016 but no initial environmental audit report was availed. “According to Environmental Audit report, the farm had two sources of water, a borehole and a dam. The report had not indicated the area of the farm and the other activities carried out in the farm except floriculture,” he said. Ongare said, “This meant that the environmental audit was not adequate and a re-submission of was required. This was indicated in the Improvement Order issued and signed by the farm manager.” He said the audit report had not covered the dairy, wildlife sanctuary, macadamia nut processing and the other dams within the farm. “The dam manager was issued with an improvement order to produce a comprehensive environmental audit and submit it to Nema,” he said. The dam manager was required to resubmit the report by June 7 this month but has not done so. Appearing before the same committee, outgoing NCA chairman Steven Oundo said the law should be amended to give it powers to prosecute offenders. Oundo, whose term ends on Saturday, said prosecutorial powers would help NCA deal with rogue property developers. Read: Heavy rainfall caused Solai Dam burst, Patel says, promises help Click here for the latest political news