The widow of freedom fighter Dedan Kimathi will be Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia’s adviser. Mukami Kimathi’s roles will also include championing peace and cohesion among residents. Kimathi led a military struggle against the British colonial government. He was captured and executed in 1957. On Friday, Kimemia said Mau Mau veterans have to be recognised and honoured because of their selfless push to free Kenya from the yoke of colonialism. He spoke during Madaraka Day celebrations in Ol Kalou Stadium, where he announced the plan to employ Mukami. “As the governor, I’m permitted [to hire her]. There is no one I cannot appoint in my government, either as an adviser or in any other capacity. I would like to work with Mrs Mukami so she can advise us as a mother,” Kimemia said. He said he informed Mukami of the decision before the event. “Mukami, you are not too old to advise our county. Even if it is about keeping and praying for peace,” Kimemia told her at the fete. Mukami accepted the offer and thanked Kimemia for recognising the forgotten lot in society. “The words spoken by the Nyandarua leader are not in vain. They are living proof that the county is keen to achieve progress. God bless you. May there be peace,” she said. Mukami said shared prosperity can be a reality if every resident did their part to promote socioeconomic development. Kimemia said his administration will help Nyandarua freedom heroes to lead dignified lives. He urged other Mt Kenya governors to follow suit. Kimemia said he has signed an MoU with the National Museums of Kenya to build a Mau Mau facility and a prayer centre to “preserve the rich Mau Mau history”. The county has set aside 25 acres in Kinyahwe, Kinangop, for the projects and a team has been set up to review the proposal, the governor said. He directed his press team to meet with the war veterans, interview them and document crucial information for future generations. “We’ll make a good Mau Mau film so history is not lost, especially what happened in the Aberdares,” Kimemia said. He appealed to the veterans “to bless Nyandarua, despite the little that has been done for you”. “Bless our land, bless our soil and bless our children. If we put God first, we shall succeed,” Kimemia said.