Wealthy and flamboyant entrepreneur Sadat Muhindi spared no penny over the weekend as his daughter turned 15, treating her to a flashy party at the Kempinski hotel, Nairobi. The party was attended by 50 children from his daughter's school. It cost the Maliza Umaskini foundation CEO more than a million shillings. "I bought her an Apple laptop and an iPad, both worth 400k," Sadat told Word Is. He urged parents to give their children the best life possible and be good role models. "Parents should give the best to their kids. Teach them good morals so they are not swayed away by cheap things in the market," he said. Adding, "It's good to celebrate your children's birthdays in whichever way just to appreciate them. It doesn't have to be flashy." Maliza Umaskini, whose main goal is youth empowerment, has helped many and nurtured talents including gospel artiste Papa Dennis. Muhindi said they are paying school fees for many students. "So far we have 12 students, two in high school and the rest in primary school, of which two are candidates," he said. Papa Dennis and Tanzania's Ray C are the top artistes signed under Sadat's Maliza Umaskini Records, and he says he's still signing more. "For now, we have three and we're signing five more soon. I'm super proud of Ray C for the far she has come. From being in rehab till now, she's positive about life." The Injili hitmaker, who recently released a song with Ray C, has a new dance track that is set to be dropped later this month. Sadat told us the video was shot in South Africa last December and it cost Sh2 million. With the Moi Girls' High School rape case trending, the young father said: "It's the worst thing to ever happen. As a parent, I'm saddened. The government is sleeping on their job, especially being a public school. They should employ policemen to provide security to schools run by the government. Recently, Ringtone set the Internet a-frenzy when he confessed his love for Zari and bought her a Range Rover, which she declined. So what does Sadat think about it? "Love is universal. It's for everyone, believers and non-believers, gospel artistes and non-gospel artistes," he said.