Ailing Kenyans will from today receive medical services offered by Cuban doctors. President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday asked Kenyans to “embrace and support” the 100 Cuban doctors distributed in county hospitals. Uhuru presided over their send-off in Nairobi, saying the foreign doctors will offer specialised services. “Our doctor-to-patient ratio of 1:16,000 remains an obstacle in achieving universal healthcare coverage,” Uhuru said. Local specialists are few and far between, yet their services are in high demand. He said the bilateral agreements between Kenya and Cuba will enhance collaboration in providing specialised services. At least two Cuban specialists comprising cardiologists, oncologists, radiologists and orthopaedic surgeons have been dispatched to each county. The doctors were dispatched in the counties based on the diseases affecting the region. The President also presided over the launch of a 100-day nationwide immunisation campaign that targets 400,000 children. The campaign is called Accelerated Immunisation Outreach. Read:Cuban doctors to get Sh940m in salaries for two-year stint It is aimed at raising the immunisation coverage which has remained stable at 80 per cent, below the national target of 90 per cent. Uhuru said immunisation was part of the ongoing drive towards the realisation of the UHC for Kenya, a key deliverable in his Big Four development agenda. “The failure to immunise children will not only undermine their health, but will also cause disease outbreaks,” he said. “I am pleased to launch the national rapid results initiative on child immunisation, which will increase the number of children that are vaccinated against killer diseases.” The President urged health and education ministries working with county governments to prioritise schoolchildren immunisation. “I urge the ministries and counties to put in place measures to ensure all children are vaccinated by the time they join school.” Health CS Sicily Kariuki said the launch of the immunisation drive, which included release of a variety of medical equipment, motorcycles and vehicles for use by health personel, will ensure a wider access to children. Also Read:Inside the Kenya-Cuba doctors deal Click here for the latest political news