Captains of industries in Kenya want the interest cap law repealed, faulting it for squeezing credit access, according to a CEO Business Barometer Survey by Oxford Business Group. Kenya capped commercial lending rates in September 2016 at four percentage points above the central bank’s benchmark rate, which now stands at 9.5 per cent, in an attempt to bring down the cost of borrowing. At least 89 per cent of 136 executives from across Kenya’s industries said that the law has instead slowed private sector credit growth to 2.1 per cent, lowest since 2005. "In a country where small and medium sized enterprises form the bulk of private sector, economic performance remains highly contingent on the prosperity of this business segment. After the introduction of the interest rate cap, banks felt the need to implement tighter risk-management tools, steering themselves towards safer avenues for investment,’’ the survey notes. The chief executives praised the government’s commitment to repeal the law and asked Parliament to support the initiative. National Treasury CS Henry Rotich while reading budget statement two weeks ago submitted proposals to appeal the law, saying it has been counterproductive. “In order to enhance access to credit and minimise the adverse impact of the interest rate capping on credit growth while strengthening financial access and monetary policy effectiveness, I propose to amend the Banking (Amendment) Act, 2016 by repealing section 33B of the said Act,'' said Rotich. He instead tabled Financial Market Conduct Bill, 2018, which proposes introduction of three other authorities to assist CBK in regulating activities in the banking sector. Central bank has been in the forefront in championing the repeal of the cap law, with its most recent survey terming the cap as retrogressive. According to the survey, 95 per cent of the business leaders feel either positive or very positive about local business conditions for the coming year, with 75 per cent of respondents saying it is likely or very likely that their companies will make significant investment within the next 12 months. Business heads at the launch of the survey on Friday included Nick Nesbitt, chairman, Kenya Private Sector Alliance; Vimal Shah, chairman, Bidco; Corine Mbiaketcha Nana, managing director, Oracle Kenya and Jeremy Awori, managing director, Barclays Bank of Kenya. The survey has been designed to assess business sentiment among business leaders and their outlook for the next 12 months.