Demolition of 388 unsafe buildings in Huruma failed to kick off yesterday amid claims of "high profile" bribery by owners of the death traps to delay the exercise. Residents who spoke to the Star said sub county and ward administrators, chiefs and their assistants have been compromised to allow the developers to remove vacate notices and allowing them to continue building. The officials were accused of aiding the developers evade demolition of their buildings and shielding them while demolishing structures on road reserves belonging to those who could not bribe. And despite assurances by the Nairobi regional coordinator Kangethe Thuku, National Building Inspectorate Secretary Moses Nyakiongora and City Hall officials that that the multi agency committee inspecting the buildings will begin pulling down them downs yesterday, no single bulldozers was seen in the area. "From now, we are directing those putting buildings without approvals to stop constructions. Those living in the houses that were inspected and found dangerous must move out," Thuku said. Yesterday when the Star visited the sprawling estate, no demolitions had started by midday. Police and residents were equally duped that earth movers will descend on the structures. The Starehe division where Huruma falls had called for reinforcement from GSU but the officers waited at the Huruma police station without the expected NYS excavators turning up. A owner of a building that had been marked for demolition over-painted the vacate notice and it collapsed on Sunday morning killing three people and injuring scores of others. Residents said subcounty and ward administrators, chiefs and their assistants have been receiving hefty bribes to allow the developers to remove vacate notices and continue renting to unsuspecting tenants after buildings are declared unsafe. A developer who had been forced to reduce two storeys from his building by inter agency committee on unsafe buildings put extra three storeys after offering cash to officials. The residents accused both NBI and county government officials of hiding the buildings assessment report that found that contains the list of buildings safety lacking in structural integrity hence dangerous. "They announced to us that there are 388 buildings that are unsafe and that must be demolished. We don't know whether we are living in those houses or not but are required to move," said a resident. "We are required to vacate buildings we are not even aware of because the government did not inform us which buildings were found unfit. They should have made public the houses that are unsafe for us to vacate them but because they have taken sides with the landlords, we have been kept in dark." A police officer recounted how the county officials faked attacks by hired goons stopping demolitions during a previous exercise. The junior officer said the county officers ha received bribes of Sh 500, 000 from a developer whose building had been marked for demolitions. During a public forum over the buildings at Huruma CDF offices, on Monday, the residents said this has left them in the dark concerning the status of the houses they are living in. But at the forum Kangethe and Nyakiongora led government and county officials in assuring that demolitions will begin yesterday come what may. They said the government was able to identify the buildings regardless of owners having had removed the demolish notices because they were in records. Nyakiongora said the vacate notices will be issued afresh. "Demolitions have been ongoing in small scale but beginning tomorrow we are going to intensify. Because we only one have excavator, we will be doing at most two in a day depending on where they are and availability of resources," Nyakiongora said.        