Sometimes things need to fall apart for them to come together. And this is the situation Arese Ugwu found herself in after her divorce - she had to figure out a way to secure her financial future and take care of her then one-year-old daughter Zikora. After analysing her spending habits and realising she had few assets, but a lot of fancy possessions (bags, shoes, clothes and the like), Arese changed her life and started building her investment portfolio. The journey was not smooth and that made her think: “How many other women are going through the same thing?” And that is how The Smart Money Woman was born. The fictional book revolves around Zuri, the main character, who has been living the good life as a 28-year-old real estate executive. She lives in a serviced apartment in the uptown area of Lekki Phase I in Nigeria with a good salary, a nice car and designer wardrobe, but soon realises she is broke with no assets to her name. Unable to pay her service charge and the fee to repair her car, Zuri starts to reevaluate her money choices and so followed a renewal. The book has been described as the African version of the bestseller by Robert Kiyosaki and Sharon Lechter Rich Dad, Poor Dad. Readers get to learn money lessons by following the life of Zuri and her four friends – Lara, Adesuwa, Tami and Ladun. The book deals with a range of financial matters, from the importance of having money goals to setting up an emergency fund. Each chapter closes with a financial exercise. Arese has an MSc in Economic Development from University College London and a BSc in Business and Management from Aston Business School, Birmingham. The Star caught up with Arese to find out more about how to get finances in order. The Star: First of all, I have seen your book being circulated on multiple social media forums - from WhatsApp groups to online book clubs. What are you doing about the piracy? Arese: I know. When I first found out, I cried for three days and then I called my mentors and asked what to do and they told me to look at it this way: No one would be pirating your book if it was not good. The high supply means there is high demand. The piracy is not good, but it has made my brand bigger. I have had people from across the region reach out to me telling me they got my book through a WhatsApp group and the book is relatable and has had a positive impact in their life. So there is a good side to it because it expanded my audience. I will seal the loopholes for my next book. TS: What inspired you to write the book? Arese: After I got divorced and had a one-year-old, I had to figure out a way to get my finances in order fast. We have heard about so many rags-to-riches stories and I thought it was time we told the story of the upper middle class woman and the challenges she faces with finances such as being able to afford a good life but still being broke. TS: In The Smart Money Woman you talk about your network being your net worth and how important it is to associate with people who add value to your life and help you reach your goals. There are situations where some people become opportunistic and align themselves with people for what they can get out of the relationship rather than it being authentic. How do you avoid that? Arese: I believe in forming genuine relationships with the people I associate with. With my mentors, I am friends with them outside them guiding me in my career - I go for lunch with them, we gist and are genuine friends. For example, my mentor Tara Durotoye and I are real friends. Let friendships grow organically rather than forcing them otherwise they won’t last. There has to be a real bond for a mentor to be invested in your success. A friend stalked the owner of a large chain of pharmacies to ensure my book was stocked there. That is what friendship is about - people who want to see you succeed and will move mountains to make it happen. I wouldn’t advise someone to go up to a person they hardly know and ask them to be their mentor because they will either outrightly decline the request or say yes out of courtesy and just help you out one or two times then stop. TS: You work with WIMBIZ (Women in Management and Business), a nonprofit organisation for women in business, and get to interact with powerful women. What is that experience like? Arese: I got involved with WIMBIZ when I was 26 years old and back then I was not very vocal when speaking at meetings because I didn’t know what I had to offer when I was around all these powerful women. But I’m grateful for the platform because they never made me feel insignificant. At WIMBIZ, everyone is equal and everyone’s perspective and values matter. Interacting with women such as Osayi Alile - the chairperson of WIMBIZ – has been a great experience. TS: How do you keep track of your expenses – it can be exhausting jotting down everything you spend on. Arese: This does not have to be an everyday exercise. You only need to do this once so you can know your financial position – analyse your debts and expenses and see what your needs and wants are and eliminate unnecessary expenses then move forward from there. TS: What would you say is the best investment to put your money in now? Arese: It depends on your personality and your needs. The first thing to think about before you invest is what is your reason for investing? Is it for the short term, like rent, or long-term? If it is for rent, you may not want to put your money in a risky investment. TS: In your book, the character Lara advises Zuri to get a man to sort out her money problems. Many millennials are interested in getting rich quick and that includes being ‘sugar babies’ to get cash. What advice do you give to young women? Arese: It is important to be financially independent. Though if a man wants to give me money or buy me a plane ticket abroad, I won’t refuse. I’ll never say no to free money. TS: What are some of the mistakes women make when climbing up the ladder and handling their finances? Arese: Some women are not self-aware and are shy. Women should learn to speak up and take credit for their accomplishments. A friend once told me how she had great ideas but was always afraid of raising them during meetings because she thought maybe they were not good enough. So she would tell her supervisor about them and what would happen? The supervisor would raise those ideas in a meeting, they would be approved and the supervisor would take all the credit. I told her to read Sheryl Sandberg’s book Lean In and to take her seat at the table. She did and things started changing for the better. Another mistake some people make in investments is not diversifying across institutions. For example, some people will invest in stocks of only one bank rather than doing so in several so that incase one is doing badly, there are others to fall back on. TS: What is your best investment? Arese: The investment I have made in myself and being able to monetise my skills to make a career out of financial education. I have used one of the skills I have and made a living out of it. I am living the life of my dreams. TS: Money wise, which investment is your go-to right now? Arese: Real estate. TS: The Smart Money Woman talks about the importance of having a vision for your life. What’s yours? Arese: I want to be a Pan-African brand when it comes to financial education. TS: Final tips for investing? Arese: Take my online course and read my book. The course has 16 worksheets and eight modules Also, don’t invest in what you don’t understand. Remember, you become financially free when your passive income exceeds your expenses.   Money lessons from The Smart Money Woman  1. Are you broke? Broke does not necessarily mean you do not earn good money - there are people who earn millions but are broke because of their expensive lifestyles. If you want to achieve financial freedom you need to take control of your money and spend less than you earn 2. Face your fears about money: Even if you realise you are deep in debt, don't bury your head in the sand - analyse where your money goes, divide your expenses according to your needs and wants. Minimize on the unnecessary wants and get on with getting your finances in order 3. Have an emergency fund: Life happens and unexpected incidents - whether illness - you or a family member - or unbudgeted for expense so set aside some cash for this. 5. Have money goals 6. Have a spending plan 7. Learn the power of networking: your network is your net worth.