OCP Kenya Limited, the firm accused of importing substandard fertilizers has threatened to move to court, claiming their fertilizers were above board. The Company in a statement on Sunday rejected the claims in their entirety "as they reflect neither the commercial practices nor the rigorous quality-assurance processes to which OCP Kenya adheres." "The newly customized fertilizers introduced by OCP Kenya have been very successful. These micro nutrient-enriched products have been adapted specifically to local soils and crops following research and development efforts conducted in cooperation with Kenyan research laboratories," the firm said. On Thursday last week, DPP Noordin Haji said the Morocco-based company imported compound fertiliser weighing 5,846,000 kilograms. Read: Kebs MD Charles Ongwae, nine others arrested over substandard fertilizer The fertilizers, Hajji said failed to meet KEBS standards. The fertilizers were supposed to either be destroyed or re-shipped to the country of origin. However, it was released onto the market. OCP, however, claim that their new customized fertilizers have demonstrated a positive effect on farmers in terms of yield and competitiveness. The firm said they fully complied with Kenyan procedures and regulations in place in connection with the cargo targeted by this action. "The full compliance of this cargo with such procedures and regulations has been indisputably confirmed by independent expert analyses performed by several internationally renowned inspection agencies (SGS, Bureau Veritas and Cronuts),"it said. On Friday, Kenya Bureau of Standards MD Charles Ongwae and nine other senior officials were arrested and taken for questioning at the DCI over the importation of substandard fertiliser and circulation fake KEBS stamps. Ongwae's arrest came a day after he publicly differed with Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i over the existence of mercury in the sugar brought in the country fraudulently. Others arrested included Quality Assurance director Erick Chesire, Inspection manager Kilindini port Peter Ndung'u, Port health officer Pole Mwangeni and Regional manager Coast region Martin Nyakiamo. Erick Kirui, Erick Ochieng, Catherine Bowen, Robin Shake and Rhoda Kirui who are part of Kebs tender committee were also arrested. The 10 officials who are expected in court today will face charges ranging from attempted murder, aiding the commission of a felony, abuse of office, breach of office and selling substandard goods. OCP said they intend to actively and fully cooperate with the Kenyan authorities in connection with the matter. They further said that they reserve their rights to take legal action against the parties behind "these baseless and opportunistic accusations." The OCP Kenya Limited officials under ODPP's radar are Karim Lofti Senhadji (Director), Makila Kirama (Director), Younes Addou (Director) and OCP(K) Ltd importer. Also read: KEBS MD Charles Ongwae, six others arrested over fake stamps Click here for the latest political news