 While the momentum
to fight graft is still on, going by the National Youth Service, the National Cereals Produce Board, and the Kenya Power
scandals, let’s take the opportunity to unmask the facilitators and small
crafters of corruption. These are the people who usually go scot-free and their networks
remain intact whenever there is a purge. These so-called small fish are the
real threat to the war on corruption, as they are hardly noticed. They are stuck
in the complex web of civil service, within the citizens and business ranks,
continuously polluting our resolve and mocking the president’s call to fight
graft. Until the NYS
prosecution, no one thought a clerk, procurement officer, examiner or a
junior accountant has any place in the mega scandals attributed to principal secretaries and Cabinet secretaries. It is now clear that for a dubious financial transaction to succeed,
there is a whole chain of accomplices who deep their fingers in the execution
of these nefarious schemes. This category usually remains intact in the system,
after the PS or CS has been sacked; even as they wait for the next victim to slay.
They are the middle level inconspicuous corruption monsters. The Public Service Commission is also ridden with corrupt officials, who circumvent
justice, abet crime and collude with corrupt directors of departments to
deprive officers of their due benefits such as promotions and appointments; as
they front their own or those who have bribed and belong to a big man somewhere. Human Resource officers in ministries behave like gods, who craft and dish
promotions to those whom they choose, and deny the deserving. Civil service is
awash with directors and departmental heads who have held their positions for a very long time. Their long stay in one department and ministry guarantees them
the accolade of bonafide institutional memory carriers, a quality the new PS  so desperately needs to adapt to the new working
environment. However, most of
them use this merit to induct the hapless new-comers into corruption, by first
showering them with privileges and benefits due to their positions. By the time
the CS or PS gets to know that he/she is in the web of monumental fraud, it is
too late. Corruption is not only about money. Workers in civil service and members
of the public alike have been denied opportunities and benefits due to them by
corrupt officials, who abuse office to met out revenge and punishment on those they
hate, for one reason or another. A deserving supplier will not get a tender
because he is not a relative of the director or manager. A deserving officer
cannot be promoted or get a trip abroad because he or she is not from the "correct tribe". The perpetrators of
these crimes are not the CSs or PSs. It is the so-called small fish in our
public service system, who obliviously wield huge power to torment, disgrace,
deprive and reward. The county police commander or junior inspector, who waits
in the office to get proceeds from a traffic constable, who spent a whole day on
the road collecting bribes from matatus, has never been nabbed. Medical practitioners,
who sneak in and out of public hospitals, solicit bribes to attend to the sick
and dying, yet they are ready to take the salary as they constantly strike for
more pay. An assistant inspector general of police sitting in Nairobi, who through network of
cronies receives bribes collected on the roads from all the counties, remains in the service when the poor constable is nabbed by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officials. There is that matatu
operator who puts an unroadworthy vehicle on the road, endangering the lives of
commuters, as he happily arranges notes to dish to the police, thus denying
genuine and honest investors an opportunity to make a living from their
investment. The shrewd “supplier” who has no capacity to supply anything but
takes a bribe to a government officer and obtains a tender for which he knows
not how to deliver. The human resource manager who confiscates letters of
promotion and who fails to process employees’ benefits, until he/she is soothed
with a 'cup of tea'; yet the CS will never know about it. Friends, these
are the facilitators and crafters of corruption who should be confronted with
gusto, if at all we will get anywhere in our resolve against the vice. Without
their cooperation, corruption would never take place. But they are variously at
the mercies of their superiors for whom they hold bid. So, should we rethink
our management structures to avoid victimisation of those who refuse to be
accomplices in corruption? Definitely this is an area where advisers of
government need to address in light of the emerging methodologies for curbing
graft.