John Mututho has slammed the National Assembly for planning to slash the budgetary allocation to the National Youth service. Mututho recommended more money for the agency, citing the need to empower youths and eradicate poverty. Kimani Ichung'wa, the chairman of the influential budget committee, told Reuters earlier on Thursday that they had cut the proposed budget for the agency for the financial year starting next month by Sh8 billion ($79.40 million) to stem the rampant theft of funds. The state-run NYS trains young people and deploys them to projects ranging from construction to traffic control. The Treasury had proposed to allocate Sh18.36 billion to the agency to fund its programmes for the 2018/19 fiscal year. Details: MPs cut NYS funding by Sh8 billion to tame corruption Mututho, however, said that the move was ill-advised and will not prevent looting in the service. The former Nacada boss recommended that the cash be distributed evenly to various financial institutions and NYS servicemen be allowed to borrow it later. He wants the money distributed through a special fund. “This will curb corruption cases. It will be difficult for people using their intelligence to corruptly divert the use of NYS funds,” he told reporters. While reiterating the need to de-militarise the service, Mututho said servicemen should take empowerment classes and then go straight to financial institutions to access loans for starting business. He added that youths' needs increase over time so cutting the budget will worsen poverty among them. Lawmakers should rethink their decision and read the NYS from a different angle, he said. The NYS, Pensions Department at the National Treasury and the Judiciary are some of the state agencies that have been hit hard by reductions in budgetary allocations for the next financial year. The money from the NYS budget is expected to go towards boosting youth programmes across the country. The move to reduce the agency’s budget has been seen as a protest by the MPs following the Sh9 billion scandal that has hit it, with several of its top officers facing corruption charges. More on this: NYS suspects accuse magistrate of rushing case, say rights violated Click here for the latest political news