Poverty in the United States is
extensive and deepening under the Trump administration whose
policies seem aimed at removing the safety net from millions of
poor people, while rewarding the rich, a UN human rights
investigator has found. Philip Alston, UN special rapporteur on extreme poverty,
called on US authorities to provide solid social protection
and address underlying problems, rather than "punishing and
imprisoning the poor". In a report, Alston said that as welfare benefits and access
to health insurance were being slashed, President Donald Trump's
tax reform awarded "financial windfalls" to the mega-rich and
large companies, further increasing inequality. Extreme poverty in the United States, however, is not new.
Alston said US policies since President Lyndon Johnson's war
on poverty in the 1960s have been "neglectful at best". "But the policies pursued over the past year seem
deliberately designed to remove basic protections from the
poorest, punish those who are not in employment and make even
basic health care into a privilege to be earned rather than a
right of citizenship," Alston said. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for
comment. A US official in Geneva, asked for comment, told Reuters:
"The Trump Administration has made it a priority to provide
economic opportunity for all Americans." Almost 41 million people or 12.7 percent live in poverty,
18.5 million in extreme poverty, and children account for one in
three poor, Alston said. The United States has the highest youth
poverty rate among industrialised countries, he added. However, the data from the US Census Bureau he cited
covers only the period through 2016, and he gave no comparative
figures for before and after Trump came into office in January
2017. Alston, a veteran UN rights expert and New York University
law professor, will present his report to the United Nations
Human Rights Council later this month. It is based on a mission by the Australian in December to
several US states, including rural Alabama, a slum in downtown
Los Angeles, California, and the US territory of Puerto Rico. Alston said that a tax overhaul that passed the
Republican-controlled US Congress in December will ensure the
United States remains the most unequal society in the developed
world. Trump has said tax cuts will lead to more take-home pay for
workers and has touted bonuses some workers received from their
employers as evidence the law is working. The tax code also includes a measure to support
locally-directed efforts to fight unemployment and poverty. Click here for the latest political news