Last
weekend members of the ‘Tanga Tanga Squad’ were in
my constituency. (Tanga Tanga Squad is a group of MPs and senators who
move
around the country campaigning for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022
presidential bid). Senator Kipchumba
Murkomen and MP Kimani Ichung'wa had come ostensibly for a
fundraising at a local church. However, in reality, they had come to
introduce a 2022 Nyeri MP aspirant. They emphasised that this candidate has very
cordial
relations with Ruto. The DP had thus sent Sh1
million to the church because of it. The two chaps each
contributed
Sh300,000. I
will not go into the details of what else they said; but it was
distasteful. What bowled me over was the sheer impunity of what
they were doing. I could not help but ask myself - if these guys have
the
audacity to disrespect an elected MP like this, in his constituency,
when they are not in power, what
would they do if they were to ascend to the office they seek? What are
their limits? I
was also very disappointed that the DP could be involved
in such. Or is it that he did not know that the Sh1 million he
had sent his guys with was
to be used to undermine an incumbent MP, in his own
constituency, from his own party? But
why would the two leaders – and the DP if
he was aware – go to such extent? The only thing I have done is insist
that we
must recognise that Uhuru Kenyatta is President for the next
four years,
and stop campaigning for his position like it is about to get vacant. I
have
also insisted that we must first focus all our efforts in securing his
legacy, and then
we can campaign for whoever will take over from him when the time is
right. Finally I
have stated that no one can claim to hold Mt Kenya votes before 2022 –
including me. The region will vote for whoever serves their interests
post-2022, without
intimidation. Clearly I made some people very upset with those
statements! I am not worried about someone getting endorsed in 2018 to be
elected as MP in 2022. That is four years away and Nyeri people are pretty
independent-minded folks. They know what they want and tend to resist strongly external influence
when making elective decisions. Plus Nelson Mandela showed us that it is
not how many terms you serve in a public office; it is what you do in a particular term,
that counts. So I will not allow the fear of what will happen in 2022
to interfere with what I need to do now. Nationally I will stand firmly behind
the President in his efforts to unite Kenya. I will also stand firmly
behind the President in his fight against corruption. In Parliament I will introduce and participate in
making laws that serve Kenyans, and oversight government effectively. Finally,
when the time is right, I will add my voice to the conversation of who I think will
be best suited to take over from Uhuru. But only when the time to do that comes. Locally
I will serve Nyeri Town constituents wholeheartedly.
I will represent their interests in the National Assembly. I will ensure
there
are jobs that put food on the table for every person in every home.
Every child
will go to school, to the highest level they can. The Universal
Healthcare
pilot programme being rolled out in Nyeri county will have its highest
impact in
Nyeri Town. I will lobby for national and county government resources to
develop our roads, ensure we have water for irrigation,
push for ICT development, and ensure that our
agricultural products get the best possible returns. Security will be
enhanced. And we will domesticate the Big Four to Nyeri’s needs. Then in 2022 we will let the people decide; at both national
and local level.