Kariobangi Sharks head coach William ‘Kanu’ Muluya is targeting podium finish on his debut in the SportPesa Super Cup starting this weekend. Sharks kick off their campaign against Tanzanian giants Simba SC on Monday at the Afraha Stadium. The match promises a thriller as the newly crowned Tanzanian Vodacom Premier League champions will be seeking a better outing after dismal performance in the last edition. Simba lost their quarter final duel 5-4 in post-match penalties to National Super League strugglers Nakuru All Stars after a barren draw in the regular time despite enjoying the massive home support. Muluya admitted that Sharks were the underdogs but vowed to fight for a medal in the eight-team tournament. He said: “Simba are the league champions in Tanzania and go into the match as favourites. I love the underdogs tag because somehow it increases my appetite for success. Our target is to get to the final but for that to happen, we first must beat Simba FC to progress.” He will be forced to do without the services of four of his key players including Bolton Omwenga, Vincent Wasambo, Patillah Omoto and Ovella Ochieng who are away with the national team in India for the ‘Hero Intercontinental Cup’. Simba were crowned the new Tanzania champions a week ago despite losing their unbeaten run to Kagera Sugar 1-0 in the penultimate match of the season. Under the tutelage of Congolese coach, Mwinyi Zahera Simba, Simba claimed their 19th Tanzanian Premier League title and their first since 2012 hence booking a place in the Caf Champions League. Sharks will have to worry of the deadly duo of Emmanuel Okwi and John Bocco who have netted more than 30 goals between themselves in the just concluded season. Simba boast of a squad which is largely dominated by international players. Five of their players—Aishi Manula, Erasto Nyoni, John Bocco, Mwinyi Kazimoto and Shomari Kapombe turn out for the Tanzanian national team, Taifa Stars while Haruna Niyonzima captains the Rwandese national team. Laudit Mavugo turns out for the Burundi national team as Okwi and Murushid Juuko are senior players for Uganda Cranes.