Cotu boss Francis Atwoli has called for extensive lifestyle audits of officials dealing with graft, saying they are the greatest impediment to the war. The Secretary General claimed that most EACC and DCI officers have used investigations to enrich themselves. "All these people should be investigated; nobody should be left out. Those found to have benefited from the proceeds of graft should surrender assets to the government ," he said on Saturday during a funds drive at St Peters Seminary in Kakamega He added that the audit should also be extended to all government parastatals and agencies. The workers' union boss castigated politicians opposing the audits saying they were not ready to rescue the country from economic crimes. He thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for standing firm in the war on corruption, noting this is the only way to save Kenya. "Let people not hide under tribal cocoons. The fight against corruption should not be perceived as fighting a particular tribe or person," he added. More on President's war: [AUDIO] Charge my brother if found guilty - Uhuru Also read: Uhuru's brother did not import any sugar, says CS Kiunjuri Atwoli told Deputy president William Ruto to stop early campaigns as they will derail development. "2022 is still very far. At this rate Kenyans will lose," he said, and asked why the President has "failed to take charge". "The President is sleeping while his deputy is setting a political mood. This is dangerous. It is wrong for Ruto to campaign while Uhuru is still on the throne." He also said the two Jubilee Party leaders lack advisers so the country is heading in the wrong direction and is getting crippled by corruption. Read: Why Uhuru and his men are against Ruto's bid Atwoli praised Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri for calling a meeting of governors from all sugar-growing zones to discuss solutions to the problems in the industry. He, however, asked the government to be firm on importation as this has "killed local industries while enriching a few people". "Illegally imported sugar should be destroyed," the Secretary General said. Speaking at the same function, Ikolomami MP Benard Shinyali said cartels in illegal importation of sugar should be destroyed once and for all . Click here for the latest political news