  The Kenya Farmers Federation North Eastern
branch vice chair Dubat Amey now wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare the
locust invasion in parts of the country a national disaster. Agriculture chief administrative secretary
Andrew Tuimur yesterday confirmed the tree locust variety have invaded about
494,210 acres of land in Merti sub-county in Isiolo county. Residents of North Horr in Marsabit county
have also reported the pests, which disrupted classes in some schools last
week. Attempts to control the pests by schools were futile and pupils had to
sit under trees to continue with learning. Addressing the press in Garissa town on Wednesday,
Amey who was flanked by a host of farmers  termed the locust a menace that was not only
destructive to the environment but wipe out farmlands. “We are urging the government to embark on
a massive aerial spraying of the locust before they spread to neighboring
counties,” Amey said. He at the same time urged the international
organizations among others the FAO, IGAD and European Union to assist the
government in containing the spread of the dreaded locusts. “We
are starring at a massive food shortage in the country of the locust invade the
rich agricultural regions of this country. The invasion is no longer a
ministerial affair but a national concern,” he added. “These are insects that can quickly and
within no time turn a country into a desert if action is not taken,” he noted. Dubat said already the locusts have been
spotted in Isiolo, Turkana, Samburu and Baringo counties and now threatens so
spread southwards. In Marsabit, farmers have resulted to
hiring youth to scare away locusts that have invaded their maize and bean
farms. The pests have also invaded parts of Turkana East sub-county that
borders Samburu, Baringo and West Pokot. However, Tuimur assured this type of
locusts invades trees and shrubs, unlike the desert locusts which are more
dangerous and feed on grass and crops. “We have sent a team of officers for
surveillance and we have also contacted the Desert Locust Control Organization
for Eastern Africa who have provided a plane to spray the pests to avoid any
attack that could affect browsing for goats and camels,” the CAS had told the
Star. 