The Lake Region Economic bloc plans to launch a bank in October should the 14-member counties contribute their Sh200 million each towards its establishment. The counties are Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya, Kakamega, Migori, Busia, Bomet, Nandi, Vihiga, Bungoma, Kericho, Trans Nzoia, Kisii and Nyamira. Kakamega Governor and LREB chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said Sh2.8 billion is needed to set up the bank. He said the bank will be wholly owned by residents from the member counties which hosts a population of about 14 million. “The bank will help the LREB mobilise resources to fast track development which will be beneficial to residents,” Oparanya said. He said the Sh200million will be deposited into a special account with the Central Bank. “We appeal to county members to contribute their funds towards this bank. So far, six have contributed, but we hope that by October, all will have contributed the total amount to enable us launch the bank,” Oparanya said during a sensitisation tour at the Homa Bay county assembly. He urged Homa Bay MCAs to approve another Sh150 million to enhance formation of the bank. The MCAs had approved Sh50million for the project. Kisumu has deposited Sh100million while Kakamenga has factored in Sh200million in its 2018-19 budget. “Let MCAs do the bloc a favour by speeding the approval of the remaining funds so the bank can start its operations,” he said. Homa Bay Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata said they had agreed to contribute the funds to enable the county prosper economically with others. “We’ve realised that we cannot develop alone hence the idea of having a bank will enable counties access loans for development,” he said. The DG said the idea is also in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. However, some MCAs expressed concern the idea should not be hurried before they fully understand it. MCAs Nicholas Owaka ( Kanyamwa-Kosewe), Peter Kaula (Wangchieng), Elliphalet Osuri (Ruma Kaksingri) and Walter Muok (Kanya doto) said sensitisation should be done before the bank is established. “Most of our counties have not undertaken the required development hence committing Sh200million without proper public participation would be wrong,” Owaka said. But Oparanya said the bank would help small-scale and medium enterprises. “We are exploring the possibilities of buying an established bank to rid us of the long process of starting a new one a fresh,” he said. The governor said the World Bank had pledged to support the LREB’s proposed regional bank if it is launched.