Ethics and Anti-Corruption (EACC)
detectives have camped at six NCPB depots to carry out investigations into the
Sh 1.9 Billion maize purchase scam. The depots which are being
investigated are Eldoret, Moisbridge, Kitale, Nakuru, Bungoma and Kisumu. EACC Deputy Director Jackson Mue who
is in charge of the North Rift region says they have collected vital documents
from all the depots in order to analyze the maize purchase process. “The investigations are still at an
early stage but we are progressing very well”, said Mue who was speaking at the
EACC regional offices in Eldoret on Thursday. He said forensic experts are
involved in analyzing the documents so far seized. “We want to establish how the entire
maize purchase process was done. We are seeking to know if genuine farmers were
deliberately denied opportunity to deliver maize, if there was bribery in the
process among other matters”, said Mue. The EACC is also seeking to
establish if some of the suppliers were paid more money than the maize they
supplied. Several traders have been named as
beneficiaries of the maize scam at the NCPB depots About eight of the traders
were paid sh 1.9 Billion while more than 3,500 farmers are yet to be paid for deliveries
since December. Operations at the NCPB depots under investigations have been paralyzed following
the suspension of more than 65 staff to allow for investigations into maize
purchase and distribution of subsidized fertilizer. The investigators seized more files on payments for maize and management of
subsidized fertilizer in the region where the employees were suspended by
Agriculture PS Richard Lesiampe. Farmers demanding payments for their maize have been visiting the depots for
enquiries. The farmers are demanding to be paid sh 5 Billion for maize
deliveries. Acting CEO Albin Sang has visited the depots and deployed other employees to
take charge of operations. Immediate former CEO Newton Terer resigned from the board two weeks ago and
declined to give details of his exit. “I was not suspended but I just decided
to resign”, he said. Lesiampe said Terer would still be questioned on how the mess at the NCPB
happened under his watch. MPS from the North Rift region led by Moiben’s Sila Tiren and Senator
Margaret Kamar called for speedy investigations and urged the government to
also speed up payments for the genuine farmers who had suffered for long.