The 33 suspects connected to the multibillion-shilling NYS scandal will undergo a lifestyle audit. Their assets could be forfeited to the government after investigations, Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji has said. During an interview with Citizen TV, Haji said his team will conduct a lifestyle audit on the suspects that include Public Service and Youth PS Lilin Omollo, NYS Director General Richard Ndubai and former NYS Acting Director General Sammy Michuki. “Why do we confine ourselves to small and big fish when we actually have whales? We can even do whaling,” Haji said. He affirmed the multi-agency team conducting a crackdown on graft has successfully seized assets including land and vehicles. Haji said their respective accounts have also been frozen. Read : How NYS suspects tried to block arrest He said President Uhuru Kenyatta has supported the multi-agency team in netting key suspects in the scam. “We have the goodwill of the President himself in ensuring that the Constitution is adhered to and independence of the Constitution is well anchored. The approach of coordination among agencies has helped in the fight against corruption,” Haji said. The DPP said his team has revolutionised its investigation tactics to ensure solid evidence is produced in court and the involved culprits are successfully prosecuted.  REVOLUTION “We have learned from past mistakes. In a matter of time, you will see a big difference because we are looking at things with a broader angle. We will not go through the traditional penal code but will explore all the aspects that Parliament has enacted for us to be able to tackle this problem,” Haji said. “We recognise crime and corruption itself is very complex and therefore when we do investigations and undertake prosecutions, we ensure we are complex in our approach.” Haji rubbished claims the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has been elbowed out of the crackdown process, saying they are working as a single multi-agency team.  TERRORISM Haji said his team will not be cowed by powerful graft cartels that flex muscles to block prosecution. “In my opinion, corruption is more dangerous that terrorism. Corruption can be a threat to prosecutors and we are cognisant of that. But we will make this sacrifice for this country,” he said. “There are people who procure competent and senior counsels and that is why we are considering getting senior counsels too so as to give Kenyans more confidence.” Related : Senator wants lifestyle audit of politicians who get rich fast Click here for the latest political news