A senior North Korean
official will hand over a letter from the country's leader Kim
Jong Un to US President Donald Trump in a rare visit to the
White House on Friday as the two sides try to put a derailed
summit meeting back on track. Trump hopes to meet Kim in Singapore on June 12 and pressure
him to give up his nuclear weapons, although he conceded on
Thursday that might require more rounds of direct negotiations. "I’d like to see it done in one meeting," Trump told
Reuters. "But often times that’s not the way deals work. There’s
a very good chance that it won’t be done in one meeting or two
meetings or three meetings. But it’ll get done at some point." Leading the delegation to the White House on Friday is Kim
Yong Chol, a close aide of Kim Jong Un. White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said late on Thursday
that the details of the meeting were still being worked out. It
was not clear whether Trump would receive Kim Yong Chol in the
Oval Office. It was also not clear what North Korea's leader wrote in his
letter to Trump, although it was seen as raising hopes that the
summit meeting might be back on. After trading threats of war last year, the two men agreed
to meet for an historic summit on June 12. But Trump cancelled
last week, citing Kim's "tremendous anger and open hostility" in
a string of public statements. Even as he pulled out, though, Trump urged Kim to "call me
or write" if he wanted to revive the meeting. Within a day, both sides were in new talks to save the
summit, and Kim Yong Chol flew to New York this week to meet
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Despite saying the two sides made "real progress", Pompeo
also cautioned that there might be no quick solution. "They'll have to choose a path that is fundamentally
different than the one that their country has proceeded on for
decades. It should not be to anyone's surprise that there will
be moments along the way, that this won't be straightforward,"
he said. NUCLEAR THREAT North Korea's nuclear weapons program has made significant
advances in recent years and poses a threat to the United
States. Trump's main goal in any talks is to eliminate that
threat. Kim has rejected previous US calls for North Korea's
unilateral nuclear disarmament and argued instead for a "phased"
approach to denuclearisation of the entire Korean peninsula.
That in the past has also meant removal of the US nuclear
umbrella protecting South Korea and Japan. In Pyongyang, Kim said his will to see denuclearization on
the peninsula remained "unchanged, consistent and fixed” and
hoped improved North Korea-US relations would be solved on a
"stage-by-stage" basis. The North Korean visit to the White House on Friday will be
the first since 2000, when President Bill Clinton met senior
figure Jo Myong Rok in an unsuccessful attempt to win the
reclusive nation's nuclear disarmament. The two men met for 45 minutes and Jo brought Clinton a
letter from Kim Jong Il, the late father of North Korea's
current leader. Jo wore his full military uniform when he was with Clinton,
then donned a business suit to meet with Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright. To make his trip this week, Kim Yong Chol needed special
permission for official travel to the United States because he
had previously been blacklisted. South Korea has accused him of masterminding deadly attacks
on a South Korean warship and an island in 2010, and US
intelligence linked him to a cyber attack on Sony Pictures in
2014. Click here for the latest political news