Kenyans are opposed to the plan by the government to compel all employees contribute up to one per cent of their salaries to National Housing Development Fund. This is after details of the Finance Bill, 2018, which Treasury CS Henry Rotich tabled in Parliament came to fore, revealing employees will be deducted one per cent of their gross salary every month or a maximum of Sh5,000. Employers will also have to pay similar amount for their workers every month, a move that is likely to further raise the cost of labour. “An employer shall pay to the National Housing Development Fund in respect of each employee in his or her employment subject to a maximum of Sh5,000. The employer’s contribution at one per cent of employee’s monthly gross emoluments and employee’s contribution at one per cent of gross monthly earnings,” reads part of the Bill. It however contradicts what CS Treasury said while reading budget statement last Thursday. “In order to promote development of low-cost housing for Kenyans, I propose to amend the Employment Act to provide that an employer shall contribute to the National Housing Development Fund, in respect of each employee in his or her employment 0.5 per cent of the employees gross monthly emolument subject to a maximum of Sh5,000 while the employee will contribute 0.5 per cent of their monthly gross earnings,” Rotich said. After launching the Public Private Partnership projects disclosure portal yesterday, Rotich said deductions are capped at 0.5 per cent, adding the bill will be reviewed and deductions harmonised. “The National Housing Development Fund will work in a similar fashion to any pension fund. We want Kenyans to consolidate funds which can enable them build low cost houses of up to Sh1.5 million. It will go a long way in resolving housing deficit in the country,” d Rotich said. Some Kenyans are, however, opposed to the government’s initiative which is anchored on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda on housing. Kenya is targeting at least 500,000 housing units by 2022. “This is an absurdity. I can’t afford to purchase a house or take a mortgage but Rotich wants to take another one per cent from my salary and without provision or explanation as to how I benefit from this scheme. It is immoral and unethical,” Twitter user Mercy Rurii said.