Eastern Region and Embu county security committees said the two were unlawfully assembling the controversial slot-gambling machines,
whose importation and supply was banned by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i
a fortnight ago. The 24-year-old Jay Jay and Christine
Muthoni, 42, were arrested by a contingent of combined Regular Police, AP and Directorate of Criminal Investigations officers at around 9.30pm on Monday at  a rented secured house in Karurina market, Embu West subcounty. The machines were burnt at
the Embu town’s dumping site under the watch of Eastern region commissioner Wycliffe Ogalo, county commissioner
Esther Maina, county  AP boss Daudi
Mohammed and his Kenya Police counterpart Samuel Mathu. Ogalo told reporters the recovery followed a stinging operation by the police officers following a tip off
by members of the public, whom he thanked for the vital information. Ogalo blamed the machines for "messing up" children, who
are gambling for easy money, resulting in many drop outs. He said the machines, which he said are almost in every premise and verandas in Embu, have also affected the youth and promised get rid of them. “These machines have become a security risk in homes
because when a child is sent to the shop, he or she goes ahead and gambles with the money. Some steal every coin they come across, while the youth exhaust all they get from gambling,” he said. The regional commissioner said the machines have also made the locals lazy, and not many don't bother going to their farms. Ogalo said women looking for easy money
have also started gambling and are losing cash they
have saved in self-help groups. He warned foreigners involved in illegal activities in the Eastern region with dire consequences and told them to
move out or be arrested. He said the slot-gambling machine has been converted
into an ordinary business and are placed in stalls, and almost every available
space in Embu. AP county boss Mohammed said his officers will apprehend those involved in such businesses and will be dealt with
accordingly. 