I would like to add my voice to the Standard Newspaper editorial of Wednesday, May 23 titled ‘Whatever You Do, Don’t Take the Country Back to the Brink.’ The editorial advised the political class, and in particular the leaderships of all political parties, which command following from diverse and different communities and interests in Kenya, that the politics of brinkmanship is not likely to help this country at this particular conjuncture. This editorial was spot on, and its advocacy must not be that of a voice crying in the wilderness. I appeal to Kenyans to embrace this season of searching for solutions to our problems and not making mountains out them to keep us static in a political abyss going nowhere. At the end of the blockbuster movie, Black Panther, as King Tchalla addresses the United Nations Assembly in Brussels, Belgium, on the need for all countries to come together in supporting one another, he concludes: “At a time of crisis, the wise build bridges while the foolish and selfish create barriers.” Some Mzungu delegate, who was listening with some in-built racist bias, then asks him a completely irrelevant question that he does not answer. And there ends the movie. Sometimes it pays not to respond to comments that divide us at a time like this, but concentrate instead on building the project of building bridges. In the fullness of time, the naysayers will wake up to find the majority of Kenyans embracing a positive future, not clinging to a past that is as disappointing as it is retrogressive. If you ask me, I really don’t think we can honestly address the issues President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga raised without discussing the issue of reforms, whether minimum or far-reaching. Mentioning the word “Constitution” or “constitutional” is simply elaborating on how these reforms should be carried out. It should not lead to slaying the messenger because one does not agree with the message. After all, this has been the major disease in our politics: Shouting at each other rather than listening to each other’s argument to reason together. I would like to repeat what the editorial said, if only to emphasise the valid observation made: “We exhorted the two leaders to institute minimum reforms that will open up, not just the political and social space, but the economy as well, to get as many Kenyans into productive engagement so as to create wealth enough to go around to everyone.” In Kisumu, where I am the governor, this exhortation is music to my ears. There are so many archaic institutional barriers I would wish a reform process to sweep away. Anybody with the political genes opposed to reform immediately instils fear in me in a county such as Kisumu. And if it is some article in the Constitution that stands in the way of reforms, why should we assume it is immutable and enshrined in some immovable rock, as it were?  LESSONS FROM NYERERE Julius Nyerere will always remain a great teacher and a celebrated leader. A few years towards the end of his time as President of Tanzania, faced with enough evidence contradicting his model of development, he accepted that he had been wrong in certain assumptions he made and decided to leave the presidency to others to take the country to the next level. Still engaged in the debate on Tanzania’s future, he took a contrary stand to his ideological colleagues, who had been the paragons of the one-party system. Contrary to their ardent stand that the one-party system had to stay, Nyerere provided them with enough evidence to appreciate the shift towards multi-party politics, given the global and local dynamics then. In Nyerere’s worldview, there was no need to hold on to dogma as if it could solve problems. Under such circumstances a creative mind, endowed with substantial social imagination, would obviously be more useful in solving problems. “Don’t shout, reason,” Nyerere advised. In like manner, as the editorial appeals, let us reason together as Kenyans and desist from importing our personal vendettas into the assembly of reasonable minds. Doing that abominable act will simply keep us in the deep hole of problems we are already in. And to dig that hole further would simply imply suicide, nothing else. After all, as Archbishop Augustine of Hippo also once warned us, in all our attempts in charting our way through this life that God gave us, it is always good to “think for a moment that we may be wrong” whenever we contemplate making any decision. Hence, the need to discuss, consult and to avoid dogma in preference for Socratic reasoning. Socratic reasoning means you listen to the opposing side and then you respond with fresh facts or fresh evidence to refute the proposal made. For example, is it true that in multi-cultural and multi-ethnic societies like ours, presidential systems of government, and elections based on the first past, the goal post and winner-take-all arrangement tends to lead to intermittent political instability, thereby undermining development? Looking at the evidence since 1960 in Africa, this is largely true. So what should we do to ensure elections that produce legitimate and inclusive governments that could better guarantee sustainable development? We should agree on constitutions and election rules that provide the political framework intended to produce our desired outcome.  DIVISIVE ELECTIONS Our desired outcome is elections that can produce inclusive and legitimate governments devoid of the perennial conflicts that have followed all our polls since 1992. In that regard, the presidential elections have been the most vicious. We could still govern ourselves even better without being slaves to a presidential system of government, where election of the President inevitably causes us so much conflicts. I think this is the subject matter that should guide our current discussions on dealing with Kenya’s perennial electoral crises every five years. Some of us have concrete proposals regarding the shortcomings in this Constitution, which we need to address before the next election, whether in 2022 or thereafter. But simply driving at top speed to 2022, as if we have no alternatives, will not be very useful. We could easily find ourselves with more IDP camps, prolonged court battles — the works. That would be foolhardy. Let us not go that direction. The handshake identified the major issues we need to address. I have not heard anybody dispute them. What Kenyans are asking focuses on HOW these issues will be tackled through further reforms — of the Constitution or otherwise. The Technical Committee, like the Group of Experts during the last debate prior to passing the present Constitution, was set up to address the HOW. Why can’t we give the Technical Committee time to put some ideas on the table? Some of us, if asked, are ready to give evidence before the Committee and reason with them in a Socratic manner. But opportunistic politics being what it is — always much louder than the politics of reason — it should not be taken for granted that the ordinary Kenyan voter will be moved by reason rather than emotion. And opportunism and the politics of emotion can be lethal in an ethnically divided society, where it is assumed the fortunes of individuals are fused with the ‘political fate’ of communities, real or imagined. It takes a conscious process of political socialisation to downplay this tendency. In East Africa, Nyerere accomplished this task in Tanzania with admirable success. Elsewhere in the same region, the economic fortunes of whole nations have suffered at the awful political mismanagement of ethnic differences, quite often leaving ethnic conflict as the fodder on which toxic opportunistic politics feed. 