Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris has told residents how much more she can do for them as a Deputy Governor. At Kamukunji Constituency on Thursday, she started by announcing plans for the construction of houses and school fences using discarded plastic bottles. Passaris asked youths across the county to start collecting the bottles as she organises collection points. "Though I was elected to serve as Woman Representative, I am glad to help residents sort out problems including lack of garbage collection and poor drainage systems that have caused frequent flash floods in the city," she said. "All jua kali youth should go to our offices and register to be given the job of creating collection cages." Passaris noted that the schools face the risk of losing their land to  private developers. Each one will have a cage, she said, adding they will be gifted for filling them. "We will build plastic houses ... don't look at me like I am mad. The houses will be built so well that nobody will tell that plastic was used. That will solve two problems at once; cleaning the environment and constructing affordable houses." She did not give more details on how these goals will be achieved. Related: With bottle walls and a recycled ship, Kenya’s coast takes on plastic waste Also see: Craftsmen to build boat from plastic waste as Kenya targets bottles The politicians spoke again of her fitness for the Deputy Governor role, saying she will ensure Nairobians get the services they deserve. She pledged to fight the land grabbing menace and runaway corruption. "Sewage and rubbish collection is the work of the Governor [Mike Sonko] but I can be acting Deputy Governor to do that work for you," she told th gathering. She added: "There are still cholera and typhoid cases in the county. The problem will not end unless we take drastic measures. We have to do work that is visible to Kenyans at a faster pace." Sonko wants NRMKe General Miguna Miguna to become DG to help him fight cartels. Passaris also promised to establish safe houses in various constituencies to offer guidance and counselling services to victims of gender-based violence. She said she had commenced talks with Mama Lucy Kibaki and Mathare hospitals on this. Read: Passaris plans overnight stay at Mama Lucy Hospital Also see: World Environment Day: Dadaab refugees turn into plastic waste warriors Click here for more political news