Opposition chief Raila Odinga has hinted that the first stop of the Building Bridges initiative tour will be in Mombasa. This is part of Raila’s charm offensive to lure the Coast and the Muslim community. Coast and the majority of Muslims have been against the government over the years due to historical injustices. Raila enjoys massive support at the Coast. On Friday he urged residents to support the March 9 unity pact between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said the handshake committee, which was gazetted last week by Uhuru, will make its first stop in Mombasa before moving to other towns. “The handshake will be launched here in Mombasa. We will engage the citizens on what we want and ask for their views,” Raila said. He addressed thousands of Muslims who gathered at Serani Grounds during an Iftar dinner organised by Governor Hassan Joho. Raila said his aim is to transform Kenya. The handshake tour will be the first meeting in which Joho is expected to share a podium with Uhuru since their fallout in 2016. Joho accused Uhuru of taking credit for donor-funded projects, which did not go down well with the Jubilee administration. Last year, Joho tried to gate-crush yet another of Uhuru’s state functions in Mtongwe, but he was blocked by heavily armed police officers at Nyali Bridge. Last week, Joho hinted at a possible meeting with Uhuru, when Baringo Senator Gideon Moi visited him in his office. Joho said he is ready to host Uhuru. His sentiment came barely two weeks after Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, who is Joho’s close ally, hosted Deputy President William Ruto. Several Coast MPs, led by Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and Mohamed Ali (Nyali), have warmed up to Ruto, declaring their support. However, Raila said the Building Bridges initiative is not about the 2022 general election. “We are focusing on the next 50 years. We want Kenya to become like South Korea, Malaysia and India. It is possible, and Kenyans can do it,” he said. The NASA leader asked Coast residents, especially the Muslim community, to support his agenda. “I have come to the Muslim community today to seek support on the handshake. Uhuru is supposed to bring his people on board and I’m also supposed to bring mine. That is the promise we made,” Raila said. The opposition leader said he will consider all recommendations from the 14-member advisory committee on Building Bridges, which is supposed to give its report in a year. “They [committee] will make recommendations, which we have to implement. If they propose we bring in new laws, it shall be. If they propose changes to the Constitution, we shall do it. Nobody will stop us.”