The government has set aside Sh12.6 billion to acquire land for the Loiyangalani-Suswa 400KV transmission line. Treasury CS Henry Rotich's allocation looks to avoid a fight with locals over compensation as has been seen with several other major projects that have been set up on vast pieces of land. The Turkana wind power plant itself is at the centre of a compensation battle between a group of local pastoralists and government. The Sh16.67 billion will connect the Lake Turkana wind power plant to the national grid. The 428 Kilometer line will pass through Naivasha , Gilgil , Nyahururu , Rumuruti, Maralal and Baragoi. Early this month ,Energy PS Joseph Njoroge said the line should be complete by August 31. He said land compensation demands delayed completion but a deal has since been struck. The line was to be completed in January 2017. Kenya Electricity Transmission Company says the transmission line will affect at least 1,250 land parcels.  LOW COST POWER The line will also serve future geothermal power plants While providing about 25 MW of electricity in Kenya, wind power heavily depends on geothermal and hydro power, providing the bulk of the country’s total output of 2,341 MW. The project seeks to provide cheaper, sustainable energy. The Turkana power will cost Sh8.7 per unit, about three times cheaper than diesel generated electricity and in the same range as geothermal power. In January, Ketraco signed a Sh9.4 billion contract with the Consortium of NARI Group Corporation and Power China Guizhou Engineering Company Limited, for the completion of the line. Completion delays have seen Turkana Wind Power Plant fine Kenya Sh5.7 billion. Failure to complete it by September will attract a monthly Sh1 billion fine. The Chinese firms have been hired to complete transmission lines that were initially being done by two defunct contractors - Spain's Isolux Corsan and India's Jyoti Construction. Rotich also set aside Sh5.9 billion for rural electrification and connection of public facilities, Sh6.7 billion for Last Mile Connectivity, Sh1 billion for the national street lightning programme and Sh5.5 billion for Eastern Electricity Highway. Other energy projects in the budget include the Ethiopia - Kenya Inter connector, where Sh1 billion has been allocated for a substation. Sh5.1 billion has also been proposed for installation of transformers in constituencies, connectivity subsidy and completion of Nairobi 220KV ring.