The crackdown on theft of drugs from Kirinyaga hospitals is bearing fruit and the county will not relent, Governor Ann Waiguru has said. Waiguru said yesterday residents have suffered because medicines are diverted to private clinics. She blamed this on county medics who operate private chemists. Residents support the offensive, saying they have seen improvements since the new administration took over last year. Waiguru banned county doctors from owning private drug outlets. She said she will not back down on the war and hospital employees must either shape up or ship out. The county has installed an integrated hospital management system and Waiguru lauded it for curbing theft and improving services. Residents yesterday said health services have significantly improved following reforms. Kerugoya trader Faith Wanjira said most facilities previously had dysfunctional systems. “Scenes of up to three patients sharing a bed were the new normal in county health facilities,” she said. Others said the county is destined for better years if employees support the governor. Waiguru said cartels had been colluding with a few doctors to steal medicines so they get their cut. This created “artificial shortages” and left a state of desperation among patients who were told there were no drugs, she said. The county boss said patients were referred to private pharmacies “strategically located” a stone’s throw away from hospital gates. “These were some of the ills we resolved to deal with immediately I took office,” she said. In her inauguration speech on August 22 last year, Waiguru promised far-reaching reforms. “Our resolve to improve the health sector in Kirinyaga is inexorable. During the campaigns, we promised the people we will initiate sweeping reforms in the sector. We are still committed to fulfilling that promise,” she said. “The issues that have bedevilled our health sector for years will not be solved through stopgap measures like the seasonal medical camps, but the implementation of panoramic reforms.” Waiguru said they had managed to stop the sector from “tailspinning as we put in place measures to resuscitate it”. The county government is building a drug store at Kerugoya Referral Hospital to accommodate adequate supplies. Waiguru said they will ensure each resident has access to quality care. A higher life expectancy is key to improving economic growth, she said. The county has commissioned a male ward at Baricho Hospital in Kirinyaga Central — the first in the area. It will have 60 beds. The county also plans to build a new maternity ward and a mother-and-child unit at Kianyaga Hospital. Other projects include a maternity ward in South Ngariama in Gichugu subcounty. Sagana Hospital in Ndia and Kimbimbi Hospital in Mwea will be upgraded. Kerugoya Referral Hospital will also be upgraded from level four to a five-storey level five facility with 500 beds. It currently has 250-bed capacity. It will have state-of-the-art equipment and offer specialised services. The county is building an eye clinic at the hospital and a CT Scan block to house the machines to be purchased by the national government before the end of the year. The Health department said it has improved disaster management and emergency response. The county has partnered with Kenya Red Cross. Waiguru said the county supports President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda in which provision of universal healthcare to all Kenyans is a key pillar. The other pillars are food security, manufacturing and affordable housing. The county has partnered with the Ministry of Health and Safaricom (through M-TIBA) to register residents for the National Health Insurance Fund. The drive is aimed at bringing 124,000 families in Kirinyaga under the national government-sponsored medical insurance scheme. Last month, the county launched a door-to-door campaign to educate residents about the benefits of enrolment. Community health volunteers then visited households to list members. The county pays for registration of vulnerable groups, including those with severe disability, so they too can enjoy the benefits. Kirinyaga is also working with the national government to provide free care to mothers before and birth under the Linda Mama initiative. Waiguru said this is meant to reduce child and maternal deaths and ensure children and their mothers are healthy.