A Nairobi court yesterday ordered a rape case against former Imenti Central MP Gideon Mwiti to be heard on August 21 without further delay. The case had been scheduled for hearing before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi, but it could not proceed since the prosecution was not ready with witnesses. Defence lawyer John Khaminwa representing complained the prosecution has been delaying the case several times and not providing witnesses. However, the magistrate declined the prosecution’s request to put the file aside to wait for some of the witnesses who were said to be on their way to court. Andayi said the court should not be taken hostage by witnesses whose whereabout were unkown by 9.30am. He instead adjourned the case and ordered to be heard for two days - August 21 and 22 - without delay. Read:Mwiti rape case stalled by absence of his co-accused Earlier, the prosecution led by senior state counsel Solomon Naulikha had amended the charge sheet to reflect the grimmer details of the offence allegedly committed on on the night of March 21, 2015 at Tana Club along Woodvale Groove Westlands, Nairobi county. The former MP is charged alongside Dr David Muchiri who the prosecution said aided and abetted Mwiti to commit the offence. The first charge against Mwiti read that he unlawfully obtained consent by force and caused penetration. An alternative count stated he committed an incident with an adult contrary to section 11( 6 ) of the Sexual Offences Act. He is also accused of intimidation - that on the night of March 1 2015 at Tana Club along Woodvale Groove intimidated MMI with intent to “cause her to do an act of sexual intercourse, which she is not legally bound to do and cause unlawful injury to her.” Mwiti is also charged with assaulting the complainant, whom the prosecution named as MMI on the night. Muchiri, who also faces a separate trial for the murder, is charged with helping the former legislator commit the offence of rape. He is also charged with neglecting to prevent a felony. The prosecution said that while he knew that Mwiti was planning to rape MMI he failed to use all reasonable means to prevent to commission or completion of the felony. See:Ex Imenti Central MP Gideon Mwiti faces fresh rape charges According to the prosecution Muchiri allegedly conducted an involuntary HIV test on the complainant whose identity cannot be revealed for legal reasons.They have denied the charges and their bond terms of Sh 2 million were extended to the hearing dates on March 25 and 27. Click here for the latest political news