Chaos rocked a special sitting in Murang’a assembly on Monday as MCAs disagreed over the budget and the County Integrated Development Plan. A section of the MCAs opposed the tabling of the two documents that were to be adopted, sparking disagreements that degenerated into shouting matches. A group led by Kimorori MCA Amos Murigi accused another of being influenced by the county to support the documents. The group claimed the documents lacked the views of residents and that some MCAs had been given Sh42,000 by the executive to have them adopted. Finance and Economic Planning Committee chairperson Cyrus Kiiru refused to table the CIDP citing failure by some committees to submit their reports. Speaker Nduati Kariuki, however, allowed another member of the committee to table it, prompting confrontations between the two groups. When he stood to table the CIDP, Kamacharia MCA Gerald Wambugu was heckled by his counterparts who claimed the document was impartial. During the confrontation, Murigi who has been fighting to be Majority Leader, lost Sh15,000 which he claimed was stolen by his colleagues. The Speaker directed members of the finance committee to meet and iron out their differences before tabling the document again on Tuesday. "Allegations that some members’ signatures in the document were forged must be investigated," he said. He allowed Francis Kibe, chairperson of the  the Budget and Appropriation committee, to table the Sh8.25 billion budget amidst grumbling by some members. The ward representatives were forced to take a vote to adopt the budget, with those supporting it winning with 37 votes. The opponents' voted numbered only 10. Revenue from the national government will provide Sh6.24 billion of the budget while the rest will be collected locally and given as grants by organisations. The health and sanitation department will get the biggest share of the budget - Sh2.13 billion. The county government plans to collect revenue amounting to Sh800 million. Read: Focus energies on growth, not wrangles, Wa Iria tells Murang'a MCAs Click here for the latest political news