The Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) says it fully supports the vetting of procurement officers and the lifestyle audit for public servants. ICPAK wants the process carried out through the legal framework in a fair and transparent manner. It says the measures ordered by the president are timely considering the high level of corruption that threatens to ruin the country’s economy. “We fully support the President and the timing of these initiatives cannot be gainsaid given the ceaseless depressing news on high-level corruption in the country,” ICPAK Chairman Julius Mwatu said in Eldoret. Read; Teams of experts completes rules for Uhuru lifestyle audit He termed the process as a noble process but said the institute wants it to be guided by the constitution, international best labour practices, natural justice and all other existing laws regulating employer-employee relationship. “We must guard against turning this well-meaning process into a witch-hunt expedition”, said Mwatu. He was with among others the Vice Chairperson Rose Mwaura and CEO Edwin Makori The ICPAK officials said that for the process to be effective, the vetting panel must come up with a full proof vetting tool that will be applied objectively and in a structured vetting process. “The process must also ensure that all constitutional and legal provisions are adhered to. Article 47 of the constitution provides that, every person has the right to administrative action that is expeditious, efficient, reasonable and procedurally fair”, said Mwatu. According to Mwatu, it would be prudent to involve professional bodies like ICPAK in the vetting process. He said accountants who are members of the institute are affected in the process. “The Institute has a Code of Conduct binding all its members. Members are also bound by international professional standards. Any vetting that does not infuse and embed professional ethics requirements may not achieve the desired results”, said Mwatu. Read: Uhuru orders lifestyle audit of state officers, says will take lead, Ruto to follow Also read: I am ready for lifestyle audit, says DP Ruto Click here for the latest political news