Kenya Airports Authority management was yesterday put to task for budgeting Sh8.9 million for an ablution block and security offices at Wilson Airport but terminated the project before completion. The National Assembly Public Accounts Committee asked KAA managing director Jonny Andersen why the project was discontinued two weeks prior to the completion date. Auditor General Edward Ouko’s report for the financial year 2014-15 shows the project was supposed to start on July 30, 2014, and end on December 24 the same year. However, it was halted on December 11 after Sh3.1 million had been spent. “On December 11, the engineer in charge of the project wrote to the Tender Committee seeking termination of the project which was approved two weeks before the completion date with Sh3,111,792 having being incurred to pay the contractor,” reads the report. Read:KAA chiefs queried over Sh500m loan from private firm Andersen said the work done by the contractor was valid, and was paid as per the contract. He said the authority decided to build a business park. But the audit team told the committee chaired by Mvita MP Shariff Nassir there was no value for money. The project was stopped to create room for a business park which has never been constructed to date, the team said. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said KAA could have conspired with “cartels” to start the project and halt it to fleece public funds. Nassir said the then management of the Authority lacked adequate planning. “Don’t try to justify something that is unjustifiable. Doesn’t make logic to terminate a project two weeks before its completion? If you were the managing director of KAA at that time would this have happened?” he asked the MD. Anderson said, “Chairman, the situation we are handling here today is very unusual. In my practice, it is not equivalent to what could have happened. I will look at the details of this matter.” Nassir said the committee would invite the former management of the authority to shed light on the matter. Read:KAA fires top managers in latest shakeup Click here for the latest political news