President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday pledged to intensify the purge of corrupt public officers, saying big names will soon be toppled and lie detectors will be weapons. The President has kicked off a grand house cleaning that will require top accounting and procurement officers to undergo fresh vetting, complete with polygraph testing. The use of polygraph tests or lie-detectors will be a first in fighting corruption. The vetting is to take place before next month. Read: How NYS suspects tried to block arrest The announcement is likely to send shock waves and chills through government. Uhuru spoke during Madaraka Day celebrations in Kinoru Stadium, Meru county. His public assurances come just days after the arrest of suspects in the Sh486 million NYS graft probe. “I am glad arrests of senior officials have been made. There are more on the way. I want officials, particularly senior ones directly implicated in corruption, to have no place in my administration and for them to go to jail,” Uhuru said. Public Service PS Lillian Omollo and NYS director general Richard Ndubai are among more than 20 suspects in remand awaiting next Tuesday’s bail hearing. Uhuru’s new strategy is to go for procurement and accounts departments in key ministries and departments believed to be citadels of sleaze. “All heads of procurement and accounts in government ministries, departments, agencies and parastatals will undergo fresh vetting, including polygraph testing, to determine their integrity and suitability,” Uhuru announced. He went on, “Those who shall fail vetting will stand suspended.” The polygraph measures and records physiological indices such as blood pressure, pulse and respiration when a person is questioned. Read: How Uhuru phone call triggered NYS arrests The science underpinning it is that deceptive answers produce physiological responses that can be differentiated from those associated with non-deceptive answers. Skilled liars have been known to ‘fool’ the test. Tough vetting is just one step. “You will hear of other tougher actions in days to come,” Uhuru said. “The Director of Public Prosecutions, the police, and other institutions in the multi-agency team against corruption are on the move. They are making decisive steps to build strong cases for the prosecution of corrupt officials.” He said he his determined to vanquish corruption before it destroys Kenya. “Our forefathers’ resolve to destroy the yoke of colonialism is what gave birth to our beloved nation. I have resolved to lead this nation in getting rid of corruption and division, the main  challenges we face today, just like colonialism was then,” Uhuru declared. He cited other kinds of corruption. “We know of teachers who impregnate students. Preachers who swindle their flocks. Lawyers who defraud clients. Architects building houses using shortcuts leading to collapse of such buildings. Doctors giving false diagnoses to increase their fees. Pharmacies selling fake medicine and journalists who blackmail.” Speaking during the ceremony attended by Opposition chief Raila Odinga, Uhuru for the first time acknowledged ethnic divisions have not been entrenched by divisive politics alone. He cited unequal distribution of the national cake, a longer wait for public services and disrespect to language and culture. Uhuru’s handshake with Raila has been attacked by DP William Ruto’s allies who call it a strategy to scuttle his 2022 presidential bid. Once again, Uhuru signalled he is not keen on a constitutional referendum championed by his new ally, Raila. “We must also be honest enough to admit that changes to laws or processes is only a part of the solution,” he stated. “The work we are called to do is to build trust and then change hearts and minds. We have many laws and a fine constitution. It is not the letter that will get us to our destination, it is the spirit that we have when obeying the law.” Read: List of suspects linked to Sh9bn NYS scandal Click here for
the latest political news