Just walking into the very eco-friendly Trout Tree Restaurant in Nanyuki, you are bound to love it. This gem is built into a huge fig tree with wooden floorboards and furniture giving it a very rustic feel. The restaurant is located right next to a river, which provides water for the restaurant’s several trout ponds, from which they farm the house signature dish. They even keep their sodas and beers in crates stored in the cool river, and these are hauled up by rope whenever someone places an order. If true, perhaps this explains why they took so long to bring the drinks: the waiter had gone to fetch them from a well. You will also find several colobus monkeys going about their monkey business, and this can make for very interesting encounters and photos. You will also spot numerous birds and hyrax scurrying about the treehouse.  BENEFICIAL SIMPLICITY The menu is hardly innovative or revolutionary, but for a place like this, it is the simplicity that works to its advantage. It has a vegetarian section, steaks and pizza, but when they put in the effort to farm their own fish, might as well give that a try. I ordered a whole trout, which was perfectly char-grilled over an open flame and came with sukuma wiki, skewered vegetables, rocket leaves with a side of chips. They served this dish on a wooden board. The fish is so fresh that just a squirt of lemon here and there, and you’re good to go. I didn’t even try the dressing because I wanted to savour it as is.  FARM-TO-TABLE SERVICE Given how good the food was, I decided to try one of their cocktails. A chalkboard announced the day’s specials and I ordered one called ‘jump up and kiss me’. Let’s just say that the name was way too provocative for a drink that had so much promise yet failed to seduce. Most items on the menu are farm to table, and perhaps that’s why the service can be so slow. Yes, you can go for a walk around their serene garden, explore the treehouse and ponds, and have your kids enjoy the impressive swingset that made me wish I was a kid again, but if you just so happen to walk in while really hungry, just know you may have to contend with the bread basket for a while.