Six Luhya MPs and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale have said that the region’s leadership will work together in 2022 to ensure the Luhya community is in government National Assembly chief whip Ben Washiali (Mumias East), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Didmas Barasa (Kimilili) and Malulu Injendi (Malava) said that elected leaders have agreed to unite regardless of their party affiliations. “In 2022 we must be in government whether it is a Luhya forming it or a partnering with others from other regions,” Barasa said. He said that opposition leader Raila Odinga has been a major stumbling block to Luhya unity for his selfish gains. Washiali said that Raila will no longer get political support from Luhyas using the trick of being a Luhya of Wanga sub-tribe. “If it is true that he is a Wanga as he says always, how come his father never told us as such? We’re more awake this time round to guard against political conman ship,” he said. Khalwale said that all Luhya leaders must respect themselves and avoid attacking others in public for the community to command the respect it deserves from other Kenyans. The youthful politicians must not accept to be used by outsiders to divide the community. “We have to put aside our party differences and plan our own destiny as Luhya people. We must come together with better strategies to be able to beat DP Ruto in 2022,” he said. He said that Luhyas are ready to work with Ruto in 2022 as long as is accepts to deputises either ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi or Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula. They spoke during a Sunday service at St Teresa’s Malava Catholic Church in Malava sub-county. The sermon was delivered by Kakamega Catholi diocese bishop Joseph Obanyi. Obanyi said that corruption has ruined Kenya’s social fabric and must be dealt with firmly. He said that those in leadership had deliberately ignore the law and regulations to engage in corruption for personal gains. “I wonder how possible it is for some people just to drain billions from public coffers and walk away scot-free when we have systems and mechanisms to tackle such in this country,” he said. Wangwe all the corrupt individuals belong to jail and must be dealt with fully by the government. Shinali said that the corrupt in government were using NYS to syphon public coffers and return them home without jobs after two years. He said that NYS graduates should be absorbed into the military and police service.