Efforts to
assist millions of people fleeing South Sudan in Africa's
biggest refugee crisis face a critical funding shortfall of
nearly $800 million, a top regional United Nations official said
on Friday. The five-year civil war has hit women and children
particularly hard, and gender-based violence is a top concern,
said Arnauld Akodjenou, regional refugee coordinator and the
UNHCR refugee agency's special advisor for South Sudan, in an
interview. Nearly 2.5 million people have been displaced by the war
which erupted in 2013, sparked by rivalry between President
Salva Kiir and the former vice president he sacked, Riek Machar. Attempts to resolve the political crisis have failed, and
the UN Security Council voted on Thursday to renew some
sanctions on South Sudan through mid-July. "There is a level of suffering that you can see people are
going through," Akodjenou told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Life-saving assistance is critical, starting with food,
shelter, water. "We are in a very challenging moment," he said. The primary focus remains on securing aid for food, shelter
and water, and a Regional Refugee Response Plan designed to
address the humanitarian disaster was struggling for funds, he
said. Of the $835 million needed, only $64 million has been
raised, he said. Germany, the United States and Japan have been
the biggest supporters of the programme, data show. The UNHCR is working to address gender-based violence,
including putting extra security measures in camps and providing
counseling services to rape victims, he said. A UN survey last year in camps in Juba, South Sudan's
capital, found about 70 percent of women had been raped since
the conflict began. "No single girl, no single woman, should go through this on
top of what they are already going through as refugees,"
Akodjenou said. The South Sudan violence has led to the deaths of tens of
thousands of people and unleashed a refugee crisis expected to
include more than three million people by year's end, according
to the UN. Women and children make up 85 percent of the displaced
population that has spread to Uganda, Ethiopia, Kenya,
Democratic Republic of Congo, Central African Republic and
Sudan. "It's time for the political situation to be sorted out. It's
time to end this suffering," he said. Click here for the latest political news