SportPesa Super Cup favorites Gor Mahia and kakamega Homeboyz advanced to the semi finals of the eight-team tournament after convincing in their opening matches yesterday. The Kenyan champions brushed aside Zanzibar champions JKU (Jeshi La Kulinda Uchumi) 3-0 while Homeboyz saw off Tanzanian giants Yanga, 3-1. Moments after Ephraim Guikan had his penalty saved by Mahmoud Abdulrahman, George Odhiambo showed unflinching composure to control and slot in Francis Kahatas lofted cross to give Gor a 28th minute lead. A well worked freekick ended with Godfrey Walusimbi firing a rasping drive beyond the desperate dive of the JKU keeper for the second. Substitute Medie Kagere added the gloss on a routine win for the holders with a diving header past Abdulrahman. While Allan Wanga’s pace, which once left many a defender gasping for breath might have waned, the former Tusker man showed his deadly goal-scoring instincts are as intact as ever. His two first half goals helped Homeboyz to a surprise but hugely deserved 3-1 victory over their highly fancied Tanzanian opponents. Yanga’s history and pedigree in Tanzanian and regional football had suggested that they would prevail against Homeboyz regardless of the absence of a couple of key players. And for the first quarter of the match, it looked like the name alone would carry them past a Kenyan side sitting in mid-table in the topflight league but then popped Wanga, a player for the big occasion and a proven winner. Running onto a reverse through ball from right-back Edmond Mauda the former international slipped but still had the presence of mind to hold off Yanga defender Abdala Shaibu and scoop the ball over the advancing Cameroonian keeper Rostand Youthe. That was in the 27th minute and Yanga did not fashion a response and four minutes later their deficit had doubled. Another run from Wanga caused panic in the box and in desperation to get back in position, Haji Mwinyi tagged Wanga’s arm and the striker lost his balance and went down with the referee wasting no time in pointing to the spot. Wanga took the responsibility to calmly send Youthe the wrong way and Homeboyz closer to the semi finals. Eight minutes to the break Yanga got the break they badly needed when Smith Ouko conceded a foul just outside the box. Zanzibar star Mateo Antony curved a superb free-kick past a bemused Mike Wanyika to halve the deficit going into the break. With a couple of minutes left to play their hopes of a comeback were killed off by a simple tap in from another substitute Wyclife Opondo. Click here for the latest political news