Was Aladai MP Cornelious Serem (pictured) acting of his own volition when he mentioned the name of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s younger brother Muhuho in the committee probing the sugar issue? Some Jubilee MPs believe the legislator, a key supporter of the Deputy President William Ruto, may have said what was dicussed and agreed outside the House. Those close to the powers that be within Jubilee described it as friendly fire but vowed to deal with it. Still on matters Jubilee, we are told the so-called Kikuyu elders who want Deputy President William Ruto to retire in 2022 are speaking for influentila Kikuyu leaders. After the Star published the story yesterday, one of the leaders, a well-known and wealthy political operative from Central told Corridors, they had decided “to change course and we’ll have our candidate in 2022”. Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen is a man under siege. MPs from his expansive Rift Valley region were planning to remove him as their chairman and even as Majority Leader in Parliament. We are told that although Murkomen made efforts to reach out to some of his colleagues to pursuade them to spare him, the legislators were adamant that they would kick the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator out. The question is why has Murkomen fallen out of favour? Members of the National Assembly Joint committee on Agriculture and Trade were yesterday treated to a rare spectacle while conducting a field visit to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters. The boss, George Kinoti, was not able to see them. MPs who conducted an impromptu visit to the government agency in the company of journalists were taken aback when they failed to meet the DCI chief whom they were told was busy outside the office. The legislators, not satisfied with the explanation decided to go to his office only to find that the DCI was indeed out of office. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i may want to take a look at the activities of a foreigner who is a managing director of an international cosmetic company. Employees of the multinational firm have been working in fear of the man. Several women working as consultants and who have since been fired have written to several offices, including that of the First Lady, for assistance. The man has been accused of insulting employees and has even used lawyers to threaten anyone who tries to question his brutal style of management. Click here for the latest political news