The exposure of multiple incidences of grand corruption in quick succession has thrust the country to a moment of redefining its direction and goals. And in the life of every nation, there presents a moment for reflection and taking tough decisions for the benefit of its growth. Such moments arise out of circumstances beyond the state or events engineered by cleavages within the nation itself. These forces may work together and consciously or independently but inadvertently. Collectively, they form a confluence of interests and movement that push the country in a direction that may not be desirable to the status quo kingpins but largely beneficial to the well-being of the nation. It is during these moments that nations find themselves at crossroads and leaders face huge dilemmas. Decisions need to be taken in earnest and with utmost care since indecision normally will lead to consequences beyond the control of the leaders and the people. A nation bequeathed with visionary leaders will reap full benefits of such opportunities. Those nations bereft of transformational leadership will forego and miss out on the bounties of the historical moment. Kenya today has a historical moment and its future depends on how it utilizes the occasion. It is blessed with the presence of two leaders who wield immense influence on the people. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga will choose how they intend to deploy their influence at the country’s hour of most need. Kenyans look up to the two foremost political leaders for direction at this epoch-making stage in our development. Fortunately for the leadership, the goals have been long identified and defined. Vision 2030 has since been condensed to the Big Four Agenda by the Jubilee government. President Uhuru, during his second inauguration, declared the agenda would form the basis and pillars of his legacy. They are thus the achievements upon which the success of Uhuru’s leadership will be judged. They form the goals for the prosperity of our nation, which has been an ongoing process since Independence in 1963.  IGNORANCE, DISEASE AND POVERTY At Independence, they had been reduced to three challenges — ignorance, disease and poverty. Then, they appeared simple in nature and easy to tackle within the foreseeable horizon. However, as the nation grew, corruption set in and scuttled the efforts to the dismay of many leaders and citizens alike. As the leaders became aware of the impeding nature of corruption to development, attempts were made to curtail its pervasiveness by establishing legal and institutional infrastructure. These frameworks failed successively to deal with the vice effectively. It has acquired tendencies of a poisonous weed that invade every new fertile land cultivated, even as it maintains its stranglehold on former farmlands. Eventually, the country sought to address this menace through the Constitution. The 2010 Constitution has elaborate provisions under Chapter 10 outlining national values. These values are to guide the nation in identifying ethical leaders that exercise integrity in the discharge of their duties to the public. It has as well spelt out stiff penalties to be meted to those who do not comply with or seek to compromise these provisions. Chapter Six of the Constitution and its provisions are the beacons that show direction the country should take. The two parameters of Vision 2030 and national Values provide an easy opportunity for both Uhuru and Raila to make decisions that will resonate with the historical moment of the Kenyan state. The Kenyan state is captive of corrupt cartels almost in the form and character of the mafia. They started off as nascent influence peddlers at Independence but have been nurtured by the weak institutional systems that lack sufficient checks and balances. The cartels have established strong roots and networks that cut across the spectrum of the country’s political and economic life. Like the old cold war spy networks, it is difficult to tell which sector is not captive of tenderpreneurs. They have managed to warm their way into the inner sanctums of national leadership and their respective international benefactors. Every development project has the footprints of princes of corruption, thereby making the costs astronomical. They have made collection of taxes ineffective and increased reliance on external support for development expenditure. The social service infrastructure has all but collapsed and wananchi bear the brunt of malfunctioning public service. The Independence dream has turned into a nightmare and life has become nasty, brutish and short. This is the scenario Uhuru and Raila must deal with in their project of “Building Bridges”. The scandals at the NYS, the NCPB, Kenya Power, Kenya Forest Service and now Kenya Pipeline Corporation have presented an unprecedented opportunity for them to help Kenyans reclaim this country. As the wise say, the American Falcon renews its strength and life by plucking off its deadweight feathers and twisted talons. Likewise, the country has the best opportunity to rid itself of the deadwood but bloodthirsty political leaders, whose careers are built on corruption and thrive on skimming off the fat of the nation. TheSE leaders, therefore, have occasion to demonstrate courage and fulfill their dream of leaving a lasting legacy for the nation. If they should choose to play by the rules of the corruption cartels then they will join the long list of those before them in condoning the vice and history will never be kind to them. The law is on the side of Kenyans and their unity deal leaders. All eyes are on the leadership to see if they are brave enough to invoke and implement the spirit and letter of Chapter 10 of the Constitution.