The government has refuted claims that the 2018/2019 budget is oppressive to the ordinary citizens. Statehouse deputy spokesperson Kanze Denah on Wednesday said the Sh3.0 trillion budget presented last week in Parliament by Treasury CS Henry Rotich is pro-poor and aims at helping the government achieve its plans on the big four agenda. Denah was addressing her first press briefing at State houses after she was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to deputise Manoah Esipisu. She said President Uhuru has outlined a robust development plan under his second term and the budget will help him achieve just that. The price of unga is expected to go up after the CS proposed a new policy that will see manufacturers of basic products like maize meal pass tax costs to consumers to recover their VAT. Kenyans are also likely to pay more for medicine, gas and milk as the government executes measures to foot the Sh3.07 trillion budget for the 2018/19 financial year and finance the Big Four legacy agenda. Read:Cost of unga, milk, drugs to go up in budget Kenyans will be forced to dig deeper into their pockets to get mobile money transfer services. Rotich, in the budget estimates, introduced a 12 per cent excise duty on mobile money transfers. The CS said this is an increment of 2 per cent from the current 10 per cent. He said the money that will be collected from the increment will be used to finance the Universal Health Care program. Rotich said a robin-hood excise duty of 0.05 per cent on Sh500,000 and above transferred in banks. "Kenya has a well established financial sector with quite a good significant amount of money transacted monthly. These measures are meant to enable the government to get its fair share of revenue to finance some of its key projects," he said. In other tax measures, Rotich proposed an increase of 30 per cent excise duty from the current 20 per cent on all private passenger vehicles that exceeds 2,500cc for diesel vehicles and 3,000cc for petrol powered vehicles. See:Mobile money transfer charges to go up as Rotich increases duty to 12% In terms of filing of tax returns, the CS has also imposed stiffer penalties on those who fail to comply with the law. Also Read:How government plans to raise additional Sh27.5bn in tax revenue In regards to the war on graft, Denah maintained that President Uhuru Kenyatta's regime is dedicated to ensuring the vice is eliminated. She said all constitutional agencies mandated to fight corruption have been directed to move swiftly and ensure all culprits are brought to book. "The president is a front liner to the war against graft. As he directed a lifestyle audit of all public servants it remains just like that until the vice is eliminated," she said. Also See:Higher taxes a death certificate for Kenyans, protests ahead - Atwoli Click here for the latest political news