Deputy President William Ruto has for the first time in three months publicly lauded the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga. Ruto was perceived to be critical of the pact. He had accused Raila of using the handshake to seek power through the backdoor. The DP’s allies also launched an onslaught on the deal, saying the ex-PM was plotting to destabilise Jubilee. But on Friday during Madaraka Day celebrations in Kinoru Stadium, Meru, Ruto closed ranks and told the President he was now firmly supportive of the Building Bridges initiative. He said the cessation of hostilities symbolised by the handshake would help heal old wounds and set the nation on the path of development. Read: Ruto recognises Raila, invites ex-PM to address Madaraka Day fete Ruto said Uhuru’s decision to reach out to his erstwhile rivals would give the necessary impetus to unite communities after last year’s divisive polls. He said it would enhance the government’s efforts to tackle historical challenges — tribalism, hate and disunity. He said the three problems undermined “our independence, nationhood, and unity, and became a threat to our development”. “We are proud that five years down the road, you have brought on board our brothers in the opposition by shaking hands with honourable Raila Odinga,” Ruto said in Kinoru Stadium, Meru, during the Madaraka Day celebrations. He spoke positively about the handshake just a day after the national prayer day in Nairobi, where he and Raila publicly forgave each other, ending years of bad blood. “Together as a country, we can focus on the progress, the development of our country and unite against wastage, mismanagement, and corruption so we can better the lives of our people,” the DP said. Read: Ruto apologises to Raila, Kalonzo over 2017 poll insults He promised to support Uhuru in his bid to galvanise the country for the common good. “Mr President, you have our unqualified support as you pursue the unity of our country, bringing all our communities together and ensuring we transform our country for the benefit of 45 million Kenyans,” he said. During  last year’s Madaraka Day fete in Nyeri, Ruto snubbed Raila. On Friday, having been humbled by Thursday’s hugs at Safari Park Hotel, he was jovial — keeping his remarks devoid of the jibes and punches he usually directs at opposition leaders. For the first time after falling out with Raila in the run-up to the 2013 election, he referred to the ODM leader as “my brother”, signalling an end to hostilities. “Since we are in the period of unifying Kenyans, let me welcome Raila Odinga,” Ruto said. When he rose to speak, Raila referred to the DP as “my friend and brother”, prompting cheers from the crowd. He said the handshake was inevitable in addressing historical issues that have ignited tribal animosities “That’s why we shook hands with my brother [Uhuru]. That’s why I’m here in so we can unite Kenyans, and fight corruption, poverty and inequality,” Raila said. More: Forgiveness rules the air as Uhuru, Raila lead breakfast prayer meeting Click here for
the latest political news