The proposed budget unveiled yesterday by the Treasury CS demonstrates the
government's commitment to the Big Four by allocating significant funds
to the agenda. The Big Four are healthcare, manufacturing, affordable
housing and food security. The CS allocated Sh52 billion to
healthcare, the highlight being piloting universal healthcare for
Nyeri, Kisumu and Mombasa counties, which have been allocated Sh2
billion. Kenyatta National Hospital, free maternal health care and
leasing medical equipment have been allocated Sh13.7 billion and Sh11.7
billion, respectively. Read: Sh44.6bn set aside for Universal Health Coverage as Big Four takes shape Also read: How government plans to raise additional Sh27.5bn in tax revenue This is commendable. The allocated funds will mainly be funded by
increased excise duty on diesel vehicles exceeding 2500cc and petrol
vehicles over 3000cc, and on mobile money transfers. To support
manufacturing, the CS introduced a deduction of 30 per cent of the total
electricity bill for corporation tax purposes, in addition to the
standard deduction subject to conditions of the Energy ministry. This is
definitely a step in the right direction, given the ever-rising
production costs that have made Kenya unattractive for manufacturing.
The CS also promised land as an incentive for investors in Naivasha's
Specialised Economic Zones. The CS allocated Sh800 million to develop leather and textile industrial parks to revamp the two industries. The
private sector is urged to help develop affordable housing and Sh3
billion has been allocated to construction. To entice investors, the CS promised to provide
infrastructure and utilities to government-owned urban land. The agricultural sector will benefit through proposals
for VAT exemption on equipment to construct grain storage facilities.
This is aimed at reducing post-harvest losses and safeguarding grain
reserves. Raw materials for animal feeds would be exempted from VAT,
making feeds affordable. Imported passenger vehicles exceeding
2500cc (diesel) and 3000cc (petrol) will attract 30 per cent excise
duty. This is an unpopular proposal aimed to make making excise duty
progressive. Amnesty on repatriation of taxable income outside
Kenya is extended from June 30 this year to June 30, 2019 — except for
suspect transactions. This is will  encourage Kenyans to repatriate
incomes held abroad. The tax consultant spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news 