US President Donald
Trump's declaration on Tuesday that he intended to end joint
military exercises with South Korea took South Korean and US
military officials by surprise. Although the Pentagon said Defense Secretary Jim Mattis was
consulted ahead of time, current and former US defense
officials expressed concern at the possibility that the United
States would unilaterally halt military exercises without an
explicit concession from North Korea lowering the threat from
Pyongyang. "I'm sort of stunned about how much we gave up and how
little we got in return," said one former official, saying the
decision "borders on irresponsible" and would erode readiness
and diminish the credibility of the US-South Korean alliance. Trump made the remarks at a news conference after his summit
with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore, calling war
games expensive and "provocative" - echoing a North Korean
criticism that the United States had long rejected. Trump also said he wants "at some point" to withdraw the
American troops currently in South Korea. "We have right now 32,000 soldiers in South Korea, and I'd
like to be able to bring them back home. But that's not part of
the equation right now," Trump said. About 28,500 US troops are stationed in South Korea, a
legacy of the Korean War, which ended in 1953 in an armistice
that left the two Koreas technically still at war. If implemented, the end of military exercises could be one
of the most concrete and controversial moves to arise from
Trump's summit with Kim, who pledged to pursue denuclearization
but offered no details. South Korea's Presidential Blue House said it needed to "to
find out the precise meaning or intentions" of Trump's
statement, while adding that it was willing to "explore various
measures to help the talks move forward more smoothly." A spokeswoman for US military forces in Korea said they
had not received any direction to cease joint military drills. The move could diminish the US military's ability to
"fight tonight," a term American commanders have used for years
to describe the heightened posture of US forces in one of the
world's most-sensitive military flashpoints. Even during budget
cuts under Trump's predecessor Barack Obama that eroded
readiness elsewhere in the world, the Pentagon prioritized
exercises on the Korean peninsula that included everything from
air combat to infantry drills. The US-South Korean exercise calendar hits a high point
every year with the Foal Eagle and Max Thunder drills, which
both wrapped up last month. Max Thunder's air combat exercises so unnerved North Korea
that it issued threatening statements that nearly scuttled the
summit. Foal Eagle is designed to simulate war scenarios and
involves ground, air, naval and special operations forces. Asked about the plan to halt exercises, a US official who
spoke on condition of anonymity shrugged and called it a
political, not military, decision. The Pentagon declined to flesh out Trump's remarks about
suspending drills, a move the US military had long resisted,
saying it was working with the White House, US allies and
partners "on the way forward following the summit." Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White denied that Mattis was
caught off guard by the announcement, telling Pentagon
reporters: "There were no surprises." In a separate statement,
White said Mattis was "fully aligned" with Trump. 'I WAS SHOCKED' A South Korean official said he initially thought Trump had
misspoken. "I was shocked when he called the exercises 'provocative,' a
very unlikely word to be used by a US president," the official
said, speaking on condition of anonymity. South Korean President Moon Jae-in spoke by phone with Trump
for 20 minutes late on Tuesday, but an official readout of the
call made no mention of military exercises. South Korea said last month the issue of US troops
stationed there was unrelated to any future peace treaty with
North Korea and that American forces should stay even if such an
agreement were signed. China, historically North Korea's closest partner, has also
sought a "freeze for freeze" agreement in which the exercises
would be suspended in exchange for North Korea's stopping its
weapons development. The United States had rejected such proposals in the past,
but North Korea has unilaterally declared an end to testing its
nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, and now Trump appears
ready to end exercises while talks are ongoing. Given Kim only repeated vague commitments to pursue the
"denuclearization of the Korean peninsula," some experts
questioned whether Trump was making excessive concessions. "I hope - but am not yet confident - that (North Korea) will
take steps that match the concessions Trump has already made
by ending military exercises in South Korea and granting Mr. Kim
legitimacy with this summit," Thomas Countryman, a top arms
control official under President Barack Obama, told Reuters. Mitchell Reiss, who served from 2003-2005 as the US State
Department's director of policy planning, said it is important
to make such decisions hand-in-hand with South Korea. "My first question is whether our allies, the South Koreans,
were consulted in advance of suspending these military
exercises," Reiss told Reuters. "My second question is, what did
we receive in return for this concession?" Click here for the latest political news