I found myself sat with some old men for some choma and some drinks. As we sat, talked, and enjoyed our food and drink, the conversation drifted towards development — more specifically, the zoning laws proposed that would see flats being put up in posh areas. In case you’re not up to speed on what I’m referring to with the zoning laws, let me be even more specific. Last year, the Nairobi county assembly passed a motion allowing construction of highrise apartments in upmarket neighbourhoods, where previously, such constructions were not allowed. The reason given was this would ease the housing shortage in Nairobi. And the posh neighbourhoods we’re talking about include Spring Valley, Kyuna and Loresho, to name just a few. The group of old men I was sitting with were of the opinion that building flats to replace the single houses in these posh areas was a good idea, that it is, development. I didn’t agree, but seeing as I’m middle-aged and therefore was the young man in that group, my agreeing or disagreeing didn’t really matter to them either way. This word ‘development’ suggests, in this case, the process of growth to a state of advancement. Now, I don’t consider replacing homes with flats advancement. In my book, it’s not progress to an advanced state. I think it’s the exact opposite, and every time someone says replacing green spaces with concrete is development, I get pissed. I don’t live in any of the named posh neighbourhoods that might be flattened to put up flats, but I’d like to think that if ever this writing thing kicks off proper-like, that is to say Hollywood comes calling, I’ll move into one of these residences. I’m talking a place with a lawn, trees and a driveway. You know, the kind of place where you’re woken up by birdsong and not traffic. But now we’re talking about eradicating such places. The cynic in me says this re-zoning business has almost nothing to do with addressing the housing shortage. It does, however, have everything to do with the profiteering that comes from turning perfectly nice neighbourhoods into vertiginous concrete eyesores. I mean, why isn’t expanding outwards to address the housing shortage an option? I’ll tell you why: it costs more to set up infrastructure from scratch. Cheaper to build where amenities already exist, who cares if they are creaking from the strain of demand? Not the developers; they won’t be living there. But let’s put cynicism aside and assume the intention to put up flats is pure. I still don’t see how stacking up abodes is called development. High-rise flats, or apartments (what you call them depends on how much you pay in rent), to me are too much like industrial-scale commercial chicken coops — row after row of stacked chicken cages. Each cage so small that the one bird in it can’t stretch a wing. This isn’t development. People packed and piled up like crates of bread is not an advanced state of living. When did we start hating open spaces and grass and trees and fresh air? And before you say, ‘Move upcountry, then,’ wonder for a second, how long before that Stetson-wearing, potbellied developer comes calling to that upcountry fresh-aired neck of the woods, talking about development? Just saying, if it isn’t an improvement on quality of life, don’t call it development. I hate that.