A Mavoko court has freed three people who were jointly charged with a boda boda operator who was killed in cold blood alongside human rights lawyer Willie Kimani in 2016. Josephat Mwenda – the slain International Justice Mission (IJM) client – was in 2015 charged alongside Samuel Ondicho, Josephat Mogaka and Jotham Waswa with being in possession of narcotic drugs, gambling and resisting arrest. But the court on Friday ruled that the three had no case to answer and acquitted them. It was after a mention of the case on June 23, 2016, that Mwenda, IJM lawyer Kimani and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri were kidnapped. Their badly mutilated bodies were found eight days later stashed in gunny bags in a river in Oldonyo Sabuk. AP officers Fredrick Leliman, Leonard Maina, Stephen Chebulet, Silvia Wanjiku and informer Peter Ngugi are on trial over the killings, which sparked outrage in the country. Before he was murdered, Mwenda testified that he was shot in the hand by Leliman, taken to hospital, held in custody for a week and later dragged to court, where more charges were preferred against him. He told the court his life changed on April 10, 2015. He had boarded a boda boda in Syokimau after lunch when he was accosted by plain-clothes policemen, who were allegedly looking for a specific motorcycle. He said he was accidentally shot in the hand by Leliman. The officer later took him to Athi River Hospital for treatment. He was discharged and that’s when he was charged together with the three others, who were unknown to him. Mwenda filed a complaint against Leliman with the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) for the shooting and wrongful arrest. IPOA introduced him to IJM. He told the court he was threatened by the officers with dire consequences and told to withdraw the complaint, which he did not. He was later charged with carrying excess passengers, carrying uninsured passengers, riding an uninsured motorcycle and without a driving licence, a helmet and a reflective jacket. In his ruling magistrate Linus Kassan said the prosecution had failed to produce enough evidence to prove the three were found with drugs and resisted arrest to warrant the court to place them on their defence. Click here for more political news