Construction of the disputed Phase 2A of the SGR through the Nairobi National Park started yesterday amid protests by environmental activists. A case challenging the park section of the 120km Nairobi-Naivasha line is before the National Environment Tribunal. The rail will pass through Nairobi, Kajiado, Kiambu, Nakuru, Narok and Naivaisha. Five stations will be built at Ongata Rongai, Ngong, Mai Mahiu, Suswa and Nachu. Yesterday, Kenya Railways boss Michael Waweru said mounting the first T-beam bridge of the standard gauge railway through the park was a “very important milestone”. "The 5.8km bridge to be constructed across the Nairobi National Park was considered the most ideal option after other route options were found not feasible,” he said. Waweru said this was because of possible adverse environmental impact or long-term operational considerations. He represented Transport CS James Macharia. Environmentalists accused the government of ignoring a court order that suspended the project. They said the line undermines wildlife conservation efforts. Africa Network Animal Welfare programmes manager Sebastian Mwanza told the Star on the phone the government had refused to consider seven other options. Any of the options presented to it could have ensured the rail does not bisect the park, he said. "Our concern remains that it was wrong to build the rail in the park. The construction also violates the pending injunction we successfully secured. It suspends all phase two SGR activities," Mwanza said. He urged the government to comply with all the measures that would “minimise negative impact on wildlife”. Mwanza said it is too late “to undo” what has been done, but animals are “already suffering”. Those near project sites have begun moving, he said. Waweru however said the rail will affect only 0.51 acres. The government has instructed the Chinese contractors to abide by the laid-down wildlife conservation measures, he said. "These measures include compliance with the workplan to allow it to remain useable during construction and affixing of noise reduction facilities after the erection of the bridge." Waweru said.