Youth Enterprise Development Fund CEO Josiah Moriasi yesterday named financial institutions that have defaulted on repayment of millions of shillings lent to them to disburse to youths. He told the National Assembly Special Funds Accounts committee the institutions owed the YEDF Sh313.9 million as at June 2015. They are Necco Fosa Sacco, Nyamira Tea Farmers’ Sacco, Nomad Welfare Development Group and Adoctimo. Moriasi said the fund has so far been unable to recover Sh200 million from the institutions in principal amounts, interests and penalties. The committee is chaired by South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi. “We have sent several demand letters and made a lot of follow-ups so that these institutions clear the outstanding penalties and interests,” he said. Moriasi said the institutions received the loans for lending to youths but defaulted on repayment. “The current board resolved to deal with the youths directly instead of financial institutions. We channel money from the fund account to the beneficiary account,” he said. Read:Seven Youth Fund officials suspended over irregular loan disbursement “Some of these institutions were getting money from us but disbursing it to people who are above the age of 35.” But Kisumu East MP Shakeel Shabbir asked: “Why have you not recalled the guarantees, if they have failed to pay?” Moriasi said the funds are secured by bank guarantees, which include land and other properties, but the fund has been unable to recall them due to prolonged court cases. The committee directed the CEO to recover all the interests, penalties and the full principal amounts. In March, seven officials of the fund were suspended to facilitate investigations into irregular loan disbursement. Board chairman Ronald Osumba said the decision was arrived at after an audit report tabled on March 2 identified instances of irregular loan disbursement. Osumba said in order to safeguard the use of public resources, the board resolved to immediately suspend the seven officials. Also Read:MPs praise state for merging Uwezo, Youth, Women funds Click here for the latest political news