Interior CS Fred Matinag’i has been accused of bias in the war on contraband sugar. MPs yesterday said the CS was protecting the directors of Rai Paper Mills where contraband sugar worth Sh250 million was impounded from a warehouse. “We want to know who is protecting the big fish. Matiang’i should not be parading the small fish. Where is Rai?,” National Assembly's committee on Agriculture chairman Adan Haji said. He spoke during a press conference attended by seven committee members at Parliament Buildings. Read : 1,350 bags of contraband sugar nabbed in Nakuru The committee asked Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ministry of Interior to ensure all the stores where poisonous sugar have been found remain closed until investigations are complete. They said some stores are owned by powerful and wealthy businessmen who can interfere with the investigations. Adan said the committee has listed government officials and businessmen who will be grilled from next week in relation to importation of poisonous sugar. Among those to be questioned are owner of Rai Paper Mills Jaswinder Rai, Cabinet Secretaries Henry Rotich (Treasury), Adan Mohamed (Trade), Fred Matiang'i (Interior) and Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture). The committee has also written to Kenya Revenue Authority boss John Njiraini, Kenya Bureau of Standards officials and directors of Hydroband and Diamond Wholesalers. “We shall also be summoning any other person who might assist the committee in getting to the bottom of this matter,” Adan said. The MPs said the importation of cheap sugar was a scheme by cartels to not only kill sugarcane farming but also local millers. "We'll not allow that to happen," Adan said. “Never in our history since independence have we sank this low to allow unscrupulous businessmen to import poisonous sugar to kill our people." Senators also demanded action against the importers. Also read : Illegal cheap sugar threatens Western economy - leaders Click here for the latest political news 