Former Coast champion and current club series leader Naushad Kara Lota will be going for the jugular in Sunday’s Mombasa Motor Club round of the KCB Kenya National Autocross Championship. Naushad targets his third win in Vipingo in a bid to snatch the coveted Coast rally series titlefrom Piero Cannobio. Naushad has entered a Subaru Crossbred, which he believes will be formidable in the 4WD Turbo class. “It’s always a learning curve with the car as each time we are out in the competition we make several adjustment to enhance performance. It will be such a great occasion when the Nairobians face the coasterians,” Naushad said. The sixth round of the national competition counts towards the Mombasa Cement sponsored club series. “Last year’s MMC autocross was a rally cars affair with Piero, Izhar (Mirza) and myselfsweeping the podium. I believe the buggy drivers will once again play second fiddle to the rally cars. We were just separated by 2 to 3 seconds and I foresee a similar scenario this time round. Basically, every second counted,” said the Lota Motorsports driver. Naushad, who is entering the 4WD Turbo class, face off with Ammar ‘Bushy’ Haq of Yalfa Rally Team and the usual suspects from Nairobi who include Lovejyot Singh and national champion Rehan Shah in a Mitsubishi Evolution. “I will be shaking the cobwebs off my Subaru in the MMC autocross. I don’t have any autocross championship ambitions this season so for me this event will be an opportunity to have fun and support my club, which is one of the most active in Kenyan motorsports currently,” he said. The event will bring together top MMC drivers with quite a good chunk coming from Nairobi and up-country. “The paperwork is set and it’s all systems go. The loop is 2.5km and we expect some good action. It’s indeed a flat-out dash. The club has done a lot of work and spectators are welcome to the event,” said club chairman Roy Mackenzie. The 4WD Turbo leader, Rehan Shah will take on Lovejyot Singh (Subaru N10) and the Subaru MMC duo of Ammar ‘Bushy’ Haq and Naushad Kara Lota of Lota, who leads the Club series. Also in the 4WD T mix is Paras Pandya. Pandya is spoilt for choice and he is yet to decide whether to enter his Evolution or GC8. The event will also double up as a round of the 2018 Mombasa Cement sponsored MMC Clubman championship series. Naushad who has won the last two rounds of the club series leads the MMC log. Izmir Racing will be represented by Lovejyot Singh in 4WD Turbo , Shaz Ismail in 2WD Turbo and the Mughal siblings Shailen in Open Class and Sarry in 2WD Non Turbo Class.