The newly constituted KPA board meets today to discuss the port's management
and recruitment of a new managing director. This follows Saturday's resignation of
former managing director Catherine Mturi-Wairi who had been sent on compulsory
leave. On Saturday, she wrote to Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia
offering to voluntarily vacate office. “She opted to take permanent leave by asking for early retirement from her
contractual obligation, which has been accepted,” Macharia said. Macharia spoke on the sidelines of the ongoing four-day International
Conference on Transport and Road Research at Whitesands Hotel, Mombasa. He said the new board will begin the process of filling the process through
competitive recruitment as required by law. “They (board) will take an appropriate decision in terms of placing a
permanent appointee,” he said. Meanwhile East African Community Cabinet Secretary Peter
Munya said there is marked improvement in the port’s operation since the change
of guard.  Munya said clearance of
containers had improved with 11,775 containers being evacuated on Monday alone,
surpassing their target by 775. Normally, he said, 13,000 containers are
supposed to be cleared. "There was a problem with the management. People were
not able to supervise and project," Munya said, adding that complaints
from Uganda and local transporters prompted the government to act. He said the Mturi administration did not do proper
evaluation and shift supervision to ensure work is done in 24 hours. He said the team acted as if KPA had not competitors.
"We cannot continue to assume we are the only one. There are ports in
Tanzania and others that are competing with Mombasa," Munya said.  RECRUIT The KPA board chaired by Gen (rtd) Joseph Kibwana is expected to advertise
for the position of managing director as one of its first business. “We now have the board that has been constituted with a new chairman. We
have new board members, we have acting CEO and general managers supporting the
acting CEO,” Machari said. Macharia defended the previous board's decision to appoint Dr Daniel Manduku
in acting capacity, which had been criticised as unlawful because it was not
competitive and he was an outsider. “The acting CEO is within my ministry, therefore, the CS can appoint anybody
from the ministry. If you recall, two years ago when we had an issue at the
Jomo Kenyatta Airport, I appointed Mr. Bondo to be the acting CEO of the
Kenya Airports Authority. So long as you appoint within the ministry, that is
allowable,” he said. He said the port which was experiencing congestion three weeks ago is now
operating smoothly with better cargo evacuation and ship turn-around time. “Things are okay, because if you look at what was happening at the port
three of our weeks ago, there were loads and loads of containers, about 23,000
at the yard. Today morning, I got the figures it is just about 10,000
containers.  So, things are efficiently working,” he said. On May 30, the KPA board held a special meeting that sent Mturi-Wairi on
compulsory leave over poor leadership and appointed Manduku from the National
Construction Authority to act for two months. Mturi-Wairi had been advised to seek legal redress but she opted not to.
Instead, rights activist Okiya Omtatah and Kilifi resident Emmanuel Kenga moved
to court on her behalf and obtained an injunction. Her decision to retire
voluntarily effectively rendered the petition hopeless. On Tuesday, the Mombasa High Court judge Erick Ogolla lifted orders that had
quashed the KPA decision to send Mturi-Wairi on compulsory leave, allowing
Manduku to officially take over.   