Nyeri senator Ephraim Maina has called on the government to strengthen its governance and accountability agency dealing with corruption. Maina has called upon the executive, parliament and judiciary to seat down and fast track the prosecution of those found culpable. Speaking during an interview with the Star yesterday, the Senator denied reports that he had called for lifestyle audit of MPs. He said his focus is to have the legislators strengthen the law to deal with corruption. He was reacting to the unfolding revelation that marred several public entities with huge loss of funds that are unaccounted for. Investigations are presently ongoing on alleged loss of Sh 9 billion at the the National Youth Service. Other entities put on the spotlight include the Kenya Power and Lighting Company and the Kenya Ports Authority. The first time senator further took on the banks and asked them to be responsible when dealing with their clients by ensuring that they account for large deposits of money that would help reveal if someone is engaging in illegal activities. “It is high time that leaders of this country realize that we have got limited resources and they must be used for the welfare of the country,” Maina said. Maina questioned how non-entities got huge sums of money and went unnoticed for years to deliver tenders. He further warned that the ongoing theft could lead to frustrations that could lead to revolution from the people. “How can government resources be put in the hands of non-entities? When people get desperate, they can resort to anything. In Malaysia, they elected a 92-year-old man. Therefore, I’m not sure the people of Kenya are not going to reach that point,” Maina told the Star. Earlier this week the government commenced prosecution of 12 out of the 54 suspects listed to be involved in the NYS scandal. Earlier this week, the government commenced prosecution of 54 suspects of the NYS scandal. Separately, Maina has appealed to Kenyans to give President Uhuru Kenyatta time so looters are brought to book. Looters are worse than murderers, he said. “A murderer kills one person, but a looter kills many people who get sick but don’t get drugs in hospitals,” Maina said.