The war on counterfeit products will "wipe out an entire generation" if not taken seriously, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati has said. Arati said this on Friday while urging President Uhuru Kenyatta to crack the whip on individuals behind runaway corruption. He cited the confiscation of contraband sugar in Eastleigh, Nairobi, and claimed a "well-known parliamentarian" was linked to it. "Sisi tunajua na tuko na ushahidi kwamba hiyo sukari ni ya mmoja wetu katika bunge (We know and have evidence showing that the sugar belongs to one of us in Parliament)," he told his constituents. "It is unfair for parliamentarians to betray the electorate, who braced the morning cold to vote for them, by selling expired goods to them." He added: "Hatuwezi kukubali muamke asubuhi kutupigia kura kisha tupitie mlango wa nyuma kuwauzia bidhaa ghushi zilizo na madini kama mercury. Sasa nyinyi wote mkikufa nani ataamka kupiga kura ule wakati mwingine (We cannot let you wake up very early to vote for us and then use the back door to sell you products with elements such as mercury. If you all die, who will vote for us next time)? "We would rather eliminate individuals with the intention of killing us all." The MP did not give details and the investigation has not been completed. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet earlier said that three Somalis were the suspects in the illegal trade. They were taken to court, where the prosecution asked for more time to finish investigations. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i assured that all those behind the crime will be punished. Details: Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Arati asked the DCI to speedily reveal the owners of companies in Eastleigh said to be transporters of the sugar. He said that once the report is handed to the President, he and others will demand its tabling in Parliament where "it will not be business as usual". Arati also backed Uhuru's directive for lifestyle audits on all government officers including MPs.  He demanded stringent measures by the government against those found to be behind corruption deals. Arati's sentiments came after National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale refuted claims that most Somali businessmen are involved in illegal trade Duale said this earlier today, while noting that Muslims support Uhuru's directive for public servants to undergo lifestyle audits. The Garissa Town MP noted that Islam does not condone the illegal accumulation of wealth. Read: Stop ethnic profiling, Kenyan Somalis can do business anywhere - Duale Click here for the latest political news