Nineteen people on Friday were admitted at Meru Level 5 Hospital following a stampede ahead of the official 55th Madaraka Day celebrations at Kinoru Stadium.Residents had arrived at the venue as early as 3am. The elderly and people living with disability struggled to access the venue. There were long queues as Kenyans tried to get into the 30,000-seater stadium.Besides the main dais reserved for President Uhuru Kenyatta, who presided over the event, all the other 12 terraces were full by 8.30am. Only the field was empty with a few attendees at the back of the terraces.Head of Meru Hospital Dr Elias Nyaga denied claims some people died after falling from a tree. But he confirmed 19 patients had been referred to the facility with  minor injuries. Watch: [VIDEO] Madaraka Day: Scores injured after falling from a tree in Kinoru stadiumA surgeon said, “Three patients were brought to the hospital at 8am. Three hours later, 16 more patients were brought in. We have carried out X-ray and scans and none of them has serious injuries.” He said they may be discharged on Friday or Saturday morning. “I want to dispel the rumours being spread that anyone has died. We have not received anyone and even the morgue has not reported any case,” the surgeon said.Those who attended the event told the Star they travelled on Thursday night only to find the gates locked and had to wait outside.This was the first time a national holiday fete was held in Meru since Independence.“Today is a special day for me. I travelled overnight and arrived here at 3.20am. I found many people at the gate. I’m still hoping to see the band during the parade,” Karen Mutemi, who was among the thousands locked outside the stadium, said. Another resident said, “I live near Kinoru Stadium and thought it will be simple to enter, but it has turned into a nightmare. I wish I could follow the ceremony on TV. Those outside are many than those inside the stadium.”Motorists plying the Meru-Makutano highway were barred from accessing the highway. Entry and exit roads around Meru town were also closed.Prior to the celebrations, Eastern regional commissioner Wycliffe Ogallo said security would be beefed up. “There is enough security inside, outside and in the entire Eastern region. But if you see anything suspicious or unpleasant, pass the information to officers wherever you may be,” he said. “The doors of the stadium will be opened at 4am and I invite all Kenyans to come early. Those who will be unable to access the venue will watch the proceedings from our big screens.” Read: Madaraka Day: Dozens locked out of Meru's Kinoru Stadium for lack of space Click here for the latest political news