“If two
children are sent home for lack of school fees, the parents would work hard to
find the required fees and take the son back to school. The girl can wait,” the
mechanic says as he settles onto the plastic chair in the tiny living room of
the three-roomed house, the walls a mixture of mad and stones. “That is our
Duruma culture, just like in many other African cultures,” he says, shaking his
head in regret. It is
precisely this notion — that the girl’s place is in the kitchen and not in the
classroom — that Jackson Katana vowed not to uphold. Despite not
being privileged to step into any classroom in his entire life, Katana vowed
from an early age he would ensure his children got the best education. Even the
daughters. “I was
prepared to face the wrath of the community,” says a proud Katana, who talks
about his firstborn child, Joyce Katana, with anybody who cares to listen. The excitement
is palpable. Katana and his wife, Zainab Mnyika, are preparing to travel to
Nairobi. The plane carrying their daughter is expected to touch down at the
Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Sunday evening. She will be
coming back to Kenya for the first time since August 5 last year, when she left
for the US on a scholarship from the Bridge International Academies. She is now
studying at Avenues, The World School, a secondary school in New York. Katana and
Zainab laugh at the memories of the fights they had over Joyce’s scholarship. Zainab,
who dropped out of Class 8 to get married herself, would hear no talk about her
precious little girl going anywhere far from her, whether to learn or work. “When she told
me she was going to Nakuru for a symposium and if she did well she would be
offered a scholarship to go to the US for her secondary education, I just
agreed, not knowing she would be one of the lucky ones,” says Zainab, as she
breastfeeds her lastborn son. However, when
Joyce broke the good news to them, she was not prepared. “I remember we fought
about it. I could not imagine my little girl going in a foreign country to be
alone, far from me. It just did not enter my head,” she says. Katana says
they stayed for two weeks without talking to each other. Such was the
seriousness of the fight, just because the then 14-year-old Joyce was
intelligent enough, smart enough and showed enough maturity and leadership
skills to impress the Americans that she could cope in their country. Bridge
International Academies public relations manager Jackline Walumbe says their
scholarship programme targets vulnerable children from humble backgrounds. Speaking ahead
of today's International Day of the African Child, Walumbe says the right to
education is one of children’s most important rights. This year’s theme
is The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
for Children in Africa “This year’s
theme is a reminder of the linkages between the regional and global agendas on
development, and the importance of promoting child rights, including by
addressing child marriage,” Walumbe says. Zainab says
she would not want for her Joyce the life she went through because of culture. “I
gave birth to her while I was 19 years old. I was not mature enough to be a
mother but I was forced to because of the circumstances,” she says. Walumbe says
by empowering children through education, regardless of the gender, you give
them an equal opportunity to compete. Bridge
International Academies has for the last three years sponsored over 150,000
children through various stages of education including primary, secondary and
even tertiary education across the globe. Speaking to
the Star from the States via Skype, Joyce says though she was hit by the
culture shock, she quickly adapted and now feels Kenyan children can compete
favourably with children from the US and other continents if only given the
opportunity. “At first I
was shy and felt intimidated by the environment and the other children. They
were more confident. But I quickly learnt,” says Joyce with a surprisingly
heavy American accent. Since she has
only spent only 10 months in the US, it goes to show she is a quick learner. “At first I
struggle to fit into the society. I do not have to fit anymore,” Joyce says. She feels
lucky to be coming back to Kenya for her summer holidays a day after her 15th birthday. “I am thinking
of having sessions with my peers and other children in schools so I can talk to
them about life outside here and how we are not any inferior to anyone,” says
the talkative girl. Zainab says
she feels like she would have been the worst mother ever had she denied her
daughter the opportunity to study in the US. “I have so
much hope for her now,” says the mother of four. Katana says
Joyce will Joyce will deliver them from the abject poverty they are in. “She is my
hope. Our hope. She will make it and came help us get out of this place and
move to a more decent house,” says the proud father, as he peers into the
neighbourhood outside through the front door which is wide open. They live deep
in Jomvu location, in a village called Narcol Ngamani. Katana says he
was afraid he would have never been able to pay school fees for Joyce had
Bridge International Academy not come into the picture. “They came in
while she was in Class 6. They paid for her fees through to Class 8 and when
she passed and was called to Matuga Girls High School, they also paid her fees
for the first year before she had to fly to the US,” says Katana. Joyce says she
finds other cultures unique outside Kenya and that some of them are
challenging. “I had never
been in a trouser before I left Kenya. But now in the US, I wear them. It was a
bit strange at first but I find it gives you more confidence if you wear
something you are comfortable in,” says the 15-year-old. Her mother,
Zainab, says since Joyce likes to study so much, she has advised her to look
for a course she can do. “At 34, I have
been trying to look for a course I can do but it is difficult for me to
choose,” she says. Her daughter
has inspired her. Joyce says
African children should not be bothered by obstacles. “Just jump the
obstacles and stay focused on your education, career, life or anything you set
out to do. I hope the African child does not hold their circumstances as
obstacles to their desires,” Joyce says.