A meal at Marula Mercantile Restaurant
is a combination of good food and relaxed garden ambience. The quirky décor has
bicycles hanging from the ceiling and twinkle lights around wooden posts. The
dining tables are on a veranda, there are stools made from painted car tyres, and large sitting cushions covered in bright kanga cloth. The restaurant is open all day and
serves an unpretentious menu that fits a rustic eatery with a playground for
children. The breakfast menu includes cereals, fruit, pancakes and eggs to
order. We started lunch by sharing delicious small
plates of Butternut Squash fritters, Bacon-wrapped Dates filled with ricotta, Crispy Squid and wonderful Sesame Fried Feta. For the main course, I chose and enjoyed the
Cajun Blackened Chicken Breast with brown rice, peas and harissa yoghurt. Other popular meals are the Pulled Pork
sandwich with cherry tomatoes on flatbread, and Beef Filet with chunky chips
and salad greens. The Mercantile Beef Burger with caramelised onion and spicy
chips is tasty and generous in size. Recommended vegetarian items are the
Garden Pea Falafel with raita and smoky eggplant spread. Also, the Baked Crespelle pancake filled
with spinach, cheese and tomatoes. I like that they change their menu
frequently so there is always something new to try out. From the kids’ menu,
the children in our group liked the fish fingers, chicken skewers and mini
meatballs. The beverage options range from fruit
juices to wines, cocktails and hard spirits. The Arnold Palmer iced tea with
lemonade is refreshing on a hot day. For dessert, the Chocolate Brownie is delectable.
Rich and moist, with a crunchy top and nuts, it goes perfectly with a scoop of
ice cream. The
Pavlova with berries and cream was well received, and they have a selection of homemade cakes. One of the kitchen windows is open so
you can watch the cooks at work. Generally, the service is fast and the waiters
friendly. In the evenings they put heaters next to your table, the bar counter gets
busy, sometimes a DJ plays music, and the place feels like a vibrant
pub-restaurant.  LOCATION: Marula Lane,
Karen Nairobi CONTACTS: 0706
224444  Star rating: 4.5/5