Kenyans can now access loans in minutes through mobile banking and alternative mobile lending apps, thanks to innovative technology. This has however led to a higher rate of household debt as Kenyans resort to borrowing from more than one lending app to meet their daily needs. With more than 50 mobile lending apps currently in the market, individuals are finding themselves wallowing in debt as they borrow beyond their means. “We know that Kenyans are borrowing from different apps but there is nothing we can do without adequate information, something we are currently lacking,” Okolea International CEO Peter Muraya told the Star. day-to-day needs A survey by Financial Sector Deepening Kenya found that M-Shwari controls the largest market share of mobile lending followed by KCB M-Pesa and Equity’s Eazzy. In third place is fintech firm, Tala followed closely by M-Coop Cash and Branch. “The last two years have seen the entry of many unregulated players,” the report stated. The survey shows casual workers, dependants and formal employees borrow mostly for day-to-day needs. Customers who run their own companies or farms mostly borrow for business. Okolea International, a mobile lending app which began operations in January last year, has grown its loan portfolio to 70,000 borrowers, 50,000 of whom are small business owners. “We are trying to make Okolea a responsible lender by putting most of our focus on serving jua kali traders,” Muraya said. Although lenders seem to be bearing the brunt of the blame on Kenyan’s poor borrowing habits, Muraya said most people want debt but are unwilling to pay. no promotion for defaulters “Kenyans need to develop a culture of responsible borrowing. This may not be possible as being registered by the Credit Reference Bureau is not consequence enough,” he said. Muraya said Kenya should have stringent rules on defaulting where debt dodgers are restricted from accessing services like buying plane tickets, getting promotions or applying for credit cards which is the case in China. Metropolis managing director Sammuel Omukoko told the Star there are currently 500,000 people blacklisted by credit reference bureaus. Although institutions regulated by the Central Bank are entitled to list defaulters with all three CRBs – Creditinfo CRB Kenya, Metropol and Transunion – the fintechs springing up, offering mobile loans are not mandated to list with all three. “Since they (fintechs) can list with only one CRB, consumers who are defaulters with one bureau can get away with borrowing from an app that lists with another bureau,” Omukoko said.   