Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth's church harambee in Uasin Gishu yesterday has sparked speculation he could be one of the potential running mates of Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. The rising number of candidates who have expressed interest or are being pushed by powerful ethnic or business lobbies to be part of Ruto's ticket has the DP spoilt for choice, but might also create a monumental dilemma. More than 10 politicians have either publicly or in private expressed interest in the high profile and sometimes political powder keg position. However, the fiercest contest to deputise Ruto seems to be from Mt Kenya region. Those on Ruto's list include Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, his deputy Kindiki Kithure, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, EAC Cabinet Secretary and former Meru Governor Peter Munya, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and his Murang'a counterpart Mwangi wa Iria. Others are Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, former minister Martha Karua, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa. Must read : History will judge us if we don't back Ruto for 2022- Moses Kuria Yesterday Kenneth, who has previously contested and lost the presidency and Nairobi governorship, described Ruto as a close friend and said his invitation to the DP's turf was a sign of things to come. He promised to make his stand known in the course of the year. Kenneth said he has met Ruto many times to build bridges. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen is one of the few Ruto insiders who have worked behind the scenes to reconcile the two. It was not lost on keen observers that last year, in the Jubilee nominations for Nairobi Governor, Kenneth made it clear he lost because Ruto interfered with the process to rig him out in favour of Mike Sonko. “DP Ruto is my friend. We are age-mates and we didn’t know each other because he is DP. We must build bridges everywhere. If people want to genuinely build this country then we must work together to resolve issues affecting Kenyans”, Kenneth said during a fundraising for churches at Kaptinga in Kapseret constituency hosted by area MP Oscar Sudi. “I was invited for a church function but the politicians have turned it into politics and that is a clear sign of what is ahead. You know when there are heavy clouds then the rain is about to fall and as you can see we have very heavy clouds here,” said the former Gatanga MP. Murkomen and Kindiki who were present said Kenneth had made a wise decision to work with Ruto. In earlier declarations for consideration as Ruto's running mate, Kindiki has repeatedly said that he would represent Mt Kenya East (Meru) “which has for long been used as voting machines”. “The Jubilee house is big and we welcome you wholeheartedly,” said Murkomen. Gatanga MP Joseph Ngugi praised Kenneth saying he was a visionary leader and did a lot for the people when he served as MP. “Kenneth, we are asking you to join DP Ruto and work with him closely,” said Nduati. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro dismissed concerns that the Jubilee political marriage between President Kenyatta and DP Ruto was on the rocks. “We know Raila Odinga has been wrecking parties and he has destroyed many, but we will not allow him to damage Jubilee." “We are asking Uhuru and Ruto not to be separated by someone who came from outside. Let them stick together as we agreed,” said Nyoro. He said the people of Mt Kenya have already decided who to vote for come 2022 and their choice is not debatable. “We are here with our leader Peter Kenneth and we know where we are heading”, said Nyoro. Naivasha MP Jane Kihara said 2022 politics was sealed in 2017. Read : Mt Kenya planning to pick Ruto’s 2022 running mate As a sign that the Uhuru-Ruto marriage is heading for the rocks, the President in early June reprimanded his deputy, describing his early campaigns as the work of an idle politician roaming the country aimlessly. The gentleman's agreement in Jubilee is that once Uhuru completes his second term, Ruto will be the party's candidate. During the 2017 campaigns, Uhuru publicly endorsed Ruto as his successor as he asked those in the Opposition to let him finish his work and face off with his DP in 2022. However, the agreement notwithstanding influential and wealthy Mt Kenya businessmen, civil servants and politicians have been meeting to strategise on the next elections. Only last Friday, Ruto while in Kiambu lamented publicly that some powerful force was keen to block him succeeding Kenyatta. He repeated the complaint in Narok on Saturday. There is a feeling among a section of Mt Kenya leaders that the region should field a presidential candidate after Uhuru's exit. The team that is supporting Ruto has been scouting for the person best suited to unify Mt Kenya region and rally them to vote for Ruto in 2022. In April, Uhuru spoke during stopovers at Kenol, Witeithie and Githurai on his way back to Nairobi after attending a funeral service for the late Kenneth Matiba in Muranga. He told Mt Kenya politicians to hold their horses, saying Jubilee has a succession plan. "And these leaders, I have to tell them. They think they are propping up themselves by always speaking about 2022. Let us work first. You think being the loudest will make you the Deputy President? You will be the last one," Uhuru said in a mix of Kikuyu and Swahili. He added; "Our focus right now is delivering development in this country and the country is united. We know that the elections will be in 2022 and we have our game plan." A number of leaders from the region have been accompanying Ruto to functions and using the platforms to campaign for the DP, four years to the elections. According to multiple sources, President Uhuru Kenyatta could have settled on Kenneth as his heir in the Mt Kenya succession politics. “The decision to have PK as chief guest at such a function in DP’s home county is not by chance but a well calculated move to test the waters and to start positioning him for Ruto’s running mate,” a senior politician from Mt Kenya told the Star yesterday. Also read  : Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila