Ivory Coast President Alassane
Ouattara said he is free to stand for a third term in the 2020
presidential election under the country's new constitution,
according to an interview in this week's edition of French
magazine Jeune Afrique. This is the first time Ouattara, who was first elected in a
2010 election that sparked a brief civil war, has made the
claim, which will anger his political foes. "The new constitution authorises me to serve two terms
starting in 2020," Ouattara, 76, told Jeune Afrique, implying
that his two election wins under the old constitution would not
count against the new constitution's two-term limit. "I will only make a definitive decision then, based on the
situation in Ivory Coast. Stability and peace come before all
else, including my principles," he said. A government spokesman could not be immediately reached for
comment. Ivorian voters overwhelmingly approved the new constitution
in a November 2016 vote that was boycotted by Ouattara's main
opposition. It scrapped a provision in the previous constitution
requiring both of a presidential candidates' parents be
natural-born Ivorian citizens, which had been used to disqualify
Ouattara from a 2000 election and helped fuel regional tensions
that saw the country split into two from 2002-11. Ouattara has family ties that straddle the borders with
Burkina Faso and Mali. Prospective successors have been jockeying for political
position ahead of the 2020 election, threatening to break apart
Ouattara's governing coalition and raising fears the country
could experience renewed civil conflict. The presidents of other African countries, including Rwanda
and Congo Republic, have altered their constitutions in recent
years to get around term limits, but Ouattara had previously
promised to step down in 2020. Under Ouattara, Ivory Coast, the world's top cocoa producer,
has routinely recorded some of the highest economic growth rates
in Africa on the back of record cocoa production and investments
in infrastructure and services. But historical divisions based on ethnicity, land and
religion have not healed and a string of army mutinies and
public sector strikes have taken some of the shine off the
country's economic successes. Click here for the latest political news