National athletics coach Stephen Mwaniki has expressed confidence that Kenya will surpass the 24 medals the country bagged at the 2016 African Championships in Durban when they parade at this year’s edition in Nigeria in August. Kenya finished second behind hosts South Africa two years ago with eight gold, eight silver and eight bronze medalsl. Mwaniki, who handled the team during the Africa championships on home soil in 2010 said the team will be going all out to win medals not only in the traditional middle and long distances but the sprints and field events too. Under Mwaniki’s watch, Kenya bagged 25 medals including 10 gold, seven silver and nine bronze medals at the Nyayo Stadium in 2010. “We have a good crop of sprinters. You saw what Mark Otieno did at the Commonwealth Games where he was able to advance to the second round and I am confident we can make it to the finals of the short races in Asaba,” said Mwaniki. The team will report to camp on July 8 at a yet to be disclosed location and Mwaniki said the three week camp will ensure the athletes are in peak condition by the time the Africa championships start in August. “There are a few areas we are going to work on. We need to ensure that the athletes are in peak condition mentally and physically to be competitive at the African event,” noted Mwaniki. Mwaniki said he had high hopes in the 4x400 meters relay team too. “We have very good individual runners in the 400 metres and I believe we can do well in the relay competition although it will be tough with competition from the likes of Botswana and South Africa but we are than ready for the challenge,” he added. A strong 63-man team was named for the week long championship n Nigeria headlined by Olympic, world and Commonwealth 3000m champion Conseslus Kipruto, world and Commonwealth champions Elijah Manang’oi ( 1,500m) and Hellen Obiti ( 5,000m), former world 400m/hurdles champion Nicholas Bett as well as Commonwealth silver medallist Edward Zakayo ( 5,000m) and Stacy Ndiwa ( 10,000m).