Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati wants more youth, women and persons living with disability to apply for tenders. He has launched a campaign called Get Out To Do Business. The law requires that 30 per cent of tenders be reserved for the groups. County officials say not enough people apply for reserved tenders because they don’t understand the process. The number of applicants was not disclosed. The county boss has promised to increase the share so many more people benefit. This will help so more residents transit into the “millionaire bracket”, he said. “I have committed to allocate 40 per cent of all tenders to the youth, women and people with disability. This will just be the beginning as they enjoy the fruits of devolution,” he said on Tuesday in Sirisia constituency. He met youth groups. Last week, Wangamati dispatched a team from the procurement department to train the groups so they take advantage of the 30 per cent tender allocation reserved for them. COMMON MISTAKES Bungoma also partnered with the Kenya Revenue Authority and professionals to fast-track awareness of tenders and business opportunities. Every subcounty had a one-day seminar. About 7,000 residents from nine subcounties took part. They were taught how to register a business and bid for contracts with the county or national government agencies. “Through this training, we hope to show our youths how to access government procurement opportunities and present their tender bids,” Wangamati said. The one-day seminar also highlights common mistakes made during tendering and how to avoid them. Wangamati said young people must learn to create jobs to tackle unemployment and diversify livelihoods. They can boost the economy and improve living standards, the governor said. Before launching the tender drive, Wangamati met groups in the informal sector, university and college students and local leaders, to understand their needs. The county entered into an LPO-financing agreement with the Kenya Commercial Bank. Under the KCB 2jiajiri programme, Sh50 million will fund training of young entrepreneurs help business startups. The county also has an internal lending platform where the groups can access loans from the Gender, Youth, Culture and Sports department, and the Trade, Energy and Industrialisation docket. Already, many firms owned by the youth, women and PLWD have benefitted from this arrangement. They use it to service their orders. Wangamati has encouraged the groups to promote reforestation. They get paid for planting trees. The programmes are organised by the Environment department.