In the past, Mombasa was known for its coolness. Residents used to walk around in the middle of the night
without having the fear of being robbed or attacked. People used to greet each other in the roads without even
knowing each other. While you pass someone, you would hear them exchanging greetings
of Asalam Aleikum which means peace be with you. Indeed, there was peace. That peace is no more! This is due to the emerging criminal gangs which have been
creating fear among residents. Some of this gangs include Wakali kwanza, wakali wao,
wajukuu wa nyanya, just but to mention a few. This gangs go around with machetes, threatening the lives of
many. The peaceful Mombasa is no longer peaceful. One does not feel secure walking at the middle of the night
like the old days. Rise in this gangs has been blamed on drug abuse. Poverty and lack of jobs among youths has also been blamed
on. Kids as young as 12 have been reported to be involved in these
criminal activities. TAP project to help
reduce criminal cases. Tuimarishe Amani Pwani (TAP) project is a project which will
help shape the lives of young kids. TAP will see school kids get educated on dangers of abusing
drugs and also getting involved in criminal acts. The project was initiated by Council of Imams and preachers
of Kenya (CIPK) and sponsored by Act! Initiated in 2016 the project has already covered 50 in
Mombasa. CIPK hopes that the project will change the perceptions of
the kids as this are mostly the targets of criminal gangs. Mombasa county has 540 schools with 462 primary schools and
78 secondary school so TAP aims at reaching all this schools so that the number
of crime cases can reduce. The CIPK Organizing secretary Mohamed Khalifa said most
crime cases among the youths are encouraged by the parents. “You will find out that people who introduce these kids into
drugs and also encourage these kids to involve themselves in crime are the
parents,” Khalifa said. He said the project will help on properly advising these
young ones in the correct direction, which will help the young kids to avoid
bad habits and encourage peace in their homes as they take the message back
home. “The advices will help them to stay away from crime, drug
use and also refrain from friends who will influence them in a bad way,” he
said. Act!, the sponsors of the project is an NGO which deals in
Environmental and natural resource management, democracy and human rights and
peace building and conflict transformation The kids are the
targets for the criminal gangs Kenya Community Support Center (KECOSCE) Project officer
Mwalimu Rama said the project also aims at opening the young one’s eyes since
most of these young ones are the targets of these criminal gangs. Are they the targets because they cannot  be suspected? “This will be a good way to help them refrain from being
used by gangs especially using them in carrying and hiding weapons,” Rama said. He however accused the county government for stalling in
matters of advocating for peace in the county. “If the county government would have a docket which they
would be discussing on peace issues and security, then there would be some
developments and many youths would refrain from getting themselves involved in
these criminal acts, but instead the county government has left that
responsibility to the national government to talk to the youths on peace
issues,” he said. Number of criminal
cases in Mombasa According to a National Police Service annual report 2016,
Mombasa had 3034 crime cases. It stood to be the fifth county to have the highest number
of criminal cases after Kiambu, Meru, Nairobi and Nakuru. Terrorism being named as the major cause of insecurity
especially among the Coast region. 