Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has announced his entry into national politics. The former governor said he is “fully back” and will play a key role in shaping Kenya’s future. Kabogo said he has presidential ambitions but the wellbeing of Kenyans is his priority. He urged politicians to stop “premature” 2022 politics and focus on socioeconomic development. Kabogo said he will join hands with like-minded leaders to make President Uhuru Kenyatta and former PM Raila Odinga’s handshake deal work for the common good. Kenyans should support the pact to ensure peace, unity, reconciliation and growth, he told the Star in an interview on Monday. Kabogo said he does not care who succeeds Uhuru in 2022 but will ensure that person has the interests of Kenyans at heart. "I am building a political movement that will continue to fix Kenya’s problems in the post-Uhuru era. The country must tackle poverty, unemployment, ethnicism, corruption, nepotism and favouritism decisively" he said. "I don’t have to be President to change people’s lives. I can bring good people together for the common good of the masses," Kabogo said. "A leader must focus on what is important to the people. Right now, I’m hunting for the right people with whom I share ideologies. We are in talks and will make a grand announcement at the right time." Kabogo has avoided the limelight since losing to Ferdinand Waititu in last year’s August 8 General Election. He ran as an independent candidate after losing to Waititu in the Jubilee primaries, whose results he said were compromised. After months of a self-imposed sabbatical, Kabogo said it will no longer be business as usual. He warned elected leaders they have to deliver on their mandate. "I was having my one-year rest. From now on, you will see me and hear from me more," Kabogo said. He urged leaders to be principled and pursue policies that will promote shared prosperity. Politicians must stop mudslinging because it hurts development and leaves our country poorer, the former county boss said. "We don’t have to go through election violence every five years,” he said. “We have to stop the culture in which people compete for the presidency like it is a matter of life and death." Kabogo urged Kenyans to support the war on corruption. "The investigating authorities must carry out their work competently to recover stolen funds and present concrete evidence in court to win cases against graft suspects," he said. "If Uhuru gave me that job for three months, he would see what I can do for this country. I don’t want payment. I would unravel everything and have the evidence, the suspect and the location of the loot for successful prosecution," Kabogo said. “I know all corrupt people will hear my name and run away in fear.” He said Kenya must build a middle-class economy through a vibrant manufacturing sector. This will create jobs for the youth and support infrastructural development — the cornerstone of economic growth, Kabogo said. Last week, Kabogo met with Deputy President William Ruto. "I paid Ruto an informal visit. We met to talk about many issues, among them development. I represent the interest of my constituency, which is Kenya," he said. "We might have differed during nominations, but we are still friends." The former Kiambu boss had been perceived as a Ruto critic, especially after the Jubilee Party nominations. Kabogo said he has met other leaders to discuss issues “important to the nation”. Last month, he met NASA leader Raila Odinga. Read: End to hostility? Kabogo 'tanga tangas' to Ruto's Karen home Click here for more political news