Not every other day does a couple work together, more so in the music industry. However, Beyonce and Jay Z couldn’t have stolen the world’s attention any better than with the release of the surprise album “Everything is love”. With a shaky marriage past and the confessions of Jay Z cheating on Beyonce,the couple has back-to-back tried to convey a message of ‘for better for worse’ in their ties during their 15 years of marriage. Separately, the couple spawned two albums with, Beyoncé’s 2016 “Lemonade” and Jay-Z’s 2017 “4:44”. The chronicles continue with the couple under their new tag name ‘The Carters’, making a statement on “Everything Is Love,” to make it a trio on the couples’ venture to address the ups and downs in the marriage story, while keying in the forgiveness factor. But more stunning is the artwork in the opening song “Apes**t”, whose video brings on board the finest and most valuable art pieces in the French Museum, ‘The Louvre’. The billion-dollar couple must have spent a fortune to get the exclusive access of the Louvre, but well, it makes a statement on the coded messages they seek to express. From Leonardo Da Vinci’s ‘Mona Lisa’ to the Marie-Guillemine Benoist painted “Portrait of a Black Woman (Negress)”, which is among the first black paintings not depicting slavery. The music video also depicts the responsibility of the couple to the black society as black billionaires, as they are accompanied with black dancers. The use of “Negress” could be taken as the Carter’s way of telling the world they are defying the traditional norms to give blackness an elite space in the arts industry, in a territory they were previously exploited. Beyonce has a defiant role in depicting blackness by remaking white art pieces like the Venus de Milo, an ancient Greek statue of the goddess Aphrodite, in a nude body suit. The video also gives a glance of the couple in front of Great Sphinx of Tanis from the old Egyptian Kingdom to possibly illustrate the larger African history.  Star Rating: 4/5