Red Cross counselors had been attending to family and friends of passengers and crew of the FlySax aircraft that went down in the Aberdare Forest on Tuesday. They swung into action when news of the sighting of the plane’s wreckage broke. “Where will I get another husband!” a woman wailed. “Who will take care of my children!” she continued. The distraught woman sprawled on the ground not knowing whether to crawl or scream. Other grieving relatives remained motionless as the sad news of the death of their loved ones sank in. The Weston Hotel waiting lounge turned into a mourning zone as emotions ran high. Kenya Red Cross officers comforted the grieving friends and families. Relatives consoled their kin. Another woman crawled to a corner of the hotel, but was quickly comforted by Kenya Red Cross counselors. “Woi, Ngai...Woi Ngai,” she wailed. Captain Barbra Kamau was flying the the FlySax Cessna C208 aircraft, registration number 5Y-CAC, from Kitale to Nairobi alongside co-pilot Jean Mureithi. On board were Ahmed Ali Abdi, Karaba Waweru Muiga, Khetia Kishani, Matakasakaraia Thamani, Matakatekei Paula, George Kinyua, Pinuertorn Ronald and Wafula Robinson. They all died when the plane crashed shortly after losing contact with the control tower at about 5:20pm on Tuesday. The aircraft left Kitale airstrip at 4:05pm and was expected to land at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 5:20pm. A search and rescue mission was ordered after it went missing. Read:FlySax plane: Families hoping against hope as search continues But the mission was suspended overnight due to bad weather. It would be suspended again on Wednesday for the same reasons. The wreckage was sighted yesterday by an aerial search team. Family members of the passengers and crew had been camping at the Weston Hotel for updates on the fate of their loved ones. That agonising wait ended yesterday after their worst fears were confirmed. “It’s with a heavy heart that we have received information there are no survivors. We have grieving families around and we plead for your sensitivity during this period,” FlySax chairman Charles Waqo said. Media was asked not to interview the family members. Most were too distraught to talk either. At around 1:31pm, the families were led to an ambulance. Other relatives entered their cars. They did not leave the hotel area. Tears flowed freely from their eyes as cameramen scrambled for shots. Reporters were later asked to leave. On Wednesday the family of Robinson Wafula said they hoped he would be found alive. Read:Search for missing plane called off due to poor light His sister Chairty Wafula said she had spoken to Robinson early Tuesday morning after a visit to their rural home in Bungoma. “The last time we spoke, there was no cause for alarm. It was a normal conversation. We later learned from the media that the plane in which he was flying back to Nairobi had gone missing,” Charity said. She described Robinson as a jovial and calm man. Robinson, 30, was a father of a five-year-old boy. Abdi has left behind four girls and one boy aged 14. His cousin, Mohamed Ali, said they had celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr which marks the end of the Ramadhan together. Read:[VIDEO] No survivors in FlySax plane crash, says PS Paul Maringa Click here for more political news