Kenyans on Thursday expressed their anger at NTSA for failing to tame rogue matatus whose crew have been causing deaths to passengers. This followed an incident where a student died after she was pushed from a moving vehicle on Thika Road on Thursday. The student of Nairobi Institute of Business Studies, only identified as Doreen, was pushed from a bus belonging to Zam Zam sacco. Peter Pekat said the woman died in his arms as he was rushing her to Neema Uhai hospital which is located opposite the Safari Park hotel. Through the hashtag #JusticeforDoreen, Kenyans on twitter said NTSA should be held solely responsible for failing to put a stop to the worrying trend. Recently, a watchman was pushed out of a City Shuttle bus on Waiyaki Way following a disagreement with the tout over Sh10 fare. The bus then ran over the passenger, killing him instantly. Read: Tout who pushed man out of bus over Sh10 arrested NTSA said in a tweet: "We are working closely with the National Police Service to ensure the PSV crew are apprehended." The police said they have launched a hunt with a view to arresting the driver and the conductor of the bus. "Kindly note that this unfortunate incident is currently being handled by our officers at Kasarani Police station," the police said on twitter. "The matatu is also in Kasarani awaiting inspection and other procedures as per the law." But dissatisfied twitter users asked Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to move swiftly and arrest such criminal elements within the matatu sector. Some said impounding matatu whose operators commit such crimes is not enough saying that the saccos which the buses belong to should be de-registered. Dickson Mbugua of the Matatu Welfare Association said the suspects must be hunted and brought to book so that justice is served to the student's family. "It is wrong and brutal for crew members to mistreat their clients. This is the fourth incident and it is unfortunate that it is becoming a trend." "We are not going to condone such behaviour because it contravenes the road safety code," Mbugua told the Star on the phone. Also read: The rise of matatu, gang politics anchored on bandit economy Click here for the latest political news