When creativity is supported and rewarded, it is transformed into the powerful constructive force that leads individuals and societies to growth and success. If creativity is denied and suppressed, it leads to hostility, resentment and destruction. Creativity is characterised by intense internal drives. For it to function effectively, creativity needs to be stabilised and guided from a very early age. However, parents and teachers often sanction and ostracise children who display creativity, demanding them to conform to cultural norms and traditions. Creative children and young people need the courage to withstand this tension, this tug-of-war between creative self and conventional self. Engaging in the balancing act, they try to reconcile the opposites, appearing dogmatic and open, naive and sophisticated at the same time. Their complex personalities seem a mystery less accepted and understood by those who naturally fit into boundaries. But if these children and young people lack strength, they can lose this ‘war’. Forcing their creativity underground, they can turn antisocial and destructive.  CREATIVE URGES Research shows that if children abandon or distort their creative urges, they end up with faulty and uncertain self-concept, learning disabilities, behaviour problems, delinquency, neuroticism, depression, attention-seeking, anxiety and even psychosis. A research of Gail Lewis of Northwestern State University, USA, called ‘The need to create: constructive and destructive behaviour in creatively gifted children’, studied three groups of participants: the actors, delinquents, and Creative Problem Solvers that were neither actors or delinquents. Surprisingly, the delinquents score high on creativity (nonverbal, action-based, or figural, that focuses on fluency/speed of producing original designs/ideas). However, they scored low on ‘creative production’, which indicated they rarely involved themselves in a creative process and put their ideas to use. Their imagination and fantasy also scored low: it was more ‘practical’ rather than rich and full. The delinquents lacked energy and appeared depressed; when feeling angry, they got out of control. In contrast, the actors and Creative Problem Solvers displayed self-confidence and energy and discharged their anger safely and indirectly. The study demonstrated that creativity of the delinquents most likely had been severely suppressed or altogether denied to them. Not utilised in a constructive way, their need for action discharged in attacks on persons and property.  POWERFUL FORCE Creativity is a powerful force that needs a constructive expression. Suppressing the creative need is dangerous. It damages the mental health of individuals and results in socially and emotionally deviant populations. Society in general and schools and families in particular, therefore, must accept and support creativity. Not should, must. Supporting creativity does not need the outlay of funds. Creative arts and drama require little funding and training. A sensitive teacher or a parent can provide active and meaningful creative experience for children. With proper guidance, children can learn strategies for coping with the conflicts that arise from the fight between creativity and conformity (sharing ideas with a group, learning to give constructive criticism, focusing on the job to be done, timing actions appropriately, explaining the importance of what is tried to be accomplished, building up a ‘credit rating’, and if needed, camouflaging creativity so it does not stand out).  Alla Tkachuk is the founder of creativity education charity MASK, www.mobileartschoolinkenya.org