Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya wants the Luhya community to unite behind him so NASA chief Raila Odinga can endorse his presidential bid. He said on Saturday he is ready to go for the national top job after ending his second term as governor in 2022. His remark has, however, been dismissed by Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Mohamed. Oparanya said he will run on the ODM ticket — the party led by Raila. “I cannot just stand before talking to Raila. I’ve talked to him and he told me that once he sees the entire Western behind me he will support me,” Oparanya said. He said he will compete with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula — other Luhya leaders interested in the seat. “If I stand a better chance, they should back me, and if they emerge stronger, I’ll support them,” Oparanya said in Eshirotsa village, Butere subcounty, Kakamega. “I’ll reach every part of the country to seek support.” Mudavadi and Wetang’ula plan to merge their parties to form a formidable outfit capable of consoldating the support of the community into one vote basket. During an ODM NEC-PG meeting in Mombasa on June 17-18, members requested Oparanya and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho to stop 2022 election campaigns. Raila told the orange party leaders to focus on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda — affordable housing, manufacturing, food security and universal healthcare. On Saturday, Oparanya hit out at sugar barons for “undermining the industry for decades through illegal imports”. “It is high time the national government came to the roundtable to discuss with leaders from Nyanza and Western to find a lasting solution to this problem before the sugar sector collapses,” he said. The county boss expressed concern over high cancer cases in Kakamega but added they will do everything it takes to fix the problem. The county teaching and referral hospital under construction will be well-equipped to deal with the disease, he said. Oparanya said his administration had set aside Sh350 million for county youth service to create jobs. Responding to Oparanya’s presidential quest, CS Mohamed said his chances of ascending to power are remote. He said Oparanya will only use the bid to lobby for a position in the next government. “Oparanya should clear the jam if he knows he wants to trade with Luhyas. We are not going to gamble again in 2022. Luhyas must take power in 2022,” he said.