The
United Nations has asked the Kenyan Government to protect witnesses
testifying in Owino Uhuru Lead case amid claims some have received death threats. The
suit was filed by Centre for Justice Governance and Environmental Action in 2015 and seeks to have about 3,000 slum dwellers collectively compensated Sh1
billion for lead poisoning. John Knox, Baskut Tuncak, Anita Ramasastry and Michael Forst - human rights experts from the UN, said on Friday that the government must take measures to protect the victims. Until 2014, the Owino Uhuru slum hosted Metal Refinery Ltd that spewed toxic fumes laden with Lead. It attacked the brain and central nervous system to cause coma, convulsions and even death to over 22 locals. And because Lead is a heavy metal, its presence in the slum is still strong, posing negative health effects to the new born. In a statement, the UN team said the state must protect Alfred
Ogola, Wilfred Kamencu, Anastacia Nambo and
Kavumbi
Munga. Read: Row over Owino Uhuru victims of lead poisoning The four have been subjected to threats
following the first hearing against the plant on May 17. The experts said they are due to testify again - a situation that risks their lives. "Unknown
people have visited their homes at night repeatedly
banging on their doors," the lot said in a statement. They four said it is unacceptable no one has been arrested for repeatedly threatening,
harassing, intimidating and assaulting the witnesses. UN has been consistent in agitating for their safety. In 2014, 2017 and last week asked the State to protect and promote the rights of the
environmentalists. "The government should urgently launch a proper investigation
and bring those who are responsible to justice," the
experts said. Those claiming they are being hunted said they have recorded statements with police but "investigations appear slow and inadequate". "The defenders fear for their safety and life, and are
seeking for help to be relocated," the UN statement added. They said it is unconstitutional for the locals to face threats,
harassment, and intimidation when they are exercising
their rights legitimately through a legal action. Click here for the latest political news  