Interior CS Fred Matiang’i on Thursday remained non-committal on whether the contraband sugar nabbed across the country contains mercury. He told MPs probing the matter that lab tests were still ongoing. “Chairman am very hesitant to commit myself to a conclusive test. Even as we sit here this morning, our security teams are testing some of the sugar.” He added: “Any sugar that has been released and is in the market has been released by Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) and the Anti-Counterfeit Agency. I cannot vouch for sugar that is still in police custody.” Matiang’i said his previous remarks that some of the sugar contained mercury was a precautionary measure to the public based on investigations done by the Directorate of Criminal Investigation. He refused to bore to MPs’ pressure to disclose the status of the results that have so far been released by the government chemist. “The CID out of the work that had been done gave us a summative report that talks about some of the heavy metals found some of the harmful chemicals found in these goods. The list is long it’s not just mercury, lead and copper,” he said. “I asked the chiefs and the commanders who were there what we should do and they said let us give a caution to the country that some of the foods that we are consuming could be having these harmful chemicals and harmful substances.” Matiang’i told the committee chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega that most of the sugar may have been contaminated due to poor handling and storage. Read; KRA, Kebs officials face arrest over Sh1.8 billion contraband sugar The CS said 72 people have so far been arrested over the importation of contraband sugar. He said the investigation is not only focusing on sugar but also on other goods imported illegally into the country. “I don’t know why a conclusion was drawn that we are focusing only on sugar.” Matiang’i refused to give more details on the extent of the investigation due to the sensitivity of the matter and said he can only do that in camera. “When we have the in-camera proceeding I will tell you the work that the DCI has done and what the work that the security sector has been doing. I trust the work they have done,” Matiang’i said. Earlier, it had been reported that the CS would not appear before the committee. Read: Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans A letter to the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi from Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said Matiang’i’s appearance before the team would jeopardise police probe. Matiang’i, who snubbed the committee on Tuesday, apologized for his absence saying the summon came at short notice when he was already scheduled to handle other government duties. “I wanted for the record to sincerely apologise to you chairman and to the committee for not getting here early enough. On these particular issues and promise that we will do our best to be helpful to the committee in the investigation that we are doing.” More on this: Western miller boss arrested in probe of contraband sugar Also read: Arati backs war on corruption, claims MP behind contraband sugar Click here for the political news