Brookside has fired up memories of Maziwa ya Nyayo with the launch of a school programme to educate pupils and teachers on the importance of dairy products. Under the '3 Dairies a Day' initiative, the company owned by the Kenyatta family will use edu-tainment to promote healthy diets and lifestyles for effective learning. Through an engaging, interactive and fun show, it will also teach children the values of nutrition and the importance of dairy products to growth and development. Education CS Amina Mohamed presided over the Wednesday launch at Moi Educational Centre in Nairobi, of a programme targeting 350 primary schools and more than 200,000 pupils in Nairobi and its environs. "I hope the supporters of the programme will plan to reach all school children in Kenya so that they are all informed on appropriate nutrition and healthy eating habits," she said. Maziwa ya Nyayo was the name of President Daniel arap Moi's free milk programme that was introduced in 1980 and was fully funded by the government. "In those days, we saw improved school attendance and good general health. I am delighted that a new generation will once again experience this and it is in this spirit that the Ministry of Education is teaming up with Brookside Dairy," the Minister said. "I appreciate the fact that this programme is cost-free for the schools and the pupils and will supplement the existing national school feeding framework." Amina noted that such projects inspire learners to eat responsibly, based on dietary guidelines for heir age groups for the sake of a healthy and vibrant nation. On commitment by the government, she said the ministry has incorporated health education into the curriculum and will push for community participation for the sake of programme ownership. Organisations were encouraged to step in as partners. Brookside Group Chief Operating Officer Faiz Taib said they were motivated by the fact that poor nutrition compromises both the quality of life of learners and their potential to benefit from education. Taib noted that attaining optimal nutrition involves eating three meals a day and two nutritious snacks, as well as limiting the intake of high-sugar and high-fat foods. "This programme is not an introduction of free milk supply to schools as with the famous Maziwa ya Nyayo. All we seek to do is to sensitise pupils, parents and teachers on the importance of including milk to the diet of the children," he said, adding the milk will be distributed once a week and will cost about Sh12 million. Click here for the latest political news