The turmoil in the sugar industry will top the Lake Region Economic Bloc agenda, chairman Wycliffe Oparanya has said. Oparanya, also Kakamega governor, said LREB will next week hold a meeting in Naivasha to discuss the future of the industry. The bloc brings together 14 counties. They are Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Homa Bay, Bomet, Kericho, Nandi, Kakamega, Bungoma, Vihiga, Busia and Trans Nzoia. “As governors, we want to talk about what is ailing the sugar industry because it supports more than half of the 14 million people in the region. We want to come up with the way forward, which we shall share with the national government,” Oparanya said in Butere on Saturday. Oparanya said Nzoia, Mumias, Chemilil and Sony sugar companies are headed for collapse. “If allowed to collapse, we shall be left with private millers only, which cannot absorb all those employed in state-owned millers,” he said. The sugar sector supports the livelihoods of more than 10 million people largely from Western and Nyanza regions and employs more than 20,000 on permanent and contract terms. There are more than 100,000 farmers engaged in sugarcane production in the country. He said the collapse of the sugar industry will kill the economies of Western and Nyanza counties. “We want to sit down with the government so it can tell us its plans to revive the sugar sector,” he said. Oparanya said sugar industry problems have left Western leaders divided as to what should be done to protect millers. The imports have caused panic among local leaders, trade unions and farmer organisations who fear the collapse of the sector would trigger a serious economic crisis since sugarcane farming is the region’s economic mainstay. Oparanya claimed some leaders are making noise to divert attention because they are the ones importing sugar. “They cannot pretend not to know how the sugar was shipped in because they are the ones in control,” he said. An April survey report showed Kenya imported more sugar than it produced for the first time in history. The 2017 Economic Survey showed that Kenya imported 989,600 tonnes in 2017 against a production of 376,100 tonnes. Sugar production data for the last five years indicated that the country has been producing more than it imported. However, this trend changed last year when imports almost tripled production. Last year, the area under cane reduced to 191,200 hectares from 220,800 hectares in 2016.