Political and religious leaders in Lamu county
have been urged to join hands and fight obstacles on the path of the girl child. Major issues affecting girls include sexual abuse, demeaning cultural and religious beliefs, female genital mutilation, as well as early and forced marriage. Activists and stakeholders in the education sector
have thrown their weight behind pro-girl child campaigns. They say massive support and awareness are required to put the Lamu girl child at par with her counterparts in the rest of the country. Organisations such as World Vision and Muslims for
Human Rights (Muhuri) agree that girls in the county have been treated
unfairly. They agree that it is high time to balance the scales and give them an equal shot
at life just like their peers. Lamu’s World Vision representative Sheikh Maro says
the community is still partly entrenched in cultural beliefs
that are mostly unfavourable to girls, which keep them from flourishing. “The issue with cultural beliefs is still a
challenge. The common belief that girls are never meant to go far in education
means that many people don’t really want to invest and educate their girls in
the misleading belief that, once successful, they only get to benefit
whoever marries them. We must move away from such and give all our kids an equal
chance at education and any other [opportunity]." Maro believes that apart from the legal system, society can choose to create an atmosphere that protects young girls. “This can be achieved if and when society
decides not to tolerate any form of abuse against the girl child. You don’t have
to wait for the law but you can teach each other the importance of having a
safe environment for your daughters to live, learn and succeed so that the law
just becomes a subsidy for an already morally upright community." Lamu’s Muhuri field officer Ali
Habib says fairness and equality can be achieved if the community embraces a more liberal view of life and success. “All children need equal treatment and favours. We
however live in a society where a man would rather invest immensely on the boys
than girls. That's what we should strive to educate the masses about. Girls are
equally in need of these opportunities." He says it is unfair that society has
connived, through many misleading cultural practices, to pull down the girl child. “But there is hope. Through awareness and pro-girl
child campaigns we will get there and give our girls the platform to shine. It
must happen because we live in changing times where challenges such as poverty and
the likes know no gender. Therefore everyone must be armed with a good education
and the necessary skills required to manoeuvre and prosper,” Ali says. Lamu county commander Muchangi Kioi says the county
administration will not spare anyone who hurts girls. Kioi says the administration is doing all it can to support
education in Lamu, especially that of the girl child, in line with President
Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. “We are talking of defilement, forced marriage, FGM
and so on. We find them, we shall prosecute them. Any member of society who shall
be found culpable of as much as condoning such vices shall also be held to account.
People must speak up when all is not right. Silence means you support whatever
evil is happening,” he says. Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo, a champion of girl's rights, believes that any
society that degrades girls degrades itself since a prosperous society gives
equal opportunities to all. “[Show me] any country or region where girls or women
were abused or denied basic rights that has flourished? There is none. For any place
to flourish, the floor must be open to all." Obbo rebukes practices such as FGM and early marriage,
which deny young girls the opportunity to realise their worth and
instead waste away. The woman rep, who is a qualified pilot by profession,
has personally spearheaded pro-girl child campaigns. She
moves from one area to another encouraging parents and society to give
girls the same opportunity as boys. “I am very grateful that I made it this far in
life. My parents believed in me and sent me to school up until I graduated as a
pilot. That's the same kind of faith I want to inculcate in those who feel
sending a girl to school is a waste. We must purpose to change and live,” she
says.    