Former Kenya Ports Authority MDCatherine Mturi-Wairi handed over office yesterday, ending speculation about conflicts over the parastatal’s leadership. The low-key ceremony was attended by senior KPA staff including the board and legal services general manager Addraya Dena, general manager operations William Ruto and board chairman General (Rtd) Joseph Kibwana. It was held at the chairman’s office at KPA headquarters. Mturi pledged to support incoming MD Daniel Manduku. The former MD had been sent on a two-month compulsory leave before voluntarily resigning. She took Manduku through the key port projects. They include the second container terminal-phase two, relocation of the Kipevu oil terminal, ongoing Lamu port construction and the SGR second relief line. Manduku said he is committed to ensure the Port of Mombasa becomes efficient and competitive. “We shall work with partners, both local and regional, to achieve this, while ensuring the government and the national agenda, are put first,” Manduku he said. Communication by Transport CS James Machari indicated that Mturi was sent on leave due to nonperformance and other problems. Other factors, though denied by the CS, include congestion, pressure from container CFS operators and queries over billions of shillings collected as freight charges by Kenya Railways from the SGR for lifting containers from Mombasa port. The handover allows for smooth induction of board members. Their first meeting will be held today. After Mturi’s suspension, senior GMs took over management of KPA to ensure no vacuum. This was after Manduku’s appointment in an acting capacity was halted by the High Court. Yesterday was the first time Mturi was seen within KPA premises, after May 30 when she was sent on leave. She had been granted an injunction but stayed away. Manduku has told the Star today’s meeting help board members to familiarise themselves with port operations and the staff. In the gazette notice, apart from Kibwana, the CS appointed five members to three-year terms. They are Peter Gibendi, Mary Ngare, Conrad Thorpe, Kariuki Njiri and Alice Mwaisaka. Valentine Mwakamba, who served in the former board, was also retained. The terms of four other board members expired on April 12.