The National Irrigation Board (NIB) has been directed to reevaluate and award afresh the tender for Lowaat Dam in Turkana county. The ruling by the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board (PPARB) on Monday brings to the fore the procurement mess at the NIB. The parastatal awarded the tender to a firm that quoted Sh11 billion above the lowest bidder. The NIB awarded the tender for the funding, design and building of Lowaat Dam for Sh29.9 billion to a consortium of four Chinese firms. However, another firm – China International Water Electric Corporation – which was locked out, wanted only Sh18 billion. The review board, led by Lawyer Paul Gicheru, asked the NIB to carry out fresh evaluation and award the tender within seven days. “The award of the said tender to the successful bidder as contained in the procuring entity’s [NIB] letter of notification dated October 11, 2017 is hereby annulled,” the team ruled on Monday. The NIB has been on the spot for various procurement irregularities and audit queries, including 21 irrigation projects. Food security is part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda, with which he hopes to secure his legacy in his final term in office. In its ruling, the review board faulted the NIB for increasing the price quoted by the lowest bidder to tactically lock them out from the lucrative tender. “Instead of evaluating the two tenders on the basis of the above prices, the procuring entity, in what it termed a correction of errors, increased the applicant’s price to the sum of $290,699,827,” the review board said. It warned that changing tender prices was a blatant breach of the law. In its 24-page ruling, the review board criticised the NIB’s technical evaluation committee for failing to give individual score in respect of each item set out in the evaluation criteria. The board said the omission leaves room for manipulation of the technical score. “Where a procuring entity’s tender evaluation committee fails to do so, then it renders the entire process vague and deprives it of the necessary transparency as envisaged by the above provisions of the law and may lead to manipulation of the technical score,” the PPARB ruled. Established in 1966, the NIB is mandated to develop, control and improve irrigation. Its current CEO is Gitonga Mugambi. It manages the Mwea, Perkerra, Tana, Ahero, West Kano, Bunyala and Bura irrigation schemes. It also runs the Mwea Rice Mills, Western Kenya Rice Mills as well as the Galana-Kulalu Food Security Project.