The import duty levied on Kenya’s sweets and chocolates by Uganda and Tanzania remains in place after a meeting to resolve the issue hit a stalemate. The Wednesday meeting between revenue authorities from the two countries and manufactures from Kenya failed to reach an agreement on the 25 per cent import duty slapped on confectionery products. The products include juice, chewing gum and ice cream. According to the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the two countries did not say when they will open up the borders or scrap the 25 per cent import duty. They imposed the duty citing use of imported zero-rated industrial sugar in the producing the goods. “Yesterday (on Wednesday) they came for a fact-finding mission at KAM. They did not give us their decision and have not given us a timeline yet. Until they do, exportation remains a concern,” KAM beverages sector chairperson Anup Bid said. The visit comes a month after Kenya threatened to block entry of Tanzanian goods after the country refused duty free entry of Kenyan-made sweets and non-alcoholic beverages. intervention unsuccessful The authorities were given a month to visit Kenya to find out if imported industrial sugar is indeed used in the products in question. KAM chairlperson Flora Mutahi said manufacturers have had difficulties trading their sugar-based products with the two countries in the last three months. “All this is due to a misinterpretation of Gazette Notice 4536 – which was issued to combat the effects of drought and famine in the country,” Mutahi said. Under this gazette notice issued in May 2017, CS Treasury Henry Rotich allowed import of table sugar to bridge the shortfall in the country. Suppliers Association of Kenya chairperson Kimani Rugendo who is also also the managing director of Kevian Kenya said the two countries misinterpreted the Gazette notice which was meant for table sugar and not industrial white sugar. “They assumed that industrial manufacturers here had access to duty free sugar and are therefore exporting to their countries contrary to the EAC rules of origin,” Rugendo said. Intervention by the Kenya Revenue Authority to solve the issue has not been successful as the two neighbouring countries maintain a hard stance on the matter. KAM said KRA have provided evidence that manufacturers of sugar-based products imported industrial sugar under EAC duty remission scheme. eac remission scheme Also provided is evidence of sample paid entries to demonstrate companies producing the said goods have been subjected to the 10 per cent duty as they fall under EAC duty remission scheme. EAC allows free movement of locally manufactured goods within the bloc. 