Fast-raising Jemima Siangu, Pamela Masaisai, Lorine Chebet, Sharon Chepchumba and Jane Mumbua have been drafted in the provisional squad of the national women’s team ahead of the World Championship slated for September 29 to October 20 in Japan. The 28 players, who are scheduled to start training at the Indoor Arena, Kasarani on Monday, qualified for the event after settling for second position behind eventual winners Cameroon last year. Siangu, Masaisai and Chepchumba (left attackers), Chebet (middle blocker) and Mumbua have been impressive for their respective clubs. Siangu, an alumni of Soweto Academy, turns up for the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) league champions Kenya Pipeline and excelled during the just concluded league/Amaco tournament in Eldoret. She catapulted Pipeline ‘B’ team to second slot, behind their seniors side. Chepchumba and Chebet were part of the Prisons’ team to this year’s Africa Club Championship in Egypt last March, where the wardresses finished fourth while Masaisai, who missed the event due to documentation hitch. Mumbua has been a dominant figure at her club DCI. However, Siangu, Masaisai and Chepchumba will be muscling up for slots in the left attacking position against regulars Evelyne Makuto, Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi and Leonida Kasaya. Others in the left attacking position are Eglay Kulova, Milgrene Lituvula and Yvonne Wavinya. Chebet will be up against on-form Triza Atuka, Edith Wisa, Caroline Sirengo and Christine Siwa as Mumbua will jostle for setting position against experienced duo of Jane Wacu and Janet Wanja. DCI, a new outfit in the KVF league have contributed three players in the provisional squad, leaving team manager Neddy Kilimo elated about the development. The players called up from the side are Josephine Nafula, setter Mumbua and centre Sirengo. Provisional squad: Noel Murambi,Leonida Kasaya, Violet Makuto,Triza Atuka, Agripina Kundu,Celestine Nafula, Christine Siwa,Janet Wanja,Jemima Siangu (Pipeline); Mercy Moim, Everlyne Makuto, Edith Mukuvilani, Emmaculate Chemtai, Jane Wacu, Lorine Chebet, Sharon Chepchumba, Yvonne Wavinya, Joy Lusenaka, Elizabeth Wanyama and Pamela Masaisai (Prisons); Milgrene Lituvula, Lincy Jeruto, Eglay Kulova, Nancy Mulonza (KCB); Josephine Nafula, Jane Mumbua, Caroline Sirengo and Bungoma County’s Caren Cheruto (DCI).