A Nyandarua MCA on Thursday barged into Roads executive Stephen Mbugua’s office to demand that a committee formed to address residents’ complaints be disbanded. Kanjuiri Ridge ward rep Suleiman Kihika walked straight to the executive and told him he was not happy Mbugua gave the residents audience when they visited him behind his back. Residents from Upper Kanjuiri, which includes Kirathimo, Kanjuiri Centre, Kangathia and Kanyariri villages visited the executive earlier to complain roads were impassable and there was no water and electricity. The 20 residents under the umbrella of Kanjuiri Development Group told Mbugua they have been neglected because they did not vote for Kihika who is now serving his second term. The roads, especially Njigaga, which connects Kanjuiri to Tumaini town, are bad and residents pay Sh800 for boda boda rides to and from Tumaini as vehicles cannot access the area.  BUDGET The executive told the group to form a committee which will work with the director to fix the problems. MCA Kihika learned the group visited the executive and the new development, prompting him to storm the office to demand the committee be dismantled. In the office he found journalists who had gone to seek clarification following reports Governor Francis Kimemia had suspended transportation of logs and all timber products due to destruction caused by heavy trucks.  CONFLICT “These people are alleging I neglected them because they did not vote for me. When you listen to them and form committees, for sure that is sabotage, yet they never voted for me,” he said. “Now things will be difficult because what they will prioritise may not be in the budget and that will be a cause for conflict between me and them.” Kihika said, “The committee you formed should be dismantled since I have not refused to help them.” Mbugua said his role as executive member is to serve ‘Wanjiku’ and he can not turn away residents who visit his office seeking services.  BIG HEART He said, “For sure Mheshimiwa, that area is neglected. Let’s agree on that. Don’t try to bring your domestics here. I told your people to avoid that too, and understand there is leadership in place whether they voted for you or not.” “As a leader, you need to have a big heart and reach out at them even if they did not vote for you. You need to work with them.” Mbugua said the committee was created to seek a way forward to alleviate the suffering of villagers and it would not be dismantled. “We shall not walk in that direction”, he said Kihika stormed out in anger.