A political storm is brewing in Kiambu County after deputy governor James Nyoro yesterday accused Governor Ferdinand Waititu of running a one-man show. Nyoro then threatened he could move to court over what he described as "exclusion from management of the county". The DG, who in January dismissed reports he was plotting an exit after falling out with the governor, yesterday said he could not tolerate the frustrations any longer. He fired a warning salvo at Waititu whom he termed an impediment to progress in Kiambu county. Five months after the governor publicly lashed out at Nyoro for scolding him, the deputy governor said he is undergoing a lot of torture in Waititu’s administration. Read:No longer at ease: Waititu, Nyoro feud hurting Kiambu Nyoro said Waititu is making personal decisions without involving him in any of the far-reaching moves that require cabinet approval. “Through the nine months we have been in power, some of us have gone through torture and the Constitution clearly states that the county executive is comprised of the governor, deputy governor and 10 CECs in Kiambu,” Nyoro said. “But now the executive is being run alone by the governor without our involvement.” The deputy governor said although the Constitution requires that he should sit in Cabinet meetings, Waititu has sidelined him. “I can go to court for not being included in the Cabinet meetings. I have only been invited to one meeting and I know why I was called. Decisions are made by only one person who is the governor,” Nyoro said. Lifting the lid on the simmering tension with the governor, Nyoro said he would be the people’s watchdog to oversight Waititu now that he has been sidelined. “I am going to do oversight since I am not being involved in most of the goings-on at the county government and I will be highlighting them to the Kiambu people,” he said, adding he would engage in development work with funding from outside the government. “I will still work for the Kiambu people by searching for development partners,” Nyoro said. Yesterday, Nyoro who has launched a stinging attack at the governor, said his positive criticism of Waititu’s leadership should not be misconstrued to mean a political fight. threatening county assembly Nyoro said he was only questioning his exclusion from the executive. However, in yet another attack, Nyoro accused the governor of intimidating and threatening the county assembly into approving his budgetary proposals without scrutiny. He cited the recent move by Waititu to set aside a budget for alcohol addicts undergoing rehabilitation as among the proposals he has bulldozed through the assembly. random “The governor wakes up one day and decides to allocate money for rehabilitation of alcohol addicts and it is approved by the assembly and starts giving out Sh400 to the addicts which is not helping them because they are drinking more,” Nyoro said. He faulted the governor’s decision to terminate a lease by Delmonte company allegedly after holding a meeting with the county secretary and Lands executive “without following the proper channels”. Yesterday, Senator Kimani Wamatangi said he has no problem with the county government spending money as long as it is done within the confines of the law. “I have no problem with any programmes being initiated though it must be approved by the assembly and due process followed,” he said in reference to the controversial rehabilitation programme. prudent use of funds Wamatangi said as a senator, he has a responsibility to ensure the county government exercises accountability in its use of funds and resources. Efforts to get comments from the governor were futile as he was said to be attending the Council of Governors state of devolution event. Click here for more political news   