Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has a new name in the Deputy President William Ruto’s camp, months after she officially declared support for his 2022 presidential bid. Jumwa is now called ‘Mama Radar’ for her swift switch in March. Majority Leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale announced the new name on Saturday during Iftar dinner and fundraiser for Malindi education Development Association – Foundation (MEDA-F) at Sai Eden Rock hotel in Malindi. The Fundraiser, graced by Ruto, brought together many politicians who previously were rivals who never saw eye-to-eye. Jumwa was the first Coast MP to openly declare her support for Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid in March after opposing the Jubilee party using the popular slogan ‘Mpaka Kieleweke’. Read: Raila warns his MPs to keep off Ruto 2022 bid On Saturday when Duale took to the podium, he said ‘Mama Radar’ is one of the six commissioners running the affairs of Parliament with the Speaker. “I am happy to have Aisha. She was in opposition. I told her not to make that mistake, this time there is no competition. Everybody is with Ruto,” he said. The Garissa Town MP said Jumwa’s opponents in the 2017 election even tried witchcraft against her but failed. Duale said only Ruto could traverse the country tirelessly, adding that he was in two constituencies in Samburu this weekend. He then proceeded to Laikipia North and East before flying to Malindi for Iftar dinner. Duale said the Malindi MP’s political radar had switched to the right direction. Jumwa is reportedly planning to succeed Governor Amason Kingi in Kilifi and could be a key player in Ruto’s future presidential campaign. Earlier, the Malindi MP had assured the DP that the political changes in Kilifi county and Coast at large was a clear indication that the region would back him. At one time, Jumwa caused applause when she said they had had ‘enough of the same’ repeatedly, meaning they were tired of supporting the opposition. “Enough of the same you cannot do calculation with same formula and get the same results,” she said. Click here for the latest political news 