A storm is brewing in Kamaldin Akasha's family as his children want their shares of his empire. Kamaldin, who was the second born of slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha, was shot dead in 2002 by unknown people at a Makupa petrol station. He and his step brothers had feuded after their father was killed in Amsterdam, Netherlands. Read: The fall of the Akasha empire? Kamaldin's son Abdulsalam wants the court to stop his step-mother Dalal Juma and his uncle Nargis Akasha from administering his late father’s estate. Dalal and Nargis were given powers over the Kamaldin estate in 2009 by a Mombasa High Court. Abdulsalam is, however, dissatisfied with how his father’s property has been handled since his death. In a suit he filed on May 18, he said his step-mother and uncle had no powers over the estate and should be stripped of the grant to administer it. He further wants injuction orders stopping the sale of properties under his father’s name. He also wants the court to direct the Mombasa land registrar to place a restriction on some of the assets which he suspects have been earmarked for sale by his step-mother and uncle. Abdulsalam further demanded accountability of all assets and incomes under the estate and wants to become an administrator. The petition states that the administrators have been benefiting from properties which were not listed in the will. Through his lawyer Daniel Wamotsa, Abdulsalam says the properties include two pieces of land in Shanzu and a petrol station in Makupa. Abdulsalam said his step-mother and uncle have refused to reveal details of the properties and have continued to administer the estate without transparency. He further said his step-mother is not entitled to a share of the estate as she married Hassan Akasha in 2003. In her response to the suit, Dalal said the properties mentioned by the applicant belonged to his grandfather, not her late husband. She said Kamaldin had only one property situated in Bombolulu where they have been living since his death in 2002. Dalal added that proceeds from rentals on the property are shared equally among the siblings. She urged her step-son to table proof of any other property under Kamaldin’s name which they left out in the grant. Dalal, who had three children with Kamaldin, also noted that they lived in harmony since the demise of their father and that Abdulsalam's application was in bad faith and aimed at tainting the name of the Akasha family. Dalal further noted that Abdulsalam was not an heir of the slain drug baron and therefore he was not at any liberty to stop any transaction on his property. She further stated that Abdulsalam ought to have filed his grievances at the Kadhi’s court, which can assign properties to the children according to the Islamic law. The matter will be heard in November. Click here for more political news