So checking in to the third weekend of June like a rockstar with yet another long weekend at hand… How Kenyans manage to survive long weekends is still a mystery to #TheRaverend! Kenyans are forever broke and complaining about the tough economic times, but when a public holiday comes or the weekend arrives, all that becomes a rumour!!! No Kenyan has money between Monday and Thursday, but when Friday arrives, everybody is rich. Yo!!! When I finally retire with my little millions, I will never go out on weekends… #TheRaverend will be the guy who will party on odd nights, so that I can avoid the madness that’s Friday nights en Saturday nights… So yesterday was Holy-day for the Muslims, who were marking the end of Ramadhan… But the excitement from all Kenyans, you will think the whole country was observing Ramadhan… The number of Kenyans who put out Matiang’i letter and Gazette notice for Idd celebrations on their social media is alarming… Normally the government struggles to pass important messages, and it’s forced to pay mainstream media to advertise gazette notices, but not for holidays because that one will trend automatically… Talking about what’s trending in Kenya right now, the government recently did a health survey among Kenyans. The survey was conducted by the Health ministry, and it revealed that nearly half of Kenyan men are malnourished, whilst slightly more than half the women are overweight… The report further revealed that most bachelors are malnourished because they have no woman to take care of their dietary needs. Meaning most bachelors skip meals and drink a lot… Contrary to popular perception, women eat more than men. Women rarely skip a meal. #TheRaverend can confirm this because when you frequent the clubs, women are always eating. No chick will walk into a club and forget to order food… Kenyan ladies believe in putting down the base/foundation before enjoying the drink… Getting back to the survey… Sixty six per cent of the young men interviewed said gaining weight is sufficient grounds for dumping a woman… Majority of the married men confirmed that gaining weight among wives is one of the reasons men start cheating, or get a second wife. Oddly, only two per cent of women said they would dump a man for gaining weight. As many said, men, being the visual creatures that they are, are more concerned with their partner’s body type than women. Ladies value family more than men and as a matter of fact, women have no issue with unhealthy men, for example men with potbellies, because that’s a sign of potential and success… #TheRaverend supports the survey because as a woman, if you got a man/husband and you’re a size 12, you need to maintain that figure en if you add any weight due to stress or overeating, you’re only allowed to add 4 sizes, give or take… If a man marries or dates a woman who is a size 12 and after months she turns into a size 22, that’s grounds for immediate dismissal. I know many ladies will think #TheRaverend is being shallow but the truth is ladies who add that much weight are to blame for breaching the relationship contract…Jumping from a size 12 to 22 means the relationship dynamics have changed. It’s like forcing a man to like two of you, when he can only love one … The physical change will force a man to start looking at other women and thoughts of cheating begin. It’s important for women to maintain their weight if they want to save their relationship or keep their bae… Men, we are conditioned not to discuss weighty issues with our better half, and that’s why #TheRaverend’s mother taught me not to ever tell a woman she is fat, it’s a travesty. With that said and done, the #Raverend would like to inform all our wives, girlfriends, etc. that the World Cup is here. Even though no match will go beyond 11pm, we shall indulge in postmatch analysis, which may take us up to around 1am. Thereafter, we shall do a review of the coming matches and end at around 2am. We shall finalise the match of the day by watching the match highlights until 3am. As you know, the country is insecure. It’s not wise for us your husbands and boyfriends to move past 3am, unless of course you want us dead! Do you? So we shall be back home earliest at 5am. We request for your indulgence in this critical matter!