War of words between Kwale opposition leaders were witnessed in public at an event in Shimba Hills, Kubo South ward in Matuga constituency over the Raila-Uhuru handshake and the recent support for deputy president William Ruto. It was at the home coming ceremony for Kwale County Assembly Deputy Speaker Andrew Mulei where leaders who are opposed to the newly found friendship between the DP and a section of coast legislators reprimanded those supporting Ruto telling them they are doing so for their selfish interests. Kwale County Woman representative Zuleikha Juma fired the first salvo by asking Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori’s camp to respect the party that took them to parliament. She took issue with the leaders saying the electorates expected them to have a firm stand in the party. “When electorate voted you in, they know they are voting you in that party to stay. If you did not want to follow the party the latter you could have vied as an independent candidate which is allowed constitutionally,” she said She said the behavior of those leaders will make coast leaders look cheap and who can be easily bought by other leaders at small fee. “They are getting furious when the party gets pissed off by their rebellion, I support the party’s intention to punish so that they can toe the line” she added. Dori laughed off Zuleikha’s sentiments on Raila’s peace agenda on the handshake saying the opposition leadere was doing so for his interests. “Let no one say that Raila’s handshake was intended to bring peace in the country, is he a military commander? He is not, he did so for his interests and the interests of the public which is development” he said. “We have not been offered a brown envelop and you think we have been offered brown envelopment bring your white envelop” he said. Dori sentiments were echoed by Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari and Matuga counterpart Kasim Tandaza. Tayari said by supporting the government his constituency has benefited with major developments including the construction of Samburu-Kinango road which is underway and the promise for the construction of dam. Tandaza said they will be doing injustice to the electorate if they will always lead them to be in opposition. He said by supporting Ruto, he was promised construction of Tiribe- Shimba Hills and Matuga Technical Training Institute. But their claims that they are getting development projects by merely supporting the DP were rebuked by Kwale County Assembly Speaker Sammy Ruwa who said that they don’t have to go round supporting or kneeling down to someone to get. He said development is the electorates deserved right and not a favour.