Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri (pictured) yesterday defended traders who posed as maize farmers to pocket Sh1.9 billion. The National Cereals and Produce Board’s mandate is not to block any person from conducting business with it, the CS said. Kiunjuri told the Senate Agriculture committee chaired by Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga the government did not lose money for the payments. Instead, it is the farmers who lost the opportunity to make profit, he added. "In the NCPB’s mandate, nowhere does it say you cannot trade with it. Even a senator has a right to sell to the NCPB if they can explain the source of their maize," Kiunjuri said. Last month, an internal audit from the ministry smoked out 18 individuals who received payments after delivering thousands of 90-kg bags of maize to NCPB depots in Kisumu, Nakuru and Eldoret. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ criticised the CS saying, "I feel disappointed when the CS says only an opportunity was lost, yet farmers are suffering." Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito cautioned against locking out traders who genuinely delivered maize to NCPB. Kiunjuri was with NCPB acting chief executive Alvin Sang’, who said 987 farmers have not received Sh3.5 billion. "We admit the traders took advantage but it is up to the law to take its course. Whoever was receiving maize at the depots should have observed the abnormal trips made by the traders," he said. Read: MPs summon Kiunjuri over Sh1.9bn NCPB scandal "If they supplied maize, the investigative agencies should determine whether they should be paid or not." Kiunjuri promised to decentralise the NCPB to weed out traders who take advantage of farmers. He said, "We will not deal with traders, but genuine farmers. There was negligence and somebody must take responsibility. We will use the emergency funds to pay Sh1 billion to the farmers this week." On Wednesday last week, Kiunjuri appeared before the National Assembly Agriculture committee. He tabled names of 63 additional traders who failed the vetting process meant to verify genuine farmers. However, they were paid Sh1 billion after supplying 1,012,270 bags of maize in 50kg packs. Kiunjuri said auditors will be dispatched to verify all stores and count the available bags of maize. Also read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Click here for more political news