Football stakeholders want the government to de-link sports and heritage to enable the multi-billion industry to take off in the country. However, the stakeholders believe creating an independent ministry of sports will not achieve the industry targets without transparent and accountable leadership. Speaking during the Kenyan Football Symposium yesterday, Sports Permanent Secretary Peter Kaberia revealed that the biggest challenge in Kenyan sport is lack of enough resources to help in the development of sports. “The financial allocation to the department of sports has never been adequate to cater for all the requirements needed for the growth of sport in the country. The government wishes to help build sporting facilities but it still boils down to the availability of funds,” said Kaberia. He insisted on integrity among sports persons. “You will be required to be law-abiding citizens in addition to transparency and accountability to ease development of football and sports in general. Companies have painted out accountability as one of the key issue as to why they don’t invest in the sport.” Meanwhile, Kaberia put hooligans on notice. He revealed that the government has acquired face recognition software that will help in identifying vandalism and any criminal acts in stadia. He said the software systems have already been linked to national security agencies. Kenyan sports law was also put under scrutiny and few gaps isolated. The most notable shortcoming is that the Sports Act 2013 only mentioned structures and not how federations should interact with the functions of the four parastatals created in the Act. Players welfare also featured prominently with Jaza Stadi director, Carol Radull insisting that accountability is key if football is to attract fans and in turn corporate sponsorships for clubs and national teams. She said: “Transparency in football is key. Fans are more than willing to pay stadium entrance fee as long as they can get value for their money and if their contribution can impact the players positively and not go into individuals’ pockets. Fans attract corporate sponsorship.”