When former President Mwai Kibaki flagged off Kenya’s long-term development blueprint 10 years ago, the addition of 5000MW to the national grid became one of the main drivers for success of the initiative. Against that backdrop, the Kenyan government has embarked on several ambitious energy projects to boost production, with help from the private sector. Towns like Lamu, Turkana, Ngong, Kajiado have been identified for construction of wind power plants, while others like Eldoret and Garissa are get solar power plants. Lamu will be the site of Kenya’s first coal-fired power plant. But in the past five years, these projects have fuelled more controversy than action. They have generated powerful, mixed feelings from Kenyans. Projects have sparked vicious land disputes over compensation of original inhabitants, and corporate battles. They have caused concerns over pollution and choking off other viable income-earning ventures. The efficiency of some projects has been questioned, as well as costs hidden from taxpayers. The delays and fights surrounding these projects have, however, revealed some secrets closely guarded by high-ranking officials spilling over into the public domain. Some disclosed secrets have raised questions whether Kenya really struck the best deals in partnerships with private companies. Other than revelation of embarrassing secrets, the government has been left dancing to several tunes as it seeks to ensure that all projects eventually take off. The Lamu coal power plant, for instance, was to be completed in June last year, but construction is yet to start. It is expected to generate 960MW. After a bruising court battle between the Amu Power consortium and its rival HCIG-Liketh between 2014 and 2015, Amu was declared the winning bidder for the Sh200 billion project. Amu Power is a consortium of Centum Investments and Gulf Energy. HCIG-Liketh held that Gulf had been kicked out of the procurement proceedings before being sneaked back in and given the green light to partner up. But the petition committee held that there was no law barring Centum from replacing its original partners — Chinese firm Sepco and Thermax of India — with Gulf Energy. The corporate battle for one of the biggest projects in Kenya’s history revealed little-known details about the project. While it was already in the public domain that the winning bidder would run the plant for 25 years, the cost to taxpayers was for the first time revealed in the lawsuit. HCIG-Liketh claimed that its bid was to see Kenya pay Sh43 billion per year, while Amu Power’s would cost taxpayers Sh46.6 billion annually. The National Treasury in January stated in its budget policy statement that Kenya will pay Sh37 billion annually. The Sh200 billion power plant is to occupy 974 acres in Kwawasi, 21 kilometres from Lamu town. After the tender battle, all appeared set for construction to commence in September 2015. But an activist group, Save Lamu, teamed up with other civil society players and a section of residents in the coastal town to oppose the project, setting the stage for a make-or-break battle. The group moved to the National Environment Tribunal (NET) in November 2016, opposing the Nema approvals granted to Amu Power for the Sh200 billion job. Save Lamu argued that coal is the dirtiest form of energy and it would pollute both the air and the Indian Ocean. It argued that fishing and marine tourism, which are to Lamu’s economy, would take a huge hit from the coal power plant. “If it were constructed and operated, the Lamu Project would diminish overall human well-being by imposing onto workers, families, businesses, and communities social costs that exceed the value of the electricity. Social costs might exceed the value of the electricity by as much as 9.5–to–1. The actual ratio of social costs to benefits likely would be greater,” said Ernest Niemi, a US-based economist during the NET hearings. No sooner was the Save Lamu opposing motion over, than activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court to block construction of the plant. He argued that geothermal, hydro, solar, wind and biomass energy have not been tapped, and that there is already sufficient production of electricity in Kenya. Malindi High Court judge James Olola however dismissed Omtatah’s case in March, arguing that the government largely complied with the statutory framework established for a project of such nature, through newspaper advertisements. Still in Lamu, a battle between two energy firms both seeking to construct wind power plants has stalled both firms’ plans. US firm Cordisons International accused National Land Commission chair Muhammad Swazuri of helping local company Kenwind hijack its planned wind power project in Lamu county. Cordisons claimed Swazuri allocated Kenwind 3,200 acres that Lamu’s county government had instructed him to issue the American firm. The US-based firm’s project was to occupy 11,100 acres, while Kenwind’s was to cover 3,200 acres. Cordisons held that its project was to cost Sh23 billion, while Kenwind stated that its plant will cost Sh23.5 billion. The court battle saw Lamu’s county government take Cordisons’ side, while the NLC favoured Kenwind’s project. Kenwind partnered up with Belgium’s Electrawinds for its proposed plant. Judge Olola last week ruled that Cordisons had failed to prove that Swazuri acted unlawfully in revoking the American firm’s allocation and granting Kenwind space. Kenwind’s project has also been rocked by land compensation disputes. A section of Lamu residents sued Kenwind and Electrawinds in 2015, claiming that their project was set to evict without compensation 8,000 members of the minority Bajun and Sanya communities occupying the disputed 3,200 acres. The battles have led to delays in project implementation since 2015. More than 600 farmers this week demanded Sh1.5 million for each acre that Kenwind will occupy. They did not specify which portion of the 3,200 acres they occupy. Another clean energy project that faced opposition from residents over land allocation was the Sh15 billion Kinangop Wind Park. It was to be undertaken by a consortium of Norwegian private equity firm Norfund, South African asset manager Old Mutual and Sydney-based fund Macquarie. It collapsed under the weight of the land battles. The project shareholders formed a special purpose vehicle — Kinangop Wind Park Limited. Following a court ruling in Nakuru that revoked Kinangop Wind Park’s licences, the firm decided to pull the plug as there it was making no headway in negotiations with the local community. The termination could prove costly for taxpayers,as it has resulted in a compensation claim by Kinangop Wind Park against Kenya at the International Chamber of Commerce. Kinangop Wind Park says the terms of its deal with Kenya provided for compensation in the event that the project aborted due to political unrest. It says the land battles qualify as political unrest. The firm adds that its shareholders incurred a Sh6 billion loss as they invested in the clean energy project.The consortium had already purchased equipment for the project, including 38 wind turbines. Having taken a Sh5.5 billion loan from South Africa’s Standard Bank to purchase the turbines, the lender placed Kinangop Wind Park under receivership. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) was appointed receiver manager. Its attempts to auction the turbines were, however, opposed in the High Court by then Attorney General Githu Muigai. An out-of-court settlement was eventually reached, as the government agreed to an auction only on condition that the turbines are sold to a firm ready and willing to take over the Kinangop project. In Turkana, the already-completed Sh77 billion wind power project has also come under threat from residents who say they were evicted from the 150,000 acres for the plant. Lake Turkana Wind Power has already written to Marsabit county, demanding indemnity for Sh224.2 billion construction costs, intended profit and penalties for delays in completing transmission lines. Taxpayers have already paid Sh5.7 billion to the plant’s owners in penalties for failing to complete the transmission lines before the January 2017 deadline. Should the government fail to complete the transmission lines by September, taxpayers will part with Sh1 billion monthly until lines are complete. Also in Turkana, plans by a firm — Olsuswa Energy — to construct a 140MW geothermal plant have stalled since 2015, following demands by Governor Josphat Nanok that a deal be struck with Turkana to benefit all parties. A deal was only struck last month, when the firm and Turkana county signed a memorandum of understanding. Olsuswa intends to use steam wells in Katilia, Turkana East subcounty, to generate electricity.  EXPERTS’ COMMENTS Economist Aly Khan Satchu believes financing of the mega energy projects could pose a challenge to Kenya. Most of the deals, including the Lamu Coal Plant and most of the wind power projects, will be run on a build-own-operate model. That means the financiers, through their special purpose vehicles, will own and operate the plants and sell power to Kenya to recover their investment. Satchu says Kenya’s projections on demand for energy may have been overshot and that may be the bane of the country’s plans to use power projects as a platform for boosting the economy. “Any large expansion in the Energy Base-Load is going to mean a degree of front-loading of cost. How that front-loading is managed is set to be a challenge. My concern is that follow-through energy demand (mostly driven by industrialisation) is not going to be as firm as our plans are projecting because other components are not there,” Satchu said in an interview with the Star. The ECONOMIST takes issue with execution of the Turkana wind power project, as he believes the delays are a classic example of how untimely implementation of such projects can choke taxpayers. “The Lake Turkana wind project is a classic case of faulty execution. Apportioning blame is twin-sided but what is clear is that the failure to deploy the energy in a timely manner is expensive. We need to seriously study cause and effect because in this regard, the failure to complete the transmission lines means the consumer is being squeezed and the pips are squeaking,” he said. Energy expert and former Energy Regulatory Commission chairperson Hindpal Jabbal also believes the projections used when developing a blueprint for the Vision 2030 energy projects were a bit off. The master plan for Kenya’s power generation up to 2035 was prepared by independent engineering consultancy, Lahmeyer International, on behalf of the Ministry of Energy. In its master plan, Lahmeyer stated the demand for electricity in Kenya will grow by at most eight per cent annually until 2030. But while planning for the Lamu coal power plant, Kenya’s government had projected growth of 15 per cent annually. The government expected demand to reach 10,000-15,000 megawatts by 2030. Jabbal, however, insists demand will at most be at 5,000 megawatts by 2030 going by the consumption demand trends.The former ERC chair holds that the coal plant is not necessary at the moment. He says the Turkana wind plant and geothermal projects are likely to be more viable for Kenya. “It (the coal power plant project) cannot go the way it was planned. We don’t need it. I am not against coal, I’m against the economics and timing. Demand for the last 10 years has only grown by six per cent and it is likely to grow by only eight per cent. Geothermal, wind and solar energy are coming and hydro is still strong.” Jabbal said in an interview. “Turkana wind is consistent. There is at least 2000 megawatts of wind power in the area. It is rated number one in the world.” 