A British aristocrat family yesterday expressed their dissatisfaction with a delayed ruling on their son’s death. Alexander Monson, 28 at the time, was the son of Nicholas Monson. He died six years ago in police custody a few hours after he was arrested at a club in Diani, Kwale county. His family blamed the death on police brutality. They want two officers who arrested and detained Alexander held responsible and charged with murder. A postmortem showed Alexander suffered injuries to the body and scrotum. But the officers denied having a hand in his demise and a judicial inquiry was launched. The police, through the Independent Policing Oversight Authority, said Alexander died from a drug overdose. They said he had narcotic drugs at the time of his arrest. Six years later, the family is still searching for justice. Yesterday, a judgment was to be delivered, but this did not happen. Senior principal magistrate Richard Odenyo was expected to deliver the verdict. However, the court heard it had not been typed. Alexander’s mother, Hillary Monson, said her hopes were high because she expected to finally get justice for “our only son”. She said it has been a long journey and the adjournment was a blow to them. Odenyo said the final decision had been written but could not be delivered. The Judiciary guidelines require all judgments typed to make it easy for litigants to read and understood, he said. Odenyo directed the family to propose a new date. This was then set for June 28. The ruling will vindicate or incriminate the police. Alexander had developed breathing problems and was admitted to Palm Beach Hospital. During the inquest, a British doctor testified that Monson was hit with a blunt object. Jason Payne said the injury damaged his brain. “A report from the pathologist showed the death was caused by a brain trauma inflicted by a blunt force,” he said. Payne said after reviewing clinical possibilities based on the evidence, he found the timeline of Monson’s alleged unconsciousness as a result of drugs was not consistent. “The timing of the injury on the head cannot be specified, but it would be between 3am-3.30am on the morning of May 19, 2012,” he said. Payne said Monson would have been saved had the police rushed him to hospital in good time. His position differed with a conclusion in one of the medical reports indicating the head injury was unlikely a result of baton strikes. But an administrator at the Palm Beach Hospital where Monson died gave contradicting evidence stating that Monson may have died of a drug overdose. Justus Kamina, a prosecution witness, said Alexander was admitted at 11am and died less than 12 hours later. He said Alexander was chained to a bed in the hospital’s general ward while unconscious. He was guarded by two armed plainclothes officers. The ambulance that transported Alexander was fully equipped but lacked a medical doctor or a nurse who could have offered assistance beyond mandatory first aid, Kamina said. A medical attendant from the hospital told the inquest Alexander could barely breathe as she raced to give him first aid at the police station. Nurse assistant Saumu Hamisi told the court Alexander’s pulse was weak, breathing shallow and he was foaming at the mouth. She said his eyes were half-open and he did not respond when called.