Forward Janet Bundi has been ruled out of today’s Africa women’s Cup of Nations second round qualifying match against Equatorial Guinea at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos due to an ankle injury. The Eldoret Falcons striker picked the injury during the friendly match against Football Kenya Federation women’s Premier League leaders Thika Queens last Saturday, where the national team won 5-1. National team coach David Ouma said despite the absence of the promising striker, he has options in the attacking department and he is not worried. In Bundi absence, Ouma hopes to bank on Neddy Atieno, Mwanahalima Adams, Esse Akida, Teresa Engesha, Mercy Achieng and Cynthia Shilwatso. Ouma also reported that Mary Kinuthia will also not be part of his arrangement as she excused herself due to personal reasons.” He added: “While we have been keen on building a collective squad, our opponents have individual quality and we will be seeking to take advantage of that and hopefully start the two-legged fixture with a win at home.” At the same time, Ouma said fast-raising goal keeper Lilian Awour will miss the encounter due to school commitment. He, however, said the remaining goal keepers have what it takes to fill the void. The tactician said he is impressed with the new call ups who have matched the regular players in the training sessions. Among the new call ups who have impressed are Shilwatso, Faith Kwamboka, Phelistus Kadari, Ruth Ingosi and Annette Kundu. “I urge the fans to come rally behind this team that is seeking to return to AWCON for the second time. Our opponents have been to AWCON and won twice and I respect them. However, we have to win the tie here so that we start favourites away when they host us on Saturday.” Ouma has the option of starting with experienced Poline Atieno, inspirational Kundu and Maureen Shimuli in between the sticks. Should the East Africans win the two-legged fixtures, they will return to the event for the second time having made their debut in 2016 in Cameroon. Ghana will host the 13th edition of Africa show.