MPs want Patel Farm owners to produce certification documents for all its seven dams in Solai. On May 9, Patel Dam burst its walls and released a deluge that left 47 people dead, 500 displaced and many more residents injured. The farm manager denied any wrongdoing. On Monday, the National Assembly Committee on Environment and Natural Resources visited the farm and said no licence was made available. The managers told the legislators all licences are kept in their Nairobi headquarters. Committee vice chairperson Sofia Abdi Noor said they were not satisfied with the answers. “The documents should be kept in the farm where all activities take place,” she said. “We ask the management to submit documentation of all the dams at a sitting to be held in Nairobi.” The meeting will be scheduled. The committee also established that the farm has never got dam projects approval by the National Environment Management Authority — one of the requirements. Njoro MP Charity Kathambi, a member of the committee, said the farm “never bothered to get Nema certification”. The farm was started before Nema was founded, but Kathambi said it should have sought Nema’s inspection and approval once the agency came into existence. Nema said the ongoing tillage up the hill by Patel coffee farm is not recommended. Chief enforcement officer Robert Orina said the firm is breaching soil conservation best practice by cultivating a sloppy area. He said however that Nema is not mandated to investigate structural inspection on compliance. He said the Water Resource Management Authority has the power to investigate and inspect. Last month, the water authority said the dams were built illegally. Orina accompanied the parliamentarians. He urged the Agriculture ministry to look into such practices and advise farmers accordingly. Nema has audited “additional farming activities” in Patel Farm and licensed construction of “additional greenhouses”, Orina said. He said Patel must comply with all requirements. Meanwhile, Subukia MP Kinuthia Gachobe yesterday said issues over the burial of a 10-year-old victim of the tragedy would be sorted out. Two families have claimed the body of the girl. Kinuthia said one party has not made himself available so they would not require DNA tests. He said a woman who said she is the mother would be needed to swear an affidavit before she is allowed to take the body for burial.