Teachers in Nyeri have rejected a medical scheme provided for them because many hospitals do not accept it. Nyeri Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) executive secretary Patrick Mwangi said teachers are unable to get medical services yet their money is deducted every month for the scheme. “We are asking the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to correct the situation. The commission has given us a private medical scheme yet all other civil servants including the police and armed forces are covered by the NHIF,” he said. Mwangi spoke to the Star in Nyeri town yesterday. “If this is not a scandal like the one of the National Youth Service, then they should come out clean and tell us why it is not effective,” he said. Mwangi said teachers have contributed at least Sh5.6 billion to the medical scheme after the TSC signed an agreement for comprehensive medical scheme with AoN Minet. Hospitals such as Tumu Tumu, Mathari, Jamii Hospital and some consultants in Nyeri have declined to treat teachers using the scheme. They accuse the insurance of failing to pay hospitals. Mwangi said just like their students, teachers also want to be covered by the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) beginning from the 2018-19 financial year. If not, he said teachers will go on strike. The government rolled an NHIF scheme for students in May and is enrolling the on the scheme. At the same time, Mwangi wants teachers who have stagnated in one job group for more than 20 years to be promoted. “We have members who have held job group for long. This is unfair. It does not happen in other professions. The TSC is to blame," he said. . Mwangi said teachers are unhappy with the way they are being treated by their employer. He also decried new policies being put in place saying they affect teacher’s performance. He citeded the filling-in of records at the expense of preparations for lessons. Mwangi said this was involving teachers with a lot of paper works like filling the records at the expense of guiding and helping learners.   