NYS suspects return to court today for pretrial conferencing hours after they scored a major victory when a judge granted them bail. The decision to release them came 23 days after the suspects were sent to remand by the anti-corruption chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti. The suspects will however wait for a few days before they walk to freedom until processing of documents is complete. They are facing multiple charges of economic crimes. Justice Hedwig Ongu’di released the suspects under strict bail conditions. He said Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji failed to demonstrate compelling reasons to deny the suspects their rights to freedom. Each of the suspects was granted a Sh5 million bond with a surety of Sh2 million. The terms will be approved by a chief magistrate of the Anti-Corruption Court. The suspects will also pay a cash bail of Sh1 million each. “The respondent has not satisfied this court that all applicants and their co-accused should not be admitted to bail. I am alive to the seriousness of the charges they are facing,” Ong’udi said. The suspects were ordered to surrender to court their travel documents, including passports. They will not leave the jurisdiction of the Milimani magistrate court without approval. They were also barred from communicating with any staff of the National Youth Service and witnesses. The court ordered the suspects not to set foot in their offices unless accompanied by police officers. PS Lilian Omollo and former NYS director general Richard Ndubai are among the suspects. Ogoti denied them bail saying the offences they are facing are serious and affect the health of economy. Ongu’di admitted the suspects face serious charges involving billions of shillings, but said the case is yet to be heard. As such, it was hard for “anyone to know who is guilty and who is not.” Ong’udi said the claim that the suspects were a threat to national security “is so general”. He said the DPP bears the burden of satisfying the court of the compelling reasons for detention. “The court as an arbiter should be seen to take a neutral stand in this matter until the opportune time when it renders its determination after hearing all the evidence,” he said.