The Nicaraguan government and
civic groups on Friday agreed to halt all violence, in a major
step to end two months of political unrest that has left 170
dead and rocked the government of President Daniel Ortega. Ortega, however, did not address a call by Catholic church
mediators to allow for early elections next year to defuse the
gravest political crisis since the country ended a US-fuelled
civil war in 1990. His third consecutive presidential term is
scheduled to end in 2021. "The end of all violence is a basic necessity. Nicaraguans
don't need any more violence," Foreign Minister Denis Moncada,
who is the head government negotiator, told reporters. Both sides will resume talks on Saturday to address the
Church's proposal to anticipate general elections and implement
political reforms. The protests that began on April 18 have also left hundreds
injured and ground the economy of the impoverished Central
American nation to a halt. Most of the dead were anti-government protesters who
demanded the resignation of Ortega, a former socialist guerrilla
and Cold War-era US foe, blaming his administration for the
violent crackdown on demonstrations. Civic leaders said they were satisfied with the agreement
that included setting up a international task force to
investigate the killings during the protests. They also agreed for the gradual removal, under the
supervision of international organisations, of makeshift
roadblocks that have snarled traffic and curbed trade. "This is a positive agreement that makes us think that
violence will not escalate," said Juan Sebastian Chamorro, a
leader with the Civil Alliance for Justice, the umbrella
organisation of civic groups. "If conditions are not met, then peaceful civic protests
will resume." The talks, which resumed earlier on Friday after being
suspended, were marred by fresh violence in the capital,
Managua, and disagreements between negotiators over the
international inquiry. A Reuters witness heard gunfire and saw police advancing
with assault rifles in a neighborhood near a university campus. University students have led demonstrations against what
they say is Ortega's growing authoritarian rule. The Nicaraguan Center for Human Rights, which has monitored
the violence, said 170 people were killed in the eight weeks of
clashes between pro-Ortega forces armed with assault rifles and
pistols and protesters armed with rocks, slings and home-made
mortars. Ortega's surprise decision in April to slash pension
benefits to cover a widening social security gap triggered the
deadly confrontations, the bloodiest since the end of the civil
war. Ortega quickly abandoned the planned spending cuts. But the
subsequent violent crackdown on protesters fuelled nationwide
demonstrations against Ortega, who has been in power for more
than a decade. Click here for the latest political news