A Msambweni man will spend the rest of his life in jail for defiling his nine-year-old niece. He had earlier been convicted of the offence, but appealed to have the ruling annulled. The lower courts were, however, satisfied that the prosecution proved its case. The trial magistrate convicted the man as charged and sentenced him to life imprisonment. The High Court upheld the verdit on August 2, 2016. He faulted the findings as defective and said the judge erred because the prosecution had failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The convict said ruling violated the Evidence Act and his evidence was not evaluated properly. The man also argued that the age of the complainant and his act of penetration were never proved. Yesterday, a three-judge bench of justices Alnashir Visram, Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome hammered the last nail in his coffin when they dismissed his appeal, saying it lacked merit. “The conviction and sentence imposed by the trial court and confirmed by the judge of the High Court is upheld,” the panel said. According to court records, the child was out fetching firewood on July 30, 2013, when her uncle raped her. He offered to help her cut a rope to size so she could tie the firewood. The convict then said he would help her get more firewood from a nearby forest. Once there, he pushed her to the ground undressed and raped her. The girl screamed for help, but no one was in the vicinity. The man ordered her not to tell anyone about her ordeal or she would face dire consequences. She went home and informed her mother. A village chairman accompanied them to the Mwanguli police station. The girl was taken to Msambweni District Hospital for examination and treatment. Medical tests returned positive results for rape. Her hymen had raptured, the report said. She was treated and counselled. The following day, the man sought forgiveness from the girl’s mother at the police station. But he was charged. He pleaded not guilty and the hearing began. At the end of the trial, he was found with a case to answer and placed on his defence. The man did not call a witness. Instead, he maintained that the charges were trumped up. He painted a rosy picture of a cordial relationship between him and his brother’s family, saying he could not understand why they accused him of rape.   