Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has drummed up support for DP William Ruto ahead of 2022 saying he has always stood with president Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking on Friday evening in Kiambu, Kuria said Ruto has always been on the side of Uhuru Kenyatta unlike the Opposition leaders. "In 2013, everybody wanted to work with Uhuru. ODM leader Raila Odinga wanted to work with Uhuru, Kalonzo Musyoka {Wiper} and Musalia Mudavadi {ANC} wanted to work with him, even Ruto wanted to work with him," he said. But he noted that everybody wanted Uhuru to be the deputy president of Kenya and not its President. "Na Raila akaambia Uhuru tufanye kazi na wewe, ili wewe ukuwe mdogo wangu na mimi nikuwe mkubwa wako. Mudavadi akamwaambia wewe ukuwe deputy niwe president, Kalonzo akamwaambia wacha nikuwe president wewe ukuwe deputy.." This is loosely translated to mean, ....then Raila told Uhuru, let me be the President and you the deputy. Mudavadi also told him, you become the deputy and I(Mudavadi) the President. Kalonzo said..let me the President and you(Uhuru) deputy. "Its only one person who did not give Uhuru the conditions for working together. And that was Ruto. You can wipe away everything on this earth but not history. History is stubborn." Read: Mudavadi: How Uhuru, Ruto duped me in 2012 Also read: Mudavadi denies deal with Uhuru The Jubilee legislator said people can lie to Kenyans but not to God. It is not clear what he was referring to but Nasa leader Raila Odinga recently agreed to work with Uhuru for peace, unity, national healing, reconciliation and countrywide development. Read: Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila "...God knows the truth. In 2017 everybody left us, its only this man Ruto that stood with our president. In Kiambu we gave Uhuu 1.2m votes, in 2022 we will give ruto 1.6m votes and give Raila one vote," Kuria added. In January, Kuria said the Kikuyu community will back Ruto in his 2022 Presidential ambition. Kuria told the Kalenjin community not to be worried over claims that the region has a tradition of not backing other Kenyans for the top seat. “We have had the very difficult year 2017 politically but we thank God that its over and we will not have the same problems in Kenyan again this year,” he said when he joined residents in Eldoret to usher in the new year. More on this: Mt Kenya won't betray Ruto in 2022 - Moses Kuria says Read: Mt Kenya planning to pick Ruto’s 2022 running mate But Ruto criticised a section of Jubilee leaders for prematurely initiating the 2022 succession politics.He was reacting to Kuria. Click here for the latest political news