Kenya Rugby Union and the Sevens team (Shujaa) can afford a sigh of relief after the Ministry of Tourism reinstated their sponsorship deal that had earlier been cancelled on March 21 after the Paris Sevens leg of the World Rugby Series. In a joint press briefing, Tourism Cabinet Secretary, Najib Balala, who was flanked by the Chief Administration Secretary in the Ministry of Sports, Hassan Noor, rescinded his decision to have Brand Kenya cancel the Sh20 million sponsorship. The ministry had terminated the sponsorship after the players concealed the “Make It Kenya” message in front of their jerseys in protest over a payment dispute between themselves, KRU and team sponsor Brand Kenya in the Paris leg on June 9-10. The aftermath saw head coach Innocent Simiyu receive his dismissal letter for shouldering the responsibility of the players actions but the Sports CS Rashid Echesa swiftly convened a meeting with the union for his reinstatement. Echesa further engaged his Tourism counterpart in a bid to win their financial assistance back ahead of the Rugby World Cup Sevens set for July 20-22 San Francisco United States. Prior to reinstating the sponsorship, Brand Kenya asked the players and the union to apologise to the sponsor and the country at large for the Paris acts. Yesterday, Balala confirmed Brand Kenya are back as Shujaa sponsors and the Sevens team would bear the ‘Magical Kenya’ trademark in the World Cup and the subsequent tournaments for a period of three years. Balala said the decision was arrived at after a successful negotiation with the Ministry of Sports, other shirt sponsors Bidco Africa, Shujaa team, KRU representatives and other stakeholders. He also said the ministry had channeled Sh2.5 million directly to the players accounts and promised to clear the pending Sh21 million debt to the union. “I met with the Shujaa players and the union representatives and we discussed on the Paris embarrassing moments. The players realised there was a problem and tendered a written apology. After July, we will call a meeting with KRU to extend partnership for three years. Magical Kenya will be the brand to be used henceforth from ‘Make it Kenya.” Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde and KRU chief executive officer, Ronald Bukusi were also present during the press briefing.