At least 36 state firms and agencies are technically insolvent and would require a capital injection of Sh118.76 billion to prevent certain death, the Auditor General’s 2015-2016 reports show. Following decades of poor management, outright looting and laxity in protection of assets allocated to them, state corporations have continued to ba a drain on taxpayers, as only a handful are efficiently run. Auditor General Edward Ouko, in his 2015-16 reports on state firms, points out uncollected debts running into billions of shillings, unapproved increase in expenditure and double payment of debts owed to service providers. These are among reasons for losses or profit dips. Currently there are 262 state corporations and agencies but the government plans to reduce them to 187 by merging them to eliminate duplication. Many of the debts Ouko highlights in his reports date back to the 1990s, again bringing to the fore the burden caused by politically well-connected corporation bosses. The continued losses have raised questions as to whether it is time to let some of the firms die. Clearly, several appointments made to their boards and senior management appear to be rewards to failed supporters. The appointments to state corporations have now seen activists challenge the process, arguing that Kenya’s Constitution provides for selection of parastatal heads through competitive processes. Katiba Institute, a vocal governance and policy lobby, says it is moving to court soon to challenge recent appointments President Uhuru Kenyatta made to various parastatals. Among the President’s controversial choices were the appointment of Francis Muthaura to the Kenya Revenue Authority Board, former police boss David Kimaiyo to the Kenyatta National Hospital board and former Labour minister Kazungu Kambi to the Coast Development Authority board, among several others. “Part of the reason these parastatals are failing is because the management is chosen based on nepotism, political patronage and other dubious criteria. There are many quacks heading state corporations yet the Constitution provides for a competitive process for appointments to these corporations. The appointments should be done after a competitive process by the Public Service Commission,” Katiba Institute executive director Waikwa Wanyoike said in an interview. Perhaps the biggest government investment failures according to the Auditor General’s reports are the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (Sh54.506 billion) and Nzoia Sugar (Sh40.946 billion), which account for 80 per cent of the total amount needed to save insolvent state firms. Debate on privatisation of insolvent firms in viable industries such as sugar has over the years elicited mixed reactions, as is the case with Nzoia Sugar and four other cane factories the government intends to sell off to strategic investors. Governors from more than 13 counties that form the Lake Region Economic Block in January opposed the plan to privatise Nzoia, Sony Sugar, which needs Sh2.2 billion to escape insolvency, Chemelil Sugar which needs Sh1.741 billion, Muhoroni Sugar and Miwani. Several leaders from the region insist the government continues to support the ailing sugar firms, which have struggled owing to artificial industry challenges such as competition from cheap imports and poor management. At KBC, the national broadcaster, Ouko points out supplier and statutory debts totaling Sh933,753,000, which have remained unpaid for years with no explanation from management on how they will be paid. Economist Aly Khan Satchu says the government should borrow from Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s book by significantly reducing its investments in several sectors of the economy. Ahmed’s decision saw state-run institutions such as Ethiopian Airlines and the country’s sole internet and telephone service provider Ethio Telecom offered for sale to strategic investors. “The issue, as is now, is that the government no longer has the envelope space to continue with this endless ‘Groundhog Day’ strategy of rescuing failing parastatals for eternity. You will have noted Ahmed’s recent pivot point which was made out of necessity. It is entirely necessary for the issue. It would be unconscionable for Kenya Inc not to have its own airline, something like Nzoia Sugar is not, I’m afraid.” “We have to absolutely look at everything through a national interest lens and then we need to make some hard decisions, otherwise the hard decisions will be made on our behalf. The government needs to be disavowed of the notion that the taxpayer is a bottomless pit. So, I would be advocating an aggressive downsizing of government in the business of Kenya Inc if it is not in the national interest, the government needs to exit,” Satchu told the Star in an interview. An Sh11 billion loan KBC took from Japan’s Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund in 1989, for instance, is still unpaid. The amount has now attracted an interest of Sh42.74 billion, more than four times the principal. “Although the Parliamentary Investments Committee discussed the loan when KBC appeared before the committee, no definite resolution was reached and the corporation has continued to reflect the loan and interest in its financial statements,” Ouko says. The broadcaster’s records have also come into question, with Ouko stating its financial statements do not present a fair representation of its performance and cash flows for the 2015-16 financial year. Players in the billion-shilling insolvency club include Agro Chemical and Food Company (Sh7.1 billion), the Postal Corporation of Kenya (Sh3.8 billion), Kenyatta University (Sh1.3 billion) and Mombasa Water Supply and Sanitation Company (Sh1.05 billion). Other technically insolvent firms nearing the billion-shilling insolvency club are Kenya National Trading Corporation (Sh213 million), Kenya Safari Lodges and Hotels Limited (Sh347,312,000 ), National Oil Corporation of Kenya (Sh955,806,000 ), Pyrethrum and other Industrial Crops Corporation (Sh714,633,000 ), among others. The Development Bank of Kenya was set to join the insolvency league after its current liabilities hit the Sh6.2 billion mark against current assets of Sh4.2 billion. However, the Central Bank of Kenya advanced it Sh4.2 billion guaranteed by the lender’s Sh4.7 billion investment in government securities that were to mature in one year. The state firms and agencies, Ouko says, remain going concerns on the assumption that government will continue to pump money into them, and creditors will give them room to pay off over long durations. The Auditor General’s reports show that while some firms are still financially sound, there are several questionable dealings coupled with huge losses that could grow the list of insolvent corporations. In the 2015-16 financial year, Kenya Forest Service’s digital finance systems had 52 customer accounts created more than once, and another 94 customer accounts created with inadequate information. Ouko adds 17 vendors had multiple accounts. The questionable entries in KFS’ system could expose taxpayers to double payments and money disbursements to ghost accounts. Kenya Wildlife Service’s total deficit grew to Sh5,823,468,000 in the probed period, which is an equivalent of its total asset valuation of Sh13.5 billion. 