Parents of students who die of accidents or illness while in school will receive Sh600,000 for compensation and funerals. The National Hospital Insurance Fund has issued guidelines for comprehensive student cover to schools. Speaking to the Star yesterday, NHIF chief executive officer Geoffrey Mwangi said the scheme was rolled out in May. The first tranche of Sh100,000 will be paid within the first two days of a student’s death for funeral plans, and the remaining Sh500,000 for compensation will be cleared in five days. Statistics from the fund show 600 students have received medical services under the scheme. They were exempted from the six-month wait before the cover is activated. “Students are free to walk into registered hospitals for medical care. Students will use the cover even during school holidays. They’ll be required to present school identification cards and the Unique Personal Identifier before being treated,” Mwangi said. Out patient, in-patient, optical, dental, emergency road and air rescue services as well as group personal accident cover are on offer for students. However, cosmetic or beauty surgery, laser eye surgery, frames and lenses and massage are not included. Dependents of the students will not be covered. For instance maternity costs for female students who fall pregnant will not be covered. Upon completing Form Four, the students will be deleted from the cover, while the newly admitted Form One students will be registered in the scheme. “As long you are a continuing student you can access medical treatment in any NHIF accredited facility. But within the school setting, students will be required to go to medical facilities chosen by their schools,” Mwangi said. The Ministry of Education on May 25 asked schools to chose medical facilities that suit their students for medication and send the details to NHIF branches. Each student’s data will be updated in the NHIF system. The cover was adopted under the presidential blue print of the Big Four agenda under the universal health care plan. “Treatment costs arising from a condition that warrants going overseas will be covered subject to pre-authorisation from NHIF,” the guidelines read. Under the normal NHIF cover, the fund covers up to Sh500,000 for chronic illnesses such cancer and kidney transplants. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the Sh4.05 billion comprehensive medical cover in April. It caters for all students in public secondary schools. Through the NHIF cover, the government will pay a premium of Sh1,350 per student for the three million students in public secondary schools. Uhuru said the cover is unique as it caters for specific students, rather than the usual one for families.