Cathrine Mturi-Wairi's dismissal from her post as Kenya Ports Authority MD was "orchestrated by cartels", activist Okiya Omtata has said. Omtata filed a petition against the move on Tuesday, saying her sacking was illegal and unconstitutional and that the court needs to arrest the situation. In his notice of motion filed at the Mombasa Employment and Labour Relations Court, he askws the court to suspend the May 30 decision to dismiss Mturi-Wairi from office. A special KPA board made the move and replaced Mturi-Wairi with Daniel Manduko with immediate effect. Details: [VIDEO] KPA boss Catherine Mturi-Wairi sacked over incompetence Omtatah went to court with Emma Mbura, who is Coast coordinator for the Kenyans for Justice and Development Trust The activist further asked judge James Rika to issue an injunction barring KPA, the Attorney General or anyone acting on behalf of the respondents from effecting the decision by the board. He also wants the court to allow relevant parties to join the case. Omtatah said the people who purported to have dismissed the MD were not bonafide members of the board. He told Rika that only three people who attended the special board meeting were legitimate members. "The rest were busy-bodies,“ he said, noting that Transport PS Paul Maringo, Valentine Mwakamba and Maina Kamanda were the only legitimate members. The activist said that people including Maxwell Mengichi, who claimed to have represented Kenya Railway MD Atanas Maina, should not have have attended the meeting. He said Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto, who represented the AG, also should not have attended the meeting. Omtatah went on to say that the AG's position in the board expired in April so a fresh appointment was necessary. "The meeting therefore lacked the quorum it needed to sack the MD," he argued. According to the KPA board guideline, a meeting has to have at least two thirds of the members in order to meet the quorum demand. Omtata further said that prior to the dismissal, the series of events clearly indicated that the dismissal was a premeditated move. "The plan started with the deliberate failure of systems at the port before top government officials started streaming down, pretending to be calming the situation," he said. Omtatah said he will show how Mturi-Wairi was dismissed over failure to implement the government’s illegal orders to transport cargo using the Standard Gauge Railway. Rika will rule on the matter on June 7. Also read: Mturi’s tenure at KPA was doomed from start Click here for the latest political news