Parents of Moi Girls' School in Nairobi want each dormitory in the institution to have a matron to ensure the safety of their daughters. The girls, who were released to go home for one week in the wake of a rape scandal in the school, will report back on Sunday. The parents called for an overhaul of the school management after the Education ministry appointed the school’s deputy principal, Florence Omusula, as the acting principal. This was after principal Jael Muriithi sought early retirement. The rape incident came eight months after a dormitory fire killed 10 students. During a meeting organised by the school yesterday, the parents said a perimeter wall should be erected around the institution and the security firm contracted by the school changed. The school will be guarded by five armed police officers. However, it is not clear whether the school will retain the Lavington Security that provides security in the institution. Read: Police try to reconstruct the 'stranger than fiction' rape ordeal at Moi Girls Yesterday, officers from the security firm were still in the school. The parent’s elected members of the Parent’s Association to work with the board of management and school head in running the school. "We need to have things up and running. The BoM is the link between the government and the school, so it is critical to have them in place," Kibra sub-county director of education said. Speaking during the meeting, Education CAS Simon Kachapin said the administrative changes will be progressive and will be carried out in phases. "We cannot do a paradigm shift and overturn everything once. That is why we began with the reshuffle of the management as we look into other issues affecting the school," he said. Also Read: Did Moi Girls' School attempt to cover up rape incident? "The report from the investigators on the rape matter will also be important because it will help us look at where the loopholes are and help us seal them." Parent Brian Weke accused the school administration of lack of transparency and for not telling parents the challenges the school is facing. He said the school is yet to provide a report about last year’s fire tragedy. "We were given very similar assurances that measures have been put in place to ensure the school is secure, but here we are again getting the same promises that our girls will be safe. We need to know what is different this time that will ensure our children are safe," Weke said. Click here for more political news