Justice Onesmus Makau has issued conservatory orders stopping the government from recruiting Cuban doctors. Makau, who is of the Employment and Labour Relations Court, gave the order on Wednesday, saying the 50 who landed on Monday will not begin work pending the hearing and determination of the suit. Petitioners Samwel Nduati, Reuel Maina and Francis Thuku -  who are unemployed doctors - note that Kenyans should be given first priority, in line with the national values state in the Constitution. They add that they are suitably trained yet their efforts for employment at public medical facilities have been in vain. Through lawyer Anangwe Maloba, the doctors told the court that the respondents are obliged to consider the availability of skilled Kenyans before going for foreigners. "Kenyan laws prohibit the issuance of work permits to non-Kenyans except upon compliance with mandatory statutory provisions, with the principle objective of protecting Kenyan citizens with respect to resident employment opportunities," Maloba told the court. "Kenyan citizens are top of the hierarchy in considerations for employment opportunities in the local market." The lawyer noted that the Cubans will get better remuneration packages yet their skills are not superior, a situation that he said points at discrimination. The doctors want the court to declare that the decision by the government, through the Health ministry and the Council of Governors, null and void as it is "inconsistent and in conflict with the Constitution". The government explained that the country does not have enough doctors,hence the need to take steps for the universal healthcare goal to be achieved. It urged the court to dismiss the petitioners' application, saying they did not demonstrate the manner in which the government violated their rights. The judgment will be delivered on June 19. The first 50 specialists landed at 9:57 pm on Tuesday and were received by officials including Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o, Health CAS Rashid Aman and Cuban Ambasador to Kenya Raul Rodri­guez. The remaining 50 will land on Thursday. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman said on Wednesday that they will be posted to counties after completing a two-week induction at the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi. The induction had been set to begin on June 8. Read: Cuban doctors to be posted to counties after two-week induction Click here for the latest political news     