The entrepreneurship ecosystem is a colourful quilt. One consistent tread in this art form is failure. Every successful entrepreneur encounters setbacks in different ways. For some, failure was a pattern that played out for long. In this game, failure comes with the territory. Normally, great ideas don’t start out great. They go through stages of refinement and this winding road takes the entrepreneur into lows, that is termed, failure. So, what we call failure is the idea refinement process. This shift in perspective positions entrepreneurs to handle failure better. Recovery from failure requires skill. It’s helpful to develop this skill to deal with life’s lows. Here are three ideas to help you. Right Attitude: There are two concepts to consider about failure. They are: pressure and response. Failure brings pressure at varying degrees. This is when we feel the negative effects of a setback or major blow. Pressure hurts and makes people uncomfortable. But, it is one aspect of failure. Response is another. Here, you display the right or wrong attitude. Based on your perspective, your response to pressure could empower or disempower you. It’s your choice. The right attitude means that you have an empowering perspective that makes you respond to pressure in a way that is beneficial to you in the long run. Remember, profit is the end game in the failure narrative. Right People: In times of failure, you should be careful about the people you have around you. The wrong people bring the wrong thoughts and the wrong thoughts bring negative, low energy. And negative energy is the last thing you need at your low point. Often, your survival depends on the people in your mix. In dealing with failure, the wrong people would take you down. The right people tell you the truth, help you find solutions and encourage you along the way. With the right people, your recovery can be speedy. Right Atmosphere: Failure can take you down. But, if you’re not careful, it can keep you down. Failure can shift or change your self-image. This in turn, changes how you feel about yourself. And when this feeling takes root, your environment or atmosphere changes to match how you feel. The right atmosphere starts with positive thinking or perspective, then you will be able to generate positive feelings. And positive feelings help you create a positive workspace. In the realm of positivity, it is easier to find great solutions to your failures – and that’s how you move forward. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com    