   Theft of public funds will continuously be exposed including those happening in the national security docket. Auditor General Edward Ouko said yesterday his office was probing the use of funds in dockets where auditing was barred. In February, High Court judge Chacha Mwita declared Section 40 of Public Audit Act inconsistent with the Constitution. That declaration allowed Ouko to audit the expenditure of billions of shillings allocated to the Department
of Defence, the National Intelligence Service and the National Police Service. Yesterday, Ouko told the Star
that his office had  previously encountered challenges in auditing the three departments because they had been labelled “confidential.” “It limited our work. But we are now finding a way of auditing the departments even as we remain conscientious of national security which must be guarded,”
Ouko said. He was speaking on the
sidelines of the ongoing 16th Annual Conference of the Institute of Internal Auditors
of Kenya at Whitesands Hotel in Mombasa. Ouko asked all institutions mandated with the protection of public resources to work together citing goodwill from the executive. “The President has set the
goodwill and the tone. We can see the concern because everybody, including the
media, is talking about corruption. We need to heighten our game," Ouko said.   , in other
words we need to do our work in a profound way, such that we aid each other,” said
Ouko. He said the internal auditors
should do their work in a profound way. The internal auditors’ work
can be taken by the auditor general, who can then work on it to inform the Director
of Public Prosecution as well as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the
prosecutorial systems to take action. At the same time, Ouko
said his office is slowly expanding in all the 47 counties after the National
Assembly increased its resources. Initially, Ouko has complained
that his office had no capacity to audit all the government offices because of little
number of staff and less budgetary allocation. “The situation has tremendously
improved and in the current budget the parliamentarians have increased my resources
a little bit more. These resources have enabled me to employ additional more
staff,” he said. “However, we can never be
satisfied, we are still fighting for more resources. He said there are still a
lot of challenges they are facing. “My office is not in every
county; the other thing is to make sure in the near future at least my office
is nearer to the counties. The nearer I’m, maybe it will be more preventative,”
he said. Currently, he said they
are building an office in Garissa to cover the northern region and are trying
to put another office in Kakamega and Eldoret. End………….