Public servants will soon work in shifts in an attempt to decongest Nairobi. According to an internal memo to all the public servants working in Parliament, the Public Service Ministry requests all public servants within the city to provide details including area of residence and workplace. The details will be used to create a database which will assist in coming up with split working hours for public servants. “The Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs, in collaboration with Nairobi Regeneration Area 5 Transport Working Group — an intergovernmental team — is developing modalities of determining split working hours for public service,” reads the internal memo. Usually, civil servants work between 8am and 5pm in the 35-hour weekday schedule. National Assembly director of administrative services Douglas Ng’ang’a said the exercise is part of the recently launched Nairobi Regeneration programme.  DEPLORABLE “In order for the ministry to make informed decisions, information in regard to the number of public servants in Nairobi and routes they normally use to and from work is required,” reads the memo dated June 11. “In this regard, all staff are required to fill in the attached form to enable us to generate this data and forward it accordingly.” However, it was not stated when the expected shifts are supposed to start. The Nairobi Regeneration programme was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta following complaints by residents over the deplorable state of the capital. The Nairobi Regeneration team includes both national and county leaders and is co-chaired by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Tourism CS Najib Balala. Last month, it was announced the regeneration programme would be done in three phases. As part of the programme, the government has given out 50 trucks — 20 from NYS and 30 from the county government — to help in garbage collection.  NO CARS ALLOWED The car-free days proposal is being discussed by the Nairobi Regeneration committee as part of the plans to decongest the city centre. In the proposal, private cars would stay away from the CBD and Westlands on Wednesdays and Saturdays. Cars would specifically stay away from Haile Sellasie Avenue, Tom Mboya Street, University Way and Uhuru Highway. Motorists would not enter the CBD between eight in the morning to seven in the evening.