A new property report lists Nairobi as a hotspot for hotel development in Eastern Africa. The report by real estate consultancy firm Knight Frank attributes the increasing trend of international hotel operators to a rising demand for rooms and an under supply of international-grade hotels. The Knight Frank Hotels Africa 2018 report also lists Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar and Seychelles among other hotel development hotspots in the region. It shows that the region accounts for 26 per cent of new projects in the continent. West Africa tops the continent with 35 per cent of hotel projects under construction, followed by North Africa with 29 per cent. Kenya is fifth in the list of top 10 African countries with the highest number of chain and branded hotels excluding lodges, safari camps, chalets and cruise-hotels. The data is for up to December 2017. The report shows Kenya has 68 chain and branded hotels. South Africa leads with 430, followed by Egypt (300), Morocco (153) and Tunisia (103). Mauritius, Nigeria, Tanzania, Zimbabwe and Algeria are the other countries in the top 10 list. “Nairobi’s position as a major regional hub will be further reinforced by the growth of this sector in the city.”Knight Frank Managing Director Ben Woodhams said. The report notes that most international hotel groups have asset-light business models in Africa whereby they operate, without owning, their branded hotels. “This creates opportunities for developers and investors to either build or acquire properties operated by the major chains,” the report states. However, a key challenge for brands seeking to grow their African portfolios is the long construction times. To circumvent this, some hotel groups are pursuing growth strategies that priorities rebranding existing properties instead of building new ones. “Across the continent, development activity is being driven primarily by the expansion plans of the larger multinational hotel groups. All of the major global players have multiple hotels under development across Africa, and several of them have made eye-catching announcements about their future African plans,” the report notes. Major brands that that have announced Kenya expansion plans include Marriott International which will open at AVIC International’s building in Westlands, Nairobi, and Hilton Hotel, which will open at The Pinnacle in Upper Hill.