Farmers in the Rift Valley have called a meeting after the state failed to allocate Sh5 billion in the budget for maize delivered to the cereals board. The National Cereals and Produce Board has not released Sh2 billion as part of the payment promised by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri two weeks ago. Farmers have threatened to hold demonstrations if they are not paid this financial year. They are surprised the money is not in the budget. Director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said the meeting would be held in Eldoret this week. He spoke to the Star in Eldoret yesterday. “We want to discuss ways of how we can get our money since the government seems to have ignored us,” Menjo said. “We had been told our money will be included in the budget. We are surprised it was not.” Chairman of Kenya National Farmers Union Musa Barno and Menjo said Sh1.4 billion provided for buying grain later in the year was inadequate. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich allocated Sh4.3 billion for subsidised fertiliser and Sh300 million to combat the Fall armyworm. Farmers want the state to give Sh35 billion to help deal with issues in the agriculture sector that are causing a decline in production. Menjo said the Agricultural Finance Corporation, the NCPB, and the Agricultural Development Corporation are key institutions that need proper funding. The government wants AFC NCPB and ADC turned into one parastatal. “Food security is one of the key pillars in President Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. We are asking him to ensure these institutions are vibrant for them to play their roles effectively,” Menjo said. “The money for subsidies should be given to the Eldoret Fertiliser Factory to produce soil specific fertiliser for various parts of the country.” Farmers want the AFC given Sh10 billion for loans and the NCPB Sh10 billion to pay farmers and to buy grain from the next harvest. They also propose the state gives Sh5 million to ADC to support livestock. Barno wants Kenya Seed Company allocated Sh6 billion.