Sorrow engulfed Kanyimach village in Rongo yesterday after news of the death of Migori Senator Ben Oluoch Okello reached home. Oluoch succumbed to throat cancer at the MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi on Monday night. Mourners streamed into his home as early of 5am as family members struggled to come to terms with the demise of the former radio journalist. The mourners included religious leaders, businessmen and ODM supporters. The senator's brother Dancan Mumbo prayed for God's guidance, saying the vacuum left by Oluoch would be hard to fill. Mumbo, a pastor at the Rongo central SDA, said burial plans would be announced later. “We supported him when he chose to run for the senator seat. He contested against giants and won. He was a very religious man,” Mumbo said. He described his brother as a humble man who was committed to service delivery. Relatives Jack Okello and Alfred Okello said the death was a big blow to the family. The former radio presenter’s body was moved to Lee Funeral Home. “We received the news in Migori county some minutes to midnight. We have lost a dedicated leader who will be dearly missed,” said former North Kamagambo MCA Richard Solo. Oluoch's home is in the ward. Oluoch's health status formed the basis of campaigns in last year's election. Opponents questioned why he was not active on the campaign trail after winning the ODM nomination. He won largely because of the popularity he gained as a Ramogi Radio talk-show host and his close alliance with Governor Okoth Obado. Upon receiving his election certificate from IEBC at the Migori TTC, Oluoch attributed his weakness from the massive campaign mounted by his rivals. “I want to congratulate my worthy opponents. As you can see, I have lost weight,” he said. On March 1, the senator spoke to the Star while receiving treatment in India. He said he was responding well to medication. He asked residents to work with all elected leaders for development “Despite being sick he continued to manage his office and often sent elected leaders to represent him at major social and party functions,” Solo said. Residents questioned his absence at public meeting making reference to the NASA rally at the Homa Bay Stadium on January 26. Party supporters raised queries on his loyalty, given the rally came at a time party leader Raila was preparing for his mock swearing-in at Uhuru Park. “He skipped the rally because he was away in India for treatment,” Solo said. Raila was forced to explain Oluoch's absence at subsequent rallies in Migori. Oluoch was absent during a devolution forum in Migori on March 1. Uriri MP Mark Nyamita asked residents to give the senator more time to recover. “I know there has been a complain about our senator that he is unavailable. On behalf of MPs from Migori county, I want to tell you that Senator Ben Oluoch Okello is unwell,” Nyamita said. Yesterday, Nyamita told the Star Oluoch's death was unfortunate and a big loss to the county. "He was a peaceful man who respected his colleagues," Nyamita said.