It wasn’t me. This is a song by Shaggy, the Jamaican-American reggae artist. The song depicts a man seeking suggestions from his friend on what he should do after his girlfriend caught him having sex with another woman. His friend advises him to deny everything, by saying ‘it wasn’t me’, despite clear evidence to the contrary. Last week, we were treated to various renditions of ‘It wasn’t me’ in the courts. All the suspects denied involvement in the missing NYS billions. They also denied charges of abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an economic crime and willful failure to comply with the requirements of the management of public funds. A sequel trailer released this week is enticing us to yet another scandal in a state institution that has near monopoly in the transportation of petroleum fuels. We should expect more variations of ‘It wasn’t me’. The frequency and magnitude of the levels of embezzlement has made us so jaded that when the President was flagging off a convoy of crude oil from Turkana, a hashtag #oilscam was already trending. My column last week proposed the inconceivable regarding curbing corruption. My submission was that we should legalise corruption in order to end it. One of my avid readers chided me that I was proffering a simplistic solution to a very complex problem. But if this indeed is the case, the unanswered question is; why then haven’t the complex solutions worked? Perhaps before we settle on any one or a suite of solutions, it behoves us to undertake a root cause analysis to identify why we have acquired an untamed lust for instantaneous riches. In social and behaviour change communication, a root cause analysis is used to interrogate why there is a difference between the desired state of a social issue and the current state. This disconnect between our desired and current state is brought about by a fundamental concept in economics called time preference. This is the ratio between the value we place on consumption of present versus future goods. An intrinsic part of the human psyche is the preference for immediate benefits over delayed ones. People with high time preferences prefer to consume now as opposed to later, even if foregoing immediate consumption would result in a higher quantity or quality of future goods. A research by Prof George Hutton shows primitive societies have a very high time preference. One such culture showed members preferred to spend one hour digging up roots to eat rather than planting maize. This society knew how to do both. But planting maize would require them to wait for a couple of months to enjoy the fruits of their efforts. The immediate consumption of roots gave them 500 calories, while that of maize would have given them 1,000 calories. However, even with this knowledge, they still chose the former. This condemned them to a life of primitivism. When a society is blinded by high time preference, it cannot develop wealth or have the diligence of long-term self-improvement, all of which involve foregoing immediate satisfaction in anticipation of gains in the future. Is this who we have become? A primitive society? Universally, the goal of every being alive is to become financially rich. But the reason this has remained akin to chasing unicorns is that most people have not understood there is a fundamental difference between being rich and being wealthy. The difference is knowledge of time preference. Wealthy people know how to make money and have a low time preference, while rich people only have money but have a high time preference. The rich are always motivated by money, but the wealthy are motivated by purpose and passion. The rich have a belief money grows linearly, and that the more money you acquire, the more you will make. The wealthy, on the other hand, know money grows exponentially, and after a certain point, it starts replicating itself. This is because wealth is measured in terms of time and not the amount of money you have. For instance, if you have Sh500,000 in savings, and your monthly expenses are Sh100,000, all other factors holding constant, your wealth is five months or 150 days only. Becoming wealthy is not rocket science. Contrary to popular believe, you cannot become wealthy through state corruption and crony capitalism, neither through gambling, prosperity gospels, sponsor lifestyles and Kamiti prison scams. These are only get rich schemes that are a manifestation of our ultra-high time preference that leads to decadence. You become wealthy by employing two important factors: One, offering the world valuable goods and services that make peoples lives better off. The free market is a mechanism that rewards and compensates those who meet the needs of others. For example, if you randomly ask a group of 20 people how many have Sh500,000 lying in their savings, probably only one hand will go up. However, if you ask the same group how many have a mobile phone, undoubtedly every hand will go up. Is it then a wonder that the likes of Bill Gates and Mike Zuckerberg are extremely wealthy men? Two, having a low time preference. People with low time preference employ virtues of discipline, foresight and strategy. They are able to delay gratification and invest more. They are also future-oriented and plan far beyond their own lifespan to provide for their offspring. Consequently, this improves them from generation to generation through capital accumulation. They are referred to as old money. Their character is polished. They are not flashy, are charitable, don’t name drop, and do not forget their friends as they climb up the class ladder. Lastly, my unsolicited advice to those chanting ‘It wasn’t me’, appropriating other people’s resources is plain theft and greed. And should you be convicted, this will make you gluttonous thieves. Stolen waters are sweet and bread eaten in secret is delicious, but soon it turns into gravel in the mouth - Proverbs.  Mugwe is a political economist