Contracts have been cancelled for more than 190 public health officers and nurses temporarily hired by the Garissa government. They were issued appointment letters two months ago and dispatched to health facilities. However, county secretary Abdi Muhumed said the county cancelled all irregular appointment letters. The letters of cancellation seen by the Star and dated May 25 were signed by the county secretary. They were copied to Governor Ali Korane, county public service board chairman Ebla Sahal and Health executive Ahmednasir Sheikh. The letter reads, “Some members of the public have irregularly acquired appointment letters engaging them as workers in the Health department.” “... the alleged recruitment did not follow the regulation and procedures required and is therefore void.” Another letter written by Health chief officer Isnino Rage dated May 31 states, “The contract of service for all locum health care workers engaged by the Health ministry from April 1 is hereby cancelled with immediate effect.” It is not clear who issued the contract letters. Sources who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity said the irregular hiring has led to a reshuffle of some chief officers. Mohamed Abdi was transferred to the Education docket. He was replaced by Rage from the Roads department. Chief officer Abdi Dekhow will now be in charge of the Roads. Muhumed defended the decision to cancel the contracts, saying correct procedures were not applied. “We may employ them at some point but they must be subjected to a fair and competitive process,” he said. Muhumed said the department will calculate the number of days the staff worked and pay them. In August last year, Governor Ali Korane made an impromptu tour of the Garissa County Referral Hospital. He was taken aback by empty beds, dust, and bad management. At the time, nurses had been on strike for 90 days and no patients were being admitted. Korane said he would prioritise safe, clean drinking water and improved healthcare — areas he said had been neglected. Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane accompanied Korane when they caught many employees unaware. The hospital had not admitted patients for three months during the nurses’ strike.