Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero refuses to back down in his bid to stop the EACC from probing him over alleged corruption. He is aggrieved by a judgment that affirmed powers of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate claims he transferred public funds into his personal bank accounts. Kidero has taken his battle with the EACC to the Court of Appeal. He seeks to overturn the decision made by judges George Odunga, Chacha Mwita and John Mativo on Wednesday last week. “I am dissatisfied with the whole judgment and orders and desire to appeal,” a notice he filed said. Kidero served as managing director of Mumias Sugar Company before joining politics. He has been accused of swindling the miller. The former county boss has denied any wrongdoing during his tenure at the firm. The EACC has been fighting to investigate transactions in Kidero’s seven bank accounts that allegedly have Sh1 billion. The commission obtained search warrants from a magistrate court in Kibera to inspect and lift copies of statements, account opening documents, original cheques, mandate cards and bankers’ books. Kidero moved to the High Court to challenge the move. His case was heard alongside another filed by activist Okiya Omtatah, who argued the EACC has unconstitutionally encroached on the mandate of the National Police Service and the Director of Public Prosecutions. The two said EACC’s mandate is limited to enforcing the provisions of Chapter Six of the Constitution and does not extend to investigating offences other than those specified under the chapter. In the judgment however, Odunga, Mwita and Mativo said the commission commits no illegality when it obtains search warrants to investigate private citizens’ accounts suspected to be involved in unlawful swindling of public funds.  No abuse of process “The EACC has the mandate to conduct investigations. There was no malice or contradiction whatsoever within the Constitution regarding its mandate to obtain orders to search individual’s accounts. The search warrants for investigation can be obtained without involving the other party,” the judges said. The court was of the view that provided there is no abuse of process, issuance of search warrants and the seizure of articles is a vital and necessary element in war on crime. The judges said the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act and the EACC Act provide clear parameters and authority of the commission. “We find that the third petitioner [Kidero] has not proved the alleged breach of his right to property. Accordingly, we find no basis to hold that there has been a violation of his rights,” the judges said.