A prison warden is fearing for his life and now wants intervention from the National Police Service Commission and Independent Policing Oversight Authority. Jackson Byuke served at Kamiti Medium Prison Horse unit until June 12 when he and his family were thrown out of his house by his seniors. Read: Police get 100 houses as state looks to build 100,000 units Byuke said he was among 42 officers who had been assigned a room at Block C of the recently opened houses for wardens at Kamiti. Two months since they occupied the house, he alleges that an officer by name 'Kasyoka' from prisons headquarters told him to vacate the house or pay for his stay there. "He told me I didn't qualify to occupy the house because neither was I a son of a director nor had a godfather in the service. Therefore, the only way I could qualify is to be paying 'rent' for the house," Byuke said. “I told him I couldn’t pay to live in a government house. He left but days later he told me he had gotten hold of my employment file and that if I don’t tore the line he will eliminate me or make sure I was sacked. Threats I ignored,” he added. Around 6.30 pm on June 12, Byuke said the officer incharge of the Kamiti Medium Prison Benson Makori with some inmates, broke his house and threw everything out. “Makori told me he was acting on orders from above. He instructed me to go on my duty immediately. But because I couldn't stand the humiliation I told him I prefer to quit the job under the 24-hour rule,” Byuke said. “I wrote a letter of resignation handed to him. Even though he received the letter, he said he will not allow me to resign. As we speak today he has refused to cascade the letter through the command chain as required so as it can reach the commander of the regional prison and then to commissioner general of prions. But he has threatened that if I don’t resume work he will send out a signal that I have deserted duty so as I can be arrested,” Byuke said adding he has been forced to speak out to save other officers. “I decided to quit on principle and will not take up that job. But what I would love to see an end to such scenarios where officers denied occupancy of staff quarters, but the same houses are rented out to a civilian by senior officers. I will also want an end to intimidation that I am receiving from the incharge, and justice too." Makori did not respond to our calls and text messages on circumstances surrounding the eviction. But Regional Prisons commander Wairimu Thangate said she was not aware of the incidence. “I haven’t heard about the case nor received the letter of resignation. It must pass through my office before it goes to the commissioner general,” she said. The houses in question are free for officers, they are government houses and aren’t allocated depending on whom you know or who pays, she said. “Will look into the issues, get all the details before we can comment further,” she said. Later in the day, she invited Byuke to her office in industrial area and tomorrow (Friday) they plan to visit the house where his households were thrown and still lying to-date. Also read: Police to live in new houses in 3 weeks Click here for the latest politicla news