National Super League side Isibania FC is on the brink of dissolution. The club only managed to raise eight players for their game against Nakuru All Stars on Sunday as the second round of the second tier league got underway. The Isibania border-based team lost 3-0 with John Njuguna scoring twice and Teddy Siwa adding one as for Nakuru All Stars recorded their third win of the season. Isibania team manager, David Chacha said: “Only eight players reported to camp for the second leg. We did not have money to send to the rest as transport. We travelled to Nakuru because we did not want to give another walkover.” Chacha praised his charges despite the loss. “They fought gallantly. Eight men against 11 in 90 minutes is not easy. We appeal for assistance to enable us honour our remaining matches. If we don’t get help, we will just dissolve the team,” added Chacha. Isibania’s problems have been compounded by the departure of coach Dan Musta who was the team’s engine. Despite the win, Nakuru All Stars remain rooted at the bottom of the log while Isibania are languishing in the 15th place with 17 points from 19 games. The community team play their home matches at Sony Green Stadium in Awendo. At the same time, Ushuru rose to the to top of the log after Western Stima managed a draw against Modern Coast Rangers in Mombasa. Benson Amianda, Nelson Marasowe and Baron Jobita scored for the tax men as they edged AP 3-0 to top the log with 38 points—one better than second-placed Stima who have surrendered an 11-point lead. Third-placed Nairobi Stima missed a chance to go top of the table after battling to a 1-1 draw against Nairobi City Stars in Naivasha. Bidco United defeated Kangemi All-Stars 2-1. John Walubuka and Sean Opwora scored for the winners while Paul Kibande pulled one back for Kangemi. At Sudi Stadium, Kibera Black Stars beat host GFE 105 2-1. Two matches pitting Coast Stima against Green Commandos and FC Talanta against Kenya Police were not played. Green Commandos did not travel to Mombasa for their match that had been scheduled for the Mbaraki Sports Club. Coast Stima were consequently awarded all three points. FC Talanta failed to secure a venue in time for their match against Police and surrendered the three points to the law enforcers.