Bad things come in droves. From the NYS, to the NCPB, Youth Fund to Kenya Power and now the Kenya Forest Service, corruption in the public sector is engulfing the nation in gloom and doom. Tonnes have been written about it, billions of shillings have been spent fighting it and tens of public institutions, task forces and special commissions are scampering to do something about runaway corruption, with very little to show for it. There is no denying that corruption pervades the entire societal spectrum, at individual and social levels. If properly investigated, corruption could turn out to be the number one killer in Kenya! Why is corruption so hard to fight? At the core of it, we have systemic failure and a lack of will by those vested with the responsibility to curb it. We have built our social, economic and political system on corrupt practices, effectively making it an enterprise that now fuels and propagates its own existence. At the individual level, we have abated corruption by accepting to pay for public services that are our right and free. At institutional level, we have so many actors - the EACC, DCI, DPP, Parliament - all purporting to do the same thing, and in the process creating role confusion. Then we have a compromised Judiciary that preys on the corrupt for individual gain, effectively serving to defeat justice by either prolonging sentences or letting culprits off the hook. If our individual and institutional failures provide the firewood for corrupt practices, then our body politic is the matchstick that ignites it. Our political relationships, right from the top, are built around who bought who, or who was paid how much. The public sector has been reduced to a theatre of the absurd, with all appointments predicated, not on dictates of Article 10 or Chapter 6 of the Constitution, but on how much one pays or whether you have ‘a tall relative’ in the system. When a society is confronted with monumental challenges, it marshals enormous, concerted, and sustained efforts to overcome them. Fighting corruption requires a unity of purpose and decisiveness. Above all, it requires unwavering leadership. In the short-term, there is need to undertake forensic audit of all procurement processes and periodic lifestyle audit targeting public officers. To build public confidence and gain traction, there is also need to expedite a non-selective investigation and trial of all culpable. Making our graft laws simple, widely popularised, and as realistic as possible will help in speeding up the process. In the longer term, there is need to inculcate a value system through attitude and mindset shift, ethics and integrity education throughout our schools and professions, fully embracing, implementing and monitoring the national values espoused in the Constitution. Our constitution project is incomplete. Though it has devolved power and resources, it has not followed that up with sufficient checks and balance at the lower levels where, unfortunately, corruption and wastage of public funds is rife. For a start, our Judiciary should have strong and sufficient presence in each of the 47 counties, where local prosecutions of local corruption cases should be. The judiciary should develop local structures akin to the Gacaca courts of Rwanda to handle local abuse of office. To stop role confusion and duplication, the EACC should be converted into an Anti-Corruption Authority charged with leading policy, research and awareness efforts against graft, the investigative role reverts to the DCI while Parliament exercises its oversight role by considering reports from other investigative organs. Then there is the elephant in the room – the role of political responsibility and culpability in the discharge of public duty. In a functional democracy – which ours is not – political appointees serve largely based on public perception and confidence on the integrity of the appointee. When integrity is questioned, the honorable thing to do is for such an appointee to give way. If they do not, then the appointing authority should relieve them. When the President surrounds himself with individuals tainted by corruption, transfers or assigns them other roles, he is effectively reinforcing the corruption networks. This serves to water down his resolve, making a mockery of his declared fight against graft. President Uhuru has made it known that he intends to fight corruption. This is a good thing. But good intentions are not enough. Efforts of the past week point to a good start. They need to be sustained and cascaded to all levels of government and other sectors. Not doing this will endanger his Big Four agenda and damage his legacy. Abduba is KDA’s governance & institutional development specialist