Last week, Education CS Amina Mohamed launched the office of career services in the university system. The office is expected to help students to prepare for post-college and higher education life. Amina also unveiled a handbook that will guide universities and technical and vocational education institutions to operationalise the office. Educational and training institutions prepare young people for the responsibilities of adult life. Secondary education prepares students for the world of work, and for further education in tertiary and higher education institutions. Tertiary institutions and higher education institutions enrol those who continue with their education. Their sole purpose is imparting knowledge and skills for the job market and for citizenship. These are not by any means easy tasks. The future is ever-changing. Globalisation, the knowledge economy and changing technology and consumer needs mean that the future into which students enter upon completion of their studies is dynamic. They require knowledge, skills and courage to participate in that future in ways that are useful to themselves and society. Our world was less complex than it is today. But still, many adults can remember how frightening it was to make that critical transition from the relative security of a school to the great unknown: Choice of subjects in high school and courses in university. It was frightening to even select courses or electives not fully knowing the implications of the choices we made. The fright, confusion and self-doubt did not end once we had settled on subjects or courses. Questions still lingered in our minds as to whether we had made the right decision to drop this subject or this course for that course. What doors had I closed with these decisions? It was more like shooting arrows into the dark. The office of career services will help our students make rational decisions instead of leaving everything to chance. US President Franklin D. Roosevelt said, “We cannot always build a future for our youth, but we can build our youth for the future.” Some universities already have fully fledged offices that provide help and advice to students every step of the way. It is expected that they will redouble their efforts in serving students — the excellent and the average. The average student in college almost always turns out to be tough-minded, daring and innovative. They too need a helping hand as they finally walk out of their institution’s gates. The offices of the career services, like their counterparts in great educational institutions in the US, the UK and other countries, should be staffed with experienced personnel. They should have the ability to create an environment where students can be helped to discover their abilities and interests and develop them in tandem with their aptitudes and aspirations. The centres should help students identify career paths, apply for internships and jobs, polish resumes, prepare for interviews, meet with recruiters, and receive career alerts. They can also connect students to mentors, alumni, career counsellors, mount field trips or invite potential employers to talk about what they look for in prospective employees apart from technical competencies. Linkage between faculties and the office of career services will greatly improve students’ career prospects and enable the country to tap into the rich reservoir of innate potential of youths for its development.   Communications officer, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology