Members of the Abasuba community want the Education ministry to include their language in the curriculum. The community lives mainly in Homa Bay county, but a section is in Migori county. Yesterday, members petitioned the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development through the Senate. It wants Abasuba taught in schools. In April, KICD released a press statement that Dholuo will be taught in Suba primary schools from January next year. The petitioners say the move will kill their language. The petitioned was signed by Joseph Opanga, Godfrey Jelah, Kennedy Jagwassi and George Wagaka. The rights of the community must be protected, they said. "We want the Senate to come up with a special bill that will protect and promote the endangered languages in the country," they said in a letter. The petitioners said small communities have faced serious historical injustices and violation of human rights because they are assimilated by bigger communities. The Abasuba are considered one of the four subtribes of the Luo community. Others are Jokajok, Jokomollo and Jokowiny. The application says Abasuba could be extinct if children are taught Dholuo, the dominant language in the region. The petition was tabled to the senate on Tuesday and subjected to the senate education committee for scrutiny for period of 60 days. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang' yesterday supported the petition. He said it "timely". Kajwang' said the Abasuba language must be conserved. "The petition would help protect the Abasuba language, which is currently facing extinction," he said. He however cautioned against mishandling the matter. The second-term legislator said it should not be used to caused rift between the Subas and the rest of the Luo community. He said they have coexisted peacefully and that must continue. "The identity issue should be solved but unity with neighbouring communities must remain," Kajwang' said. The government recognised the Abasuba community through a Gazette Notice in 1994 which created the Abasuba District and identified the community as one of the Kenyan communities. The notice also directed the defunct Kenya Institute of Education to publish learning books in Abasuba language. This was not implemented. Ahead of last year's election, the community successfully petitioned the IEBC to have names of Gwassi and Mbita constituencies changed to Suba South and Suba North.