Kajiado county commissioner David Kipkemei has interdicted a chief who was caught merry-making at an event where a nine-year-old girl was subjected to FGM. The administrator said they rescued the standard two pupil of Esonorua Primary School who was due to be married off to a 55-year-old man as fifth wife. Kipkemei said officers, acting on a tip-off, found food, beer and the bridal preparations already underway at the time they stormed the old man's home. "On noticing the
officers, everyone ran away leaving the little girl crying.  We arrested the area assistant chief Samuel Kuyuoni who is said to have facilitated the ceremony." The assistant chief
was later charged in a Kajiado law court for attending an illegal
marriage, hence his interdiction. When contacted by the
Star, Kuyuoni denied having been involved in the said activity, and even challenged
his boss to provide evidence against him. Kuyuoni blamed his owes on "enemies out to blackmail him" adding that the girl being
mentioned comes from Naning’oi Primary School in Mosiro
and not Esonorua. However, Kipkemei maintained the chief played a part in facilitating the circumcision of the
young girl. He warned all
chiefs and their assistants that anyone found involved in retrogressive culture will not be spared. The commissioner
noted that female genital mutilation and early marriages still remain a big
challenge for girls in the region. Governor Joseph Lenku said at the Madaraka Day fete that he will support the
commissioner in fighting retrospective practices in the region. In a separate incident, Saikeri assistant chief Makuta Pulei was
arrested after he allegedly stopped policemen from arresting suspects caught drinking in a bar outside the official hours. Kipkemei said the assistant chief also
attempted to beat up his area chief during the confrontation which caused the suspects
to escape the police dragnet. "It is wrong for an
administrator to block others from maintaining the law," Kipkemei during the
Madaraka Day celebrations in Kajiado town. But the assistant
chief denied the claims he obstructed police
from arresting suspects. "My tribulations were
caused by a woman appointed to serve at locational level as member of national
authority for campaign against drug abuse." "She went to lie to the county
commissioner about what never happened. I am clean and do not even take
alcohol," Pulei said. Click
here for the latest political news 