NYS suspects spent yet another night behind bars last night as DPP Noordin Haji sought to ensure they do not use proceeds of “crime” to secure their freedom. Youth PS Lilian Omollo and Peter Kimani, director of Arkroad Holdings, that allegedly received Sh24 million from the NYS loot, are the only suspects whose files were placed before the Anti-Corruption Court for verification. However, their hopes to finally walk to freedom before the end of the day were dashed after Haji sought more time to verify their sureties. Must read : DPP warns MPs against giving money for release of NYS suspects Former NYS director general Richard Ndubai’s file was still with the DCI, despite posting bail and providing sureties. Attempts by his family and lawyers to have it placed before the court failed. Among the properties being investigated is a Sh6 million prime mover that was transferred for surety a week ago by Antony Wamiti another director of Arkroad Holdings. The prime mover, KCA 375 J, was transferred to Alice Wamai and was only discovered early in the week by the National Transport Authority. State counsel Daniel Karuri tabled a letter from Haji that directs Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to ensure that securities and funds presented by suspects in the Sh468 million scandal are not used. “We’ve received information that some of the proposed sureties have already received properties by way of transfer from the accused persons and that’s why we need at least one more week to verify,” the lawyer told chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi. On Tuesday, the court ordered all the 46 suspects to execute a Sh5 million bond, with a Sh2 million surety and Sh1 million bail. But the DPP said the Asset Recovery Agency believed some funds intended to be used were not only suspect, but subject of the current cases. “Confirm the validity and legitimacy of the securities and funds being presented by the suspects for purposes of procuring their release on bail and bond,” he said The accused through their lawyers said Haji was creating unnecessary hurdles. “We’ve adhered to the entire process. He can’t rewrite the law with administrative directions,” Omollo’s lawyer Stephen Ligunya said. The move was only meant to frustrate the accused. The court is to rule today. See this : Reprieve as NYS suspects freed on Sh5 million bond each Click here for the latest political news