Three people, including a woman and her daughter, have died from a suspected cholera outbreak in Bungoma. County health director Sylvester Mutoro confirmed the deaths but denied they were cases of cholera. Khasoko village resident Dorcas Masinde died at the Bungoma County Referral Hospital on May 25. She had been transferred to the facility from Nasianda Dispensary in Bumula where she was diagnosed with diarrhoea and vomiting. Dorcas,45, also complained pains in her lower limbs. Her daughter died from similar symptoms two days earlier. Four days before, Brenda Okumu died from what nurses said was dehydration, vomiting and diarrhoea. Okumu, 17, was a Standard Seven student at Masuno Primary School. She had been sick for four days. “This disease is not cholera. I want to assure Bumula residents that there is no cause for alarm because there have been no reported deaths of similar circumstances for a period of one week now,” Mutoro said. He said results of samples taken for laboratory examination will be made public. Nasianda nurse in-charge Florence Akuku said Dorcas died from food poisoning. She said there were other cases which were being monitored. "Tests conducted on Brenda showed no signs of malaria," Akuku said. He also noted that there were specific cases of some patients who had similar signs of diarrhoea and vomiting that were being followed up. There was a case of a 45 year old woman named Dorcas Masinde from Khasoko area who was brought to the hospital on 25th of May complaining of pains on the lower limbs, diarrhoea and vomiting. Upon interrogation it was discovered that her daughter who had similar symptoms had passed on at Khasoko Dispensary the previous night. The daughter a 17 year old student at Lubunda Primary school had signs of diarrhoea and vomiting when she was taken to Khasoko dispensary on 24th of May and she passed on while undergoing treatment. Akuku said once the patient had been stabilised, she requested for an ambulance and referred her to Bungoma County Referral Hospital. “The patient was diagnosed with food poisoning and was admitted at the County Hospital where she later passed on the same day,” said Akuku. She also noted that there were specific cases of some patients who had similar signs of diarrhoea and vomiting that were being followed up. There was a third incident of a 17 year old Brenda Okumu a class seven at Masuno Primary School, who had been sick for four days. She had signs of diarrhoea, vomiting and dehydration and was attended to at Nasianda Dispensary. The tests carried out showed no signs of malaria. Brenda was transferred to the Bumula Subcounty Hospital where she died. Bumula subcounty public health officer Ronald Chepkwesi said there was a high possibility that all the three cases were a result of food poisoning. "Remember it is the harvesting season for beans which most families in Bumula have turned into a staple food," Chepkwesi said.