Vihiga United coach Edward Manoah has welcomed the inclusion of former Homeboyz coach Mike Mururi in the team’s technical bench. Mururi parted ways with Homeboyz on Monday last week and was replaced by Ugandan Paul Nkata. On Sunday, Manoah said: “We immediately went for him after he parted ways with Homeboyz. He is a very good coach and we will work together in achieving our objective.” He added: “We have a young squad with most of the players playing top flight football for the first time. You need a strong technical bench to guide the players and Mururi is a blessing to us. Players can learn a lot from him.” Manoah said he has a good relationship with Mururi having mentored him. The coach also hailed the capture of Morven Otinya from Sofapaka. Otinya has been on loan at Nzoia Sugar. “He is a very good player. We have been chasing his signature for some time now and I’m happy we have signed him. If he settles well into the team, he will help us in the second leg,” added Manoah. He said the club is angling to sign three more players to strengthen the team ahead of the second round of Sportpesa Premier League. He said the new signings will be revealed today. “We released six players due to inconsistent performances while others had school engagements,” he noted. Those who were released are former AFC Leopards midfielder Martin Imbalambala, Jacob Atinda, Victor Ayugi, William Oricho, Dennis Lugalia, and Wycliffe Kabaji. He regretted that the club missed their first round target by six points. The club sits in position 12 on the log with 19 points. “We gave a good account of ourselves in the in the first round. Our target is to maintain our status in top flight league. I don’t want to put the players under too much pressure,” he added. He, however, warned his charges that second round will be tough as teams battle for top honours and against relegation. The coach was speaking after his side defeated Nyamira All Stars 5-0 in a Sportpesa Shield game at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Manoah fielded fringe players against the Nyamira-based outfit. “I wanted to test some players who have not had a n opportunity to play regularly during the first leg. They played a good game against a competitive side,” said Manoah.