Kenyans have reacted with anger after Julie Wanza died following a botched breast augmentation surgery in Karen. The procedure, which was carried out by an unidentified surgeon, left her with severe abdominal pain that later worsened, and she was taken to Nairobi Hospital. Wanza died of sepsis, an infection that takes effect when the body’s immune system releases chemicals into the bloodstream to fight an infection. Wanza’s husband, Joseph Mulupi, said he was still grieving and did not wish to talk yet. The death has shocked many people, especially women, who have increasingly sought larger breasts. On the other hand, some seem to be blaming the woman, with claims that she should have remained natural. Readers who commented blamed the government for not being keen with the doctors in our health institutions. “Kenyan doctors are incompetent, unprofessional and badly trained! The Delamare grandson Tom Cholmondeley died in hospital after a hip operation. Just the other day the Kenyan doctors at KNH operated the wrong patient in the head. It is due to such medical blunders that we urgently need the Cuban doctors,” Itikwaki  said. “These are the doctors who scored A in KCSE, were admitted to study medicine but in reality were C and D students. They stole exams and now the society is paying heavily. Kudos Matiang’i for stopping exam stealing. Those times of a hundred As in …… school, with teachers and pupils dancing all over!” Mtoto wa Moses Kuria said. “Most of them might have been A students in EACE, EAACE, KCSE-I and latter KCSE-II, and joined the medical profession with good intentions, but ended up contracting professional ‘sepsis’ (septicemia) along the way due to keeping the wrong company (bad influence), developing usual addictive appetite for greed, alcoholism, substance abuse, competing with the Kantais (Joneses), et cetera,” Wa_MMbando said. Some think the couple is to blame. “Both the woman and the husband are crazy. A happily married couple with kids; why the surgery for breast enlargement? Hindsight wisdoms will not bring her back. What the medical board must establish is: Was the operation done correctly and according to medical regulations or there was a mistake?. Infections following operations do occur even in well-performed operations. So was her bowels cut as the reporters do write or not? The public should be fed with correct words and correct information, not speculation,” aesculapius said. The 33-year-old mother of three will be buried on Saturday.