The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is seeking powers to bar candidates with integrity issues from vying. Chairman Wafula Chebukati said the commission wants the law amended to enable IEBC to deal with candidates who violate the electoral code of conduct. He said currently the commission does not have powers to disqualify politicians who are found culpable of criminal activities. “The law blocks the commission from doing anything because the same politicians go to court and you can’t block them before they have exhausted the legal processes,” Chebukati said. He said there is need for a legal framework that can work for all those handling matters of integrity and the commission is given an upper hand to determine who should stand for elections. INNOCENT “This legal bottleneck makes it very hard for the commission to bar people from standing,” he said. He spoke in Kisumu on Tuesday during the commission’s post-election evaluation forum. The chairman said the IEBC is conducting a post-election evaluation report in six clusters. All activities will be reviewed and shared with stakeholders to enable Kenya manage elections better in future. Chebukati said the commission will look at the law and what can work for everyone because the Constitution provides for someone being innocent until proven guilty. CHILOBA He said the commission is working despite the court case over the sending of CEO Ezra Chiloba on compulsory leave. Chebukati said he would not dwell on the matter as it is in court, but said despite the case and resignation of three commissioners, operations at the electoral agency have not been crippled. “The commission is intact and continuing to discharge its duties as mandated by the Constitution,” he said. Chiloba wanted Chebukati to personally appear in court to show cause why he should not be held in contempt of court. Read:IEBC WOES; Chiloba sues Chebukati for contempt Chiloba wanted Chebukati and the two commissioners Abdi Guliye and Bola Molu to be held in contempt for locking him out of his office even after the court ordered him to resume work. He wanted the court to set aside the decision made by the commission in a letter that suspended him for three more months. Also Read:IEBC crisis deepens as Chiloba aides forced to take leave Click here for the latest political news