Deputy President William Ruto will "whip" Kiambu County leaders if they keep on fighting each other. Ruto issued this warning on Friday, describing wrangles between Governor Ferdinand Waititu and DG James Nyoro as a shame and noting that they can solve their problems amicably. He also urged county leaders to work closely with Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and Senator Kimani Wamatangi for the sake of development. The two have disagreed with Waititu over the rehabilitation of alcoholics through casual jobs that earn them Sh400 a day. Ruto said the county's issues affect the country since it is the home of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I ask all leaders from this region to work together like brothers and sisters. You should not use all your energies to bring shame," the DP said. “I want you to remain a hardworking team. Do not bring shame to us. If you continue, I will come back with a whip. The boss asked me to keep on checking on you." He spoke in Kikuyu town where he commissioned the Kikuyu modern market so as to decongest the town by providing all hawkers with space for their work. Among those present were Waititu, Nyoro, Wamatangi, Wamuchomba, Deputy Senate Speaker Kiindiki Kithure and MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Jude Njomo (Kiambu), James Githua (Kabete), Jonah Mburu (Lari) and Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira). Others were Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Patrick Wainaina (Juja), Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Simon King’ara (Ruiru) John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Gabriel Kago (Githunguri) and MCAs. Wamatangi told Ruto that he had called a meeting of all Kiambu leaders in Westlands, Nairobi, next Monday. Nyoro earlier accused the Governor of sidelining him in county management and decision making. He also alleged that he had been operating without an office and an official vehicle, a situation he described as torturous. Waititu dismissed the allegations saying the DG had been skipping Cabinet meetings and had two offices. Ruto urged the leaders to work hard so that the Jubilee administration can achieve its Big Four Action plan on food security, healthcare, affordable housing and manufacturing. More on this: Working with Waititu is torture, he runs one-man show - Nyoro Also see: Nyoro a liar who skips meetings without reason, says Waititu Click here for the latest political news