Senator Kipchumba Murkomen irked some Twitter users on Wednesday when he said Kanu could not field a candidate for the Baringo South MP nomination as that is a Jubilee zone. The Senate Majority Leader, who is in charge of Elgeyo Marakwet county, attracted reactions by people including Tiaty MP William Kamket. Murkomen's tweet stated: "With the popularity of William Ruto in Baringo county, there is no way Kanu would field a candidate. Baringo is a Jubilee zone." Kamket, one of the hundreds of people who responded, wrote: "Senator, Woman Rep, MP, MCAs, directors, voters - Kanu. What do you mean? Ama mmeleta scandal huku pia (Or have your caused scandals here too)? #Cartels. And FYI, we dine with all the jubilee MPs daily [sic]." Twitter user Cornelius Ronoh told the Senator that Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi is focused on the 2022 general election, "not petty village politics". One Coleter wrote: "Kwani campaign za 2022 zimeanza (Have 2022 campaigns begun)?You guys are jokers. We have fake sugar with mercury to worry about.” The person was referring to the confiscation of 1,600 of sugar in Eastleigh, Nairobi, products which Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said had copper and mercury components and were therefore harmful to humans. Another 1,600 bags of sugar were seized on Mombasa Road on Wednesday morning, while being transported to Eastleigh. More on this: Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Jimmy Mayore asked whether Murkomen's conclusion would result in more maize flour for Baringo residents. Nicky tweeted: “Baringo can be whatever zone but mkiendelea kutuibia hivi, '22 mtakula kwa macho (if you continue stealing like this, you will not win anything in 2022)." Related: Cost of unga, milk, drugs to go up in budget Also see: Budget to reveal how Kenya plans to deliver on ambitious priorities Another member of the public termed the politicians 'tumbocrats' who cry of hunger before swallowing the food in their mouths. "Why rant about 2022 when you have not met people's requests? Bure Kabisa (useless)." Charles Kamuren, won the Jubilee Party nominations for the seat, defected from Kanu. The party accused the ruling coalition of manipulating and poaching its candidate after Ruto, the Deputy President, visited the county on June 3. Jubilee affirmed that it will support Kamuren. The by-election will fill the vacancy left by Grace Kipchoim who died and was laid to rest at Kimoriot in Mochongoi on May 5. Kipchoim had suffered from acute colon cancer for close to two years. More on this: [VIDEO] Baringo politicians Kamuren and Olempaka defect to Jubilee Also read: DP accused of bias in Baringo South MP race Click here for the latest political news