The Kenya Forest Service has taken over the sprawling Maasai Mau Forest following massive destruction of the water tower. It is being devastated despite a national logging moratorium. The takeover is expected to last for two months and KFS wardens from other stations will be deployed throughout the forest. It is the largest of Kenya’s five water towers, covering 988,421 acres. The Maasai Mau Forest itself covers 113,668 acres. The complex is the catchment source for Lake Victoria and the White Nile. It is the source of numerous rivers, which carry Mau’s water throughout Western Kenya from Lake Turkana in the North to Lake Natron in the South. On Sunday KFS flew journalists to see the level of destruction in the forest. From the outside, everything appeared in order, but a kilometre into the forest loggers were at work, felling valuable cedar trees. The level of destruction shocked KFS board chairperson Peter Kinyua and acting chief conservator Monica Kalenda. Kalenda hinted that those who have encroached on the forest might be evicted. “The government is going to use resources at its disposal to ensure the destruction stops. We are also going to enforce the moratorium, which has been extended by six months,” she said. It will last through November. Last month Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said the moratorium was extended to allow for the appointment of a new KFS board and implementation of management and conservation reforms. The 90-day ban on logging and extraction of timber lapsed on May 24 and was extended for another six months. “We will build the capacity of the county government until the situation is under control. There are a lot of challenges, this is a county government with no roads, rendering most of the areas impassable,” Kalenda said. She said the takeover move will be costly as officers protecting other national strategic forests are being brought in. “If we allow forests to be degraded, we won’t achieve the 10 per cent forest cover by 2022,” she said. Maasai Mau, which is part of the larger Mau complex, is under the Narok government. It is a trust land indigenous forest. The complex borders Kericho to the West, Narok to the South, Nakuru to the North and Bomet to the South-West. It is divided into seven blocs comprising Southwest Mau (Tinet), East Mau, Oldonyo Purro, Transmara, Maasai Mau, Western Mau and Southern Mau. In 2009 the forest was at the centre of a duel between William Ruto, who was then Agriculture Minister, and Raila Odinga, who was then Prime Minister. People were evicted. Raila called for preservation and rehabilitation of the forest that was being destroyed by agriculture and other activities. Ruto defended the Mau settlers, terming the leaders behind the evictions “heartless”. Ruto had accused Raila of delaying the resettlement of the Mau Forest evictees, saying he wanted to use it as election bait. Raila later said he lost the Rift Valley vote in the 2013 general election largely because he was accused of “engineering the eviction of settlers”. At the time, Raila’s office in consultation with the Office of the President had appointed a Mau Forest task force, mandated to how to restore the forest. Former Rift Valley Provincial Commissioner Hassan Noor led the implementation of restoration efforts.