The National Police Service has reiterated its warning about an attack by al Shabaab terrorists during Ramadhan. In a statement on Thursday, police said they had reliable information that the terrorists were targeting key infrastructure in Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and the Coast counties. Spokesman Charles Owino said the group is particularly targeting installations along the boarder. "We wish to assure members of the public that we have deployed our resources appropriately to counter any such actions by these criminals. Our officers are on high alert and will continue monitoring their movements at all times," Owino said. Read: Inside Kenya army's war on al Shabaab in Somalia Also read: You will be safe during Ramadhan, Saleh tells Northeastern Muslims The Spokesman dismissed claims that the GSU officers killed on June 7 were attacked on Kenyan soil. Five GSU officers were killed and three others seriously injured after their vehicle ran over a landmine in Harhar, Liboi. The 8am explosion occurred when the officers were on patrol a few kilometres from the Kenya-Somalia border. The vehicle rolled several times and was ripped apart. "I wish to clarify that the attack on El wak town happened on the Somalia side and not within our boarders. The heavy deployment of security personnel in El Wak and along the borderline helped in providing refuge for Somali civilians fleeing the attacks," Owino said. He added: "We condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms and warn the militants that we shall not rest until they are caught and punished." Read: Five cops killed, three injured by Shabaab IED Owino further said that the "isolated" incident will not distract them for the goal of ridding the country of the militia and securing all Kenyans. He asked politicians and residents to fully support security operations. Meanwhile, police have launched a manhunt for al Shabaab returnee Salim Aboud Sultri aka Survivor. In a statement on Wednesday, they said Sultri is believed to have been hiding at Mlango Wa Papa mosque in Old Town Mombasa. More on this: Police hunt 'armed, dangerous' al Shabaab suspects from Mombasa Click here for more political news 