Nairobi residents will enjoy better water supply as Ndakaini dam is about 90 per cent full. Governor Mike Sonko has announced reduced rationing. Some areas will get fully supply daily. Sonko toured the dam on Wednesday with the county assembly Water and Sanitation committee and expressed optimism the supply will improve for the five million residents. “Today, I am happy to report the dam is now at 90 per cent capacity. This is good news to the people of Nairobi who have had to bear with rationing when water levels at the dam were low, “ Sonko said. Estates along Juja Road, Mathare, Mlango Kubwa, Huruma and others receiving water four days a week will now receive it daily. Survey of Kenya, Mathare North, TRM, Safari Park and Zimmerman that have been getting water on Mondays only now will receive it from Saturday through Monday. Thindigua and Runda estates that have been getting water on Monday and Tuesday will now receive water daily. Central Business District that used to get water from Monday to Thursday will receive water daily. Lucky Summer and Dandora will receive water on Mondays as well a the usual Tuesdays to Thursdays. Kayole, Komarock and Harambee will get an additional 12 hours of water supply. “We shall revert to the previous rationing programme in the future when the water levels drop, but for now, let us all enjoy the improved supply while it lasts,” Governor Sonko said. In April, Sonko ordered an investigation into the status of Ndakaini dam following widespread claims the level was only at 30 per cent, despite the heavy rain pounding the country at the time. He said many theories were advanced, chief among them sabotage by water cartels. “After lengthy and thorough investigations, I am satisfied with the explanation given by my officers that,” Sonko said. “Whereas the rest of Kenya was experiencing heavy downpours and even floods, rain in the Ndakaini catchment area was only just beginning,” the governor said. Most of the water supplied to Nairobi is drawn from Chania River. Ndakaini dam only augments Chania when water level is low. The two other dams supplying Nairobi, Sasumua and Ruiru, are full. According to the Nairobi water master plan, a new dam ought to be built every 10 years. In April, Water CS Simon Chelugui said rationing will go on for two years. The situation may only improve after completion of the Northern Water Collector Tunnel project. Amajor portion will be completed this year.