The Interior Ministry on Friday received three police helicopters for the National Police Airwing in Nairobi, a fortnight after Parliament learnt that the choppers were purchased secretly. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said the choppers arean integral part of an ongoing police modernisation programme. “We have basically had what you would very easily describe as radical transformation of the police airwing,” Matiang’i said when he officially received the choppers at the Police Hangar at Wilson Airport. The aircraft arrived at the JKIA on Friday last week. Matiang’i was accompanied by top police officers including IG Joseph Boinnet, NPS Airwing Director Rogers Mbithi and Italian deputy ambassador to Kenya. The CS said the copters bring to 11 the total number dedicated to police operations. This, he said, is besides two fixed wing planes expected in the country by end of July. “That gives us huge capacity. We are going to continue building on that. The reason we are doing that is so that we can offer better services to our people,” Matiang’i said. On June 18, MPs were surprised to learn that the Interior ministry had procured four choppers from Italy without the approval of the House. This was after the Committee on Administration and National Security chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange made an impromptu visit to the NPS Airwing in Nairobi. “The committee was not informed. Members were surprised that aircraft can be bought without their knowledge. But we will follow up to the end," Koinange said. Mbithi told the MPs that four choppers, valued at about Sh4 billion, had been bought from Augusta Westland Company. He said procurement was done by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and the NPS led by Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. “As Airwing, we only gave specifications and left the rest to the ministry and the National Police Service,” Mbithi told the committee. He said two more copters would be shipped in later, something Matiang’i confirmed on Friday. “More will be coming. We now don’t have an excuse not to go to every corner of our country and provide security for our people,” he said. “Going forward, we will strengthen our relationship with the Italian government so that we can continue to benefit from their experience, knowledge and capacities." On September 8, 2016, taxpayers lost Sh2.28 billion after a VIP carrier helicopter crashed at the National Youth Service engineering institute near Mathare. The chopper, whose purchase details remain classified, was not compensated by the tendering firm because it did not have insurance and warranty. On May 12, top security chiefs told National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee,m that was scrutinising audit reports on Interior Mministry expenditures for 2015-16, that only a preliminary report on the crash was available. Read: Interior ministry shocks MPs with 'secret' purchase of Sh4 billion helicopters Also read: Sh4 billion choppers land at JKIA ahead of Tuesday unveiling Click here for the latest political news