Corruption has eaten deep into Kenyans' pockets and since big fish convictions are the goal, perhaps a look at what happened decades ago will be helpful. The disease struck and proved difficult to resolve during the era of founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, who served as from 1964 to 1978 when he died. An article published by the New York Times in 1975 states that Cabinet ministers disliked raising serious questions with Kenyatta after lunch because he sometimes subjected them to temper tantrums. At one point, it states, "an official of the creamery cooperative attempted to explain that an imbalance between price controls for raw milk was causing a serious deficit but Kenyatta struck him on the head with a cane". As a result, the President was accused of damaging his political image by amassing wealth and stifling freedom. New York Times said Kenyatta was also accused of writing a letter to a farmers’ cooperative telling it not to renew the question of a Sh19 million debt he had incurred for seed, fertiliser and other supplies for his several farms. The letter said he did not intend to pay though the debt would have to be absorbed by fellow farmers, many of them smallholders. These stories remind us of complaints by the Kenyan public following several corruption scandals under second President Daniel arap Moi and fourth President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is Mzee Kenyatta's son. Kenya has been plagued by a long list of scandals, one of the most infamous being the Goldenberg heist in the 1990s, during Moi's tenure. The government was found to have subsidised exports of gold far beyond standard arrangements by paying a company called Goldenberg International 35 per cent more in Kenyan shillings than their foreign currency earnings. Other notable cases are the Sh250 billion Eurobond scandal, the Anglo Leasing case (Euros 59,688,250) and the fresh Sh9 billion National Youth Service scam. More on this: NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal Frustrated Kenyans have in the past accused Uhuru of not taking measures tough enough to tame corruption, as many parts lag behind in development and are plagued by poverty. Others said his inaction paved way for looting and will cause his successors to struggle under the weight of the vice, just like he has. Uhuru once admitted he was also frustrated as authorities and their officials were sleeping on their jobs. That was in his first term at President. In his second and final five years, he has waged a war that has signaled hope. More on this: [VIDEO] Frustrated Uhuru scolds state officials on rampant corruption Also read: Uhuru declares corruption 'a national security threat,' calls it a sin against God  Deputy President William Ruto addresses the congregations of St Benedict Catholic Church in Ngoigwa and Presbyterian Church of East Africa (PCEA) in Thika Town, Kiambu County, June 17, 2018. /DPPS PLENTY AT STAKE Kenya is perceived as one of the world’s most corrupt countries. It ranked 143 out of 180 countries in Transparency International’s 2017 corruption perception index. The only African countries that scored worse – among them Somalia, South Sudan, Libya, Eritrea, Burundi, and Zimbabwe – were either politically unstable or in conflict. Uhuru certainly wants a smooth final term so he has no choice but to crack the whip on the corrupt. He cannot afford to say that he is frustrated, especially not after agreeing to work with Opposition leader Raila Odinga for peace, unity, national healing, reconciliation and countrywide development. The world is watching following the 'handshake' and there is the fact that youths or 'future leaders' will suffer if more money 'goes missing'. In addition, there are significant economic consequences. The Eurobond swindle was more than just a missed opportunity to expand the country’s inadequate and dilapidated infrastructure. It also led to a sovereign rating downgrade on the basis of its increasing inability to service ballooning public debt. Details: Understanding the economic cost of corruption in Kenya  NASA principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) during a press conference at Okoa Kenya premises in Nairobi, at which they reiterated their resolve to work together, February 1, 2018. /JACK OWUOR WHAT UHURU HAS DONE SO FAR As Kenyans wonder whether any of their Presidents will tame graft, the steps Uhuru has taken linger in the minds of many, who analyse their practicality and potential to yield results. The following are some of the steps the President has taken so far: 1. Fresh vetting of all procurement heads 2. Polygraph tests for government procurement officers 3. The sacking of high-flying state officials found guilty of corruption 4. Publication of tender details by all government entities and publicly owned institutions 5. Publication of the names of firms and identities of directors of companies that are awarded any supply contracts 6. Reliance on confidential reports prepared by the National Intelligence Service 7. Lifestyle audits for public servants, including himself and Deputy President William Ruto Some leaders have proposed solutions to the corruption menace. ODM's Raila Odinga proposed a bill that he said would compel the government to pay its suppliers within 30 days. He said the 'Prompt Payment Bill 2016' would be used to counter-check invoices given to suppliers and follow up on them to ensure payments are made. However, another problem rears its head when such suggestions are made.The proposals are rarely advanced because of the tendency for the ideas and their proponents to be ignored. Raila's bill never saw the light of the day. The issue of getting ignored was highlighted by Auditor General Edward Edward Ouko, who warned about the dangers of corruption. He said some damage would have been avoided had authorities paid attention to his reports. Read: Raila proposes Prompt Payment Bill 2016 to help fight corruption According to the world Bank, Its important to understand the different kinds of corruption to develop smart responses. Kenya should also create pathways that give citizens relevant tools to engage and participate in their governments – identify priorities,  problems and find solutions. The country should also invest in institutions and policy – sustainable improvement in how a government delivers services. Should the graft in Kenya persist, Uhuru's successor will also carry the burden. Among those who want to vie for the 'hot seat' in the 2022 general election are Deputy President William Ruto, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Wiper party boss Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress. Click here for the latest political news