The Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission has condemned an attack on a UN mission on the day South Sudan leaders agreed on some points in their peace talks. The Tuesday attack was against the United Nations Mission in South Sudan and humanitarian providers in Yei River state. A peacekeeper from Bangladesh died. Read: Warring South Sudan leaders reach agreement on 'some points' The attack was the third against UNMISS peacekeepers since May 3. Six aid workers have died while 384 access incidents have been reported this year by the United Nations. JMEC chairperson Festus Mogae said asked the South Sudan government and leaders of all warring parties to ensure that UN agencies and all aid workers have unimpeded access and can operate safely and freely. Mogae noted that individuals who directly or indirectly attack the UN and humanitarian personnel violate the Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan (August 2015) and Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities, Protection of Civilians and Humanitarian Access (December 2017). Mogae also asked South Sudan authorities in the area of the latest attack to bring the perpetrators to justice. "Violators must be identified and made to face the law," he said i a statement on Wednesday. South Sudan's President signed a peace agreement with rebels on Wednesday including a ceasefire to start in 72 hours. The agreement in Sudan's capital, Khartoum, aims to end a war in which tens of thousands of people have been killed. President Salva Kiir and revel leader Riek Machar also agreed on cantonments for all forces and the deployment of forces by Igad and the African Union to safeguard the ceasefire. According to Juba Daily News, the warring parties will, in the next three days, engage in "intense security arrangement discussions" at Igad-mediated peace talks in Khartoum and will be expected to reach and sign an agreement on security by the weekend. Also read: Salva Kiir, Riek Machar sign peace agreement in Khartoum Click here for the latest political news