The Kikuyu Council of Elders have demanded the sacking of two Cabinet Secretaries and top Jubilee party officials for allegedly undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta. Council chairman Wachira Kiago and secretary general Peter Munga said Henry Rotich (Treasury) and Adan Mohamed (Industrialisation) and Senate and National Assembly Majority leaders Kipchumba Murkomen and Aden Duale respectively were working against Uhuru. On Tuesday, the council asked Deputy President William Ruto to retire alongside Uhuru when the president’s term ends in 2022. The elders yesterday criticised what they called attacks on the president by politicians allied to Ruto. “We have noted with deep concern that there are people very close to the Deputy President who are directly fighting H.E President Uhuru Kenyatta in an attempt to divert his spirited fight against corruption,” the council said in a statement. “It is annoying and disheartening to see people closest to the Deputy President trying hard to divert Kenya’s attention from this serious crime against humanity.” The elders said they are keenly watching the political developments and will soon determine the next course of action. “There was pressure from some quarters that we should withdraw our statement [that Ruto should retire]. Why should we withdraw when that is the position of the council,” Munga told the Star yesterday. The elders accused Murkomen and Duale for openly attacking Uhuru. They said Murkomen and Duale’s positions as majority leaders in Parliament had become untenable  CHEMICAL TERROR. “They are no longer advancing the interests of the government but personal or partisan concerns thereby undermining the authority of the President in the fight against corruption and the Building Bridges Initiative. It is time for them to step aside,” the statement said. Kiago and Wachira, who signed the statement, condemned both Rotich and Mohamed for allegedly allowing the importation of poisonous sugar. “This act of allowing toxic sugar and several other counterfeit goods is tantamount to chemical terror attack on innocent Kenyans. Our population is at risk and the two have lost the moral authority to be in public office. They must resign to allow effective investigations to be carried out,” they said. They accused Mohamed of sleeping on the job and sabotaging industrialisation, one of Uhuru’s Big Four agenda. “The fact that the president appointed Wanyama Musiambo [deputy chief of staff] to lead a special team to deal with counterfeits is a clear signal that Mohamed is sleeping on his job,” the statement said.