Development institution Africa Enterprise Challenge Fund will invest over Sh30 billion in the next three years to support businesses in the renewable energy and agribusiness sectors across Africa that directly work with rural people in Africa. The investment is part of the organisation’s three-year strategic plan to change 25 million lives in rural Africa, in the next three years. The funds will be invested in gender inclusive businesses, and allow female entrepreneurs equal access to finance. Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said barriers hindering women’s participation in development, including legal and customary restrictions are still rife. “To build future economies that are inclusive, we must ensure that everyone has equal opportunity through strategies of inclusive growth, job creation, increasing agricultural production; investments in science, technology, research and innovation; gender equality, youth empowerment and the provision of basic services including health, nutrition, education, shelter, water and sanitation,” Kobia said at the inaugural conference on Thursday. In Africa, small and growing businesses create up to 80 per cent of the region’s employment, establishing a new middle class and fueling demand for new goods and services. In 2017, AECF impacted 16 million people in rural Africa by providing financial and technical assistance to businesses operating in 24 countries in Africa. AECF board chair Paul Boateng, said rural economy holds the key to sustainable economic growth and there is need to empower women who are its movers. “AECF believes that these companies offer potential for growth, employment and income generation that directly impact the rural poor. However, most of these companies – the missing middle – fall outside the risk appetite of institutional and impact investors. We target this ‘missing middle’ by providing soft capital that enables businesses develop products and services that reach the underserved population,” said Boateng.