To begin with, the simplest definition of corruption is theft by big
people or leaders. If we call this theft by its real name, we will stop civilising
it with names that make it sound less dangerous than stealing from the common
people. A corrupt leader is simply a thief, just like any other. But where does this theft or corruption come from? Corruption comes from a belief that people become leaders to steal from the
people and government. And people become thieves because they believe it is
right to steal or get wealth by whatever means. Ultimately, they become thieves
because we live in a system that does not forbid theft but rather glorifies it.
Yes, we become thieves because we live in a system that has no ethics, honesty,
integrity and moral values that make us better human beings. When we grow up
without moral values, we become thieves who look for any opportunity to steal. When we do not teach values, our homes, schools and working places
become dens of thieves. In a country without moral values, people seek
leadership, not to serve but to steal for themselves, families and cronies. It
is also untrue that the richest among us cannot steal. Rich people happen steal
more than poor people. Without values, whales steal more than sardines. In fighting corruption, therefore, all fish — big or small — must be
scrutinised. The truth is that the rich people steal more than the poor just as
elephants eat more than rabbits. No one should be exempted from this scrutiny.
In fact, presidents, deputy presidents, ministers and the rich should be on the
front line. There would hardly be any fight against corruption, if leaders were
exempted from it. Those who investigate corruption cases should also be scrutinised as
well. Without scrutiny, they can’t investigate others because they lack the
moral authority to do so. Several sins of omission and commission have made corruption grow in
unbelievable proportions in this country. If anything, they prevent the right people from fighting corruption and
instead appoint the corrupt to protect interests. Subsequently, despite
abundance of evidence of corruption, people investigating theft of public funds
argue against prosecution of corruption, citing lack of enough evidence that
leads to failure of arrest and prosecution. When Chapter Six of the Constitution was put aside, the corrupt, rather
than clean people, got to Parliament and the Executive from where they
perpetrate and protect rather than fight graft. As some investigators argue, there is not enough evidence of corruption,
there are tonnes of evidence that Controller and Auditor General produces every
year but it is never acted on by Parliament and investigators who would rather
protect than prosecute. Of late, private companies have been stealing from government
ministries, parastatals and institutions such as the NYS through tenders and
non-existent supplies without any prosecution mainly because we still allow
civil servants to do business with government. Unfortunately, old corruption is sanctified and non-prosecutable. As
long as graft is old, it does not smell and is never investigated, former presidents
and ministers walk about displaying abundance of wealth as if some of it was
not stolen from government. And nobody hints of probing them. Like old corruption, Kenya’s ruling families are untouchable over
corruption. They steal without fear of arrest, investigation, prosecution or
incarceration. We can condemn corruption as much as we want but we cannot touch
the untouchables. However, it is most amazing when police are tasked to execute it. How
can those who take bribes at roadblocks most blatantly be entrusted to
investigate? Can hyenas be trusted to protect the sheep from the carnivores? To fight graft, must learn from countries such as South Korea, Brazil,
Cuba, China and Scandinavian countries, which don’t spare even Presidents in protecting
public funds.  Only then can we win this war. 