Deputy President William Ruto has asked Kenyans to embrace peace and reconciliation for the prosperity of the country. Ruto noted that President Uhuru Kenyatta has set the pace for this so the public should take after him. He cited the May 9 handshake between Uhuru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. “Even politicians with divergent views are now working with us, not because of politics based on positions but for the common good of the country,” the DP said. “Our primary focus is to get away from politics of leaders and positions to issues of ordinary citizens; things that matter to the common man. We want to put the interest of Kenyans first.” He spoke at Mary Mother of Grace Secondary School in Laikipia County on Saturday. Read: Uhuru tells off handshake critics, says will continue working with Raila Also read: Forgive me for not uniting you, Uhuru tells Kenyans, makes up with Babu Owino Ruto asked leaders at the grassroots to set aside their political differences and take a common stand on matters development since the elections season is over. The DP told warring communities in the Kerio Valley to embrace peace and reconciliation and live harmoniously with their neighbors. He asked pastoralists to emulate politicians who have united despite having divergent views. "You also need to abandon cattle rustling activities, embrace peace and contribute to the building of a peaceful and prosperous nation." On education, he urged parents to take advantage of the government’s commitment to free primary and affordable secondary education by taking their children to school. “We can’t eradicate cattle rustling activities when many children are out there not in school. As parents, it’s our responsibility to take our children to schools,” he said. Related: I'll return with a whip, Ruto tells feuding Waititu and Nyoro The Deputy President also addressed wananchi at Nanyuki showground. He was with Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka; Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution) and Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture); Governors Nderitu Mureithi (Laikipia), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu) and Samuel Tunai (Narok); and Senate deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki). Others were MPs Sarah Korere (Laikipia North), Simon Nganga (Ruiru), Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Soipan Tuiya (Narok), Patrick Marero (Laikipia West), Catherine Waruguru (Laikipia), John Nderitu (Laikipia), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya) and Steve Lelegwe (Samburu). CORRUPTION INTOLERABLE The leaders praised the government for peace initiatives and promised support. “We are with the President and DP in uniting the country irrespective of political affiliations and faiths as well as for successful implementation of the agenda four projects," Ichung'wa said. He added that parliamentarians will stand firm to ensure action is taken against the corrupt. Kindiki warned corrupt individuals against letting their cases spill over to their communities. "This corruption issue will interfere with the Big Four agenda. We have thieves in national and county governments. They should not hide behind their communities because corruption has no tribe. They should be in jail." He added: “As much as we support the handshake, we should reduce politicking and address the challenges facing the people." Waruguru registered optimism that Kenyans will back Ruto in the DP race come 2022. “I am waiting for the day when Ruto will be given the opportunity to take over the leadership of this country. That will be in 2022 because majority of Kenyans are behind their fellow hustler." Related: 'Hustler' Ruto returns to Kambi Kuku, motivates chicken sellers More on this: GEMA nation won't make DP Ruto president, 'hustler' voters will - Mutahi Ngunyi Eugene said the Sh372 billion that goes to counties would do little in terms of development if the fight against corruption is not intensified at the grassroots. “Leaders in both governments should work together in the war against corruption,” he said. Kiunjuri said the government has constructed 41 dams to address the problem of water shortages and help farmers increase their yields. Tunai urged communities in the region to discard outdated cultural activities practices. “Let's abandon cultures which have been overtaken by events like cattle rustling and embrace peace for the sake of development,” he said. Read: EACC grills traders, NCPB staff linked to Sh1.9 billion maize scam Click here for the latest political news