The judiciary will focus on corruption cases as the war against the vice escalates, Chief Justice David Maraga has said, All relevant agencies should therefore play their roles in investigations and present watertight cases, Maraga said on Tuesday while opening the Environment and Land Court Conference in Mombasa. “All we asking is that police and the DPP do their bits. I have given instructions for all these cases to be given priority." On May 31, DPP Noordin Haji exuded confidence that the country's 'big fish' will be prosecuted in the ongoing corruption investigations. He said the agency had changed tack by deviating from relying on charges spelled in the Penal Code to those in various Acts of Parliament. More on this: We're banking on Uhuru's goodwill in corruption fight - DPP Noordin Haji Maraga raised concern about corruption cases against judges but noted there is no room for such officers. “Know that you are alone if you are corrupt and expect no sympathy, mercy or protection from my office," he warned. "All the cases of corruption that we find to have a basis will be pursued vigorously to their logical conclusion. You are aware that the office of the Ombudsman has been revamped and revitalised. Those found culpable will not escape punishment." The CJ also warned against delayed judgements saying there is no reason for a judge to take six months, for example, to conclude a case. “This kind of delay, which is giving the judiciary a bad name, will no longer be tolerated. Most of you are hard working,” he said. In his Madaraka Day speech on June 1, President Uhuru Kenyatta said he wanted officials, particularly senior ones who are directly implicated in corruption, to go to jail. "We all know from reading the headlines daily that corruption has also seeped into many other sectors of our society. We must all seize the moment and play our individual role for our country to overcome this evil," he told the public. Read more: Expect arrests of senior officials implicated in graft - Uhuru Related: Uhuru to corruption suspects: 'Your tribe won’t protect you' Scandals have rocked organisations such as the National Youth Service (Sj9 billion), the National Cereals and Produce Board (Sh1.9 billion) and the National Irrigation Board. Also see: NIS dossiers drive Uhuru's war on graft Click here for the latest political news