Without ill will to President Uhuru Kenyatta, he should take responsibility for corruption erupting all over the country. There are volcanic eruptions of mega corruption, rolling down the country like volcanic red-hot lava that nobody is able to stop. It leaves behind massive destruction. Yet somebody must take responsibility for this. While Hawaii and Guatemala have experienced volcano for which governments cannot be blamed, ours is a different case. The red-hot lava of billions of shillings flow down our settlements, destroying our environment and development and killing families with diseases, hunger, poverty, unemployment, road accidents, collapsing dams and social disorder. This demands political responsibility from the President that he should dissolve government and call for fresh election to set up new one that can restore order and clean up the mess of graft. If the President does not take responsibility, who else will? Only taking responsibility by top political leadership can mollify the angry masses and persuade murderous demons of corruption to go back into the dark caves and vaults that house these dragons. Only by ending corruption can we protect the national treasure. While every participant of crime must take criminal responsibility for their part and eventually get jailed for it, hardly any leaders, CEOs or the rich are held to account or punished. To eliminate corruption, every leader, especially the President, must take political responsibility for their failure of management, which has allowed graft to increase by leaps and bounds reaching proportions of impoverishing millions of people into destitution. But many people think only commission of crime constitutes legal offence, when in fact non-commission of duty does constitute crime. It is for both crimes of commission and omission that a President who has allowed corruption to engulf the country should take responsibility and resign to save the country from more scandals. Every person who commits either a crime of commission or non-commission of corruption must bear responsibility and punishment. Those who fail stop an offence such as corruption when that’s their major responsibility are guilty of omission should be pressured to surrender leadership. Allowing such leadership to continue in power is also graft and must not be allowed. Another crime of omission is when the President failed to protect Chapter 6 of the Constitution when it was shunted from use to keep the gates of corruption open. This led to the corrupt flooding Parliament and the Executive, both at national and county levels. But it was also crime of commission when the President put corrupt people into ministries, parastatals and institutions such as the National Youth Service deliberately to eat or perpetrate corruption, one half going to the President’s men and the other half to the Deputy President’s men. There has been the crime of commission for blocking honest Kenyans, of integrity and merit from joining government, Parliament and the Judiciary so as not to disturb the gravy train. When grand crimes of commission and omission happen, leaders, like everybody else, must be ready to held to account. Before concluding, let me say this: When one asks for whoever is President to take political responsibility, resign and call for a reorganisation of government, it is no grudge or anything personal. Harry Truman said the buck stops with the President. This means when things go well, the President takes credit and when they go bad, he shoulders responsibility and blame. When we ask the President to accept responsibility, we are not necessarily apportioning blame or guilt. People who have accepted blame have won when they have called elections to approve or disapprove their record. The President must take responsibility when things go wrong under his leadership. When things go wrong, the President cannot be entirely innocent. Don’t protect him because you come from same community. Protect him only when you are sure he is innocent of all crimes of commission and omission.    