I have always been fascinated by how birds fly so effortlessly. This curiosity was further stoked when I saw planes take off. I always wondered how such a heavy object could float in the air. This led me to study electrical engineering to understand more about flight. Unfortunately, there was no unit that covered flight dynamics. This desire continued and at some point, I got an opportunity to study remote sensing and that enhanced my desire to understand how satellites are deployed into space and how they stay in space. This desire has been quenched by the international master’s degree in Space Mission Design offered by the University of Rome, Italy, in collaboration with the University of Nairobi. It covers all aspects of space missions from design to deployment and subsequent management. italian embassy photo base malindi ON THE COLLABORATIVE ITALIAN-KENYAN SAN MARCO PROJECT IN MALINDI My most impactful experience with this space station was the five-month internship held at San Marco as part of an international master’s programme. Having a background in control engineering, I wanted to find out more about tracking of satellites and how the satellite dish is able to maintain contact with the satellites as they orbit the sky. At San Marco, the satellite dishes are used for two key functions: one to support launches from Kourou in French Guiana and the other to receive data from satellites already in orbit. I learnt the preparations that take place to support equatorial launches from Kourou at the Low and Early Orbit Phase (LEOP). Malindi happens to be the last station of the final stage separation of the rocket and satellite. I also learnt about how the antennas are scheduled to be able to receive data from different satellites according to the requests. ON HIS ADVANCED ENGINEERING STUDIES IN ROME I went to Rome in June 2017 and studied an international master’s degree in Space Mission Design. We were involved in the development of Kenya’s first space object christened, 1st Kenyan University Nano-Satellite - Precursor Flight (1KUNS-PF). The course is structured to allow for students to design and assemble a cubesat over the duration of the course. What was more demanding for 1KUNS-PF was that it was being deployed from International Space Station (ISS) and thus had to meet strict requirements of ISS to ensure that it would not be a health hazard to the astronauts in the ISS.  ON THE BENEFITS OF THE SAN MARCO TO KENYA Just having the San Marco base in Kenya has raised the country’s profile. Students from primary to secondary to the university have visited the base to learn about space technology. The base employs quite a number of Kenyans and contributes to the livelihood of the people in Ngomeni. I believe Kenya could benefit more if more students got the opportunity to do their internship at the base and if the government, in collaboration with its Italian counterpart, could consider having short courses on space science and technology at the base. ON WHY A DEVELOPING NATION LIKE KENYA SHOULD PARTICIPATE IN SPACE PROGRAMMES Italy has been a space-faring country since the 1960s. This can be partly attributed to the San Marco base, where they launched their first satellites, thanks to the support they got from the United States. Being an older “brother” to Kenya, Italy should support the development of Kenya’s nascent space industry. This can be done in terms of availing their space professionals to visit Kenya and give talks/lectures, collaborative programmes between the two countries and of course training in these specialised space technology disciplines. Availing space data would also enhance disciplines related to Earth Observation and its related applications. It’s time Kenya also put its foot forward and developed its space industry to support the Big Four agenda. Read: Kenya and Italy: Partners in space technology Click here for the latest political news