Five suspected rustlers were ambushed by vigilantes and left for dead on Wednesday night as they ferried 400 goats and sheep in two trucks near Kitengela. They were flagged down, blocked and then attacked with pangas on the Namanga-Athi River road. The men were admitted in critical condition to Kitengela Subcounty Hospital. Isinya police boss Henry Ibutu said the men suffered deep panga cuts. “That was very brutal. The vigilantes should not have taken the law into their own hands. The injured were in bad condition. All were unconsious,” said Kajiado Medical Services director Ezekiel Kapkoni. In the same area on Wednesay night, vigilantes stopped a charcoal truck with three occupants and another truck ferrying sheep. It had six occupants. The road was behind Ilade petrol station. The occupants were rescued by police and arrested. The vigilantes, mainly young people, from Kaputiei North said they were out to stop livestock theft. One man named Nixon said they flagged down two trucks ferrying livestock, but the drivers ignored them. They forced them to stop at the Acacia turnoff. The group said they descended on truck occupants after they refused to disclose their destination and where they had come from. Hours before the vigilante attack, county commissioner David Kipkemei met Isinya security officers to discuss how to stop cattle rustling, charcoal burning and the charcoal trade. They met at the Isinya Multipurpose Training Centre. Kipkemei said livestock theft was alarming in Korrompoi and Olturoto, Kaputiei North. In four weeks, 80 sheep have been stolen in Korrompoi and Olturoto. Both have Administration Police camps. The vigilantes said drivers produced forged documents that showed they were cleared on June 28 (yesterday), yet they were travelling on June 27. The vigilantes informed police after they established the documents were not authentic. The suspects tried to negotiate with the officers to release the trucks, but residents objected. Some residents accused a police officer they did not name of escorting the trucks. Commissioner Kipkemei said transporting livestock at night is illegal in the county. Burning and transporting charcoal in Kajiado has been banned, he said. Kipkemoi ordered the arrest of the officer said to have escorted the trucks. The county will not allow police officers to worsen security, he said “The police inspector is said to have signed out a government vehicle and used it to escort illegal charcoal and livestock from Namanga,” he said. Kipkemei thanked members of the public for being vigilant. He ordered the trucks impounded at the Kitengela police station to allow probes. Police boss Ibutu said he did not know a police officer had been escorting the lorries. He said that although the three trucks were impounded in an area under his command, he had no idea the livestock and charcoal were being transported. He was, however, taken to task to explain how the trucks passed a weighbridge at Isinya. Ibutu said he had not been briefed. The weighbridge in Isinya town is manned round the clock by county officers and regular and Administration Police officers. It was not clear if the officer who escorted the trucks from Namanga was from Kajiado town or Isinya. The road across the Namanga border spans two police divisions — Isinya and Kajiado Central. Kitengela Subcounty Hospital medical officer Cathy Chemas said the five injured men would be transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital if their conditions did not improve. 