Kiambu security agencies and the county government are removing illegal Chinese gambling machines, which have become popular, as war against betting intensifies. County commissioner Wilson Wanyanga and Governor Ferdinand Waititu yesterday led security and enforcement officers in destroying over 500 gambling machines in Ndumberi Grounds, Kiambu, which were confiscated in different parts of the county, "We have agreed that things that are a harmful to people, family, health and pockets will not be allowed to continue in this county," Wanyanga said. He said illicit brews, second generation alcohol and gambling are the number one enemies of the people of Kiambu and the security team will be alert in ending them. "I am warning those involved in making illicit brews and second generation liqour and running gambling centres to desist, failure to which they will be arrested and charged, while their products are destroyed," Wanyanga said. Governor Waititu said the gambling machines have led many young youths to stealing so that they can get money to bet and the county will not relent in fighting the machines. He said his government will not license the machines since they are a hindrance to development and "spending more time in gambling halls is affecting the youths in a negative way". "The gambling machines are operating illegally as we have not licencesed them. The gambling spots are often filled with idling youths, who end up drinking illicit brews and smoking bhang sold in those dens," Waititu said. Central regional security coordinator Wilson Njega last week said the betting machines were stationed in small shopping centres and gambling is greatly contributing to laziness and irresponsibility among the young people. Wanyanga added that students are the main target by the unregulated gambling machines. "There are several complaints that the main victims are the schoolgoing children, especially college students. There are incidents where some are using school fees to gamble. We, as security, have taken a duty of protecting them as well," Wanyanga said. In January, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i ordered a crackdown on illegal betting machines, with concerns that they were targeting school children. The betting machines are still operating in several regions across the counties.