Flower exports earned Kenya Sh42.59 billion in the first four months of this year on account of good rains and quality standards. Market data from Kenya National Bureau of Standards shows a 40.41 per cent increase in sales from Sh30.33 billion over the same period of last year. The total value of flowers exported for the first four months represents more than half the value of the exports in 2017. Fruits and vegetables earned Sh4.98 billion and 9.26 billion respectively during review period. Combined exports of fresh horticultural produce earned the country Sh56.83 billion compared to Sh40.57 billion recorded in the same period last year, proving to be a thriving industry for new investors. Horticulture directorate Chepkwony said the industry has shown more resilience to identify as an important economic driver. “The industry has attracted more farmers and exporters across the country looking to earn an income” said Horticulture directorate head, Nehemiah Chepkwony. In 2017, earnings from exported flowers were Sh82.24 billion up from Sh.70.83 billion in 2016, positioning the sector as second to tea in agricultural earnings to the government. The horticulture sector has kept an improved performance in the recent years attributed to compliance with the export market requirements by majority exporters especially to the European Union. This has also been promoted by Kenya Horticulture Council launched in 2017 to support the industry in complying with various international market standards and address the existing threats of documentation, tariff barriers and non-tariff barriers. “The main challenges we face is failure of documentation by some of the exporters hence reducing the values generated. High cost and inaccessibility of pesticides has also reduced productivity and growth in some regions,” Chepkwony added. In the spending plan for the 2018/2019 financial year, Treasury allocated a total of Sh25billion to the agricultural sector with key focus on irrigation and crop insurance for small-holder farmers. More than sh16.4billion was also allocated to improve output for small-scale farmers and cushion the sector against climatic shocks. “The sector plans to utilize the budget allocated on agriculture to expand their outreach to horticultural farmers across the country and open storage facilities for their produce,” Chepkwony added. The government also allocated Sh4.3billion for subsidised fertilizer, Sh300million for crop insurance and another 300million for fall army worm mitigation efforts.  