The late Migori Senator Ben Oluoch "remained cool" despite the pain of cancer, ODM leader Raila Odinga has said in his condolence message. Oluoch died from throat cancer at MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi at about 12.30am on Tuesday. His body was taken to Lee Funeral Home. Read: Migori Senator Ben Oluoch dies from cancer Raila told Ramogi FM on Tuesday that the Senator showed bravery in his battle with cancer. He added: "He was focused and loved his community, with a firm belief in the welfare of the electorate." Party Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said they had lost a dedicated life member who had been eager about serving the people. "I join [Kenyans] in mourning a great man, a journalist and a father who loved his job and family. ODM shall stand with the family in every way during this difficult time," he said in a statement. Oluoch's victory in last year's election was attributed in part to his popularity as Ramogi FM morning show presenter and his closeness to Obado. In a message posted on Facebook, Obado said he had lost a great friend. The county boss also said the county had been robbed of "a true son who always wanted peace and unity among local leaders". "Ben had a dream for Migori. On behalf of my family and the people of Migori, I send sincere condolences to family, relatives and friends." Other condolence messages were as follows: NASA CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER NORMAN MAGAYA "It is with profound sadness that I have learnt of the demise of Senator Oluoch. On behalf of the entire NASA fraternity, I convey heartfelt condolences to his family, the people of Migori and ODM party. May his soul rest in peace." URIRI MP MARK NYAMITA: "We have learnt, and accept with a heavy heart, the demise of the Senator. Migori and Kenya have lost a great leader who was a devolution crusader of note. This son of Kanyimach believed in peace and the unity of leaders. On behalf of my family and the people of Uriri Constituency, I send sincere condolences and sympathies to the family, relatives and friends of Wuod Aliwa'. May his soul rest in eternal peace. NYATIKE MP TOM ODEGE "I've learnt ,with a lot of sadness, the passing on of Senator Oluoch. Oluoch contributed immensely to the development and good governance of our country first as a renowned radio presenter and until his death as a legislator. At a very personal level, he would host me repeatedly on Radio Ramogi FM as Nyatike people advanced their quest for better leadership. The right of reply opportunities he granted me and our people went a long way to facilitate my eventual election as a member of parliament. While we mourn the untimely departure of this icon, we find solace in the footmarks he has left behind : his generosity, humility and long career in the media where he earned his trademark moniker - B.O.O. Chieng' Jamondo believed in unrestricted public ventilation of issues and he reflected it in his morning radio talk show dubbed Iwacho Awacho. As a county and as a people, we have lost a man whose humility was legendary. Chieng' Jamondo" is a man we all loved his company and soberness. We regret to miss those qualities at a time we were most in need. Nind gi kwe Jatugo Namba Ochiko (Sleep in peace our number nine player). Till we meet again Wuod Aliwa. Rest in peace my Senator." Click here for the latest political news