Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has earned herself the nickname 'mama radar' for joining Deputy President William Ruto's camp ahead of the 2022 presidential race. Jumwa had been termed an iron lady for tough talk and influence in the Coast region while a supporter of Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The Opposition and the government united on March 9 and since then, their politicians have met and made strategic alliances. At an Iftar dinner and fundraising in Malindi, Kilifi county, on Saturday, Jumwa said the era of being in the Opposition was over. More on this: Kingi leads Coast politicians in forming 2022 alliance with Ruto The name 'mama radar' originated from National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. When Duale stood to speak at the dinner, he said he had been "hunting for mama radar" and had finally found her. He said Jumwa is not only an MP but also one of the six commissioners running parliamentary affairs with Speaker Justin Muturi. “I am happy to have Aisha. She was in the Opposition but I told her not to make that mistake again. This time round there is no competition; everybody is with Ruto." Duale said this in apparent reference to the unity and development deal that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa principal Raila Odinga announced at Harambee House in Nairobi on March 9. The Garissa Town MP further said that Jumwa tried witchcraft while in the Opposition but that her candidate lost the election. But he added: "Her radar is working wonders because its networks have switched to the right direction." Duale told Jumwa that Jubilee won the election because its politicians believed in God. He termed Ruto the only politician who can transverse the country tirelessly; he noted the DP visited two constituencies in Samburu on Saturday then proceeded to Laikipia North and East before flying to Malindi for the dinner. Jumwa was first to openly declare support for Ruto in Taita Taveta county early this year. She is reportedly planning to succeed Governor Amason Kingi and will likely be key to Ruto's campaigns as she is a crowd puller. The Malindi MP earlier assured the DP that with political changes in the constituency and the Coast at large, he will get sufficient support from the region. She said she had had "enough of the same". "You cannot keep doing calculations using the same formula [because you will keep getting the same result]. If IEBC declares you winner, whether you stole or not, you are the winner," she said. At the dinner and fundraising, Kingi led a section of Coast leaders in declaring that they will form an alliance to back Ruto ahead of the next vote. He was categorical about the alliance - he said it should be based on terms favourable for the region, away from the Coast's culture of leaning on political parties without agreements. "Stop endorsing the DP and focus on uniting the region, then sit down with him and agree on how to work together," he told the politicians. He dismissed ODM leaders terming Kilifi politicians rebels for taking Ruto's side ahead of the poll. More on this: Kingi leads Coast politicians in forming 2022 alliance with Ruto Click here for the latest political news