The National Land Commission has began compulsory acquisition of more than 8,000 acres required to construct the Arror and Kimwarer hydropower dams in Elgeyo Marakwet. The projects will cost Sh63 billion. Besides generating electricity, water from the projects will be used to irrigate more than 20,000 acres. NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri yesterday said more than Sh6 billion will be used to compensate about 800 families and to buy alternative land for resettlement. “We are in the process of acquiring land for the families to be displaced,” he said in Eldoret. Swazuri spoke at the Kerio Valley Development Authority offices where he met CEO David Kimosop. Swazuri cautioned families to be displaced not to be duped by crafty brokers. “As usual with such projects, brokers come in to try and benefit but we want to caution residents that the brokers have no role in the entire process. It’s only the NLC and KVDA that are in charge,” he said. Swazuri said the two agencies would follow due process until affected families are moved to new settlements. Suitable land has been identified in Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu counties. Kimosop said they were working with communities and county leaders to ensure the projects take off smoothly. “We are looking at around September to do the groundbreaking ceremony,” he said. Some 400 hectares ( 990 acres )of forestland will be acquired for the two projects from the Kenya Forest Service. For three weeks, 17 engineers from Europe have been in Kimwarer and Arror, drawing up plans for the hydroelectric and irrigation projects. “The engineers who include designers and planners are already on the ground and the construction process is to take less time than anticipated,” Kimosop said. He said a down payment of Sh4.9 billion, which is 15 per cent of the total cost, has been made for the design of Arror dam. “The actual construction work is expected to commence around September or October after the detailed design plan is carried out,” Kimosop said. Already 2,000 acres for resettling the families have been identified. “We are in the process of acquiring land for the families to be displaced to pave way for the construction of the project after we settled on amicable agreement,” Kimosop said. He said the projects will unlock the huge potential of Kerio Valley. “We shall engage everybody to ensure success of the project. We shall continue to hold joint meetings with the community in a bid to persuade opponents of the project,” Kimosop said.