Kenyans today joined the world in celebrating International Widow's day even as the United Nations asks for more research on abuse meted to them. The event was held at the KICC hosted by Youth CS Margret Kobia and Education CS Amina Mohammed who will be the chief guest. It was attended by 2,000 widows from across all parts of the country. The theme is "Empowering widows through vocational skills training." Kenyan law grants widows the right to live on their late husbands' property until they die, but poor women are often evicted by land-hungry relatives, who use culture to justify their actions. Read: Kenyan widows branded witches, cursed by spirits and exiled Also read: Kenyan widows harrowing stories: 'We were waiting for our deaths' This day is a UN's ratified day of action to address the poverty and injustice faced by millions of widows and their dependents in many countries. According to United Nations, there are some 258 million widows around the world, with over 115 million of them living in deep poverty. UN noted that data on women’s status is often not disaggregated by marital status making it hard for the number to be visible. “We must consider both the vital role widows play in our society... and the specific recognition and attention that they need from all of us,” UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said. She tasked governments to take action to uphold their commitments to ensure the rights of widows as enshrined in international law. This, she says should be in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. "Even when national laws exist to protect the rights of widows, weaknesses in the judicial systems of many States compromise how widows’ rights are defended in practice and should be addressed," she said. Mlambo-Nguka said programmes and policies for ending violence against widows and their children also need to be undertaken to accelerate achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Millions of widows across Africa are left destitute after being evicted from their homes and are too poor or uneducated to seek legal redress. In 2010, the General Assembly set aside June 23 each year to pay tribute to the millions of living spouses who endure extreme poverty, ostracism, violence, homelessness and discrimination. While violence against women is one of the most widespread violations of human rights, widows may be at particularly high risk. Click here for the latest political news