Coast regional Commissioner Bernard Leparmarai has warned police officers against frustrating the war on drugs. Speaking in Kilifi on Monday during a youth forum organized by the NACADA, Leparmarai also tasked county commissioners to update him on a weekly basis on the number of drug peddlers arrested in their respective counties. The police especially in Kilifi were put on the spot for colluding and protecting drug barons and peddlers. “I have heard enough stories from Kilifi county and this has to stop. You cannot frustrate the community when they are trying to assist the government in fighting drugs. We want these people arrested and I will camp in these areas and work with the community to bring this issue to an end,” said the regional commissioner The police have been blamed for leaking crucial information to peddlers whenever plans to raid their premises are made. In Mnaranai, police officers have been used to provide security to a known drug peddler when members of the community wanted to arrest the suspect. Some members of the community who led door to door operations to flush out drug peddlers in the area have since been arrested and arraigned in court. “Mnarani, Malindi and Watamu are on our radar. Kisauni area of Mombasa is also on our radar and we will make sure we make arrests and prefer the right charges,” added Leparmarai. He expressed concerns that some police officers charge drug peddlers with lenient charges like loitering so that they can be easily released by the courts. “We must harmonise charges so that if someone was arrested with heroin we charge him with that and not something else. I need to see these drug lords being arrested,” he added. Yusuf Ali, a Mnarani resident said members of the public are now afraid of reporting drug peddlers as the police informs the barons who reported them. NACADA chairman Julius Githiria said the war on drugs will only be won when there is concerted efforts between stakeholders. “We had a successful meeting and the youths have really opened up on how to move forward in fighting drugs. We will partner with any organized group to make sure we get rid of these drugs in Kenya,” he said