Every other day, it feels like, a new government-funds-misappropriation scandal is being revealed. Cats are being let out of bags every which way you look, and Kenyans are not best pleased. And when Kenyans are unhappy about something, they tend to have a lot to say about it. Some of the things being said though, I feel, are not helpful. Cold water, especially, is being poured on this idea to zero in on procurement heads and accounting officers. Now I don’t know whether suspending and vetting procurement heads and accounting officers will work in the fight against corruption, but I will say this: It is very difficult, nay, impossible, to pull off a dodgy deal involving finances without the co-operation of procurement and accounting guys. But, faced with the very real possibility of being strapped to a polygraph machine, something tells me these chaps won’t be too keen to co-operate in any suspicious activities anymore. Just saying, where honesty has failed, self-preservation might prevail. Another thought doing the rounds is, lie detectors are not the solution to corruption in Kenya. The answer lies in, I read in one of our newspapers, our morals, values and ethics. Call me a cynic, but I think as a society we’re too far gone from the path of righteousness. Our souls are firmly in the grip of rapacious consumerism, and our hearts are filled with the dread of poverty, which, for many Kenyans, rich and poor is only one job loss away, one sick family member away, from becoming reality. Maybe one day ethics and morals will be of value, but that day is not today. So, where did we go wrong? My feeling is it might have something to do with our education system, a system geared towards getting people jobs rather than occupations. If you’re wondering whether there’s a difference between a job and an occupation, take my word for it, there is. A job is a paid position. You don’t have to like it, you don’t have to be good at it, it doesn’t even really matter what the job is because the purpose of a job is to get money. Ergo, if money is the only objective, one can see where this mentality to just take it, rather than work 8 hours a day, every day, for 30 years to get it, comes from. An occupation, on the other hand, is the principle business of one’s life. It’s something you spend your time doing because you’re good at it, and you love it. The purpose of an occupation is the pleasure of it, the fact that you’re paid for it, is incidental. An occupation is a vocation, a calling. Priesthood is not job, it’s a vocation. Public service should not be a job, but in Kenya it is. Maybe if we focused on occupations, rather than jobs. Maybe if we got career guidance going in schools to help kids know what they’re good at, what their interested in, what they’ll enjoy doing for the rest of their lives. Maybe then, if we ever get to that place where Kenyans are driven by passion for the profession, and not passion for money making, corruption might just be something unheard of, or at least not heard of so much. 