Oriental Commercial Bank, formerly owned by Kamlesh Pattni, has lost its bid for refunds of more than Sh5.3 billion from the Central Bank. It sought refunds for fines that it paid after being implicated in the Goldenberg scandal. The Court of Appeal has reversed a 2014 order that compelled the CBK to refund the firm Sh122 million with interest from 1993 when the fine was levied — a total of more than Sh5.3 billion. OCB, formerly the Kamlesh Pattni-owned Delphis Bank, sued the industry regulator in 2011, claiming it had been slapped with a discriminatory fine, compared to other firms implicated in the financial scam. The lender argued its Sh122 million fine was coupled with an unfair interest rate of 65 per cent, far above what other firms were fined. OCB also claimed it only learnt of CBK’s alleged discriminatory action in 2005, after a commission probing the scandal had released its report. But the CBK said the bank’s claim was time-barred, as it was filed 18 years after the fine was paid. Court of Appeal judges Roselyn Nambuye, Daniel Musinga and Patrick Kiage agreed with the CBK that the claim was filed late. Under the Limitation of Actions Act, claims arising from contract disputes can only be made within six years of the alleged breach. The law also requires claims against the government and local authorities be filed within one year of the disputed incident. The courts, however, reserve the right to extend the time for such claims in exceptional circumstances. The Court of Appeal judges ruled that OCB failed to specify which sections of the Constitution the Central Bank violated and that details of how the 65 per cent interest rate was discriminatory. “OCB simply stated that CBK’s act of penalising it was ‘unconstitutional for it discriminated against OCB’. It did not state the specific provisions of the Constitution that were breached by the CBK,” they said. “Nor did it provide the specific particulars of such discrimination. As earlier stated, we think OCB was invoking the Constitution in an attempt to escape the chop of time limitation.” OCB had in April 1993 entered into a contract with the CBK to sell the industry regulator $19 million at the rate of Sh59.5804 per dollar. The deal was aimed at boosting CBK’s forex reserve, following the World Bank and donors’ decision to suspend aid to Kenya as a protest against ‘dirty politics’ at the time. The CBK deposited Sh1.1 billion in OCB’s account — an equivalent of $19 million at the time. But OCB, then operating as Delphis Bank, did not deposit the $19 million in CBK’s foreign exhange account at the Standard Chartered Bank, New York, as agreed. The CBK then terminated the contract, and recovered Sh1.1 billion from OCB, alongside Sh6.8 million in interest charge for loss of forex income. In 2011, OCB denied any responsibility for the botched deal, arguing Pattni was liable. But the CBK insisted its contract was with Delphis Bank and not Pattni. The CBK lost about Sh158 billion in fictitious forex claims in similar circumstances. The money was traced to more than 350 companies, including banks, real estate firms and law firms. The biggest recipients of the cash were Goldenberg International (Sh35.3 billion), Pan African Bank (Sh23.89 billion), Panther Investments (Sh19.05 billion) and China Trade Agencies (Sh16.1 billion). Pattni faced nine criminal charges following allegations he was the scam’s architect. He was acquitted in 2013 by former High Court judge Joseph Mutava. Mutava was removed from office in 2016 following a judicial tribunal recommendation. The tribunal held that he was not innocent in the handling of the Pattni trial. Read : [VIDEO] Oriental Bank stops its retail services after signing a deal with Bank M Click here for the latest political news