Kenya will open an embassy in Senegal in four months to boost engagement, President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced. In talks with President Macky Sall during the G7 Summit at the weekend, Uhuru noted that Senegal is important to the expansion of trade, especially through the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). "The AfCFTA deal we agreed in Kigali has to be supported by bilateral actions so we are reaching out to Senegal to expand our trade frontiers and boost people-to-people relations necessary for trade," he said. The embassy will be Kenya's first in French speaking countries. Read: The story behind Africa's free trade dream Related: Kenya shines at Commonwealth stage, leaders set $2 trillion trade mark Sall invited Uhuru to Dakar to address a major conference in January 2019, on cementing their ties. Uhuru also held talks with Jamaican PM Andrew Holness, the two agreeing on code sharing for airlines. Kenya Airways will begin flying non-stop from Nairobi to New York in October. The connection to Kingston, Jamaica, is three hours from New York. State House Spokesman Manoah Esipisu said they also agreed to strengthen athletics by exchanging coaches since Jamaica tops in short distance races while Kenya leads in marathons. They also discussed how to strengthen trade, culture and entertainment in order to promote tourism. “They can take our tea and coffee and we can take their peanuts,” Esipisu said. During the talks, Uhuru affirmed his commitment to working with Jamaica to ensure African Presidents speak with one voice. "We are weaker when splintered,” he noted.  President Uhuru Kenyatta holds talks with United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres during the G7 Summit at Le Manoir Charlevoix in Quebec, Canada, June 9, 2018. /PSCU SUPPORT FOR BIG FOUR AGENDA At the summit, the President wooed western and African heads of governments to support his Big Four agenda. Esipisu said Uhuru and German Chancellor Angela Merkel sought to enhance strong ties on manufacturing and apprenticeships, just five months after German car-maker Volkswagen announced that it will double production in Kenya. The firm is also keen on introducing a new model at its Thika plant. Uhuru and Merkel also talked about Kenya's adoption of the German model of technical and vocational education and training (TVETs) to promote skills in the job market. “The German model combines practical engagement at a company throughout the period students are in school, which means they walk straight into jobs. Germany is very supportive,” the Spokesman said. Uhuru also met French President Eammanuel Macron, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau. He asked them to support the Big Four, which also covers universal healthcare, food security and affordable housing. Abe told Uhuru of Japan's intention to invest more in Kenya's infrastructure sector to spur economic growth. “Japan has been providing money and technical assistance for the universal healthcare programme. The President and Abe spoke strongly on keeping these on course," Esipisu said. Uhuru also discussed investment with Macron and invited French companies to venture into Kenya's manufacturing, technology and security sectors. More than 120 French firms have invested in Kenya so far, a number that doubled in the last three years. “The two leaders want to expand that further as the President seeks investors to grow private sector jobs,” Manoah said. He disclosed that Macron is likely to visit Kenya before the year ends, as a step towards deepening bilateral ties, following Uhuru's invitation during the talks. With Trudeau, Uhuru discussed deals for more Kenyans to work in Canada and students to enroll in its universities and colleges as its fees are a bit cheaper than in the US and other developed countries. Manoah said the President also asked Canada to support Kenya's maritime agenda in terms of value addition for fishing. He added that Canada agreed to co-sponsor the blue economy summit while affirming its commitment to working with Kenya on environment and climate change matters. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres lauded Uhuru for his commitment to unifying the country following the unity deal with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. He affirmed his full support for AMISOM and said he will continue lobbying for support for African soldiers fighting al Shabaab. Manoah also said Guterres asked Uhuru to champion the South Sudan peace process while assuring his commitment to strengthening UN presence and impact in Nairobi. Uhuru did not meet US President Donald Trump and UK Prime Minister Theresa May during the G7 summit. However, the Spokesman stated that US and UK have backed Kenya's Blue Economy summit that set for November. More on this: Uhuru pushes for ocean protection, African alignment ahead of G7 Summit Related: What each of the G7 countries wants, and what they need Click here for the latest political news