Opposition chief Raila Odinga is expected to fly to South Africa next week in a new effort to reconcile South Sudanese leaders and end years of bloody civil strife. Raila will separately hold talks with South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and South Sudanese rebel leader Riek Machar over the unending war in the young nation. Machar, a former Vice President, has been under house arrest in South Africa since 2016. The Star has established that Western powers, including the US, are backing Raila’s efforts, because of his broad appeal to the warring factions. “There are indications that regional organisations, including IGAD, want to formally engage him since previous peace efforts have collapsed,” a source close to the former Prime Minister said. Read: Bishops urge state to help broker peace deal in war-torn S Sudan Raila’s new role as peace envoy has the backing of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the former Prime Minister is treated abroad as the official representative of the Kenyan government. In South Africa, he will be received by Kenyan High Commissioner Jean Kamau. In South Sudan, Kenyan Ambassador Cleland Leshore was on hand to receive him. On Wednesday, Raila met European Union envoys and briefed them on his talks with besieged South Sudan President Salva Kiir. The meeting took place at the residence of the EU Ambassador to Kenya, Stefano A Dejak, — just four days after Raila met Kiir for hours of closed-door deliberations last weekend. According to information from Raila’s communication team, he briefed the diplomats on his engagements with Kiir. “He [Raila] briefed the diplomats on his recent trip to Juba and meeting with President Salva Kiir and the expected meeting with Dr Riek Machar. The meeting [with diplomats] lauded the developments in the country and Kenya’s engagements in regional conflicts with a view to finding lasting solutions,” the statement says. Sources said Kiir, who is increasingly being alienated in the global community over the escalating conflict, reached out to Raila. “South Sudanese are impressed with the handshake Raila had with Uhuru. They believe a ceasefire is possible even in their own country,” our source said. Machar’s team has said they are happy with Raila’s effort. Sources says the US may have lost trust in Kiir’s government for allegedly fuelling or failing to end the country’s civil war. The government has been fighting a number of rebel groups, some of them loyal to Machar. Former army commander Paul Malong formed another faction this year, further complicating the crisis. The warring parties signed a ceasefire in December last year in the Ethiopian capital, but it was violated within hours. Read: A who’s who in South Sudan’s splintering civil war Click here for
the latest political news