Deputy President William Ruto has said he will submit himself to lifestyle audit following the President's directive. The DP said every public servant should submit themselves to the exercise once it starts. “His Excellency pronounced the Kenya government policy on every public servant being subjected to lifestyle audit and it is expected that every public servant submits themselves in that exercise and William Ruto will be among the first to submit himself,” he said. Ruto took a swipe at the media stating that they (media) had already done a life audit of him. “The other day I saw the media trying to write something on what I own. Well…I thought they would continue the following day with another leader. But I saw nothing…it seemed the agenda was me because it started and ended on me,” he joked. Read: [VIDEO] Lifestyle audit should include Jomo Kenyatta, MP Sudi tells Uhuru He said the audit will put to the rest the rumour milling and half-truths about his wealth that is peddled around. Speaking during the 43rd Annual National Conference of Principals at Wild Waters in Mombasa County on Wednesday, Ruto noted that every leader must undergo the examination. The Deputy President observed that unless tackled now, corruption cases would dwarf the development plans that are being pursued by the Government. “It is a serious threat. We cannot attain the Big Four agenda if these vices are not tamed. That is why I will also undergo the lifestyle scrutiny,” he said. Ruto said it was time Kenyans joined hands and fought corruption “if we are to make our country move forward”. He said there had been a lot of rumours doing rounds in the media about what he owns and how he acquired his wealth. However, Ruto claimed he had nothing to hide. The Deputy President, while addressing the principals, had earlier called on the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) to expand its medical cover to teachers. He said it was time health facilities housed in schools provided essential services to students so as to minimise the cases of learners seeking such assistance outside their institutions. “Universal healthcare to students is our primary goal. As a government, we are tasked with ensuring that these learners are exposed to a conducive environment to boost their performance,” the Deputy President said. Meanwhile, Ruto said the new education curriculum to be implemented will focus more on science, technology, engineering and mathematics in a bid to making Kenya an industrialised economy. He said the transformation would also see schools adopt continuous assessments “rather than a single, win-or-lose, and final examination.” Once implemented, the new curriculum is expected to churn out inventors, innovators, leaders and game-changers. “These are the brains that would then elevate Kenya to the next level of development; upper-middle-income,” Ruto said. The Deputy President observed that an education system that imparts problem-solving skills to learners would make Kenya not only competitive but also model future leaders. Related; Lifestyle audit will 'expose us', Murkomen jokes on Uhuru's call for wealth review Also read: I'm ready for lifestyle audit, no crisis in ODM - Raila Click here for the latest political news 