However, one
saving grace, even in all of the madness that come with it, is the country has
one of the most independent judiciaries in the world. With a democratically
elected Congress and President, in an electoral system that’s as close to open
and transparent as one can be, the Judiciary serves a critical role in checks
and balances and in ensuring fidelity to the law. As in all
countries, where the rule of law is paramount and followed, the Supreme Court
usually has the last say in what the law is and in resolving “cases and
controversies” that arise under the country’s Constitution and all other laws
and regulations that flow from it. With the
country historically divided along two ideological opposite, liberal and
conservative, and a good doze of independents in between, the membership in the
Supreme Court in terms of justices has always been historically divided along
national ideological lines. Such is that some of the most controversial and
difficult cases, the decisions have been 5-4, a classic example being Roe v
Wade, a case that guaranteed women a right to have abortion, if they so choose. Liberals and independents
support the decision, conservatives hate it and the latter are now giddy
because a key justice, who has been in the 5-4 majority, just announced his
retirement from the court, meaning Trump will appoint his replacement. This
will certainly be someone who will tilt the vote the other way, overturning
this historic decision. That’s the only
way a President can influence the court. In all the other times, the best he
can do, is to send his chief government lawyer to argue his position — and
that’s the beauty of having an independent judiciary and fidelity to law. The same cannot
be said about our Judiciary. We have never
had an independent Judiciary in Kenya and the closest we ever came to have one,
was in 2010 following promulgation of the 2010 Constitution and the subsequent
appointment of Willy Mutunga as the Chief Justice. That
independence was short-lived, as everyone other than those in deep denial saw
the Executive’s hand in the awful 2013 decision dismissing Raila and AfriCOG
petition challenging the election of Uhuru Kenyatta. That stain
remained with Mutunga through his term and for the rest of the court’s history.
However, his successor, Chief Justice David Maraga, redeemed the Judiciary when
he led the majority of the Supreme Court bench in nullifying the 2017
presidential election. That
independence, too, was short-lived but this time through no fault of the Chief
Justice or his fellow justices; but Raila Oding’a boycott of the repeat
election. It created circumstances that rendered all but impossible for the
Court to have reached any different outcome as it did. Then came the
Miguna Miguna drama, with the Executive ignoring court orders with impunity. All that eroded
the court’s independence and its fidelity to the law. Fidelity to the
law, according to the American jurist who gave us the lexicon, means real law
has to be worthy of respect, loyalty and faithfulness. There’s no
doubt Chief Justice Maraga seeks to lead the court and the country in instituting
fidelity to the law. He, however, can’t do this alone and, more importantly, he
needs Uhuru to help him restore this important phenomenon and restore this
important institution to at least its 2010 glory and in doing so, the President
will reshape his own legacy.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States 