County governance represents both distinct opportunity and challenge. Counties have been recognised as the hubs for economic development and social inclusion. Given their proximity to localised policy and governance, they help strengthen social cohesion and mobilise local capacities and assets. And as counties try to keep pace with inevitable demographic changes, their capacity to respond and address policy issues becomes even more crucial. Nairobi county government performance has been less stellar. Like all cities in the world, Nairobi has to address itself to four key factors for strengthening service delivery and county governance capacity in the face of rapid urbanization. First, county service delivery must not be viewed in isolation, but rather as part of a much larger system of governance involving horizontal and vertical interactions among policymakers and the citizens. Policy dialogue affords citizens and government officials an opportunity to discuss the current state of decentralised governance and also serves as a powerful tool for amplifying outreach regarding institutional reforms. Second, evidence shows capacity efforts to improve local service delivery can have a positive effect on decentralised governance by reinforcing trust in government institutions. The county government has to strengthen its capacities in different areas and use information and communication technology tools to improve customer service and utilize e-governance. In addition, capacity building should also address vertical and horizontal linkages to best improve service delivery, government-citizen engagement, public-private partnerships, and innovations. Third, devolved governance and service requires citizen participation and governing processes that are open, transparent, and inclusive. Improving relationships between the citizens, civil society organisations and their government means working simultaneously on state responsiveness and effectiveness, citizen empowerment, and accountability of local elected officials. Finally, while a devolved structure matters for local service delivery, performance depends on holding the county government to account. Transparency and access to information on local processes and decisions are essential for accountability. Together, accountability and transparency in service delivery can deliver multiple outcomes, including reducing transaction costs, strengthening organizational process for key services and promoting use of technology and open government principles. All of these results enhance delivery and increase innovation. Ultimately, service delivery in county governments succeeds when initiatives find win-win relationships between beneficiaries of public services and the county governments. Improvements also rely on finding better ways to integrate the services counties provide, taking into account the specific needs of different communities, while offering readily accessible information to the public. Most importantly, strong citizen engagement mechanisms allow often-disenfranchised groups to have their voices heard, enabling them to contribute meaningfully to localized service provision. Flowing from above, Nairobi governor and his government need to act on the following to improve on governance and service delivery: First, cease to over depend on the national government for policy and decision-making. While the Constitution encourages mutual coordination, consultation and cooperation between two levels of the governments, the county is distinct and independent of the national government. The governor needs to start governing by guaranteeing in action a more purposeful and efficient government. Second, devolved functions and services should be automated and decentralised to the lowest levels. Retrain, retool and empower the subcounty and ward administrators to effectively and efficiently coordinate and enforce compliance of policies and service delivery. Third, identify, explore and design information communication technology applications that will create a smart Nairobi county technology hub. Partner with private sector and learning institutions to create technology research and innovation hubs and integrate ICT across its agencies, infrastructure, and industries to improve the quality of life and economic viability of residents and businesses. Fourth, City residents are at the heart of local problem solving and decision-making to deliver better outcomes. As the governor you should be able to manage services across sectors seamlessly. City County data should be shared more widely and utilized confidently breaking down silos and creating new pathways for delivery of priority services, inclusive economic growth and tackling cross-cutting challenges in a cost effective and productive way.