Nyeri County has rubbished claims that Governor Mutahi Kahiga has travelled to the US for prostrate cancer and diabetes treatment. Speculation had been rife as Nyeri's first Governor Nderitu Gachagua died early last year at a London Hospital after battling cancer. Deputy Samuel Wamathai took over but was unseated by Wahome Gakuru who died late last year following a grisly road accident on Thika Superhighway. Director of communication Carol Nderi assured residents on Wednesday that Kahiga is in good health. "Our attention has been drawn to a false post circulating on social media, emanating from a Facebook account that has previously spun outright lies and is seemingly at it again," Nderi posted in a Nyeri journalists WhatsApp group. "We assure the people of Nyeri that Kahiga is well and in the USA with a section of senior officials to meet investors." The Director said the delegation went for an exchange programme between with Reston City. She noted that the relationship between Nyeri and Reston was revived for the mutual benefit of its citizenry. Nderi asked residents to ignore the rumours about the Governor and informed them that he will return to Kenya next week. "We would like to caution those peddling lies, and those behind pseudo accounts, that it is criminal to do so and that punitive measures can be taken against them for causing undue anxiety." Read: Cybercrime law targets bloggers, media The Facebook account is run by a person named Daniel William. It had also stated that the Governor has collapsed four times in his office since taking over. "Word had it that he would visit his doctor during intense campaigns," a post stated. The county is currently in the hands of newly appointed Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu. Early this week, she cancelled a tender awarded to Ark Road Contractors by Kahiga. The account stated: "Ark Road directors were subsequently arrested for obtaining Sh24 million NYS money, having not supplied anything." Ark Road Holdings is among the 10 companies listed by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations as having benefited from the alleged fraudulent payments of Sh468 million from the National Youth Service. The tender had been awarded to the firm for re-carpeting the stretch of the road between Kuku Lane Junction and Temple Road Junction. "Ark Road Holdings have cited financial constraints. The tender will be re-advertised immediately," Karugu said, without revealing the cost of the tender. More on this: Nyeri county cancels road tender with firm linked to NYS scam Click here for the latest political news