Widows have been urged not to belittle themselves or wallow in self-pity, but to face life with courage and hope. Nyandarua woman representative, Faith Gitau, on Saturday said losing a spouse, though painful and discouraging is not the end but marks a new beginning. Gitau spoke at her office in Ol Kalou town where she met over 200 widows from across Nyandarua to commemorate World Widows Day. The widows, both young and old, shared experiences concerning what they go through, after losing their husbands and how they have overcome. They also engaged in praises, song and dance and received gifts from Gitau. Naomi Njeri moved the crowd to tears after narrating how less than a month after her husband died in an accident, her in-laws took the cross from the grave and nailed it on her house. “This caused me a lot of anguish because I did not know what it meant. I kept wondering whether it meant my house signify the grave or what. I cried day and night. My children were so affected that they could not eat. Every time they joined me in weeping,” said the mother of three Njeri said she left for her parents’ home after three months. She has struggled and managed to educate one of her children through college and the other is currently in the university. She recounted when she organized a fundraiser to take her child to University and her in-laws sent a delegation to warn her not to use her late husband’s name because “I know why he died”. Gitau encouraged them not to lose hope in the face of such challenges, to the extent that they are unable to work to support themselves and children. She regretted that widows are neglected by government and society who sometimes demonizes them. She encouraged those not too old to get married again to marry if they find someone. “But if you can stand alone, do it,” she said. Referring to this year’s theme, ‘Empowering Widows through Vocational Training’, Gitau said she will assist widows in Nyandarua to get trained in different courses to better their lives. She urged them to form groups to facilitate the training, and also maximize on the benefits which will come with training. She lamented that widows in Nyandarua and women at large are not taking advantage of government support funds including women fund, uwezo fund a National Government Affirmative Action Fund. “Soon I will be calling a big meeting for all women so we discuss why you are not taking up these funds”, she said. Click here for the latest political news   