Tourism CS Najib Balala has reinstated the Sh20 million Brand Kenya sponsorship deal with Kenya Rugby UNion. A furious Balala terminated the sponsorship after the Kenya Sevens team concealed the 'Make It Kenya' message on their jerseys in protest over a payment dispute while playing in Paris. Head coach Innocent Simiyu was fired for taking responsibility but he was rehired after intervention by Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa. More on this: Kenya Sevens head coach Innocent Simiyu fired, Sh20m sponsorship revoked Also read: Kenya Sevens rehires coach Innocent Simiyu after CS Echesa's intervention Echesa also engaged his Tourism counterpart in a bid to win back the financial assistance ahead of the Rugby World Cup Sevens set for July 20-22 in San Francisco, United States. Balala said the decision came after successful negotiations with the Sports ministry, sponsor Bidco Africa, Shujaas, KRU representatives and other stakeholders. He said the ministry had channeled Sh2.5 million directly to the players accounts and promised to clear the pending Sh21 million debt to the union. “We discussed the embarrassing Paris moments. The players realised there was a problem and tendered a written apology. After July, we will call a meeting with KRU to extend partnership for three year," the Minister said. "The government, through the two ministries, commits to supporting the team in the [July] series and is working on a framework to continue supporting the team for the next three years. Magical Kenya will be the brand to be used henceforth, not Make It Kenya." The ministry directed Brand Kenya to pay the players and KRU the 40 percent outstanding dues. Balala said they will also release the remaining 60 percent funds to KRU. He thanked Kenya Rugby Union and the players for resolving their issues amicably. Prior to reinstating the sponsorship, Brand Kenya asked the players and the union to apologise to the sponsor and the country at large for the Paris act. Read: [Statement] How KRU used our pay to settle bank overdraft - Kenya Sevens team Other details: Pay rugby boys quickly, Brand Kenya boss tells KRU Click here for the latest political news