Kenya plans to adopt new construction standards to improve quality and end rising cases of buildings collapsing. Kenya Bureau of Standards managing director Charles Ongwae told the Star that the country will do away with the 49-year old British building codes they have become obsolete. He said the country will adopt the European Codes of standard known as Eurocodes. He said that all construction firms have until January 2021 to familiarise themselves with Eurocodes which will be a common reference point for all builders on what materials, technology and design to use. He said after the deadline no construction materials will be allowed into the country if they do not meet the Eurocode standards. The structural Eurocodes are divided into ten segments from code zero to code 9. However, Kenya will begin by implementing only the first four - codes structural design, the code on Actions ( loads ), code on concrete and the code on steelwork. Industrialisation Principal Secretary Betty Maina said the new standard would open up Kenya to international construction market, help lower the cost of housing and assist in research and development of the sector. She said developers eyeing housing tenders under the Big Four Agenda to comply with the new standards. A National Implementation Committee on Eurocodes has since been formed by the KeBs to spearhead awareness and capacity building of the new standards among constructors and engineers. The 28 member committee consist of representatives from nine ministries, professional bodies, training institution, manufacturers and consumers. “The domestication process of the codes is set to take at least five years for it to be properly localised, the first year we will focus on awareness and technical introduction while the remaining four years will be used for training of engineers, and the development of National annexes,” Stanley Shitoti from the department of structural and civil engineering at Moi University said in an interview. At least Sh250 million will be spent in the next five years to sensitise and help local construction firms adopt to the new standards. Institutions that train on construction will also be expected to adopt the new standards in their curriculum. Professionals already practicing using the British codes will be required to take refresher courses to familiarise with the new codes. Five buildings have collapsed across the country since January. In 2016, the Buildings Inspectorate in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development marked more than 400 buildings in Nairobi unsafe for human occupation. This is 240 less the total number of buildings found dangerous to live in by the Nairobi County last year. A breakdown of a building audit conducted by the Inspectorate shows that, more than half of the 2,260 buildings evaluated in selected estates in Nairobi alone between January and February 2016, are in “very urgent” need of inspection.