Some 1.7 million secondary school students have been covered under the Sh4 billion medical cover across the country. NHIF chief executive officer Geoffrey Mwangi said on Thursday they are still getting data from the Education ministry to ensure all students are covered. “We told schools to pick health providers that we currently have on board,” Mwangi said. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the scheme on April 13, and it will run until December 31. Thereafter, it will be renewable annually as from January 1, 2019, for five years. It is estimated three million secondary school students will benefit. The cover will help improve the quality of education. Read: Uhuru launches Sh4 Billion NHIF cover for students It will also reduce medical costs incurred by parents and improve the general well-being of students. Mwangi, who spoke during a breakfast meeting with editors at Stanley Hotel, Nairobi, said once a student falls sick, the teacher only needs to write to the hospital for him or her to get medical care. Secondary school leavers will not benefit from the scheme. The CEO, however, said there are fraud cases involving health providers and beneficiaries. “Some facilities hire equipment during authorisation and return them after some ime, which is a tricky situation,” Mwangi said, adding that they will  meet with various health providers. Deputy director for Registration and Compliance Gibson Kamau said community outreach programmes and campaigns aimed at raising awareness about NHIF services have been rolled out. He said enrolling drugs addicts who are over 18 years but lack identity cards has been a challenge. “However, they are provided with a unique number that identifies their homes to help them access rehabilitation services,” he said. Benefits and Claims Manager Gilbert Osoro said  through the systems have been put in place to close the existing gaps, fraud cases have reduced. “We have a competent team of medics who access the need for services such as renal and surgical, among others. Once a member visits health facilities, they launch an online request on services they need. Pre-authorisation has reduced to 48 hours,” he said. Click here for
the latest political news