Chief Justice David Maraga yesterday urged the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to ensure corruption cases in court meet the threshold for conviction. Maraga asked the DPP and the police to carry out proper investigations before moving to court to prosecute graft suspects. He spoke yesterday at the Supreme Court during the swearing-in of Justice William Ouko as the new president of the Court of Appeal. He replaces Justice Kihara Kariuki who was appointed Attorney General by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “If a case is investigated properly and sufficient evidence is presented, Kenyans will be justified in expecting a conviction,” the CJ said. He told the police and the DPP that the Judiciary should not be a scapegoat or convenient whipping boy in the war against corruption. “I have also given firm instructions that corruption cases be heard on a day to day basis. The days when such cases took up to five years or even longer to determine are a thing of the past,” he said. The drill and discipline is simple; present to the court cases that meet the criminal threshold and expect a conviction, he said. “Anything else is misguided, illusory and aimed at passing the blame to the courts. There ought not to be even perception or suspicion in the courts’ integrity,” he said. Read:Don't expect corruption convictions without evidence - Maraga Maraga said the Judiciary was a temple of justice and would not have its credibility put to question. “The tendency by the investigating and prosecution agencies to bring cases that are poorly investigated and then point an accusing finger at the Judiciary when suspects are acquitted is unfair. It undermines public trust and confidence in the judicial system,” he said. He told Kenyans not to expect a conviction if there is no incriminating evidence presented in court. Research shows corruption is one of the greatest hindrances to the development of any nation. Only by the courts dealing with it decisively can it be wiped out,” he said. Maraga said graft is a national security concern and public anger has reached new levels. He said if the current trends in corruption continue, the survival of the country will be undermined. Maraga’s remarks come days after several corruption-related cases have been unearthed in some parastatals and government ministries. They include the National Youth Service and and the National Irrigation Board. Justice Ouko said no one should try to bribe a judge. He said,”We will use him or her as an example.” He said the Judiciary has a pivotal role in the fight against corruption and his team has set aside more capital and human resources for cases of corruption. Lawyers and officials from the Judiciary were at the event. Read:[VIDEO] Corruption cases a priority, evidence must be watertight - Maraga Click here for the latest political news