The M-Akiba bond, which the state hoped would open trade in Treasury bonds and bills to small-scale investors, has so far failed, a survey has shown. The survey by Financial Sector Deepening Africa presented to the Treasury yesterday indicated out of 303,534 potential investors who registered in the pilot and main issue of the bond, a paltry 11,679 finally took up the offer. The survey attributed the low performance to poor management of the bond issue. According to CS Henry Rotich, the four per cent up-takers comprised 5,692 investors during the pilot stage and 5,987 during the main offer period. Eighty five per cent of the total uptakers made investments ranging between Sh3,000 to Sh10,000 while the remaining 15 per cent invested Sh50,000 and above. The survey showed there was poor understanding of the bond specifics in terms of the time frame and the interest it attracts. It also attributed the low uptake to the wrong timing of the launch. The pilot offer of Sh150 million was successful within the set time frame, while the main offer of Sh1 billion fell short by 86 per cent, raising only Sh247 million.  COLLECTING MONEY FOR ELECTION The total amount raised from the two issues was Sh397.8 million. “Even though there was huge public interest in the bond as indicated by high registration at both the pilot stage and at the main M-Akiba bond launch, the proportion of those who purchased the bond was significantly low,” resource mobilisation director Jackson Kinyanjui said in a speech he read on behalf of Treasury CS Henry Rotich. Another reason cited for the poor performance is those who signed up as a result of prompting from an agent did not have the full details, thinking that M-Akiba was a savings product but with unclear terms. The survey also noted the launch in an election year – 2017 – worked against M-Akiba as there were concerns it was a scheme to collect money for the election. Poor customer care service, absence of agents leading to a low conversion rate and no option for one to deposit money until it reached the minimum Sh3,000 also worked against the bond. A confusing user interface of the bonds mobile application and purchase process also worked against it as most people did not know what to do. The survey recommended the use of chat bots to provide a 24-hour response to customer questions, hide the secret access PIN to the platform and remove options on the type of products.