MPs were visibly dismayed on Thursday when National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich announced a 10 per cent increase in excise duty on private vehicles exceeding 2,500cc. During presentation of the 2018-19 Budget, Rotich increased the excise duty on diesel vehicles exceeding 2,500cc from 20 per cent to 30. Buyers of petrol vehicles exceeding 3000cc will also face a similar increase. Parliament’s parking spaces are decorated with sleek and high-end vehicles, among them Toyota V8s, Lexus and Range Rovers. Many of the legislators traded in their old cars for new ones or took additional loans from the Bunge Sacco to finance more top-of-the-range vehicles befitting “Waheshimiwa”. See this : M-Pesa charges, kerosene, mitumba go up in Big Four budget Those who are not flashy went for the relatively less prestigious Toyota TX models, which cost less than Sh5 million. On Thursday, the legislators grumbled in the House as they expressed their dissatisfaction with the changes. “Whereas the expenditure proposals in the budget speech are reasonable, I find the proposed revenue collection measures too ambitious and unrealistic,” Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi told the Star. “I foresee the government resorting to more and more external borrowing to bridge the glaring deficits to the detriment of the common man.” All the 416 MPs received their Sh2 billion car grants in January. Each got Sh5 million. Rotich was late to Parliament, attracting criticism from the National Assembly’s top leadership. He was supposed to deliver the budget at 3pm but arrived at 3.17pm. The CS was welcomed by Majority leader Aden Duale, Budget and Appropriations committee chairman Kimani Ichung’wa and Clerk Michael Sialai. “The CS has really delayed. He should come so that we can finish this critical matter,” one legislator was overheard saying. Security had been heightened at Parliament Buildings as Rotich’s motorcade left the National Treasury building to deliver the long-awaited budget. Click here for the latest political news