A fortnight ago, a photograph of a ditch strewn with discarded water bottles went viral on social media in the wake of the Mater Heart Run. Understandably, it provoked calls for responsible waste management. It showed that even as the county governments that manage urban centres continue to grapple with effective waste management, the public has a role to play in the matter. Debate about the use of plastic bottles and their impact on the environment has grown in recent months. This was sparked partly by the ban on plastic bags in 2017. There have been strong arguments for a total ban and responsible recycling of all waste. Each side is armed with facts to support their conviction. Waste, whether plastic, e-waste, solid, chemical – is a reality of human life and we have to seek ways to deal with this issue holistically and sustainably. As long as humans live, consume, transact, move, work and create, waste will consistently be churned out. So we need to start speaking about responsible disposal of waste, be it plastic bottles or any other. Every year millions of single-use bottles end up in landfills, drainages, rivers and eventually in our lakes and oceans. The effect of plastic waste on marine life has been well-documented. Something can be done about this and it already has started. First, not every plastic water bottle ends up in the landfill. There are companies that recycle these bottles. In fact, these are the most recycled products in Kenya after newspapers and aluminum. The material from recycled bottles is used to make eco-friendly fencing posts, carpets, shoes and other plastic containers. We all appreciate that apart from the environmental benefits of recycling, there are many employment opportunities that have been created within the recycling chain. Additionally, reuse and recycling of waste and plastic bottles in particular broaden our collective responsibilities as manufacturers, national and county governments, retailers as well as the public. A number of plastic manufacturers have internal reprocessing capacity for their own waste and castoffs while some players solely rely on waste plastic bottles as their main raw materials. Along the value chain there are waste pickers and small-scale traders plying in unprocessed plastic waste directly to plastic producers. This is a more sustainable solution to plastic bottle waste management as the plastic waste collection, by informal actors, presents a more realistic and organic approach. So, while global appetite for plastic continues unabated, all efforts towards sustainable management of waste PET bottles have been employed. Manufacturers, through KAM, recently signed a Framework of Cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and the National Environment Management Authority. Within the framework, KAM commits to the implementation of structured and sustainable take-back schemes and extended producer responsibility schemes for the management of PET waste bottles. This will be done through a public-private partnership arrangement that will have the manufacturers working with the county governments and informal actors to develop comprehensive recycling schemes guided by circular economy principles. Generally, manufacturers have committed to collect up to 20 per cent of disposable and reusable bottles for recycling in 2018, with an ambitious target of 70 per cent recycling by 2030 as part of end-of life management efforts. Such a collaborative shift in our approach to used PET plastic bottles calls for more of a circular-economy mindset, one that truly starts seeing waste as a resource. For consumers, this also calls for upcycling (creative reuse) and behavioral change in how we dispose of plastic bottles if we are to turn the tide on litter and waste. The reality is we live in an age where plastic has become the cheaper, accessible and definitely less fragile option for packaging, providing variety for consumers and manufacturers. It will not be possible to throw it out of the window, but we can adopt innovative ways to dispose of it and to recycle it. Keeping our environment clean is a marathon and not a sprint, and it is our collective responsibility to make sure we live in a litter-free environment that delivers long-term economic, social and ecological prosperity. CEO, Kenya Association of Manufacturers