Africa cross country junior champion Rhonex Kipruto is ready to punch above his weight as he dreams of clinching the elusive 10,000m title at the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, japan. Kipruto is preparing to represent the country at the World Under 20 championships in Tampere, Finland next month. Naftali Temu was the last Kenyan to win the 10,000m Olympic title at the 1968 Olympics in Mexico and Kipruto believes he has what it takes to have a go at the medal that has evaded his fancied predecessors over time. Kipruto clocked 27:49.60 to beat his training mate, Solomon Boit during the national U20 trials at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Monday. “I did not expect to time below 28 in Nairobi because of the altitude, but the win motivated me,” Kipruto said, who immediately returned to camp for light training before joining Team Kenya camp on Monday. Before winning a slot to Kenya’s U20 team, Kipruto won the New York Road runners marathon in April. He clocked 27:08 to smash the 27:35 course record set by Leornard Komon in 2011 and setting the fastest 10K record in the US soil. Kipruto’s training compatriot Boit had to rush to Chewoiyet Secondary school in West Pokot to catch up with studies before joining the Robert Ngisirei Team Kenya training camp. The duo received glorious hails from their coach, Brother Colm O’Connell who exuded confidence that they will shine in Tampere. O’Connell said he hopes the two will be trained under less pressure ahead of the World U20 race. “Kipruto and Boit are very humble and realistic with their abilities. It is a pleasure working with them,” O’Connell said. It is the first time the two runners are representing in the global arena. But O”Connel said: “Boit may not be as established as Kipruto but he competed well in school championships which laid a good foundation for him,” he said. The veteran coach who also nurtured and propelled 800M champion David Rudisha to a show-stopper urged team Kenya coaches to prepare the young athletes psychologically for the championships. “They are ready physically but they now need psychological preparedness.”