Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday said the Government will not allow anyone to scuttle its development agenda for Kenyans. Ruto said Jubilee would defend its agenda for the country from individuals who were dedicated to scuttling it so as to achieve their selfish interests. The Deputy President said Jubilee’s agenda for the country was clear; saying no amount of propaganda by those opposed to development would stop the implementation of ‘our development projects.’ “We will defend our development track record and the past, present and future legacy. We will not allow anyone to derail Jubilee’s agenda. Going forward, we are firm and resolve in what we are doing,” said Ruto. Speaking at Naikarra primary school grounds, in Narok County, Ruto said the Government was focused on the implementation of its Big Four agenda-manufacturing, healthcare, food security and affordable housing. Present were Governors Samuel Tunai (Narok), Joyce Laboso (Bomet) and Interior Chief Administrative Officer (CAS) Patrick ole Ntutu. Others were MPs Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West), Swarup Mishra (Kesses), David Sonkok (nominated), Johana Ngeno (Emurua Dikirr), Korei Lemein (Narok South), Soipan Tuya (Women Rep, Narok), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Dominic Kosgey (Sotik), Kipsengeret Koros (Soin/Sigowet) and Joyce Korir (Women Rep, Bomet). Ruto told those politicizing the Government’s agenda with the intention of derailing its implementation for political gains that their mission would not succeed. “I want to tell those going around with the propaganda to politicize our projects with the aim of derailing our Big Four agenda for the country that they are not going anywhere,” said Ruto. He added: “We will do everything possible to ensure what we promised Kenyans is implemented and that no one derails our agenda.” Ruto asked leaders to focus on the transformative agenda, noting that Kenyans were now looking upon them in addressing challenges facing them now that electioneering period was over. Governor Tunai said leaders in the area have resolved to forget their political differences and forge a common development agenda for the people. Ruto also addressed wananchi at Loita Girls secondary school grounds, Narok County. Click here for the latest political news