Mathioya MP Peter Kimari has hired a consultant to determine the causes of dismal academic performance of students in the constituency. Kimari said the report from the probe report will inform the constituency on the best teaching and learning practices to adopt so that locals excel in education. The constituency, once a top performer, has trailed the seven constituencies in Murang'a county for many years. "This research will help us establish the best working education practices and help us to implement them in our constituency," Kimari said. Once the report is finalised, it will be discussed and adopted by education stakeholders including principals and head-teachers. The constituency has 31 secondary schools and 67 primary schools. Kimari said at the Mathioya Education Day held at Kiria-ini girls high school that he is planning a meeting with professionals from the area to discuss ways of uplifting education standards. "More than 50 professionals have already volunteered for the programme that we started just before the elections," Kimari said. Most of them, he said, are always willing to attend academic meetings and are keen to boost education standards. They are also willing to work with Boards of Management in schools while some are already board members, he added. "My objective is to make Mathioya the best in the county and the region and I know these are the best people to work with for me to achieve that." The MP further pointed out that he has disbursed a total of Sh31 million to schools to improve their infrastructure. Over 4,000 university, college, technical institutes and special needs students have also received bursary amounting to Sh25 million. Area sub-county Education Officer Sarru Dabasso on his part raised alarm over the rampant cases of bhang smoking in secondary schools. Sarru noted that the vice is prevalent during inter-schools events where students influence each other to try out the drug. He said the vice largely affects the performance of schools. The official called upon education stakeholders to counsel individual students and also include their parents in the talks. Click here for the latest political news