Garbage collection within Nairobi has improved , from a range of 1500 to 1800 tonnes collected everyday by the County Government, environment executive Larry Wambua has said. The improvement is greatly attributed to devolution and public participation Reports early this year indicated that about 2,400 tonnes of solid waste is generated in the city daily, but only about 1,500 tonnes is managed to be collected and deposited in Dandora. Nairobi County Executive for Environment Larry Wambua told the Star yesterday that devolution has improved garbage collection "It has been much easier to control and supervise garbage collection exercises at ward level since each ward is coordinated by its own administrators," said Larry. Garbage collection, which is primarily a devolved function, has been under the ward administrators. The CEC also pointed out that the County Government made garbage collection a 24 hour task which has also boosted the cleanliness status of the county. "It is easier to conduct our exercise at night since there is less congestion of people and traffic on our roads which makes transportation faster and easier So far the county Government has been allocated 9 garbage collection tracks for the National youth Services. We still using our own tracks to help address the garbage collection menace," said Larry. City dwellers told the Star that there have seen immense improvement on garbage collection as compared to when the year started. “Walking around the city centre , there is improved service delivery on garbage collection,” said Josephat Otiende, trader “Nairobi is becoming cleaner. However, those found littering should be punished,” said Fiona Mueni, student. “The county government has tried giving their all towards a clean environment. But as city dwellers we should take more responsibility,” said Stacey Ngina, city resident. The 2018-19 County Fiscal Strategy Paper has proposed the county creates additional landfills and timely collection and disposal of waste.