Comedian Chipukeezy, real name Vincent Mutua, has been nominated as a board member of Nacada. Speaking to Word Is about the appointment, Chipukeezy said: "I feel so well. It is a good thing for me and every young talented person in this country" He also took it to his Instagram page and wrote: "I would like to take this opportunity to thank God, H.E the President, the Deputy President for the appointment into the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse Board (NACADA.). This is very humbling and I promise to work very hard towards ensuring that the task a head is accomplished as per expectations." His friend Starehe MP Charles "Jaguar" Njagua, who was a director at the anti-drug parastatal, congratulated the comedian, saying, "Wish you well my brother." Jaguar quit the agency in a huff, saying: "I have tried to fight for the 2.6m addicts in Kenya at Nacada but have failed coz of corruption...today I have given a notice of 14 days if action is not taken against the corrupt individuals I will quit as a director...I'd rather open an NGO and support the president and the youth on another platform." In another interview, Jaguar said during his tenure, he had been calling for investigations into corrupt people at Nacada but the process was slow and hampered by lack of funds. “There is no work being done there. Many affected youth have relapsed to drug abuse,” he said. Kenyans on Twitter reacted to Chipukeezy's appointment. Many were disappointed. @amerix tweeted, "Chipukizzy who has zero talent, no tangible socio-economic achievements, no academic credentials to his name, no history of fighting drugs, has been appointed to sit in the NACADA board." Another tweep, @OngaiJosiah wrote, "My mediocre questions what criteria do they always use in the selection of people in such caliber or they think he is influencial and can reach many people or youths to what extent do they want to win the hurt of the youths and what is the promotive factors to be considered. @humbaba95 differed with them, "But its Ok. Atleast Chipu is a youth kushinda recycling old wazee, o if he is legit enough aache ile show yake ya Ebru another youth achukue tusonge mbele." @MMNabutola added, "Congratulations being a comedian doesn't mean you can't work elsewhere. After all the so called best suited have swindled our coffers dry."