President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered a lifestyle audit of all state officers, including himself and and Deputy President William Ruto. They will be followed by all past and current 47 governors, Cabinet Secretaries and other state officers in an elaborate new plan to enhance the fight against corruption. Uhuru said no one will be spared in the fight against graft. He spoke yesterday when commissioning the Miritini-Mwache-Kipevu link road in Miritini. “We will ask you questions on how you got your wealth. If you don’t have answers, there is someone in Kamiti waiting for you. He will give you the answers instead,” Uhuru said. The President said the lifestyle audit will be key among other measures put in place by the government to deal with graft. “Transparency is when all those in authority declare what they own and how they got their property,” Uhuru said. On Wednesday, the President issued an Executive Order requiring all government entities and publicly owned institutions to make public the full details of tenders and awards from July 1. The publication will allow members of the public to access the information, including details of the items or services purchased, contract prices and the particulars of the suppliers including owners, directors and beneficial ownership. Yesterday, Uhuru warned politicians against politicising the war on graft, adding that no one will be allowed to hide behind religion, tribe or race once involved in graft. “Mwizi ni mwizi" ("A thief is a thief"). Whether you are Kikuyu, Kamba, Kalenjin or Digo. You stole alone, you will be jailed alone,” he said. The President pledged to stop theft of public money, saying it has cost the country fortunes. “I swear to God, this will end,” he said. The President shook hands with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, previously a fierce critic, and declared they will work together. Uhuru said there is a lot to be achieved with leaders working together. He said insults and chest-thumping "don’t help. They only bring problems.” “We must serve Kenyans equally. But we will only do so if we as leaders can sit down and talk out our issues first,” he said. Joho, who is the deputy party leader of ODM, said he is eager to work with the President but said he will still raise issues that need to be raised. “We will work with you. We will work with your government to uplift the lives of the people of Mombasa and Kenya,” Joho said. On a light note, he said he was at first scared that he was being followed by the GSU on his way to the function, only to learn that the GSU were actually easing his movement. He was referring to March 13, when the GSU put him under house arrest to prevent him from attending launch of the Mtongwe Ferry by the President. Joho and Uhuru had been criticising each other and Joho had complained the national government was taking credit for projects launched by counties.          