Nakuru county assembly speaker Joel Kairu is facing impeachment, eight months after he was unanimously elected by MCAs. At least 55 out of 78 MCAs have signed the petition to sack him. A notice of motion to impeach him was served to the clerk of the county assembly on Tuesday afternoon by Biashara MCA Peter Nyaguthii. Nyaguthii, a first-term MCA, accuses the speaker of denying the representatives funds for benchmarking in foreign countries. However six MCAs are currently in Arusha, Tanzania, for benchmarking. “We were allocated Sh15 million for foreign trips but only Sh9 million is available as the financial year comes to an end...where did Sh6 million go? [The] speaker must answer this integrity question,” Nyaguthii said. He also accused the speaker of ignoring the contribution of MCAs while nominating two members to the county assembly Public Service Board. Nyaguthii said nominated MCAs Alice Kering and Cecilia Karanja were nominated to the board without the consent of other MCAs. Kairu did not want to comment on the allegations. “My lawyers have asked me not to comment on the issue since the notice was served. I will let the notice of motion take its due course,” Kairu said. However in a previous interview he had dismissed the impeachment bid, saying there was nothing serious to warrant his removal from office. “The impeachment move started when I declared my interest in running for the Nakuru East parliamentary seat, which may have rubbed some interested people in the wrong way,” he said. Last year the MCAs defied Jubilee’s call to support one of their own for speaker, former Subukia MP Nelson Gaichuhie. He is now the National Treasury and Planning Chief Administrative Secretary. Kairu got 62 votes in the first round, beating his closest rival, Gaichuie, who only got 14 votes during the election in September last year.  FOES-TURNED-FRIENDS The third contestant, Ann Karigu, got only two votes. Gaichuhie was reportedly being fronted by powerful individuals in Jubilee Party. Joseph Malinda, who was seen as one of the favourites, pulled out reportedly following pressure from a Jubilee bigwig. He is said to have thrown his weight behind Kairu after a closed-door meeting at the Lake Nakuru Lodge. In December, the MCAs demanded Sh100,000 Christmas tokens after failing to get unsecured car loans and mortgages. The MCAs wanted Sh5 million loans. The plan to impeach Kairu began to take shape after this. The ward reps have been at loggerheads with the assembly administration after stringent measures were introduced to stop them from getting unsecured car loans and mortgages. If the House Business Committee sanctions the motion, Nyaguthii will need to marshal at least 59 members to support it during debate. Nyaguthii was once a fierce critic of Governor Lee Kinyanjui. He was one of two MCAs who attended Madaraka Day celebrations at Afraha Stadiums. The other was and Kivumbini MCA Wilbur Onyango. Kinyanjui was against Kairu’s election. The two have differed in public from time to time, with Kinyanjui terming Kairu a stumbling block to his development agenda. 