Kenya achieved their points target for the 2017/18 season after hitting the 100 mark while winning the Challenge Trophy at the London leg if the World Sevens Series yesterday. Kenya now have 101 points with one leg to go. The East Africans beat Wales 33-19 in the Challenge final. Jeffrey Oluoch scored two tries while Collins Injera, Willy Mbaka, Eden Agero added one each. Injera and Agero added to the points with one and two conversions respectively. Coach Innocent Simiyu applauded the players, saying: I am proud of the players. We did not start well yesterday (Saturday) but it is good to come up with a trophy from here.” “It is a good result for us ahead of the Sevens World Cup.” On Day One, Shujaa had a lacklustre performance where they drew 19-19 with USA beat France 24-21 and fell to a 38-12 defeat to hosts England. But that was forgotten yesterday as they ruthlessly dispatched Spain 38-0 and Argentina 42-10 to book their spot in the Challenge final. Against the Spaniards, Shujaa were quick of the blocks with talisman Injera scoring the opener with Agero converting for a 7-0 lead. Amonde was soon over the whitewash for unconverted try while Ambaka dotted over for his sides third try with Agero kicking over the conversion for a 19-0 lead at the break. The Kenyans continued with their onslaught on resumption with Billy Odhiambo touching down twice in a span of three minutes to extend the advantage to 31-0 with Brian Tanga converting one try. Injera then completed the scoring with Tanga adding the extras to complete the rout. Against Argentina, Injera once again led from the front, opening the scoring with a well taken try converted by Augustine Lugonzo for a 7-0. Lugonzo was to turn scorer minutes later as he dived over the line with Agero converting to widen the score to 14-0. Ambaka scored the third try to stun the shell-shocked South Americans with Agero slotting home the conversion for a 21-0 lead. Gaston Revol reduced the deficit with a try at the corner for a 21-5 score at the break. The Argentines grew in confidence in the second stanza and Revol crossed the line for an unconverted try but Kenya stepped up a gear with tries to from Odhiambio, Tanga and Amonde to close out the rout. Click here for the latest political news 