We are in the middle of a presidential campaign. If you have not seen it, then open your eyes. William Ruto has been all over the country hedging his bets on new alliances in regions he deems will be crucial to his 2022 bid. While at the Coast, he did the unthinkable and roped in Raila Odinga’s devoted allies, including his staunchest ally, Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa. Not one to spare the invective, she gave as good as she got and did not suffer fools lightly with her words. Her unexpected public support for DP William Ruto sent shivers throughout ODM circles, given that she had had massively ring-fenced the Coast as an ODM zone, and energetically defended Raila’s ‘stolen’ election. Then came her turnaround. The party has now moved to remove her from the coveted Parliamentary Service Commission slot, and party whip Junet Mohamed has already written to Speaker Justin Muturi about it. She had fought her way into the PSC in the hotly contested nomination and now she has given the party the easiest excuse to kick her out. This is coming hot on the heels of a visit by Raila to the Coast to carry out damage control following Ruto’s onslaught into his turf. In the same manner, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and his Kwale counterpart Salim Mvurya had been courted actively by the Ruto camp, and the Coast had began gravitating into the hands of the Deputy President, with the exception of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. But Joho’s warm welcome of President Uhuru Kenyatta still got ODM bigwigs rather worried. Joho has criticised Ruto’s presidential bid, vowing to challenge him come 2022. It is, however, unclear whether he has the wherewithal to mount a substantive challenge to Ruto. He is, however, working with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, who moved fast and secured a working alliance with him. Gideon is indeed hot on Ruto’s heels and is also eyeing an alliance with former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, having already reached out to Raila and other opposition chiefs.  PARTY PERSECUTION IS POLITICAL CAPITAL Aisha Jumwa’s case is the latest sign of Ruto’s strategy in his long-shot campaign for President. In trying to have her removed from the PSC, ODM is only falling on its own sword, as indeed they will still have a vocal MP who will now put her energy into fighting the party from within. Besides, they have given her a really great bargaining tool with which to get into Ruto’s deep pockets to make up for the shortfall in her income should she be thrown out of the PSC. ODM should learn something from how they treated former Kilifi North MP Gideon Mungaro, who was at one time their Coast pointman and who is now in government. Party persecution is political capital for the ‘victim’ and an excellent financial bargaining point, particularly with someone such as Ruto, who is not very stingy with his finances. With that in mind, more of their MPs and luminaries are likely to fall into the DPs clutches. While Raila is still basking in the warm sun of the handshake, Ruto is making hay. He is not stopping just at the Coast, he is busy creating alliances all over and where he is not, he is reading the riot act to those not intending to support him. In Central Kenya, he has his allies in place. Those who have openly opposed him such as Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu might wake up to see his lake is dry and not know what happened. On this one, Ngunjiri should see what happened to those who opposed Daniel Moi in the 1970s. On his own, he does not have the kind of power required to effectively stop Ruto. But the Coast, being the region Ruto has his mind on because it had overwhelmingly supported Raila, it represents new support from a non-Jubilee zone. Even in foraying into the Coast, Ruto is clear in his mind that should the traditional Jubilee zones fail to back him, he will have a softer landing in the Coast and Eastern/Northeastern Eastern regions. Ruto is also taking advantage of Raila’s quiet evasiveness about his 2022 ambitions and going for it full throttle. Perhaps waiting to see the direction the Buiding Bridges initiative will take, Raila is being tactful. But Ruto’s allies have not minced their words about the opposition leader’s intentions and have vowed to create walls before it becomes something substantial. In the meantime, Raila has his hands full with a diplomatic assignment that is keeping him busy. Ruto is not waiting, whatever direction the handshake/BBI will take seems immaterial to him. He is focused on what he wants in 2022.  ONE-HORSE RACE? It is, however, becoming increasingly apparent he may be his own competitor. At this point, Gideon seems to be Ruto’s most formidable challenger but we are yet to see how he will stand in an arrangement he is entering with several individuals, who are strongly eyeing the presidency. All the people Gideon has reached out to, have firm presidential ambitions. If he were to enter a loose coalition arrangement, he may end up where Raila was in the run-up to last year’s election, where lots of energy and crucial time were expended in choosing the opposition presidential flagbearer. But Ruto is not letting him off easy: He has invested his energy at stopping Gideon at all costs.  CUTTING GIDEON AT HOME As Ruto’s rival-in-chief, Gideon got slap in the face when the Kanu candidate for the upcoming Baringo South by-election, Charles Kamuren, jumped ship into Jubilee. While Kanu is technically in Jubilee, it is a clear fact it is only supporting Uhuru and not Ruto. Kamuren, who had run on a Kanu ticket in the last election, had lost narrowly to the late Grace Kipchoim. In the upcoming by-election, he was the man to beat. But he quickly dumped the Kanu ticket for Jubilee in what has turned out to be a personal embarassment to Gideon. For Ruto, it was necessary he gets a powerful ally to replace his equally powerful associate Kipchoim. This is the kind of person he needs to counter the increasing beligerence he is facing from Tiaty MP William Kamket, who has not minced his words against the DP. By directing Baringo to Jubilee, he is obviously weakening Gideon at home. But the Baringo Senator is not taking it easy. Word has it that he is currently formenting dissent against Ruto in his Uasin Gishu backyard by stoking emotions over the Maize scandal and maize that continues to lie unbought in many barns of Uasin Gishu. Moiben MP Silas Tiren and Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter have had no kind words for the DP. The last two have turned out to be the DP’s headache in his own backyard. It was only last month the DP was humiliated when Mzee Kimitei Kiplagat of Kapkoi village in Eldama Ravine demanded that Ruto return his monkey-skin regalia, which was used to instal him as a Tugen elder. Ordering it back meant the DP’s elevation to that respectable position had been quashed in a move that could only have been orchestrated by his detractors in Baringo. While the monkey-skin cloak of leadership is highly revered among the Kalenjin, some of Gideon’s supporters are said to have been very displeased that the DP had been elevated into a Tugen elder. These men are said to have moved fast and had the monkey skin recalled, greatly embarrasing the Deputy President. Normally, when you are given that skin, it is yours for the keeping unlike a graduation gown that must be returned. The DP had to eat humble pie and return it to avoid the matter being politicised. It is not clear if Gideon had any direct part in the old man’s decision but it was much safer for the DP to return the garb. There is so much importance placed on wearing that monkey-skin cloak in Kalenjin politics. The return of the monkey-skin cloak was the latest embarrassing moment served upon the DP the other being the abortive meeting with retired President Moi. While it is not clear why exactly the DP wanted to see Moi at Kabarak in April, some political pundits in the Rift Valley are convinced that he considers he will need the blessing of the older Moi if he is to become President. At the heart of the matter is the fact that Moi was enthroned a Nandi elder in Kamatargui in Kapsabet in 1969 but has not been able to return the same garb, which symbolically means the return of power back to the people who had entrusted him with it. The elders wanted it to symbolically mean power would be returned to the Nandi and that it would be a Nandi (Ruto) that would now lead the Kalenjin nation. The matter is so sensitive that it has the potential of splitting the two Kalenjin communities, which have lived together in harmony for centuries. There are already murmurs in Ruto’s base and their anger is directed at the older Moi, saying his failure to return the garb was an act of ingratitude to the people of Nandi, who had elevated him into power.  THE ROLE OF BIG MONEY Between Ruto and Gideon, big money may come into play to shake up things in their rivary. Gideon is many times wealthier than the Deputy President and in fact he is the wealthiest of all the political players right now — only that he is completely unostentious about his money. But where the DP falls short, he makes up for it with his sheer ‘kutangatanga’ energy. He is also a great orator and a powerful crowd-mover when he gets to speak. This will definitely help but big money also has its place in Kenyan politics. In absolute terms, DP Ruto has outspent Gideon in any political contest and is not as careful with his money as Gideon tends to be. The younger Moi has not been in government for so long and so much of his money comes from his extensive business interests. The last time someone used his businesses to fund politics was when Kenneth Matiba injected ‘disruptive’ funds into his presidential bid in 1992. This, however, had the effect of bringing down his massive empire that is today on its knees. It is not clear if Gideon wants to take that gamble but I can bet he will not. This will definitely keep Ruto as the lone wolf in the campaign.  