South Africa Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng has said the silent
war among the Judiciary, the Executive and Parliament can only be solved through talks. Mogoeng said the differences will be resolved when the heads of the three
arms of the government have a sit down and talk. He Spoke yesterday when he met the Mombasa law court judiciary team and advocates. He said the slashing of the allocation to the Judiciary should
be done "with honor" to avoid "making one party feeling squeezed". “Slashing of the  budget happens everywhere, even in South
Africa. But such actions should come with enough reasons," he said. The South Africa CJ said President Uhuru Kenyatta should sit down with Chief Justice David Maraga and the speakers of the National Assembly and the Senate to end the differences over the budget cuts. He said without a proper explanation, the Judiciary
feels the other two arms of the government are misusing their powers to oppress it. Read: Rotich: why Judiciary budget was slashed “State resources are not personal property. They are for
the public use and cutting the budget is denying this same public a right to justice," he said. He added that the Judiciary should inform the government on
dangers of under-funding the court system, which will result in the backlog of cases. On Monday, during the opening of annual judge’s colloquium, Chief
Justice David Maraga hit out at MPs for slashing the Judiciary’s budget. Judiciary funding capped at Sh17.3 billion in the 2018-19
national budget policy statement was revised to Sh14.5 billion in the
Appropriation Act, leaving the institution with only Sh50 million for
development. “Apart from recurrent expenditure and of course paying our
salaries, we are left with very little to use for our operations,” Maraga said. “We wonder whether some people in this country realize the
importance of the Judiciary.” He said the Judiciary has to be funded to perform its core
functions.Maraga is rooting for a percentage of the national budget. “The
recommended percentage is 2.5 per cent. Let us start even with 1.5 per cent.
That is all we are asking for,” Maraga said. He noted the Judiciary has been getting an allocation of
about Sh2.5 billion for development. “Instead of increasing, it is coming down
to Sh50 million. Somebody somewhere is not serious about what we are doing,”
Maraga said. More: Drastic budget cuts will stall 70 Judiciary projects, Maraga warns Read: Don't worry, we'll review budget, Ruto tells Judiciary Click here for the latest political news