Kenyans on Twitter on Friday made fun of Elgeyo Marakwet Kipchumba Murkomen after he posted that President Uhuru Kenyatta bought him tea in Nyeri. Murkomen was among leaders who accompanied the Head of State for the schools music festival gala that was hosted at the Sagana state lodge. "Thank you Mr.President sir for buying me tea today on our way to Nyeri for the Kenya Music Festival Winners' State Concert. Ubarikiwe sana Boss!" the legislator tweeted. But sharp-eyed twitter users noticed that the Senator had no cup before him, sparking a conversation on whether he was indeed bought tea as the tweet claims. Some users even joked that the legislator "crushed his cup" or was simply drinking "hot air". Others reminded him of the incident at Panafric hotel where he clashed with some ODM MPs after claiming he bought the group tea. "So where is your tea?" @kajonee, a twitter user, asked. "But you have no cup of tea on the table...," @mkenyaboyz added. It is not clear what entailed the hearty conversation between the president and the legislator. Recently, Murkomen came out guns blazing and attacked the government following the evictions of Mau Forest settlers. At the height of the heated Mau politics, the Senator - who is Deputy President William Ruto's close ally, accused ODM leader Raila Odinga and a top government official of masterminding the evictions. "There are some people who recently joined the government through the backdoor and are working with some wakora (crooks) in government to remove people from Mau," Murkomen said on July 20. The comment, made during a visit to the victims of the eviction, sparked off a political storm which culminated into a verbal clash between Ruto and Raila allies. The attack was read as one directed to the President, who at that time had not issued a statement on the evictions, hailed as part of efforts to conserve the country's water towers. More on this: Raila mastermind of inhumane Mau evictions, Rift MPs claim An aura of mistrust followed after Jubilee Party issued a statement threatening sanctions against Murkomen, claims that he later rebuffed maintaining that Secretary Raphael Tuju spoke from a personal point of view. The tension, which saw a near explosion of the internal divisions in the president's party, is likely to have subsided if the latest event is anything to go by. Click here for the latest political news