The Public Service ministry has unveiled plans to work with the National Industrial Training Authority (NITA) to train over 250,000 youths on how to run small-scale businesses. The youths will be trained under the Kenya Youth Employment Opportunities Project (KYEOP). Those in the formal sector will be trained for four years while those in the informal sector will have craftsmen enrolled for the same. NITA board chair  Kamau Gachigi said the authority had contracted 541 master craftsmen to train 2,117 trainees in five counties. Gachigi said the first cycle of the programme would target youths in Kwale, Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, and Kisumu. He said they had received a grant of Sh350 million from the government of Korea as part of reforms to expand training to all the counties. The funds would be used to train NITA staff to be able to handle the training for youths under KYEOP as well as empowering its staff. "The Government of Kenya has provided Sh34 million in funding for the project," he said. "The project’s objective is to contribute to economic development of Kenya through the renovation of NITA and the enhancement of training capacity and management skills of NITA." Gachigi spoke during the opening of a one-day workshop for NITA board members and management at Simba Lodge, Naivasha on Sunday. On his part, NITA Director General Paul Kosgei said the institution had ageing facilities that require a facelift to cope with emerging technologies. "The current industrial training facilities suffer from aging infrastructure and inadequate human resource," he said. He said in order to address these challenges, the authority intends to complete all the development projects, lobby for funds to recruit additional staff and implement the NITA transformation document under its strategic plan. Kosgei admitted that the institution faced various challenges like funding and lack of enough personnel which was affecting its services. "Despite the emerging challenges, we are committed to training more youths across the country and we have partnered with the counties in this project," he said. Also read: Wanga enlists 300 Homa Bay youths for NITA training, targets KDF jobs Click here for the latest political news