School buses should be driven to the nearest secondary schools after 6pm for trips to continue the next day, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Uhuru made this announcement in Mombasa on Tuesday while noting that special attention must be paid by people transporting children. “We know that sometimes school trips are delayed for one reason or another [so let's all agree that after 6pm], we will go to the closest secondary schools to spend the night,” he said. Uhuru said that should the drivers not know of nearby high schools, they should ask for help at the nearest police stations. "Pass this message to your staff and teachers. Let us take advantage of that particular policy and look after our children," he said. "It is better to be late by one day than to lose a life." The President added that the Education ministry's directive, for school activities involving travel to be limited to 6 am to 6 pm, must be enforced to the letter. Related: Strain on school hours to blame for wave of unrest, Amina tells MPs The President's order followed the deaths of 11 St Gabriel Academy pupils, after the school bus they were travelling in collided with a lorry at Kanginga area, about two kilometres from Mwingi town on Saturday. On Monday, lorry driver Abdalla Hassan faced nine counts of causing deaths by dangerous driving. He denied wrongdoing and was released on Sh5 million bond, with two sureties of the same amount, or Sh1 million cash bail. Uhuru spoke at Pride Inn Paradise Hotel where he opened the 10th African Confederation of Principals Conference. He led a delegation of the over 1,200 principals from Ghana, Rwanda, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Lesotho, Malawi, Nigeria and South Africa in observing a minute's silence in honour of the victims. More on this: Lorry driver denies wrongdoing in deaths of St Gabriel pupils Also read: Uhuru mourns eight pupils killed in Mwingi crash On Monday, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua banned vehicles in the county from ferrying students after 7 pm. Those who defy the directive will be arrested and their vehicles released only if they pay fines of not less than Sh50,000. Mutua also announced a ban on vehicles that emit visible exhaust smoke, whether they are heading to Machakos destinations or are on transit. Those found driving un-roadworthy vehicles will be fined Sh200,000 and will not be allowed to proceed until they repair the vehicles and and get the approval of relevant authorities. Details: No school transport after 7 pm in Mutua's road safety rules for Machakos Also read: Leaders blame school bus crash on ‘heap’ of murram Click here for the latest political news