President Uhuru Kenyatta has met Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho thrice since he landed in the county last week, two sources close to them have disclosed. Overall, the meetings resolved that each will work to build the other’s legacy and the Star has the details. Uhuru has maintained a low key profile since he jetted in the Coastal city last Thursday. But on Tuesday, the President made an unexpected visit to Lamu county. No more business for police If you have the dream of joining the Kenyans police force, be prepared to face some new tough rules that bar you from activities outside the force. The National Police Service Commission has set tough new conditions that bar police officers from engaging in almost any business outside their work. According to guidelines prepared by the commission and seen by the Star, any officer who wants to engage in business, or any other activities, must first seek clearance. The new policies are a mixture of gifts to and restrictions on the Police Service. The new rules restrict police officers from receiving gifts. The Star also explores how early this year, the government abandoned an ambitious plan to build houses for the police and instead opted to introduce house allowances for all cadres of officers. The government had planned to build 1,850 units in the pilot phase of a comprehensive strategy to improve the living conditions of police and prison staff. Sonko on the spot Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is once again on the spotlight over the apparent reluctance to fill key positions in his administration and continued running of the county government from his rural home. The Governor has been quiet about the appointment of a Deputy Governor since his controversial nomination of lawyer Miguna Miguna was rejected by the MCAs in May. The Star has established that Sonko still operates from his Mua Hills home in Machakos despite the government reinstating his security details that had been scaled down to five from about 20. Avocado ban lifted Kenya will resume avocado exports to South Africa after an earlier ban was lifted, Deputy President William Ruto said on Tuesday. The DP while speaking at the Kenya Trade Week said apart from the South African market, the produce has also attracted interest in various European markets. Kenya’s avocado exports to SA was stopped due to fruit fly infestation in 2007. Kibera evictions “Homes of 30,000 people in Kibera demolished to make way for a road,” BBC World Service reported. On the day this was reported, one of us had given a presentation on human rights at a workshop. Another presenter suggested that governments might be embarrassed to be shown up internationally as seriously violating human rights. Your author responded, “I am not convinced this has any impact. The government shows no shame.” The response of our government over the Kibera evictions was reported as being, “They were there illegal”. Despite being lawyers, Jill Cottrell Ghai and Yash Pal Ghai want to suggest that such a legalistic approach is a complete violation of the Constitution. Your weather Nairobi: Partly cloudy. Low 12ºC. High 24ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. Mombasa: Partly cloudy during the day. Generally clear at night. Low 21ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Kisumu: Generally clear. Slight chance of an afternoon shower. Low 18ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SW at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for the latest political news