Two former students of a secondary school in Bungoma are appealing for funds to help them clear Sh70,000 fees arrears so they can get their KCSE exam result slips. Despite the government directing principals to release result slips and certificates to Form 4 leavers with fee arrears, the brother and sister said they have missed out on joining universities. The two former students of St Martins Mwibale Secondary School have accused principal Emily Muhonja of failing to release their result slips because of the arrears. The two qualified to join universities. On Friday Muhonja told the Star on the phone she does not have a problem with the students and the school cleared them. Asked when they were cleared, she hung up. “Our efforts to get the result slips failed and we were late to join university,” Nelly Nanjala, 22, said on Wednesday. Nanjala said they are suffering because the family is unable to raise the Sh70,000 school fees arrears so they can get their results. Both Nanjala and her young brother Livingstone Barasa, 20, scored C+ in the KCSE exam at the institution in 2016. They were to join universities in 2017. The two are from Namono village in Kanduyi. “We tried to get our KCSE exam result slips to enable us fill university forms, but the principal refused because of the huge fee arrears,” Nanjala said. Nanjala owes Sh32,220, while her brother owes Sh34,355. Barasa had been selected to join Tangaza University College in September 2017 to study social communication. Nanjala had been selected to join KAG East University for a degree in Education. She works at an M-Pesa shop in Bungoma town, earning  Sh3,000 a month. The two are appealing to well-wishers, NGOs and the county government to help them pay the arrears so they can join university. Nanjala said their parents are jobless and unable to raise the cash. She can be reached on 0712 035 223. An Education officer, requesting anonymity, said the directive is in force and action will be taken against the principal if results slips were not released and students cleared.