 Residents of Kangema have asked Murang'a senator Irungu Kang'ata to apologise to MP Muturi Kigano for sidestepping the lawmaker in organising events. The residents say the feud between the two leaders forced Deputy President William Ruto to skip an a fundraiser at the constituency on July 30. Ruto instead flew to nearby Kiharu constituency where he attended the homecoming ceremony of MP Ndindi Nyoro. Kigano accused Kang'ata of not involving him in planning the DP's visit. Residents say it was disrespectful for the senator to overlook the MP. Kang'ata has denied the accusations. “The
senator is too busy playing 2022 politics to an extent of
disrespecting a fellow leader,” Wilson Mwangi said. The residentsspoke at a press conference in Kangema town on Tuesday. Mwangi
accused the senator of scrambling for political mileage at the expense of development. “Kang’ata organised
the Kiairathe fundraising without involving local leaders because he hoped to make
political capital out of it,” Mwangi said. Kigano who attended the event accused Kang'ata of attempting to "own"
Ruto, saying the DP belongs to all Kenyans. “We also
feel disrespected by Kang’ata’s sentiments that Kangema residents elected a leader who is not
development-minded,” Mwangi said. He said they were happy with their MP and the projects he has initiated. Peter Muya asked Kang'ata to concentrate on his role of
oversighting devolution instead of trying to outshine other leaders. “Such divisive
politics will have a negative impact on the development of our county. It has to stop,” Muya said. Kang'ata however downplayed the claims, saying there isn't bad blood between him and the MP. He also told a local FM station that leaders were not competing for Ruto's attention. “I
want to set the record straight that I'm not a political broker as some people
have called me,” Kang’ata said yesterday. He said some leaders were feeling threatened by his ability to easily
access the DP. “I
have nothing personal to gain from Ruto’s visits. It is the people who benefit
from the many projects that he helps to implement,” the senator said. Ruto has recently visited Gatanga,
Kandara, Maragua, Kigumo and Kiharu constituencies where he launched road and water projects. 