The Kenya Editors Guild yesterday piled pressure on the government to implement two reports concerning historical land injustices. Chairman Churchill Otieno said land has been a major cause of conflict in Kenya. “It has been a subject of conflict between siblings, couples, parents and their children, neighbours and even communities,” he said. Otieno spoke at the Hilton Hotel, Nairobi, during a forum exploring media’s role in  promoting land and mining rights. Read: Implement TJRC report, deliver Sh10b restorative fund pledge, KNHCR asks Uhuru He said conflict associated with land has escalated between social classes. Otieno said the Ndung’u Land report and the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission report are good places to start. “We cannot serve our audiences effectively unless we go back to these documents,” he said. The TJRC recommended that authorities investigate and revoke illegally acquired title deeds to restore public confidence. The Ndungu Commission, which was composed of 20 prominent citizens, lawyers and civil servants was appointed by President Mwai Kibaki in June 2003. It inquired into unlawful allocation of public lands, tried to ascertain the beneficiaries, identify public officials involved in illegal allocations and make recommendations for appropriate ways to restore illegally allocated lands. See: There is no political elite goodwill to implement the TJRC Report Otieno said the popular and most politically sensitive of the recommendations was reparations for historical land injustices. “In fact, the TJRC gave authorities 36 months to sort out the reparations issue. Where are we?” he asked. The chairman said the media should take authorities to task for the much-needed reforms. Otieno said there has been compelling evidence associated with land, citing the Mau Forest evictions, demolitions of buildings on riparian land, grabbing of public land and the squatters problem. “Today, many in our newsrooms know that when elections come, the value of land in the so-called hotspots gets suppressed, or self- imposed temporary migration ensues as owners find safe distance from their property,” he said. Otieno said as Kenya seeks economic growth, land remains a core driver. “It is key in agriculture, tourism as well as industries,” he said. He warned that problems surrounding land ownership are likely to affect manufacturers as the process of acquiring land to expand are complex. Otieno said costs related to registering land and acquiring title deeds are too high for farmers. “Access to land has been used as a tool of economic marginalisation the world over. Deny them land, or simply do not register their land, and you effectively stunt the people’s economic well-being. We see right here at home, Kenyans hold land but no title deeds,” he said. Otieno said land issues affect dinner tables, securities exchange sand politics. He urged the media to dig deep into the underlying causes. “We must find out why, in this information age, digitising land registry is proving a herculean task, for example,” he said. National Land Commission acting CEO  David Kuria said challenges in the land sector have been going on for years. He said the Big Four agenda — manufacturing,housing, food security and universal healthcare — are all linked to land “Even though there may be issues [with the NLC], a lot of positive things were happening,” he said, adding that the NLC will implement what is of common good to Kenyans. More: Jubilee faces division as Duale urges adoption of Truth report Also see: Implement the TJRC report - Belgian envoy Click here for
the latest political news