President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Sunday host about 5,000 youths in Nyanza for the 2018 International Youth Day celebrations. The event that will bring together youths from across the country will be held at Gusii stadium in Kisii county. Uhuru will be accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto, cabinet secretaries, political leaders and artists. State officials told the Star that the government has planned a series of events before the Sunday celebrations. “This year’s theme is 'Safe places for youth to empower themselves',” Youth Affairs Secretary in the DP’s office, Antony Kibagendi, said in an interview. The National Steering Committee came up with the theme to showcase opportunities for youths to empower themselves. The committee headed by Sabina Kweke will use the forum to discourage the victim mentality and discuss solutions to youths' problems. “As a generation, we need to come to the realisation that there are numerous safe spaces for youths to exploit in agriculture, enterprise, governance and in the job market,” Kibagendi said. Related: Sh200 billion tenders in store for youths, women and the disabled - Ruto Also read: We still have nothing to celebrate, youths says despite government promises On Monday, the DP went to Makueni to launch a fruit tree planting exercise, as part of the celebrations. “The exercise is significant since the planting of fruit trees is in line with the food security and will help conserve the environment,” Kibagendi said. “We shall have celebrations across the country for the entire week.” The United Nations complex will host invited youth in Gigiri while the August House will hold its celebrations at Parliament buildings on Friday. Kibagendi asked MPs to attend the celebrations with two youths from their constituencies. He added that the youths will be equipped with skills for self-reliance and given ideas on subjects including environmental conservation. “We have incorporated all stakeholders, including youth departments in government and partners, who will exhibit at the events," he said. Click here for the latest political news