Interim Independent Electoral Commission (IIEC) officers instructed former CEO James Oswago to directly source electoral materials for South Mugirango by-elections, a court heard on Thursday. IEBC's Tabitha Mutemi said chief election officers met at a Naivasha hotel on March 22, 2010 and resolved that the IIEC management directly sources materials for voter registration to avoid delays. Mutemi said the tender committee only noted that the contract had already been awarded because due to urgency, there was no other practical method of procurement. "Most of them had previously been awarded and the committee could not award in retrospective," Mutemi said. In response to minutes of a meeting held at Lake Naivasha Simba Lodge on April 5, 2010, which were tabled before court by Oswago's lawyers, Mutemi said a plenary meeting resolved to allow the secretariat to source the materials directly. "The officials made a decision to allow the management to liaise with other government agencies with a view to using their suppliers to procure the materials through the government pre-qualified suppliers," Mutemi said. She averred that the election chiefs directed the IIEC management to get into negotiations with Smith and Ouzman and find out whether they could deliver Hot Lamination Porches on a short notice. This was revealed following a lawsuit where Oswango is charged with allegedly receiving Sh50 million bribe to award the tender to Smith and Ouzman. The former IEBC CEO is charged alongside Hamida Kibwana and Trevy Oyombra. This is in the infamous "Chickengate Scandal" which arose from the procurement in question. Oswago is also charged with wilfully failing to comply with the laws relating to procurement of goods by the awarding of contract  to the UK firm for the supply of 57,000 ballot papers for the by-election. The ex-polls chief is accused of committing to the contract in contravention of the Public Procurement and Disposal Regulations 2006. Oyombra and Kibwana were the UK firms' local officials. Their trial will continue on August 27 and August 28 before chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi. Also read: Oswago, 2 others to stand trial for Chickengate scam Click here for the latest political news  