Tourism CS Najib Balala on Wednesday held talks with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi at his office in Nairobi. The three leaders agreed to form a tripartite partnership with a priority focus on tourism. “We have agreed with Governor Joho that both levels of government shall fully support and facilitate the 79th SKAL Congress, which will be held from 17th to 21st October 2018 in Mombasa,” CS Balala said. Both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Balala have had a strained relationship with Joho. Last week, during a tour at the Coast, President Uhuru met with Joho and they both agreed to work together. The meeting was also attended by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko and Balala. During today's meeting, the CS thanked Joho for the efforts to clean and beautify the coastal city and its environments. “The National Government will, in conjunction with the Mombasa City government, launch the Mombasa Regeneration Programme – similar to the ongoing one for Nairobi City – in September to ensure the coastal city regains its lustre and glory,” Balala said. Next week, Balala will visit Kilifi to witness the migration of whales at Watamu in Kilifi County. The leaders agreed to jointly work towards ensuring that major events are held in the two coastal counties, so as to boost the businesses and livelihoods of the people. They also plan to develop joint digital marketing strategies to promote the coastal areas and their attendant tourist attractions. CS Balala also revealed that the National Government will construct a monorail from Miriti to downtown Mombasa to connect the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) to the CBD. The Kibarani dumpsite is also earmarked for development into an environment-friendly recreation park. CS Balala encouraged international hotel brands, which have set up and heavily invested in Nairobi, to also diversify and open establishments in other areas of Kenya, particularly the coastal region. Read; Why politicians are scrambling for the Coast Click here for the latest political news