Coast leaders will work on a consensus to attain political unity irrespective of party affiliations, a meeting called by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has resolved. Joho met MCAs on Wednesday, a gathering that included Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, who appears to be vouching for Deputy President William Ruto's presidency. "We will consult widely with the people. Even the position Kingi took was a result of consultation. Don't underrate us," Joho said. Kingi added: "Coast is facing many political challenges which can only be solved through unity of purpose. We have decided to walk a path no leaders have walked before." Joho earlier hit out at politicians who say he is not ready to become president, saying they are being used to advance others' political ambitions. He did not name anyone but it is expected that Deputy President William Ruto will take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. In June, a section of Coast leaders agreed to form an alliance with Ruto ahead of the 2022 general election. The Coast leaders, led by Kingi, said they were ready to partner with the DP to form the next government. Kingi was categorical about the alliance - he said it should be based on terms favourable for the region, away from the Coast's culture of leaning on political parties without agreements. Read: I'm fit to lead Kenya, Joho tells Coast MCAs in swipe at Ruto Also read: Kingi leads Coast politicians in forming 2022 alliance with Ruto Today's meeting at PrideInn hotel, of about 175 ward representatives, also resolved to support Jumuia ya Kaunti za Pwani - an economic bloc. The leaders said they will take advantage of the conducive environment created by the handshake between opposition leader Raila Odinga (ODM) and President Uhuru Kenyatta to tackle the land menace. They said the management of the Kenya Ports Authority will also be addressed. Another meeting between Coast governors and senators has been set for September 6. "The agenda before us cannot be discussed in just one sitting," Kingi said as he announced the start of the Coast Consultative Process. Once all elected leaders have met, clergy and business community will be engaged. Click here for the latest political news