Mandera County’s Ministry of Education in conjunction with the Kenya-China
technical and vocational Education on Wednesday received state of the art
mechanical technology engineering equipment worth sh 120 million shillings from
the national government’s ministry of education and the Chinese government. While handing over the equipment, Samuel
Kiptoo from the Directorate of Technical Vocational Education and Training [TVET]
said the government has so far equipped seventy technical training institutions
(TTIs) across the country. He said the government will in the next 5
months embark on training personnel on the use and maintenance of the equipment’s. He encouraged youth across the country to apply
for HELB loans and enrol for studies in the TVET institutions. “The government has invested a lot in terms
of infrastructure .they have build the institutions, class rooms and workshops
and have supplied the equipment’s as well as training the teachers, yours is
only to come and learn,” said Kiptoo. While receiving the donation, Mandera County Chief Officer for Education
Abdi Mohamed thanked the national government for complimenting the county’s saying
that  the donation would go a long way in
upgrading skills and abilities of area youth. He said Mandera Technical Training Institute has so
far admitted 284 students who are pursuing electrical, wielding and
fabrication, secretarial, human resource management and accounting courses
among others studying under the full sponsorship of the county government. He said the county has budgeted Ten million shillings full sponsorship
for students who will be joining MTTI. “Equipping youth for the job market is a
critical intervention that will help strengthen the County’s education and
skills base, supporting the transition towards a modern market-based economy
and promoting inclusive growth and job creation,”said Abdi. He added: “In particular, it will advance national
and county aspirations for the technical, vocational education and training
(TVET) aimed at effectively meeting Mandera’s evolving workforce needs,”. The multi-million donation from the
government is expected to boost technical training and equip the students with
the current technology skills. He said the county has  invested in tertiary institutions with target
to churn out skilled group of locals to fit its unique circumstances with a
Teacher’s Training College to bridge the gaps occasioned by teachers who fled
on grounds of terror fears and extreme weather. The event was also graced by the Deputy County
Commissioner Mandera East, Lawrence Omondi, County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi
Adan, Minority Leader Hon. Jimale Abdi, Chairman of the County Assembly Education
committee Yakub Eymoi. Ends………….. 