The United States and Canada have issued travel warnings to their citizens in Uganda following protests over Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi's detention. The politician, popularly known as Bobi Wine, was held by the military after President Yoweri Museveni's convoy was stoned during campaigns in Arua municipality. The US, through its embassy website, cites politically motivated protests, a warning coming a day after the United Kingdom warned its citizens not to travel to the country. "Increased traffic congestion and the possibility of politically motivated demonstrations/public gatherings in the Kampala are likely." "While the areas where demonstrations may occur are unknown, the following areas are most likely: Arua, Kampala, Kololo, Kamwokya," reads the advisory. Read: Museveni calls Bobi Wine torture 'fake news' The US advised its citizens to exercise caution near large gatherings, protests, or demonstrations. The citizens were also warned not to take photos of the police or military personnel and government buildings. Neither should they photograph protests. "Review your personal security plans; remain aware of your surroundings, including local events; and monitor local news stations for updates." "Maintain a high level of vigilance and take appropriate steps to enhance your personal security," the advisory stated. Canada also warned its citizens saying there are identifiable safety and security concerns as "things could change with little notice." "There are specific safety and security concerns that could put you at risk. You should reconsider your need to travel to the country, territory or region." "If you are already in the country, territory or region, you should reconsider whether or not you really need to be there," the advisory read. It warned of an extreme risk to Canadians' personal safety and security. The United Kingdom raised similar concerns after the arrest of opposition MPs due to violence in Arua following a by-election on August 15. "There is an increased likelihood of protests, which may turn violent across Uganda," the UK advisory stated. Also read: Bonfires, tear gas as Ugandans demand lawmakers' release Click here for the latest political news