A Congolese national has sued Nairobi Women’s Hospital for detaining his child over a Sh284,314 bill. Prince Lingo said his child’s health “continues to be at risk every day the hospital unlawfully detains her”. Court documents don’t reveal her exact age but only indicate she is a minor of ‘tender years’. The father said the hospital has refused to execute an agreement for payment and the minor continues to be exposed to the risk of contracting other diseases. Lingo said he was willing to give an undertaking to pay the audited balance in two months. Raised sh300,000 He wants the court to issue an order directing the hospital to immediately release his child. Lingo also wants the hospital ordered to execute an agreement with him on the payment of the audited medical bill. According to the court document, Fathouma Lingo fell ill on July 15. She was taken to the hospital, treated and discharged on on July 24 with a bill of Sh584,314. Read: Nairobi Women’s Hospital ordered to pay mum Sh54m The family raised Sh300,000, leaving a balance of Sh284,314. “When the bill kept on rising for every day they continued to detain my child, I decided to strike a deal with the hospital on how we can settle the bill. “The hospital was willing to enter into an agreement on condition that we provide security, but it later reneged on our proposal indicating that they required security,” Lingo said. He said the only form of security he had was in the form of logbooks of vehicles registered in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which the hospital refused to accept. Read: Congolese woman sues Nairobi Women’s Hospital for detaining her for nine months “I am a Congolese national who resides and works for gain as a business person in Uganda. I have businesses in Kenya and my family is domiciled here. We have always sought medical attention at Nairobi Women’s Hospital whenever we have fallen ill,” Lingo said. Detained He said it is only fair that the court order that the minor is compensated for the period which she has been unlawfully detained by the hospital. Also Read: Mother sues Nairobi Hospital for negligence Click here for the latest political news