Two former IEBC commissioners now demanding their jobs back swore under oath they had tendered their resignation letters to President Uhuru Kenyatta. It has emerged that just four days after their resignation, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati wrote to the National Treasury to stop their salaries. Court documents in possession of the Star show Consolata Nkatha, Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat said they sent their resignations to Uhuru on April 16. This was the same day they publicly announced their exit, claiming the IEBC had become dysfunctional. They accused chairman Wafula Chebukati of having zero leadership skills. "I formally tendered my resignation letter to the President as is required under the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Act," three separate affidavits signed by the former IEBC commissioners state. The three said they could not be blamed for failure by the President to declare vacancies occasioned by their exit. "As far as I am concerned, I have resigned as a commissioner but my resignation is yet to be officially communicated and no vacancy has been declared. It can therefore not be said that I am the reason recruitment has not commenced," they argued. Read: Questions as IEBC commissioners Nkatha, Mwachanya return to office The three were responding to a suit filed by activist Okiya Omtatah to compel them to surrender all public assets that were advanced to them while in office. Despite their noisy exit, Nkatha and Mwachanya on Friday made a quiet comeback to their offices likely to trigger confrontations with Chebukati today. From the court documents, it is clear the relationship between the commissioners and their boss had deteriorated. In their affidavits, the commissioners said they no longer received any salary and accused Chebukati of acting in haste and without formal information. "The chairman...wrote to the Treasury asking for a stoppage of my salary and benefits without receiving formal communication. His reliance on media reports mirrors the impropriety of his actions," they said. Chebukati on April 20 told the three to return all commission property, including computer hardware, software, keys and security passes. Read: Top ex-IEBC bosses ‘revoke’ resignations Also Read: [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader Click here for the latest political news   