Pressure yesterday piled on Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni to release Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi, popularly known as Bobi Wine. Bobi was arrested by the military after Museveni’s convoy was stoned during campaigns in Arua municipality. The musician-turned-politician is popular among music lovers following his great songs Abantu, Mr Money and Promise, which have enjoyed massive airtime across Africa. Read: Uganda's Bobi Wine rearrested after release from military detention centre “It’s like a rerun of Fela Kuti. He was often beaten for speaking out,” Rikki Stein, a critic of the Nigerian government, told the BBC. Stein is the former manager for Kuti — a Nigerian music legend. Yesterday, he started the online petition to free Bobi Wine. Bobi Wine’s lawyer warned the military against turning political. “The military court should not be used by the government to fight political wars,” Medard Segona said. Yesterday, Bobi Wine was released by the General Court Martial in Gulu and later rearrested outside by the Ugandan police. He was visibly frail and had difficulties walking when he was arrested by the officers. He was later presented before the Gulu magistrate’s court to face treason charges. The superstar will be remanded in Gulu Prison until August 30 before he is returned to the court with his co-accused. Top names in the music industry among them Chris Martin, Angelique Kidjo and Damon Albarn signed the petition calling for the lawmaker’s unconditional release. Watch: [VIDEO] Say no to torture! Nairobians chant in solidarity with Bobi Wine Read: US, UK issue travel warnings against Uganda over Bobi Wine protests In Kenya, activists held protests. Artists and Ugandans residing in Kenya also joined them. “How do you arrest a civilian and charge him with attempted coup! Museveni has outlived his usefulness to the people of Uganda,” activist Boniface Mwangi told a team of journalists outside Parliament, Nairobi. “Our (Kenyan) MPs are not ready to protest the illegal detention because they are Museveni’s friends.” Mwangi was accompanied by officials from the Law Society of Kenya, Amnesty International, Kenya Human Rights Commission, Power 254 and hundreds of other activists who took part in yesterday’s peaceful demonstrations in Nairobi. Activist Al Amin Kimathi said, “Respect to human rights cannot be debatable. We’re happy with the turnout to put more pressure on Museveni so he can release the innocent Bobi Wine.” The groups marched across the city chanting freedom songs and saying the Ugandan government had arrested “the ghetto president” illegally. They petitioned the apex court, the presidency, the Foreign Affairs ministry and the Ugandan embassy. “Dictatorship knows no borders . People must rise up to tame dictators and have a good, peaceful and prosperous society,” artist David Muthengi, known as Holy Dave, said. Immediately Bobi Wine was rearrested, demonstrators in Nairobi changed their chants from “Free Bobi Wine” to “Free Uganda”. Uganda’s opposition leader Kizza Besigye was also arrested and driven to the Nagalama police station in the morning for unknown reasons. Hundreds of other protesters were also arrested and detained. Forum for Democratic Change national mobilisation secretary Ingrid Turinawe (Makindye West MP), Allan Ssewanyana and Kampala Mayor Erias Lukwago were also put under house arrest. Read: Museveni faces backlash over Bobi Wine arrests More: Museveni calls Bobi Wine torture 'fake news' Click here for the latest political news