President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday told Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed to relook into the delocalisation policy to so that affected families don't suffer from such changes. The policy mainly affects head teachers who are transferred from their homes to improve effectiveness. The President issued the directive when he officially opened the Catholic Schools Principals Conference being held at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa in Nairobi. "The programme has created some unforeseen challenges that have, in some instances, affected families negatively. We are reviewing the policy guidelines to ensure that it is not implemented to the detriment of families," Uhuru said. The President also announced all education institutions built and managed by faith-based organisations will get title deeds to guard against land grabbers. See: We will reject new TSC, ministry rules, they are puntive, say Knut officials Read: Teachers threaten strike over mass transfers, appraisal grievances Uhuru said his administration has made strides in improving four key fronts identified in the education sector in 2013. They are construction and upgrading of learning infrastructure, electricity connection, provision of school supplies and equipment. Other areas are securing examinations from malpractices and fraud, revitalisation of teaching and learning models, and provision of a conducive environment for teachers and  students. "I'm happy to report that my administration, with the support of Kenyans and institutions such as the Church, has made remarkable strides on all the four fronts," Uhuru said. He underscored the crucial role education plays in ensuring Kenya achieves the government's Big Four agenda. "Without requisite education, our Big Four agenda will remain but a dream. It is against this understanding that my administration has committed itself to ensuring that every Kenyan child receives high quality education," Uhuru said. At the same time, the Head of State called for constructive and continued engagement between teachers and parents for the proper development of children and stability of schools. CS Amina said the Catholic Church continues to play a big role in Kenya’s education sector. Chairman of the Commission for Education and Religious Education in the Catholic Church Rev Paul Kariuki Njiru thanked the government for the reforms in the education sector. Click here for the latest political news