AFC Leopard’s attacking midfielder Whyvonne Isuza’s bid to muscle for the 2018 SportPesa Premier League Golden boot has been punctured by a two-game suspension. Isuza, who has 11 goals to his name and boasts of being the leading top scorer at the den this season, was served with a two-game suspension for accumulating seven yellow cards and his red card in their last game against Mathare United. The former Mathare United man will miss the forthcoming Nakumatt and Thika United duels, hampering his ambition to catch up with the two leading scorer—Elvis Rupia and Jacques Tuyisenge—who have 12 and 15 goals respectively. The race was thrown wide open after Rupia joined Zambian league, leaving the trio of Isuza, Tuyisenge and Nicholas Kipkirui as potential candidates for the boot. Fresh from bagging a brace against Kakamega Homeboyz last weekend, Tusker’s lanky winger Boniface Muchiri will sit out in their clash against a high flying Bandari this Sunday after collecting five yellow cards. It will be a big blow for coach Robert Matano as the former Sony Sugar man has been reliable against unpredictable opponents and his ability to unlock water-tight defences will be missed against the dockers who have conceded few goals in the league. Zoo Kericho will miss their striker Ernest Kipkoech in their tie against Nzoia Sugar this weekend. Kipkoech was sent off in their 2-1 win over Kariobangi Sharks after hacking down Bolton Omwenga in the final minutes of the match. The Kipkoech’s suspension leaves a depleted striking front as the club’s leading top scorer Nicholas Kipkirui was ealier slapped with a three-game ban for two red cards and accumulation of five yellow cards. The national U-23 striker has since served one match ban and he is set to miss the subsequent Nzoia and Tusker ties. Joining the list is Bandari FC left back Fred Nkata, who will miss the tour to Tusker after his sent off against Gor Mahia on Tuesday for a second bookable offence. Click here for the latest political news