The National Assembly House leadership has moved to crack the whip on an increased number of rogue MPs who flock committees as “friends of the committee”. Nonmembers of parliamentary committees who wish to appear as “friends” during the sessions will now have to write to the respective chairpersons requesting for clearance to participate and providing reasons. MPs approved the amendment to the Standing Orders after concerns were raised that most committees were filled with nonmembers who pursue individual interests. Read: Bribery claims rock House committees The amendments were put in a report authored by the Procedure and House Rules Committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi. The joint committee on Trade and Agriculture and that of Lands were recently jammed with “friends” who are said to have been pursuing personal interests. Endorsing the report, Majority leader Aden Duale told the House the amendment will instil sanity in Parliament. “We must protect the integrity of Parliament and I think we owe it so that the chairs of the committees do diligence on investigations. We don’t want people to appear as friends of committees to pursue certain interests. You must have a valid reason to ask pertinent questions,” Duale said. “Some will say that we are trying to alter the structure of the legislature but that is not the case. We just want to restore sanity in this House.” Read: Sugar bribe dished out in toilet – MP The amendment also ensured Cabinet secretaries personally appear before the committees to shed light on queries raised by members. Minority leader John Mbadi and Minority Whip Junet Mohamed said the amendments will weed out opportunists. In the amendments, Cabinet secretaries will be obliged to appear, in person, to provide responses to queries raised by either the Auditor General or MPs. “A Cabinet secretary shall provide physical and electronic copies of the reply to a question at least a day before appearing before a committee,” read the report. “Ministers must be accountable to the people of Kenya by appearing before this House. Some of these changes need constitutional changes through a referendum. Let us not hide behind our political parties,” Mohamed, the Suna East MP, said. Duale had in a previous House plenary raised concerns about a new trend where MPs hold press conferences to demean their colleagues and malign the work of the committees they sit in. “Majority of those in teams are friends of the committee, not members. It is difficult to tell who is the witness and members. You can imagine a judge hugging a criminal. A committee of the House has similar powers like those of the High Court,” he said. Last month Muturi, in a communication to the lawmakers, ruled that the MPs would no longer be permitted to usher in or escort witnesses invited by the House committees. More: Legislators warned on conduct in Parliament See also: Muturi cracks whip to cleanse committees of bribery claims Click here for
the latest political news