Unhappy Judges, magistrates and court staff are plotting a fightback following the arrest of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. Judicial staff who spoke to the Star on Wednesday, asking not to be named, said they felt targeted and would 'fight to defend the independence of the Judiciary'. "If they can treat her that way, who are we? We are less powerful. It means they can find anything and force us out of the office," one angry judge said. They spoke as it emerged that Chief Justice David Maraga has called an urgent Judicial Service Commission meeting this morning to discuss the unfolding events that riveted the nation and caused an uproar. My wealth is clean - Uhuru President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned that the era of impunity is over and urged the Judiciary to expedite corruption cases, saying the war on graft is his legacy project. "It’s something I’m committed to do. It’s what I want my legacy to be — the fight against corruption and transparency — to ensure the nation’s resources are used in the manner it should," he said in an interview with the BBC. For the first time, he addressed concerns over the lifestyle audit he had ordered in June. Deputy President William Ruto and his allies, including Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, demanded that the scrutiny go as far back as the Head of State’s father, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. May to help Uhuru reclaim stolen taxes The United Kingdom and Kenya will sign a new agreement to repatriate proceeds of corruption and crime when Prime Minister Theresa May lands in Nairobi today. The plan was revealed by British High Commissioner to Kenya Nic Hailey on Tuesday. In April last year, a deal was signed between Kenya and Switzerland to trace and recover stolen assets and funds stashed in Swiss accounts. Switzerland last year said it had frozen Sh200 million stashed in the country from the Anglo Leasing scandal. Locally, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has recovered assets and cash amounting to Sh488 million in the last one year. Mombasa juvenile gangsters speak out The room is full of youngsters in smart dressing, seemingly from a lavish lifestyle. But the scars on their faces tell a different story, one of narrow escapes from the jaws of death. When Blacky (not his real name) speaks, he reveals two missing teeth, perhaps testimony of painful beatings on the wrong side of the law. "Many of us say reforming does not help. We come to many such meetings, but to what benefit? Every time we go home just as we came," he says. Tip The Boss smiles. This is familiar territory. He has been here before. When he rises to speak, they all cheer him, almost in reverence. After all, he was once one of them. Questions over Boni operation as Al Shabaab kill five KDF soldiers Five soldiers on Wednesday died on the spot after a vehicle they were travelling in ran over an explosive on the Kiunga-Sankuri road, Lamu East. Ten others suffered serious injuries. They are undergoing treatment. Kenya Defence Forces public affairs officer Paul Njuguna said the soldiers were on a humanitarian civil assignment to fetch and distribute water to residents. The IED attack came barely three weeks after six KDF officers died in a similar manner on Kwa Omollo Bridge, Lamu East. Questions now linger on what exactly the Linda Boni operation has achieved. Your Weather NAIROBI: Cloudy - day and night. Low 12ºC. High 21ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers. Showers late at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Morning showers. Partly cloudy at night. Low 18ºC. High 27ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. Click here for the latest political news