In recent days, a
narrative of discrimination has been amplified. We have heard accounts of
Chinese discriminating against Kenyans working at the standard gauge railway. The
accusations range from not sharing tables and transport as they dine and ride,
and prohibiting smoking and use of mobile phones on the freight trains, while
turning a blind eye when the Chinese violate the same rules. Another was at
Chandarana, a retail supermarket chain. A leaked email exposed their marketing
strategy of targeting White clientele. Other discriminatory revelations included
allocation of menial roles such as shop attendants and cashiers, being
stereotyped as thieves, and use of derogatory language towards them by the
Indians. Consequently, as if on
auto cue, a sledgehammer was used to crack the nut. Labour CS Ukur Yattani
constituted a team to investigate the claims at SGR, while Nairobi governor
Mike Sonko cancelled the accused supermarket’s business license, and disciplinary
action was taken against the supermarket staff. This is an overkill, and it would
almost be comical were it not so misguided. I posit that our
indignation towards these accounts, is our inability and/or reluctance to distinguish
between The Nod, a niche market and poor corporate governance. Allow me to
slice and dice these three concepts. Discrimination is smart
business. Its synonym is the niche market. This is when a business channels its
marketing efforts towards a well-defined demographic. A niche does not
organically exist. It is created as a smart marketing technique to identify,
tailor, advertise and cater for the needs and preferences of a targeted client
base. This helps to set apart one’s business to rake in more revenues. It is
the application of the Pareto Principle also known as the 80/20 rule. This
theory advances that 80 per cent of your results come from just 20 per cent of
your efforts. This is why we have the
media broadcasting in vernacular languages, restaurants serving national
cuisines such as Italian, Ethiopian or Lebanese, and insurers offering a
product mix for specific clientele. Why do we not cry foul against any of
these? To accuse the Chinese of
discrimination on the basis of not sharing a lunch table is to be ignorant of
The Nod. For a long time, we have been convinced that opposites attract.
However, a path breaking new study done by Wellesley College and University of
Kansas upends this matrix. The study found we are drawn to people who are like
us and the selection of similar others is so instinctive that it could be
described as a psychological default. So it could be argued that the Chinese
are merely responding to The Nod while sharing a meal with similar others. Why
should this offend anyone? To classify derogatory
language and smoking in undesignated spaces as discrimination because you do
not engage in the same practices is failure to recognise bad manners. It is
common sense, good upbringing and part of being an adult, to respect others and
to obey the corporate rules and values expected of every employee regardless of
race or position. To whine about being
labelled thieves is to forget that data from the largest retailer shows supermarkets
lose about Sh100 million monthly due to employee theft. And Kenyans constitute
the majority of supermarket employees. We have provided ammunition for them to
distrust us. And as smart entrepreneurs, they have opted to err on the side of caution
by expecting deception so as not to be fooled. To complain of
disparities in remuneration is to believe in the fallacy of comparable worth.
It is to be deluded that you should be compensated and allocated roles equally
for comparable skills and educational levels. Entrepreneurs are in the business
of making profit. This means creating value for their clientele by providing
goods and services in demand, and minimising production and operational losses.
Therefore, they will hire an employee they trust will secure their assets. So
if it means entrusting a less qualified Indian to safeguard against a monthly
loss of Sh100 million, so be it. This is smart business. I thus submit as
follows. To SGR employees
unfamiliar with The Nod, go find your own lunch friends. Liberty means you are
free to associate with whomever you wish, based on whatever criteria you
choose. To the government, jipe shughuli. There is no case of
discrimination here. You have simply fallen for the click bait and your untamed
desire to pander to the gallery. The Kenyan staff have been given the equality
of opportunity. If there was discrimination, recruitment would have been
restricted to only Chinese and Indian nationals. To the management of Chandarana,
you have done nothing wrong. What is not okay is your apology and staff
disciplinary action. You do not owe anyone an apology for adopting globally acceptable
smart business strategies. If your research shows that White clientele will
earn you 80 per cent of your revenue using 20 per cent of your effort, you
ought to promote not discipline your marketing staff. And those who insist you
must apologise should require the same of inter
alia Kameme FM and Habesha Restaurants. However, to both
Chandarana and SGR management, invest in training your expatriates on, and
enforcing good corporate practices and multi-cultural nuances. This includes
instilling discipline and proper decorum in respect of diversity, and administering
impartial operational policies. Finally, to those who
are still convinced that this is discrimination but are deathly silent about
the Muslim clerics who have demanded the revocation of the Kenyan ambassadorial
nominee to Saudi Arabia on account that he is not a Muslim, my submission is that,
facts are stubborn things and they do not cease to exist simply because they
are ignored.  The eye sees only what the mind is prepared to comprehend. - Robertson Davies 