A man who was caught masquerading as an NIS, Kebs, EACC, ODPP and Immigration official in Nairobi was charged on Friday. Moses Muigai was arraigned before a city court to face 20 counts. He was charged with obtaining money by false pretences, impersonating a public officer and making documents without authority. He denied all charges and was ordered by senior principal magistrate Martha Mutoko to pay Sh500,000 bail to secure his release. The magistrate also gave the accused an alternative of paying a Sh1 million bond. Muigai was arrested on Wednesday at his Syokimau house in Machakos county. The prosecution told the court he obtained Sh300,000 from Nicolina Mulama by pretending he was in a position to process a Kenyan ID for her husband Kelvin Misfield. He committed the offence between October 24 and 27 at City Centre in Nairobi. Read: NIS impersonator asked for Sh10m to sort Ruaraka case - Francis Mburu WORKS FOR NIS? During the arrest, police found several cards in his name purporting he works for the National Intelligence Service, Kebs, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Immigration department. Muigai also faced a count of impersonating a public officer. The court heard he pretended to be an employee at the NIS based at Nyayo House. Similarly, the accused denied several other counts of making job cards in which he purported to be an officer at the NIS, Kebs, EACC, ODPP and an Immigration official. The prosecution said the accused, with intent to deceive the public and without lawful authority or excuse, made the different identity cards. Further, the prosecution said he purported the cards were genuinely issued by the director general of the NIS, while the others were issued by the executive officer of the EACC. Muigai allegedly had in his possession several bullets and two guns when he was arrested. However, the prosecution did not charge him with any offence relating to the guns or bullets possession. It was alleged Muigai had tried to con businessman Francis Mburu, purporting that he was able to help him resolve a land dispute. He allegedly tried to fleece him of Sh10 million to help him settle the Ruaraka land case which involves two public schools. The two have recorded statements with the police. His case will be mentioned on August 17. More: Man who posed as DCI chief was ‘strangled in cell’ Click here for
the latest political news