The
pride of a people is held high among nations and is judged by the level of
diplomacy held by the state. In
the recent past, there have been efforts by Kenya to secure important positions
and promote certain agenda at the multilateral level — the African Union and
the United Nations. Most notable remain the campaign for the seat of the
chairperson of the African Union Commission, and the infamous shuttle diplomacy
campaign that sought to postpone action for a period of 12 months against the
Ocampo Six following the 2007-08 post-election violence to allow for local
trials. In both cases, the result did not
return the favour of Kenya’s intentions and efforts.  A notable success, however, was that Kenya
co-chaired and led the negotiation process that culminated to the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals passed in September 2015. A pending and
looming challenge ahead, is to secure the non-permanent membership to the
United Nation Security Council (2021-22), as expressed by Foreign Affairs
CS Monica Juma in the first media briefing on March 8. As
Kenya prepares for this, we must ask, what have we learnt from the other
attempts that can augment our creative diplomacy approach this time around?
While the answer to that question is in the minds of the thinkers and
strategists in government, a few factors can be analyzed to shape and direct
the diplomatic paintbrushes to colour the world once again with Kenyan beauty,
pride and wits.  PLAIN FACTS There
are 10 slots for the non-permanent seat, (five of which are elected each year by the General
Assembly for a two-year term), with three going to African countries. Kenya has been a member of the
United Nations since December 16, 1963 and has served in the Security Council
non-permanent seat for four years cumulatively — between 1973-74 and 1997-98. By
June 2020, Kenya will need
to have bagged two-thirds of voting member states, or at least 129 votes, if all
193 UN states cast a ballot. Currently, Ethiopia, Cote d’Ivore and Equitorial
Guinea are the African Group representatives at the Security Council. It is
worth noting that within the African countries, Nigeria and Egypt have served
the longest for 10 years, while Liberia and Equitorial Guinea have served for
only a year. There are 68 countries that have
never been represented at the Security Council, out of which 11 are African. It
is not known, yet, which other African countries have expressed interest to the
non-permanent seat 2021-2022. However, Afghanistan (for the Asia-Pacific
region), Ireland, Canada and Norway (for the Western European countries) have
already launched their campaigns to secure two slots.  PREMISES FOR THE CAMPAIGN This year marks a century since
the end of the World War I, the period that marked a transition from a
multipolar order to a bipolar order. There is likely to be a change from
unipolar to multipolar system with the emergence of new powers and balance of
power in the international order. Henry Kissinger, in a recent
interview, noted (in reference to the declining role of America in world
politics), “I think [President Donald] Trump might
be one of those figures who appears from time to time to mark the end of an era
and to force it to give up its old pretenses. It doesn’t necessarily mean he is
considering any great alternative. It could just be an accident.” In view of this, Kenya’s
leadership should begin by consolidating regional support. The East African
integration process has had challenges, which could cost the country political
progression in the global community. While focus has previously been put on
tangible infrastructure, much remains to be done in the intangible
infrastructure and software that keeps the community together. The varying
socio-political systems in the member countries inhibit the very idea of a
political federation, maybe a community premised on development cooperation
could prosper and perhaps an initiative to integrate the East Africa Community
with the Inter-governmental Authority on Development to unite the greater Horn
of Africa Region as one bloc, with the help of Ethiopia’s rejuvenated
leadership. This could be similar to the efforts to establish a Free Trade Area
among the EAC, Comesa and SADC blocs. Alternative financing of the
African Union Peace and Security Operations must be solved to distance the
continental from donor fatigue and seek “African Solutions for African
Problems”. Kenya must augment the Silencing the Guns Initiative of the African
Union Commission to support the Africa Peace Fund in ending conflicts in the
continent by 2020, and realising financial predictability and sustainability. This support could go along way to
enhance the capacity of the country in innovative resource mobilisation for
peace operations, a concern facing the UN, peace operations and missions as
well. Perhaps through the Kenya Private Sector Alliance, the government can
mobilise finances to support the fund in return for stability and economic advantage,
especially in Somalia and South Sudan. The Group of 77 (G-77), with 134
members, is the largest grouping of developing countries in the United
Nations where it
provides the means for the developing countries to articulate and promote their
collective economic interests, and enhance their joint negotiating capacity. Kenya could lobby support through
Egypt (current African country chair) and develop a two-year engagement
framework with the next two chairs for 2019-2020. This can be done through the
UN Conference on Trade and Development, where the office of the Secretary
General headed by Dr Mukhisa Kituyi, can assist in promoting the South-South
trade links through Kenya’s leadership and programmes. A key agenda for the developing
countries is the UN reforms; a common approach between the African Ezulwini Consensus
and the G-4 (Germany, Brazil, Japan, India) must be negotiated. The contrasts
have led to unending cycles of compromise leading to a divided and weak reform
agenda.  