Next month’s fight against Puerto Rican Yamileth Mercado is the least of World Boxing Council (WBC) super-bantamweight champion Fatuma ‘Iron Fist’ Zarika worries. Zarika, who has been on her maiden trip to the United Kingdom for the last three weeks courtesy of her partnership with leading bookmakers SportPesa, expressed extreme confidence as she continues to train in preparation for her title defence on September 8 at the at the Kenya International Convention Centre in Nairobi. “The training I have been doing is the most intense I have undergone throughout my career and I am confident it will pay off come September,” offered Zarika. In addition to training under elite British coaches, Zarika was humbled to meet and spend time with the former WBC cruiserweight title holder Tony Bellew, who is set to jet into the country next month to watch the highly anticipated fight. “Meeting Tony was such a great experience for me. He is funny, calm and very humble. He encouraged me to be the best version of myself and offered me pointers on how to improve my game ahead of the fight,” Zarika explained. The world champion made history in 2016, becoming the first Kenyan to win a world title when she dethroned Jamaican Alicia Ashley in Flint, Michigan. Zarika won the fight via split decision before defending the title last December against Catherine Phiri of Zambia. When she defended her title at the Carnivore grounds in Nairobi last December, Zarika’s eye took a heavy hit, causing heavy bleeding but she has since undergone a full medical in the UK and all is well according to the doctors. “My eye wasn’t a concern for me but as per regulations, I had to undergo a full physical check-up. The doctors gave me a clean bill of health and I’m feeling great ahead of the fight,” the 34-year old mother of two stated. “I am currently working on my speed in the ring and my movement. I am not trying to make any changes to my boxing style since the last time I tried, it cost me. I have watched enough videos of my opponent (Mercado) and I am working extremely hard to ensure I am ready to put on a great show and defend my world title,” she concluded. Zarika is set to return to the country on September 1 before taking to the ring a week later. The fight is billed to be one of the most entertaining that Kenya has seen in recent history.