The 13-acre Kibarani dumpsite has been decommissioned. Mombasa governor Hassan Joho’s administration said Mwakirunge will be the alternative site. “This directive to close Kibarani as a final disposal site takes place effective midnight today,” Environment executive Godffrey Nato said on Thursday. The dumpsite was to be closed on July 1, 50 years ago after it started operations. But developers who laid claim to the land filed a court case, Nato said. Kibarani attracted President Uhuru Kenyatta’s wrath when individuals and companies started reclaiming the ocean. They said they had title deeds for the reclaimed parcels. The National Land Commission asked the developers to provide documents proving ownership. Uhuru ordered the title deeds be revoked and the land reverts back to the county. The claimants told the NLC they bought the parcels through a third party. Only one person, Halid Ahmed, surrendered documents for parcel number MN/V/1793. NLC verdict on the status of the land will be issued September 14. But the proposed Mwakirunge dumpsite is on a flight path. Kenya Civil Aviation Authority said they would block the redirection as scavenging birds could cause air accidents. Nato said since July, the volume of waste volume deposited at Kibarani has reduced by half. The county generates approximately 2,200 tonnes of solid waste per day. Nato said all the waste from Mvita, Nyali, Kisauni, Jomvu and Changamwe will be redirected to Mwakirunge dumpsite. “Waste collected in Likoni subcounty will be disposed of at Shonda,” Nato said. The executive said a bulldozer and a loader would be stationed at Mwakirunge to manage the expected increase in the volume of waste. Nato said the county will conclude discussions with the Ministry of Environment and the Nema on the use of quarries for waste disposal in the medium term. “The use of such quarries will be such that the concerns related to underground water contamination, characteristic odour and the issue of scavenging birds and families are addressed,” he said. “This will relieve pressure on Mwakirunge in the medium term as we put in place measures to convert it into a sanitary landfill by the third year.” The county plans to buy an assortment of machinery for waste transportation and disposal.