Zimbabwe's Constitutional Court
on Friday confirmed President Emmerson Mnangagwa's disputed July
30 victory, dismissing an opposition challenge that had held up
his inauguration. In a unanimous ruling of the nine judges of the country's
top court, Chief Justice Luke Malaba said opposition leader
Nelson Chamisa had failed to prove allegations of fraud during
the presidential vote. "Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa is duly declared the winner of
the presidential elections held on the 30th of July 2018,"
Malaba said in his ruling. The president, after the verdict, called for peace and unity. Zimbabwe was rocked by chaos after the Chamisa's Movement
for Democratic Change party rejected the results. "Nelson Chamisa, my door is open and my arms are
outstretched, we are one nation, and we must put our nation
first," Mnangagwa said on his official Twitter account. The  MDC said it will "act within the law" in
response to the Constitutional Court ruling. "There are political options that are there but whatever we
do as MDC we are going to act within the law," secretary general Douglas Mwonzora said. Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa told Reuters that the president would be sworn-in on Sunday. The election was touted as a crucial step towards economic
recovery and shedding Zimbabwe's pariah reputation, but instead
has left the nation polarised. An army crackdown in response to post-election violence by
opposition supporters left six people dead on August 1, recalling
the heavy-handed security tactics that marked the 37-year rule of
Robert Mugabe, who was removed in a coup last November. Mnangagwa now faces the challenge of persuading the
international community that the army crackdown and lapses in
the election process will not derail his promise of reforms
needed to fix the economy. Related: Zimbabwe's historic elections: a case of leopards not changing their spots Police blocked roads around the court, a 19th century
British colonial building just opposite Mnangagwa's offices in
central Harare. Vehicles carrying water cannon reappeared on
streets near the court house while riot police patrolled the
city centre in groups. A Reuters witness said Harare was calm immediately after the
ruling, with people going about their usual business. In a statement, the European Union urge all parties to "call
for calm and restraint" after the court ruling. "It is important that the new government engages all
stakeholders in substantive discussions on the necessary
reforms, including on further electoral reforms," the EU said. Click here for the latest political news   