Former Cabinet minister Joe Nyagah has said Embu has in the five years failed to reap the fruits of devolution due to “backward politics”. He said he is disappointed that despite having been one of those who fought for the devolved system at the Bomas of Kenya, the people have not benefited as anticipated owing to political wrangles and disunity among county leaders. Nyagah, who served as Cooperative Development minister in the grand coalition government, yesterday said tribal politics centred on the Embu and Mbeere communities make the county lag behind in development. Speaking to the Star at Panesic  Hotel in Embu town, the 2017 presidential candidate  said the situation is undoing  all the work former area leaders have done to put “Embu on the national map”. “It is becoming obvious we are now lagging behind owing to our backward behaviour by refusing to seat and work together. I am afraid I see a situation where we have been marginalised, and ignored because of speaking in different voices,” Nyagah said. He said  for Embu to regain its lost glory, Governor Martin Wambora, whose August 8 election was upheld by the Court of Appeal, should invite the county leadership, former aspirants and retired politicians for a joint forum to discuss how to end the protracted political wrangles. “I would want, as a result of what has happened after the decision on the petition, to ask Wambora to call us; retired politicians, existing leadership; including Senator Njeru Ndwiga and all those who vied for political seats, to build a new Embu,” Nyagah said. Bishops and business leaders in the county have asked Wambora and former Senator Lenny Kivuti, who lost in the petition, to reconcile. They urged Kivuti to accept last Friday’s ruling that confirmed Wambora won the August 8 election. The religious leaders spoke under the umbrella of Embu County Bishops and Pastors Fellowship. “The verdict should be accepted and because Wambora and Kivuti were fighting and both are Embu leaders, they should shake hands and forgive each other for the sake of development,” Bishop Silvanus Mbogo, who chairs the fellowship, said. Wambora said he would reach out to all his rivals, while Kivuti said he will appeal at the Supreme Court. Former Senate aspirant Alexander Mudigi said there is no need of Kivuti going to the Supreme Court. Mudigi urged  him to reconcile with Wambora for the sake of unity of the Mbeere and Embu communities, sentiments shared by parents’ association chairman Njeru Kathangu.