Despite his repeated denials that he is not corrupt, a new survey shows that
Kenyans still perceive Deputy President William Ruto as the most corrupt
politician. According to a new poll of all political leaders in Kenya — current and
past but still living — 33 per cent of Kenyans still perceive the DP as the most
corrupt. Pollsters interviewed 2,016 adults across the country between July 25 and August 2 on a variety of issues. The poll released yesterday in Nairobi also indicates that only 21 per cent of respondents are “certain” that
President Uhuru Kenyatta will succeed in his war against corruption, although the majority (51%) believe
he is sincere. Releasing the report yesterday, Ipsos senior research analyst Tom Wolf said respondents were asked: “Of all the current and past but still alive
political leaders you can think of, which two do you think are or were the most
corrupt?” Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru ranked second at 31 per cent, ahead of former
President Daniel Moi (17%) and President Kenyatta (11%). Read: Ngilu, Ruto most corrupt leaders in Kenya - Ipsos poll Five per cent of the respondents named former President Mwai Kibaki, Nasa
leader Raila Odinga and former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero as the most
corrupt. While Kidero is facing charges in court, Raila has consistently said he was
ready to undertake a lifestyle audit and answer any questions regarding his
wealth. But the DP yesterday dismissed the poll as sponsored by political failures, while
Waiguru rubbished it as political propaganda. Ruto’s
spokesman David Mugonyi asked how the pollster measured perception and
dismissed the firm as having been wrong on previous surveys. “The so-called survey used data that is too politically
correlated to be meaningful. Political rivalry and corruption perception have
been conflated to produce distorted opinions in a libellous crusade by shadowy
sponsors,” Mugonyi said. He said the survey was concocted to suit the schemes of
people who “are so desperate that they want to amend the Constitution to bar the DP
from running for presidency”. Mugonyi said “good governance for national transformation
relies on solid statistics” and care must be taken “not to mislead Kenyans
with faulty or fraudulent statistics, even for mundane purposes”. “We must resist a culture of cooked surveys, manipulated
data and stage-managed findings, he said. Mugonyi claimed
that the respondents from whom the perceptions were culled are from one section
of the political divide. “These schemes
would fail,” he said. The report suggests that 52 per cent of Nasa supporters polled believe Ruto is
corrupt, compared to 22 per cent of Jubilee supporters surveyed. Waiguru accused Ipsos of pushing a
smear campaign against her. “I will say this to Ipsos: Shame on
you. Shame on you for pushing an agenda that you know very well is political. I
have never been taken to court because of any matter regarding corruption. So
you cannot come and say that I am the most corrupt,” Waiguru said. She addressed a press conference at Kagio town
in Kirinyaga county, shortly after the report was unveiled. She was accompanied by Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri and Kirinyaga MCAs. “If they think they have any
evidence on anyone on corruption, there is the DPP. They can take evidence
there so that action can be taken instead of coming up with propaganda and
saying it is Kenyans’ (opinion). Kenyans are not foolish.” Ruto, the self-declared 'Hustler', has previously told off those
questioning his source of wealth, insisting that he got it genuinely. He said on
a live interview on NTV on July 8 that he has never engaged in graft. “One hundred percent, I support the war on graft. The executive has done its
best to equip the independent bodies mandated to deal with graft,” Ruto said. Ruto was an MP for 15 years and a Cabinet minister in both the Moi and
Kibaki administrations. Before then, he was a leading member of the YK’92, the flashy
group that campaigned for Moi during the 1992 multi-party elections. He has
recently been associated with prime properties and is believed to be one of the
wealthiest politicians today. The survey indicates that an overwhelming majority of Kenyans believe a
corrupt person cannot be a good leader. According to the poll, 87 per cent of Kenyans said someone who is corrupt
cannot be a good leader. Wolf said it was a contradiction that most Kenyan's do not believe
scandal-ridden leaders can deliver yet they still elect them. “It appears Kenyans want to have it both ways. On one hand, they say
they can’t be good but on the other hand they still vote for them,” Wolf said. More: Raila: Sack DP Ruto over NYS scandal The survey was released at a time President Kenyatta has heightened the
war on corruption with procurement officials undergoing fresh vetting and
lifestyle audits. Ruto's lieutenants led by Kipchumba Murkomen and Oscar Sudi
have expressed lukewarm support for the purge, amid murmurs that the
exercise was targeting certain individuals.      
Ruto made humour out of the exercise when he jokingly said two months ago while
addressing a teachers’ conference that the media had completed auditing him and
he expected them to move on to the next person. The DP has often maintained that all his wealth
is clean and publicly declared that he was ready for a lifestyle audit which
would end “what's going on in the rumour mill and half-truths”. “Can you truthfully say that William Ruto is a rich man in this Kenya?
Richer than the people we all know? I won’t say that I am a poor man, but I
wouldn’t say that I would be in the class of people that Kenyans would be
interested in what they own. There are people who own things in this country,
and I am not in that class,” Ruto said during the interview with NTV’s Mark
Maasai. Waiguru, who was the presiding minister when the Sh1.8 billion NYS scandal happened
in 2015, was never charged in court with any offence. She instead quit under pressure
from the public and politicians, saying her doctor recommended rest. She asked the President to assign her lighter
duties. Parliament recommended that the ex-Devolution CS be investigated, undergo a
lifestyle audit and eventually be barred from public office. None happened as
she rose from the ruins of NYS to contest and win the Kirinyaga gubernatorial
race against Martha Karua. Her election
has been the subject of a protracted petition still in court. Retired President Moi also dismissed the survey. His spokesman said he had
never been investigated for anything and those trying to besmirch his name did
not know what they were saying. Read: ‘Nusu mkate’ not part of handshake, Raila says, intensifies calls for Constitutional change HANDSHAKE The survey also shows the post-'handshake’ optimism has largely vanished,
with 59 per cent of those polled saying Kenya is headed in the wrong direction, compared
to 28 per cent who say it's on the right track. Optimism had risen after the March 9 handshake, with 43 per cent of Kenyans
saying the country was headed in the right direction. Nairobi as well as the Nasa backyards of Nyanza, Western and Coast top the list
of regions where a majority said Kenya was headed in the wrong direction. In Nairobi, 69 per cent of those polled said Kenya was headed in the wrong direction,
compared to 60 per cent in Nyanza, Western and Coast. In Jubilee strongholds of Rift Valley and Central Kenya, 57 per cent and 52 per cent, respectively,
said Kenya was headed in the wrong direction. Respondents cited the high cost of living (30%), corruption (16%) and unemployment
among the reasons they believe Kenya is headed in the wrong direction. Click here for
the latest political news