The government has asked Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho to ensure the county's ongoing beautification is sustained. Tourism CS Najib Balala asked Joho on Tuesday to go beyond cleaning as the national government plans to take over the regeneration in September. "Let [the project] not be just an event ... he must put in place mechanisms to ensure the restored glory is not lost," Balala said. "The repainting so far has not only brought about the feel of the ocean and kind of reception of Mombasa people but has also given the city a face lift  from a tired and decayed town." Balala noted that the government is ready and willing to compliment the Mombasa administration's efforts, through partnerships with the Kenya Wildlife Services and the Kenya Tourism Board. The goal is to ensure that all activated regeneration programmes are sustained.  A view of repainted parts of Mombasa's central business district in line with the regeneration project, July 20, 2018, /COURTESY Speaking in Nairobi during a briefing on the forthcoming Skal World Congress, he said arrangements had been made for all delegates to use the Standard Gauge Railway. This, he said, is in line with the government's plan to make maximum use of the SGR. "The congress comes just after the tourism week," he pointed out. "Some of the activities we intend to showcase [revolve around] Magical Kenya, trade, nvestment and Ushanga (a group of women who make jewellery)," the CS said. He said a visit to Amboseli National Park for elephant naming will be the climax. On July 30, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked the National Lands Commission to revoke the allocation of the Kibarani dumpsite land. He said the dumpsite be transformed into a recreational site in line with the Mombasa regeneration project. This followed his meeting with the Governor, Balala and Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko. More on county: Uhuru asks Swazuri to revoke Kibarani titles, backs Joho's recreation centre project Also read: Swazuri reveals companies in Kibarani dumpsite land grab Click here for the latest political news