President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered the Education ministry to review the teacher delocalisation programme. He said moving teachers should not hurt families. Uhuru directed Education CS Amina Mohamed to review the programme and stop disruptions. Delocalisation entails moving head teachers and principals from their home areas to improve efficiency. Uhuru yesterday opened the Catholic Schools Principals Conference at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa in Nairobi. “The delocalisation programme has created unforeseen problems,” he said. Teachers have threatened to go on strike from September 1 if the ministry does not rescind its decision on delocalisation. The President issued a directive to issue title deeds to all schools built and managed by faith-based organisations. The order follows challenges identified during the process of issuing titles to public schools. “I have prioritised the titling of primary and secondary schools built by the church.” Issuing title deeds to schools will protect the land owned by schools from grabbers and encroachments. Uhuru said his administration has made strides in achieving education goals identified in 2013. Read: Uhuru orders review of delocalisation policy to protect teachers' families They include construction and renovation of buildings, connection to electricity and the provision of supplies and equipment. The pillars also include securing examinations from malpractice, revitalisation of teaching and learning models and ensuring a conducive environment for teaching and learning. President Kenyatta underscored the role education plays in ensuring Kenya achieves the Big Four development agenda. “Without education, our Big Four agenda will remain but a dream.” The head of state called for unity between teachers and parents for stability in schools. The Education CS said the Catholic Church plays a big role in education. Mohamed said the government will step up measures to improve national examinations supervision. Commission for Education and Religious Education chairman Rev Paul Njiru thanked the government for education reforms. In March, Australian High Commissioner Alison Chartres said the Australian education system provides an avenue for many Kenyans to deliver on the Big Four agenda. Read: CS Amina defends delocalisation of school heads, cites diversity “Whether it is technology, manufacturing, hospitality, tourism and health, our education system caters for all those sectors,” she said at her residence. Chartres hosted a cocktail reception for members of the Kenya-Australia Alumni Association and representatives of Australian universities and colleges participating in the Australian Higher Education Fair. The exhibition saw 25 Australian institutions of higher learning participate. This was the 19th edition of the Fair to be held in the country. High Commissioner Chartres said their institutions are strong on quality, innovation, including the invention of WiFi, collaboration and partnerships and research. Uhuru’s Big Four agenda targets the expansion of manufacturing, affordable housing, food security, and universal healthcare. Also Read: ‘Heads transfers cause of unrest’ Click here for the latest political news