Former DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro’s nomination as Kenya's envoy to Malaysia was unanimously approved by a parliamentary committee yesterday. The committee overlooked a damning dossier submitted by Senior Counsel Ahmednasir Abdullahi seeking to hold Muhoro to account for the extra judicial killings, forced disappearances and murders during his tenure. Muhoro, 54, was among President Uhuru Kenyatta's nine nominees for ambassadorial appointments okayed by the Defence and Foreign Relations committee. Return NYS loot Suspects in the Sh468 million National Youth Service scandal have been granted an option of returning the loot in exchange for a lighter sentence. Anti-Corruption Court chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti yesterday encouraged the over 50 suspects to negotiate with the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji before their trial begins on October 29. Uhuru-Raila pact The March 9 handshake remains the foremost highlight of the post-election period as Kenya marks a year after the hotly contested elections. The country teetered on the brink of collapse during the elections, but it is now witnessing significant political developments that could shape the next four years, with more underlying issues yet to be resolved. President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga’s decision to bury the hatchet in the best interests of the country has been hailed globally as an act of statesmanship. Find more on the gains and fears. Coast split The supremacy battle between governors Hassan Joho and Amason Kingi is frustrating unity efforts by Coast leaders. Professional, religious, social and opinion leaders are pushing for the unity of leaders and residents to give the region bargaining power in the next election. However, the fight to control the region’s politics between the Kilifi governor and his Mombasa counterpart might scuttle these efforts. 'Floppy' City Hall City Hall’s order to have only two PSVs per sacco allowed in the CBD at any hour did not kick off yesterday. In an attempt to decongest the CBD, City Hall on Sunday issued the order through the Inspectorate department. Having two PSVs per sacco at the designated pick-up and drop-off points is meant to improve traffic flow within the city centre. A spot check by the Star showed it was business as usual. Star Editorial It’s exactly one year since the last general election, which was historic in many ways. It was the first election in which the presidential results were nullified by the Supreme Court, and the repeat subjected to a second petition. As the court established, the election was marred with such irregularities and illegalities as to render the results null and void. Click here for the latest political news