Police in Ngong, Kajiado County, are looking for a pastor at a local church who allegedly assaulted his wife for asking him for money to buy food. The Star established on Saturday that Lucy Lotuno, wife to Pastor Daniel Lotuno of Ilmasi AIC in Kiserian was admitted at a local medical facility on Thursday after the assault. She, however, escaped from the facility on Friday after her husband’s relatives prevailed on her to retract a statement she made to the police at Kiserian police station. Lucy claimed she was beaten in front of her children after she asked their father for Sh2,000 to buy food reserves. “Other than my children some of our neighbours saw me being beaten by the pastor. This was not his first act because he has been beating me severally. Every time he beats me, he prefers to call in elders to come and unite us,” Lucy said told the Star on phone. Related: Embu pastor arrested for assaulting ex-wife at church compound Ngong OCPD Joseph Mwika confirmed the assault and said the suspect went under after the matter was reported to the police and registered on the occurrence book as OB 31/16/08/18. “She has hostile relatives who have refused to share information of his whereabouts with the police. Let me be on record that we will eventually bring him to book even in the absence of more information of his act. We are also appealing to Lucy’s neighbours to volunteer information so the police can arrest the suspect and prosecute him,” the OCPD told the Star on phone. Our effort to track down the suspect through his phone failed as it was switched off. Neighbours who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity described the Pastor as a “ruthless man of God who can fix anyone crossing his path”. The wife has reportedly taken refuge at the home of a Bishop Peter Mankura of Dominion Chapel Ministries in Kajiado. The bishop confirmed the claims when reached on phone but said he was away in Narok town on official duty. “It is true she is in my home but I am away in Narok. I am also told she has been reconciled with her husband by local elders. It is not a big issue and the two have finished that matter,” said the Bishop, noting that it is good for people to reconcile. Click here for the latest political news