That has always been the MO (modi operandi) in all Kenyan graft cases,
until recently when we saw a number of high profile arrests leading many to
believe those charged with the responsibility to fight the menace may be on to
something. EACC boss Halakhe Waqo says more than 300 corruption cases involving
officials are currently pending in court as a result of the work of his
commission, including some of these high-profile cases. Question is, what would be result when all is said and done? Will any of
these cases result in conviction and jail terms or, would they, like in the
past, fizzle out? Waqo told Reuters at Integrity Centre that if the EACC gets one single
conviction, it will “definitely transform the public perception and the
activities and attitudes of public servants” and that one conviction will be a
“big milestone." That’s unbelievable. Decades after independence and an equal period in
which the country has been swimming in corruption, the head of EACC tells us
he’s hoping and praying to get at least one conviction out of these 300 cases
of alleged corruption? Let’s hope he was misquoted. But going by what we know, that’s how
pathetic the feeble efforts to ramp down corruption have been ever since anyone
can remember. Waqo says, if you’re looking for answers to why the accused in economic
crimes are walking free after being charged, look no more than at the Judiciary. He may be right but it’s not just the Judiciary where things are still
rotten when it comes to delivering justice and ensuring these thieves of public
goods are held to account. Perhaps Waqo and those in law enforcement can pick up the phone and find
out what those in their positions in the following sample of countries did to
get convictions for their high-ranking suspects in  graft. Croatia: Ivo
Sanader The Prime
Minister, from 2003-09, was arrested in late 2010 on corruption charges,
embezzlement and abuse of power. Sanader served time in 2011 and again in 2012-15,
when he was released after a court overturned a nine-year sentence and ordered
a retrial. Portugal:
Jose Socrates The former
Socialist Prime Minister (2005-11) spent more than nine months in temporary
detention before being placed under house arrest in September 2015. After a
long investigation, he was formally charged in October last year on 31 charges
of bribery and other crimes, including money laundering, tax fraud and
falsification of documents. Guatemala:
Alfonso Portillo President from
2000-04, he was detained in 2010 and extradited to the US, where he was
sentenced to five years and 10 months for money laundering. He returned to
Guatemala in 2015 after serving just over a year in a US jail in consideration
of the time already served while fighting extradition and on trial. Peru:
Alberto Fujimori President from
1990 to 2000, Fujimori was jailed in 2009 after being sentenced to 25 years for
rights abuses, including ordering massacres. In 2015 he was sentenced to
another eight years on charges of embezzling state funds. He was pardoned in
December last year, but in February  a
court ordered a trial for a new case involving killings. Israel: Ehud
Olmert The 2006-09 PM was
jailed in February 2016 with a 27-month prison term for taking bribes, fraud,
corruption and obstructing justice. Olmert was freed in July last year on
parole. Which high-ranking
official charged with corruption in Kenya can we expect to do time in prison
like the convicts above? Don’t hold your breath but let’s at least make sure
they don’t use the loot to become President to loot even more.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the US