Kitui leaders say a heap of murram left near the Kanginga bridge in Mwingi might have caused the accident in which 10 pupils died on Saturday night.The pupils were from St Gabriel’s Boarding Primary School. The murram was hurriedly flattened yesterday. Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna and Kitui woman representative Irene Kasalu yesterday afternoon took journalist to the scene to show them the heap only to find it had just been flattened. Read: Coast trip ends in tragedy after 10 Mwingi pupils killed in crashSpeaking earlier in the day when they visited a family that lost two children in the accident, the leaders said the murram could have largely contributed to the accident.They faulted the contractor who is rehabilitating a section of the Mwingi-Thika road for leaving the heap of murram at the side of the road near the bridge for a long time.“This is telling. You can see the contractor has flattened the heap of gravel after the accident. Had they removed the heap earlier, the accident that killed many of our children could probably not have happened,” Nguna said.Nguna and Kasalu said it was overt that the contractor had realised the heap could have contributed to the crash and that it why it was quickly flattened. Read: Uhuru mourns eight pupils killed in Mwingi crashThey said the heap had made the stretch of the road narrow,  resulting to the collision. They urged the Kenya National Highways Authority to improve the narrow road because it has become a killer.“The authority should realise that this area has become a blackspot. They should widen the road, erect speed bumps and guard rails at Kanginga bridge,” Nguna said.Kasalu urged the government to investigate and take action on those who expose schoolchildren to danger by transporting them at night.The bus was travelling from Mombasa to Mwingi when it collided with a lorry before the driver lost control and veered off into Kanginga River at 11pm. It was carrying 44 passengers — 40 students, three teachers and a matron. Six students had been dropped off at home before the accident. Also see: Lorry driver denies wrongdoing in deaths of St Gabriel pupils Related: No school transport after 7 pm in Mutua's road safety rules for Machakos Click here for
the latest political news