A Nairobi-based rights group wants police officers punished for fatally shooting five young men at the Dandora dumpsite on Sunday.  The five were gunned down at a makeshift stall. Residents say all were innocent and only one was selling bhang. Police have dismissed their allegations.  The Dandora Community Justice Centre yesterday said it is following up the cases and documenting witness accounts before linking up with other civil rights organisations to lodge formal complaints with IPOA. He said they will communicate to the International Justice Mission, the Kenya Human Rights Commission and other networks to ensure justice.  “It’s unfortunate the officers still act with impunity and violate human rights,” administrator James Omondi told the Star at their offices in Dandora Phase 2.  Families of two victims said their loved ones had never been subject of criminal investigations or warnings by the police. They admitted, however, that one of the victims, Alex Macharia, a 34-year-old father of five, was selling bhang to the other four.  They were shot at Macharia’s business premises where he sold bhang, a mother of one victim said.  But Macharia’s mother dismissed claims her son was involved in illicit trade.“My son was not a robber. Neither was he involved in any criminal activity,” Jane Wamboi, 53, said.  Macharia’s wife of nine years, Mary Njeri, said he was the family’s sole breadwinner. The couple had five children, including a six-month-old baby.  “I don’t know what I’ll do with my kids now,” she said.  Njeri said she buried her mother last week and her father is sickly.  Macharia’s sister Winfred Wanjira said they have been barred from planning his burial.  “We went to Kinyago police station to request a permit to allow us proceed with funeral arrangements, but they turned us away,” she said.  Wanjira accused the officers of acting with “immense impunity” and failing to follow due process when handling suspects.  “Here in Dandora, police kill people and fabricate crimes,” she said. “Why didn’t the police arrest these people, yet they found them gathered in the houses?”  Witnesses said police were chasing an armed robbery suspect who made his way to the dumpsite on foot and disappeared. The heavily armed officers were acting on a tip-off. They heard young men talk loudly in a makeshift stall and made their way there, the witnesses recounted.  “They ordered the four young men to be on their knees and raise their hands. What followed were gunshots,” one witness who requested anonymity said. “We heard our friends plead with them.”  One victim, Vincent Mandu, a 29-year-old matatu conductor and a father of two, is said to have left his minibus to go for lunch. The witnesses said Viny, as he is popularly known, proceeded to buy some rolls of bhang after the meal. As he got out to return to work, he met his end, they said.  “He was actually getting out of the shelter with the rolls in his hands,” his cousin John Mark Obiero said. “The pictures we have seen show him fallen facedown, meaning he was on his knees surrendering with bhang in his hands.”  The driver who worked with him said, “Viny was my conductor and we live with him in Phase 4. He pleaded with the officers to spare his life to no avail.”  Another witness said one of the officers acknowledged Vincent was innocent but had to be finished because he would provide evidence to the public. Viny is said to have been shot in the face, cheek and neck.  The witnesses said a police car arrived at the scene and its occupants dropped guns besides the bodies.  “They warned residents from getting closer and they put the guns besides the bodies and one of the officers took photos,” one of them said.  The officers then burnt down the makeshift shelter, another resident added. The Star did not obtain the names of the other three victims. Their families did not show up at the lobby’s offices.  Dandora police boss Geoffrey Mayek dismissed the accounts as baseless. He said the organisation, parents and members of the public have no evidence the men shot were innocent. The police said the suspects were armed and fired at them and they had to respond. They said they recovered two homemade pistols, 14 bullets, three mobile phones, one sack of bhang, 184 rolls of bhang, one clow bar, 32 sachests of illicit liquor (Simba Waragi), one knife and four pairs of scissors.  Omondi and his colleagues accused the police of engaging in a “massive coverup” and threatening anyone who gives information.  “Even those who spoke to NTV on Monday have received threats and their photos plastered all over social media under pseudonyms,” he said.  “We are the alternative voice. We will link up with independent medico-legal unit to carry out independent postmortems.”  The centre will also provide psychosocial support to the bereaved families. Omondi said they will pursue compensation for the victims.