Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has asked Chief Justice David Maraga to watch his back in the wake of DCJ Philomena Mwilu's arrest in corruption purge. Panic has swept the Judiciary over the charges levelled against the deputy Chief Justice, a position equivalent to the Deputy President in the Executive. Police sources said a number of judges and magistrates, together with judiciary officials, are under investigation for suspected corruption. In a Twitter post on Wednesday, Ngunyi said It will be hard for the judiciary to survive the fight against corruption that is taking place in Kenya. "If former Deputy CJ lost her job for slapping a Watchman (woman), will Mwilu survive? Maraga should watch his back as well," Ngunyi said. Read: Is the Deputy Chief Justice post jinxed? He spoke even as detectives are gathering evidence about judges who had taken bribes to influence rulings, including in poll petitions. Ngunyi's post saw Twitter users say he was afraid to be arrested over allegations that he was involved in the 2015 National Youth Service scandal. His firm was mentioned adversely in Sh791 million NYS fraudulent transactions. But Ngunyi earlier said he sent back the Sh12.5 million paid to his company by the National Youth Service. More: Mutahi Ngunyi’s firm ready to refund Sh11.8m excess payments if proved to be from NYS Also read: I was not paid Sh192 million by NYS - Mutahi Ngunyi "Just be glad Haji wasn't in office during NYS season 1," a twitter user @Oyiekomesa said. @MaguJeff said: "Am told the NYS one file is also taking shape at the DPP. Some fraudulent NYS former consultants are in hot soup." "Mutahi ngunyi yours is coming too," @Sigilai5 added. @amollo_ochieng said: "You should be in jail as well." "One @MutahiNgunyi a man who depends on a monetised Youtube to feed his pitiful lanky self lacks the locus standi to comment on a case of a Deputy CJ," @timothymutuake said. "Mwilu is clean unlike you who has been named a suspent in the NYS megascandal. Shut up." ‏@isaacngetichkip said: "You keep out of this. This is not politics but war on graft, the greatest war Kenya must fight. Remember you are adversely mentioned in NYS1!" @kabarerose said: "Its clear the judiciary is not interested in prosecution of corruption cases. It is now evident the CJ and deputy are a point of interest. It shall not end here." "Judges will frustrate this fight against corruption, to insulate one of their own, the fight has crushed," @mmwovimikel said. @rodneymusalia said: "Old cases that were dismissed due to shoddy investigations should be reopened." Also read: We'll jail corrupt state officers if there's evidence before court - DCJ Mwilu Click here for the latest political news