Ahead of the 2017 elections, Deputy President William Ruto came up with the idea of merging Jubilee Coalition parties to make a single entity. After the merger, he promised the defunct parties that elections would be called in 60 days to ensure that the party had the relevant structures. A year later, his allies are calling for party elections in a move seen as a plan to consolidate the party around him ahead of the 2022 elections. IEBC seeks to redeem its image After a chaotic election last year that led to the resignation of Commissioner Roselyne Akombe and later three other Commissioners, IEBC is moving to redeem its image. The Commission has come up with a plan that it hopes will see it rise above the accusations of botching the Presidential poll that forced a repeat election. Top on the agenda is getting a headquarter outside the Central Business District where running battles between opposition and police ensued. The other priority is restructuring the Commission including opening its staff to public vetting. Broke Garissa University on the verge of closure After rising above the April 2, 2015 terror attack to reopen its doors to its students, the Garissa University is facing a challenge that may force its closure. University, where 147 students were killed by Al Shabaab attackers, risks being shut down if the government does not intervene and pay workers and suppliers. The uproar from local and national leaders to revive the university seems wasted as the college is yet to receive the Sh500 million pledge from the government. Nyoro takes credit for Waititu's win Kiambu deputy governor James Nyoro has revealed that were it not for their combination in the previous campaign, they would not have defeated former governor William Kabogo. Nyoro said revealed that they held seven meeting with governor Ferdinand Waititu during the campaigns where they decided to combine their ambitions. He said the former county boss had done some work, and he lost because he was poor in public participation. City Hall blames staff shortage for hawkers menace Shortage of staff continues to paralyze operations seeking to drive away hawkers from the Central Business District City Hall's Operations chief officer Peter Mbaya said the department is still short of staff and the few available work tirelessly to keep off hawkers from the streets. He explained to the Star yesterday that the Inspectorate department was controlling and managing four operations at the same time; hawkers, bodabodas, PSVs and demolitions of illegal structures whereby the same askaris are involved which can result to fatigue. Your weather NAIROBI: Mostly cloudy. Low 12ºC. High 22ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers and at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 60%. KISUMU: Afternoon thundershowers. Low 19ºC. High 28ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 70%.