The Multi-Million shillings Taj Mall which is along outering road will finally be demolished by end of this month because the building is on a road reserve. The multi-agency team yesterday asked all the tenants to vacate the building by August 30 when it plans to demolish the building. The chairman of the multi-sectoral committee on unsafe structures Moses Nyakiongora, said that the building will be pulled down because it is on public land. “If they want to continue, God is there for them. [Former National Land Commission chair Muhammad] Swazuri has messed my life. Look at his life ... it’s a mess... whoever wants to mess my life, its okay. God will punish them,” he said. “I will just go to court and ask for my claim. It might take years, but it’s okay.” An angry and emotional Gorasia said that since he put up the mall, he has not had peace. “The mall has been unlucky for me for the past five years [sic] ... I am tired of demolitions everyday... Demolish it. Who cares? I will just get my money. If not today, my grandchildren will [sic],” he said. According to government papers seen by the Star yesterday, the title for the land where the building stands was revorked in September 2015 by the NLC after it established that the government had acquired it in 1960. Once a survey was done in 1966, the then department of physical planning replanned a 60m wide Outering Road vide PDP No13 of the 1988 thus increasing the road corridor on Fedha Estate by about seven metres on either side. And so when Kenya Urban Roads Authorithy decided to make the busy Outering Road a dual carriage way in 2013, it asked NLC to establish to rule if the building was on a road reserve or not. Swazuri and his team invited all parties involved to hearings and visited site before deciding Ramesh had encroached on a road reserve. According to NLC, Ramesh had a piece of land with title number LR 7075/13/1 which was next to the one the government had previously aquired. He then acquired a second title number LR 7075/24 for the part that of the land that was a road reserve and merged with his plot. The merged plot was then given a new title, LR 209/13938. It is this plot that NLC ordered should be revoked to allow Kura build the road. NLC then followed the decision with a Gazette notice Vol CXV11 No6 January 22, 2016 in which it stated that Taj Mall’s title number LR No209/13938 had been revoked. Yesterday, Ramesh pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to reconsider the move, saying the structure could be used as a school. “My President, don’t demolish it because it does not affect the road. [It can be for public use]. It’s a strong building that can last long,” he said. The mall was officially opened on August 1, 2011 by then Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka. It’s reportedly valued at Sh5.5 billion. Taj Mall’s manager Amos Mogire yesterday told the Star that around 230 people have been affected since it was hinted that the building would be pulled down. “We have 76 staff employed by Taj Mall and the rest are employees from the rental premises we have. I had tenants who had paid rent in advance and potential clients who were seeking to occupy the rental shops,” Mogire said. Read: I'd rather die than lose Taj Mall - owner On Wednesday night, tenants started to evacuate the mall in fear that the demolitions would take place at any time. A spot check by the Star yesterday revealed most of the stores were empty apart from a supermarket which is owned by Ramesh. Tenants including Bata store were still moving out their commodities but did not talk to the media. A security guard in the mall who sought anonymity said that he is still guarding the mall until the demolitions take place. “A security guard can never lack a job and therefore I will not be affected when the building is brought down. I have been told I will be paid my full monthly salary so I am okay if the demolitions happen,” he said. Tenants who occupied the mall include Around The Globe Deliverance Church, Premier Pic Photo Studio, Frankys Fast Food Restaurant, Bezareal Food Court, Bmed pharmaceuticals, Horizon club and I&M ATM. Residents from pipeline supported the demolition, saying it sits between the railway line and a pipeline carrying fuel. Also Read: I don't care, God is watching, Taj Mall boss says on demolition Click here for latest political news