Six people, including two officials of the Kenya Bureau of Standards, have been charged with seven counts of crimes related to abuse of office. KEBS officials Samuel Omolo and Daniel Khamba were charged alongside Peter Nzui and Flora Bakers Limited directors Ali Abdi, Hassan Abdi and Abdullahi Abdi. The six, Flora Bakers and Airmenzies International are accused of disobeying the law by causing the release of poor quality Egyptian brown sugar. Hassan and Abdullahi were not in court on Friday so warrants for their arrests were issued. Read: Two KEBS officers to be charged over illegal sugar importation Omolo and Khamba were charged with unlawfully authorising the release of 5,000 50-kg bags of the commodity. The two, who are inspection manager and inspection officer respectively and in charge of Kilindini Port, are said to have released the sugar to Flora Bakers. They also faced charges of entering into agreements permitting the release of the commodity. The court heard that on July 11 within Mombasa county, they and Airmenzies conspired to permit the release of of 10,000 50-kg  bags of sugar that did not meet quality standards. Nzui, being a Kilindini port health officer, was accused of abusing the office by unlawfully authorising sugar which posed health risks. He was charged with breach of trust and failing to ensure legal compliance between June 27 and July 11, before obtaining a certificate of the results of the analysis of sugar samples. They all denied the charges and pleaded with the court for release on bail. The prosecution led by senior state council Yamina Jami urged the court to deny them bail due to the gravity of the matter. Jami said the KEBS officials cleared the sugar despite cases of amounts laced with mercury. He further cited public interest and noted that some witnesses were yet to record their statements and that freeing the suspects would lead to prejudice. Resident Magistrate Christine Ogweno directed the DCI to arrest the directors who were not in court after he made an application. Ogweno will issue the bond ruling on Monday. Click here for the latest political news