The crackdown on graft was yesterday extended to the Judiciary after reports of questionable multi-million contracts and missing revenue emerged. And in a new investigations strategy, Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji has split the workload between the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, that have lately been hit by sibling rivalry. The two agencies have been assigned different cases to handle. "The DPP has further directed the respective investigative agencies to file progress reports on investigations after every 21 days until the final conclusion of investigations taking into account the complexity of the investigations and the nature of the economic crimes investigations," Haji said in a communication to the public. And in what appears to be a coordinated assault on corruption, Haji said Chief Justice David Maraga had raised similar corruption claims, an indication that the probe has his blessing. Read: Four Judicial staff sacked, 30 interdicted over graft At the heart of the probe are three lucrative contracts and suspected embezzlement of over Sh36 million in revenue by three divisions of the High Court. The probe was triggered by three different internal audit reports from an anonymous whistle blower which the Star is in possession of. An internal audit by the Judiciary Audit and Risk Management Directorate on Revenue Management at Milimani Law Courts shows that millions were lost in 'fraudulent schemes'. The report shows that Sh36 million was lost through various schemes, including fake receipts, fraudulent alteration of receipt books and parallel receipt books. For instance, at the Commercial Tax Division, court fees amounting to Sh26 million were receipted using 371 receipts that were not recorded in the Judiciary official records. In the Environment and Land Registry, revenue of Sh7,574,559 was lost through issuance of 116 fake receipts while in the Civil Division, Sh498,635 was lost through issuance of eight fake receipts. ALARMING But the most alarming is a contract of Sh648,297,521 for the provision of medical insurance awarded to Jubilee Insurance and a separate tender for the provision of security. According to internal correspondences, the Judiciary awarded a year’s contract to Jubilee Insurance in September 2015 with the possibility of renewal for a further 12 months. In August 2016, the Judiciary Tender Committee approved the renewal of the contract at a sum of Sh808,056,889 — a variation of 24.64 per cent. However, the contract was to be later terminated three months later on October 3. But before awarding a fresh contract to a different firm, the Judiciary entered a new deal with Jubilee for a further five-month period for which the insurance firm is demanding Sh458,870,319. This is only Sh189 million less what the firm pocketed for providing the same service for 12 months in the previous year. The acting director of Audit and Risk Management Ronald Wanyama protested that the deal would result in a contract variation of up to 69.87 per cent which is against the law. More on this: DPP wants EACC, police to probe Judiciary on Sh36m loss "Paying Jubilee a premium of Sh458,870,319 over the five months’ period will result into a monthly premium of Sh91,774,063 and an annual premium of Sh1,101,288, calculated on a prorata basis," a memo by Wanyama reads in part. The second questionable contract to be investigated relates to the provision of security that the Judiciary awarded to Bedrock Security Services Limited and Lavington Security Limited. According to the DPP, the contracts were renewed without following procurement procedures and regulations. AMADI BACKS PROBE But yesterday the Registrar of the Judiciary, Anne Amadi told the Star she has nothing to fear because she commissioned the internal audit report. "I welcome the investigations because I commissioned the audits internally. I am happy the investigations are happening and if there is any culpability, action should be taken," Amadi said. In a press release to the media, Amadi said that the reports of the audit directorate, working with utmost independence and with the direct backing of Maraga, has seen four staff interdicted and six others severely reprimanded. "Indeed a total 30 Judiciary staff are currently before various courts answering to various charges of economic crimes," she said. Amadi said that upon receiving the report on revenue management at the Milimani Law Courts, she swung into action and invited the DCI to investigate. "We wish to state that the Judiciary welcomes the ODPP’s call for speedy investigations as described in his statement since this falls within our strict policy of zero tolerance to financial misconduct of any nature,” said Amadi, the defacto chief executive and accounting officer of the Judiciary. Amadi's predecessor, Gladys Boss Shollei, was kicked out of office following graft allegations that were preceded by an ugly fallout with former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga. Also read: Corrupt judges blocking Kenya's anti-corruption push - DPP Haji VARIATION Haji also directed that a variation of Sh288,566,840 from an initial contract sum that was to be spent in conversion of the Income Tax House to the current Milimani Law Courts be investigated. He said the amount represents an increase of 41.45 per cent of the initial contract which is higher than allowed by law. "The threshold for variation is 15 per cent. The variation was contrary to Regulation 31 of the Public Procurement and Disposal Regulation, 2006," he wrote, adding that there was no evidence the variation was approved by the tender committee. "The variation orders were not supported by site instructions to the contractor, duly signed by the project manager, costed and signed by the quantity surveyor," Haji said. Click here for the latest political news  