The Senate Committee of Powers and Privileges has commenced investigations into the allegations by businessman Francis Mburu that some senators solicited Sh100 million during the probe in to the controversial Ruaraka land.  Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, who chairs the powerful House committee, yesterday announced that while his office was yet to formally receive the claims from Mburu, he had given County Public Accounts and Investments Committee chairman Moses Kajwang' a go a head to submit a detailed report to the committee on the matter.  “After deliberation, the committee has taken the position that the matter is serious and suitable for inquiry within the meaning of Section 15 (5)of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act, when presented with adequate information on the basis of which to commence inquiry,” Lusaka told journalist at Parliament Buildings.  “Parliamentary committees investigate numerous matters, and allegations against them need to be considered carefully before initiating precipitate action. For this reason, formal communication from the chairperson of CPAIC would be useful,” he added.  The watchdog committee investigated the circumstances under which Mburu, a director of Afrison Export and Import Ltd, was allegedly paid Sh1.5 billion as part of the deal for the compulsory acquisition of 13.5 acres also claimed by Ruaraka High and Drive Inn Primary school.  Mburu wrote a statement and submitted an audio recording to the DCI, implicating Public Accounts and Investments Committee chairman Moses Kajwang’ (Homa Bay), and members Mithika Linturi (Meru), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu) and nominated senator Millicent Omanga. All have denied wrongdoing.  Lusaka said once his committee is furnish with detailed information, investigations will commence and those found culpable will face the law.  “Once we get the information, we will know who to invite to appear before the committee, so far we do not know,” he said.  Wamatangi and Omanga who are among the members of the committee were locked out of the meeting with Lusaka saying they would have perceived to interfere with the process.  The other members of the Powers and Privileges Committee include Irungu Kang’ata (Murang’a), Rose Nyamunga (nominated), Sylvia Kasanga (nominated) and Falhada Iman (nominated).  Lusaka noted that the claims against the senators would constitute criminal offences, grave and have the potential to undermine public confidence in the Senate and Parliament as a whole.  “The committee noted that there had been various allegations of corruption and or impropriety in the media against some members of CPAIC in relation to Ruaraka land inquiry…The committee also noted that the chairman of CPAIC had been quoted in sections of the media as repudiating the allegations as an attempt to frustrate the inquiry and suppress the truth,” he said. Also read:Team in Ruaraka land saga exposed to unsolicited advances – Kajwang   