The Law Society of Kenya is concerned that rules of natural justice may have been breached in the demolition of private properties. The grand goal is to reclaim Nairobi River through tearing down 4,000 illegal structures. Read: Over 4,000 buildings to go in operation to secure Nairobi River In a statement on Thursday, LSK President Allen Gichuhi asked for clarification on what is to be destroyed - whether structures on riparian land, illegal ones or both. “We urgently require that this clarification be made to avoid malicious destruction of private property," he said. He added that the society wants the report of properties identified for demolition made public within the next seven days through the Kenya Gazette. The lawyer further said he is concerned about the effects that short notices and demolitions are having on innocent tenants and third parties. “The law demands that adequate notice be given,” he noted. “Article 47 of the Constitution enjoins the state to ensure citizens are accorded fair administrative action when their property rights are affected." More on this: I don't care, God is watching, Taj Mall boss says on demolition Related: Sonko suspends official over riparian building approvals The LSK also noted that Kenya's environment and planning laws have evolved over time and that in some instances, “developments have predated the law”. “The state should ensure the application of the current law does not result in unlawful deprivation of private property,” Gichuhi said. He further asked the government to dispute irregular and unlawful developments without compromising those built in accordance with the law and procedures. “Where it is established that the owner of the targeted development holds a valid title and that the development predates the change in law and was duly approved, a different and constitutional approach should be adopted,” he said. Gichuhi also suggested that the government acquire targeted property and fully compensate innocent parties. He also demanded an immediate audit of the regulatory bodies involved amid allegations of irregular issuance of approvals. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the prosecution of all officials who issued permits for buildings in restricted areas. He emphasised that the reclamation exercise will only end when the desired outcome is achieved. More on this: Money or power will not save you - Uhuru Other related news: [VIDEO] I'm under Uhuru's thumb, Sonko says, admits illegal release of Waititu's wife Click here for the latest political news