Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter has promised never to relent in fighting for fairness and social justice. He dismissed an aborted protest in Nandi Hills town over statements he has made against corruption and his relationship with DP William Ruto. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, the lawmaker said he has the electorate’s support. “The 10 people who held placards against me were not my constituents, but imported goons from the neighbouring constituencies of Aldai, Kapseret and Emgwen.” Keter added, “The masses are with me and [support] the political position I have taken.” Read: Keter blames corruption cartels for his removal The planned demonstrations against the MP ended in confusion. The anti-Keter group accused him of fighting the Deputy President while his supporters celebrated him as an independent politician. Police warned the organisers of dire consequences for failing to notify them of the protest. The demonstration was to counter Keter over his recent statement that not all Kalenjins are corrupt. Organiser Ben Kimutai said the statement was aimed at painting the DP as insincere and unfit to vie for the presidency. However, a group allied to Keter arrived at the scene and chased the demonstrators. Joel Kiprotich, a supporter of the MP, said they are satisfied with Keter’s work in Nandi Hills. He told those dissatisfied with him to wait for 2022. On July 23, Keter said corrupt Kalenjin politicians are hiding behind the community to shield themselves from investigation. He asked Kenyans to reject Rift Valley politicians who have stolen from public coffers. The MP said he will mount a campaign in the lead up to the 2022 General Election to urge voters to reject corrupt presidential contenders. “Some of these people have stolen everything from Kenyans, yet they want to be elected President in 2022. Kenyans should elect such people at their own risk,” Keter said. More: Sugar cartels are within Parliament - Alfred Keter Click here for the latest political news