The Standard Chartered Marathon organisers are targeting 25,000 participants for this years event slated for October 28.
Last year’s event saw 21,000 athletes take part in the race across the six race categories. For the second time, the biggest road race in the region will start at the Railway club as the traditional host venue Nyayo Stadium, is still undergoing renovation .
Speaking at the launch of the event, Standard Chartered CEO Lamin Manjang, said this being the 15th edition, the event has grown in leaps and bounds.
“This year, we are targeting to raise a Sh60 million and all the proceeds from registration will be channeled to the ‘Seeing is Believing’ initiative which focuses on addressing avoidable blindness among children below 15 years. This year’s event is special to the bank since we are celebrating the 15th anniversary of the “Seeing is Believing’ initiative,” added Manjang.
Manjang disclosed that the bank will invest close to Sh100 million including Sh8million prize money in funding this year’s event. Winners in the marathon will pocket Sh1.5 million in both the men and women’s categories with the winner of the half marathon going home with Sh200,000. The winner of the 10km race will pocket Sh110,000.
The event will feature six categories thus the 42km (men and women), 21-km (men and women), 10km (men and women), 21-km wheelchair (men and women), 5km family run and the popular 3km CEO challenge.
Registration has been pegged at Sh2000. All registrations—both  individual and corporates— will be done online with the deadline slated for September 30. Running kit will be collected at the KICC from October 22. Athletics Kenya (AK) treasurer David Miano has asked the event organisers to step up their efforts in the war against doping, which is a growing concern.
He said they have invited all affiliates and stakeholders to around table meeting next month to chart the way forward. “This is something we need to address and tackle as it’s putting the developments of athletes in this country at great risk of not participating in future global events.”