The National Land Commission wants the High Court to help it determine validity of the Ruaraka land title deed. The NLC yesterday filed a Reference in court to help it decide whether Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary are on public or private land. The commission, through Tom Ojienda, says following the compulsory acquisition of the property, the NLC needs the Environment and Lands Court under the Land Act to determine the validity of the title. The law says  the commission may refer to the court to determine construction, validity or effect of any instrument, people interested in the land, extent of their interest and the persons to whom compensation is payable. Read: Sh3bn Ruaraka land was acquired in haste, CS Amina tells MPs in probe Ojienda says the Reference is non-adversarial. Interested parties Afrison Export Import Ltd, Huelands Ltd, the Nairobi county government, director of surveys, chief land registrar, the Education CS, the Attorney General, the EACC, Lands CS and the DPP have been enjoined. The NLC has asked the same court to suspend any civil or criminal proceedings on the acquisition of the Ruaraka land until the Reference has been heard. It also seeks the court to direct that all interested parties file their documents, correspondences and any other instrument used in the process of compulsory acquisition within seven days. In a sworn document, NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri said following partial payment of compensation to Afrison and Huelands, the EACC has started investigations into the compulsory acquisition of the property. “There have arisen allegations that the acquisition was unnecessary and not in public interest as the parcel is allegedly public land.” Further, Swazuri says some agencies have started investigations into the compulsory acquisition of the property, including the Departmental Committee of Lands of the National Assembly. It compiled a report labeling the acquisition as illegal and an unnecessary decoy for loss of public funds. It is on these grounds that the commission chairman invoked the court to determine the title deed’s validity. The Reference will determine the person to whom compensation is payable and what steps a person can take to confirm the authenticity of a title before transacting on it. Swazuri says the determination of the issues in question will have bearing on previous acquisitions by the commission. Swazuri: I didn’t initiate compensation for Ruaraka land Click here for the latest political news 