Living in the shadow of their greatest rivals has riled AFC Leopards in no small way in the last five years. Admittedly, they will have to do so again in the SportPesa Premier League season but the club’s hierarchy is keen for Radolfo Zapata to put up the foundations to mount a serious title challenge and end the club’s 20 years wait to be crowned national champions. Those first bricks must be laid now, starting with tomorrow’s clash against bogey side Mathare United. The Slum Boys are yet to win a match in their last seven outings but as history has taught many a team, struggling sides do rise to the occasion when least expected. That is what Leopards will need to be weary of at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Leopards will have a fully fit squad to choose from as will Mathare in what will be the highlight match of the weekend. Second-placed Sofapaka, the team that is hot behind them Ulinzi Stars, go head to head in Narok as they jostle for the ‘runners up’ crown. The two teams have been undone by inconsistency throughout the campaign thus the massive  15-point gap. It’s unrealistic that either of them can make up ground on league leaders Gor and clinch the title. Therefore, the best they will aim for is to finish as high up as possible in anticipation of making a real challenge next year. Posta Rangers, who are among a handful of teams who have struggled to string together a run of wins in the league, have that opportunity when they host third-placed Bandari at Camp Toyoyo this afternoon. The mailmen by their own admission have under-achieved and coach Sammy Omollo will be keen for his charges to show that this year’s performances have been the exception rather than the norm. Champions Gor Mahia know what they need to do to win the league after opening up a 15-points gap at the top and racking up eight successive league win. Victory over Nakumatt today will put them to within four victories of retaining their crown and clinching a record extending 17th title. The depth of their squad has been key in Dylan Kerr’s K’Ogalo, challenging for hours in all fronts and the Briton will be expected to chop and change again as matches start coming thick and fast over the next four weeks.