Some Garissa officials have accused Governor Ali Korane’s rivals of being behind his arrest on Monday. The executives, chief officers and directors said Korane’s enemies are fuelling the matter. The attempted murder of former Garissa Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar was planned by Governor Ali Korane’s cousin, police sources told the Star. It emerged that there was a plot to eliminate Mukhtar and a city-based lawyer on suspicion they planned to challenge Korane’s academic qualifications. The revelation emerged Tuesday evening as police in Nairobi wrapped up investigations. Mukhtar was shot at a shopping mall in Kileleshwa nine days ago. Iftin MCA Mohamed Gabow said the arrest was politically instigated. Korane was on Monday night released from Kilimani police after interrogation. Addressing the press at the county assembly, the leaders criticised the press and social media for fanning the incident. The leaders called for calm over the developments, saying contrary to press reports that the governor was arrested, he presented himself to the police. Gabow said Mukhtar sued the former administration for wrongful dismissal and Korane has no political or personal differences with him. Korane was among seven people probed on the case. Others are his bodyguard, the gunman and a woman who hired the car used in trailing the target. The suspects together with a boda boda rider are still in police custody. “The governor has no differences with Mukhtar and his decision to write a statement before the police over the shooting should not be blown out of proportion,” said the statement read by Gabow. While wishing Muktar quick recovery, the leaders called for calm and appealed to politicians to stop speculating. They said there was no political vacuum in Garissa and told off those speaking ill of the county government. Police sources told the Star the governor’s cousin is the main suspect in the shooting, having allegedly planned the shooting. It emerged that there was a plot to eliminate Mukhtar and a city-based lawyer on suspicion they planned to challenge Korane’s academic qualifications. The revelation emerged Monday as police in Nairobi wrapped up investigations into the matter. The police have recovered a Toyota Allion believed to allegedly have been used by hired assassins. The vehicle was traced to a garage in Ngara where it was being repainted from grey to red.  