The primary school heads conference turned chaotic on Monday when teachers opposed the increase of monthly contributions from Sh100 to Sh500. Shem Ndolo, chairman of the Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association, told them the charge was in their amended constitution but they said they were not involved. Teachers attending the 14th Kepsha conference said the fee was increased in February without a clear explanation. Primary school heads also pay Sh6,000 to attend the annual meeting in Mombasa every year. James Taalam, Kaplelmet Primary School head teacher, noted that there are about 32,000 primary school heads. "We want to know how this money is spent. They deduct Sh500 every month from our salaries and we pay Sh6,000 to attend this conference but when we ask for accountability, someone just dismisses us. That is unacceptable," he said. Ndolo was initially unapologetic; he dismissed the complaints as "nonsense" and said they had to carry on with the meeting.  Kepsha chair Shem Ndolo addresses journalists following a protest by teachers attending the 14th annual Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association conference in Mombasa, August 13, 2018. /ANDREW KASUKU The teachers then resorted to shouting matches and demands for him to give up the post. The school heads at the conference - about 10,000 in number - shouted in unison that "Ndolo must go". "He was supposed to retire in 2016. What is he doing at the helm of Kepsha? He must go," one said. The school heads also protested the alleged mismanagement of funds at Zayed Complex in Mombasa. Another complaint concerned the Kenya National Union of Teachers, which teachers said had not been given slots in the five-day conference. "He is dismissing the union. He is dismissing teachers," another teacher said of the chair.  Teachers engage in shouting matches at the Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association conference in Mombasa, August 13, 2018. /ANDREW KASUKU The protesters demanded an apology from Ndolo before he was kicked out of the hall. "Teachers, I wish to apologise if I have offended anyone," he said before he was whisked to another waiting room. Kepsha vice chair Nicholas Gathemi was forced to take over the leadership of the conference. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to open the conference on Tuesday. Related: Primary school heads oppose Knut strike calls Also read: Knut opposes new teachers policies citing added duties Click here for the latest political news