A
nominee for the position of the County Attorney Ismael Aden has promised to
harmonize all cases involving the county to ensure well-defended. Ismail
said currently there is no office to coordinate legal matters despite there
being cases facing the county, some of them inherited from the previous regime
while others are new ones. The
nominee said the current situation has led to confusion where some cases go
without being defended adding that lack of a clear channel was blame. “My
office will be the umbrella of the legal department. We will analyze and ensure
that files are tracked to ensure that all cases are well defended. My guiding
principal will be compliance with the law,” Ismail said. Appearing
before the 12 member appointment committee chaired by speaker Ibrahim Abass,
Ismail  a lawyer by profession and an
advocate of the high court said that he will not disappoint the county
administration if given the job. The
role of the  County Attorney include
among others representing cases involving the county, the principal legal
adviser to the governor. He will also advice the county departments on all
legal matters arising from the Implementation of devolved functions. He
is also the custodian of county government contacts and documents. Ismail
promised to set up a fully fledged office with the help of other lawyers. "This
will help county bring issues related to legal matters. Currently people don’t
know where to take them," he added. Ismael
who has been the principal legal counsel of the assembly for last 5 years said
his experience will come in handy and promised to effectively work with the
county assembly which is mandated to make county laws. Asked
if his role will also include defending county officials who steal from the
public coffers and are subsequently arraigned in court, Ismaik said that he
will be on the fore in defending public funds and will work closely with the
relevant bodies to ensure those found guilty are charged. He
further pledged to study and review the contract which the county signed with
HITECH company that is set to tarmac 2,000 kms of roads across the county. “I
will ensure that the deal is above board and that there are no hidden financial
obligations that are  going to bind the
county,” he said. Addressing
residents of Kamuthe area in Fafi constituency, Garissa, governor Ali Korane
said that  6 engineers of a contracted
Dutch firm will tamarack the roads for 'free'. Some
residents have however expressed their reservations with the deal saying that
the county will ultimately pay in the long run.  Ends……………  