The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission yesterday revealed how unscrupulous traders took home a chunk of the Sh11.3 billion set aside to pay maize farmers. EACC assistant commissioner Jackson Mue in charge of the North Rift yesterday told MPs that of the 10,636 maize suppliers, 146 suppliers made a delivery worth Sh4.5 billion. This means that only Sh6.8 billion was left to pay more than 10,000 farmers who delivered maize in 2017-2018. He testified before the Senate Select Committee on the maize crisis. "According to our investigations, 20 traders supplied maize worth Sh2.1 billion. One family supplied maize to the National Cereals and Produce Board worth Sh45 million. Most of the suppliers produced fake forms to the vetting committee so they receive payment," he said. Investigations into the maize crisis started in May after farmers complained to the Ministry of Agriculture that they had not received payment of the Sh2.2 billion, which had been released by the Treasury. In March, there was an outcry by farmers regarding delays and slow queues especially in Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge, Kitale and Ziwa depots. The net loss by the NCPB was placed at Sh1.9 billion. Read: [VIDEO] EACC arrests PS Lesiyampe, NCPB finance boss over Sh6bn maize scandal Mue said the first investigation focussed on officials from the Agriculture ministry, NCPB headquarters, the NCPB Eldoret depot and traders who were paid huge sums. He said this was submitted to the DPP, leading to the arrest of 16 officials who were arraigned in court yesterday, charged with several offences. The investigations further showed that transactions at Moisbridge, Ziwa, Kitale, Bungoma, and Kisumu depots collectively amounted to Sh8.3 billion, while the remaining 105 depots were allocated only Sh3 billion. Mue said that with the 110 depots countrywide, 73 per cent of the Sh11.3 billion was allocated to just six depots to purchase maize. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa told the committee that vetting and verification of the farmers who delivered maize will be completed this weekend. So far 297 farmers have been vetted and will start getting paid Sh1.4 billion starting on September 7. EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala said a complete analysis and overhaul of the agriculture sector is needed to seal the loopholes that are causing havoc. He confirmed that the commission and the office of the Auditor General are working on a systems audit of the NCPB to develop policies and interventions to reform the sector. Senator Eric Omogeni said the agriculture sector should borrow from tea industry in which farmers are paid on the spot. "Delays in paying farmers provides disincentive and the CS should explain why they are punishing farmers. The NCPB should develop a data base for maize farmers containing their identity, projected capacity of their delivery and acreage of their farms to have a proper projection of overall output and bring order to the maize sub-sector," Omogeni said. NCPB works with the Strategic Food Reserve (SFR) under a two-year agency agreement signed in October 2016. According to the EACC report read before the Select Committee on Agriculture, the SFR oversight board developed an annual work plan of Sh6 billion with which it had purposed to increase maize stock by two million bags. "In the 2017-2018 financial year, SFR was allocated Sh1.2 billion during the first supplementary budget, but Sh6.7 billion was later added to the SFR. In the second supplementary budget, a further Sh2 billion was added to purchase strategic stocks," the report said. The total budget available was Sh9.9 billion for maize and beans. But it was established that the total commitment from maize supply to the NCPB in  2017-2018 season was more than Sh11.3 billion by the end of April this year. That was already beyond the available budget, the EACC said. "Only genuine farmers were expected to supply maize to NCPB but it has been established that suppliers and traders who were not farmers were facilitated by NCPB officials to supply maize in large quantities using fake vetting forms," the EACC report said The report cited the case of a family of a mother, two daughters and a son who, according to NCPB records, supplied 745 million maize to various depots  using fake vetting forms. The highest cumulative supply of maize to the NCPB by one trader was 219,236 bags of 50kg, equivalent to Sh385 million. The trader has since been paid Sh294 million, leaving a balance of Sh91 million. Also read: Governor Mutua threatens to name State officials involved in maize scandal Click here for the latest political news 