Former presidential aspirant Ekuru Aukot has said his Thirdway Alliance Party is not desperate to shake hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta. "We are not desperate to shake the hand of President Uhuru Kenyatta, but there are people who are clearly desperate," he said on Monday. Ekuru, however, encouraged the President to reach out to those "desperate" to greet him so that they don’t threaten the peaceful co-existence of Kenyans. He said some people who were not in government want to disrupt Kenyans' lives. In an interview on Citizen, Aukot said he fully supports the handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. "For the record, we were the first party that congratulated them," he said. "If this is an agreement between two individuals, let it not be an imposition on the public because it offends Article 201 of the Constitution on prudent use of public funds." Aukot said it is time both leaders acknowledge there were wrongs committed during the electioneering period and in the past. He said there are already existing findings on what ails the country. He said the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission report should be implemented. Aukot said he supports Uhuru's fight against corruption and demolition of buildings on riparian land. However, he said the Building Bridges task force should be disbanded because "it undermines other institutions". Uhuru and Raila appointed the team on April 30 following their March 9 handshake. The 14-member advisory committee led by Martin Kimani and lawyer Paul Mwangi was given a year to prepare a comprehensive report on the issues affecting Kenyans. Read: Building Bridges team asks Kenyans for practical solutions to corruption Aukot also said he supports IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati for locking out Deputy Vice Chair Connie Maina and Commissioner Margaret Mwachanya who resigned. "Those commissioners are disgraceful, they have failed the integrity test. They are shameless," he said. Maina and Mwachanya returned to work on August 24, following a court ruling which held that they did not follow due process while quitting. Chebukati has opposed their return. Also read: IEBC Three to be replaced, Chebukati maintains Aukot claimed they "are trying to sanitise themselves" so that they are not investigated. "If there was anything, we could surcharge them for the services and benefits they enjoyed," he said. Aukot said Thirdway Alliance will play its rightful role as an opposition party in critiquing the government. Click here for the latest political news        