Kenya’s office of the Deputy Chief Justice is an influential position with enhanced benefits and trappings of power, but is it jinxed? With the imminent fall of Deputy Chief Justice Phillomena Mwilu, the soft-spoken second-highest ranking judicial officer, many successors might want to think twice before taking up the position. Since the inauguration of the 2010 Constitution, the office has witnessed a high turnover, and is threatening to claim a third casualty. The holders of the office have exited the stage in controversy and drama. Mwilu’s probable exit amid a hail of corruption allegations in the wake of a renewed anti-graft war is no different. Following the historic enactment of the eight-year-old Constitution, former university law lecturer Nancy Baraza was appointed the country’s pioneer Deputy Chief Justice. After serving for barely two years, Baraza was hounded out of office following an altercation at Village Market in which she pinched the nose of a security guard. The saga that cost Baraza her job arose on New Year’s Eve when the DCJ went to buy drugs at a pharmacy. A guard, Rebecca Kerubo, who was manning the security desk at the mall’s entrance, claimed that she tried to stop Barasa so that she could frisk her but she walked away. Kerubo followed her into the pharmacy, demanding that she opens her handbag for the check, which the DCJ did not take kindly. The guard claimed the situation got out of hand when Baraza came out of the pharmacy and pinched her nose, telling her she should learn to know people. Kerubo would report to the police that Barasa then instructed her bodyguard to shoot her, but when he declined the DCJ went to her car and returned with a gun, threatening to kill her. She is said to have been infuriated at the humiliation. Amid intense media coverage of the incident, Chief Justice Willy Mutunga announced he would convene an emergency session of the JSC. Baraza would later resign after the Judicial Service Commission then chaired by then Chief Justice Willy Mutunga recommended her suspension and sent a petition to then President Mwai Kibaki to form a tribunal. Former Deputy Chief Justice Kalpana Rawal also left the office after she lost a protracted court battle to retire at 74. Rawal, who mounted a vicious court bid to keep her job even after turning 70 years -the compulsory retirement age for Judges - would exit office after the High Court ruled that she could not keep her job. In court, Rawal denied she consented to retire at 70 years when she was interviewed by the Judicial Service Commission on February, 2013. She would later retire in 2016 after the Supreme Court upheld the High Court decision sending her to retirement. 