The National Land Commission has denied claims services have been grounded following the arrest of chairperson Muhammad Swazuri. Swazuri and Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina were arrested on Saturday over suspicious standard gauge railway land compensation and conspiracy to steal Sh222 million. The two were charged with corruption-related offences alongside 10 other public officers from the Ministry of Lands and the Kenya Railways Corporation. Also arrested were Commission CEO Chavangi Aziz, Salome Munubi ( director NLC) Francis Mugo (director NLC) Gladys Muyanga (Ministry of Lands) and Obadiah Wainaina (surveyor), a move that could compromise service delivery of the commission. However, NLC in a statement yesterday said there is no crisis at the commission. “The commission wishes to reassure members of the public that there is no crisis and the commission continues to render services as mandated by the Constitution of Kenya,” NLC said. They said the commission is fully constituted. Some of NLC’s key function, established under Article 67 of the Constitution, are managing public land on behalf of the national and county governments. Vice chairperson Abigael Mukolwe is now acting chair, as has always been the case when the incumbent is out of office. NLC said changes have also been effected at the secretariat to ensure the business of the commission runs smoothly. Geo-information management director David Kuria will act as secretary/CEO. Read: NLC calls crisis meeting as chair Swazuri charged Finance deputy director Bernard Cherutich will act in the Finance and Administration directorate. Deputy director Valuation and Taxation Joash Oindo will act in full capacity. NLC said the appointments take effect immediately and until further notice, so as to continue offering services. On Monday, Swazuri was freed on Sh6 million bond or Sh3.5 million bail, while Maina was released on a Sh3 million bond or Sh1.5 million bail. They were, however, barred from accessing their public offices but barred from their offices or making any contact with witnesses. Anti-corruption court chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi said there were no valid reasons to hold them. The prosecution argued the suspects conspired to commit crimes that led to the loss of Sh222.3 million of public funds, in payments for three pieces of land belonging to KRC. Swazuri denied five counts of abuse of office and an alternative charge of breach of trust. Police boss Alexander Muteti had asked the court that the suspects be held in remand until the case is concluded. Also See: Ruaraka: How NLC defied court order Click here for the latest political news