Businessman-cum-politician Benson Gatu has denied parting ways with Murang'a Governor Mwangi Wairia's eldest daughter, Rachael Wanja, blaming the rumour on a drunkard. The two started dating a few months ago, after Gatu separated from his baby mama, Saumu Mbuvi, before she gave birth. They have been serving us couple goals and not so long ago, they travelled to Malaysia for a baecation. Gatu, who unsuccessfully vied for the Mathioya parliamentary seat in Murang’a county, introduced his new catch to the online community late last year. The two were sharing photos of each other on their social media accounts and during this year's Valentines Day, Gatu showered Wanja with love. "Every time I see you, I realise that life doesn't need to be perfect, as long as it is happy and you make me happy. Happy Valentine's Day," read his message. But all seems not to be well. Wanja has deleted all the photos she took with Gatu, sparking speculation there is trouble in paradise. Word Is reached out to Ben for a comment and he said: "It was just but a malicious allegation. Kindly confirm with Wanja." The soft-spoken lad was not happy when we pestered him to tell us the status of their relationship. "Why do people write things they don't know about? I decided to go offline. That's why she deleted my photos and also that's why I deactivated my account. That's a personal decision." When asked if they were still together, he said: "Why do people say things they know nothing about? This was started by a drunkard and y'all believing it. Can you just get off my life! Blogs have written stories about me in the last two years; you are not yet tired? I'm requesting you to just leave my life alone!" Wanja, on the other hand, hang up on us immediately after introducing ourselves. We called her and texted her in vain. On her Instagram page, she shared Biblical teachings, saying: "Moses answered, Don't be afraid! Stand your ground, and you will see what the Lord will do to save you today; you will never see these Egyptians again'." Adding, "Be still, stand and see what God can do! Those Egyptians (discouragements, financial constraints, health issues etc) you see now, you will see them no more." Could the couple have decided to keep their relationship off social media?