The outgoing Kenya Wildlife Service board is on the spot over mismanagement. A report published by PricewaterhouseCoopers on behalf of USAID shows the agency faces “operational and management paralysis”. The firm assessed organisational risks at the state agency and covered three years. It cites weaknesses in legal governance, financial management, internal control system, organisational structure, capacity and sustainability. The report indicts former board chair Richard Leakey for operational mismanagement of the service “contrary to state corporation’s code and the Wildlife Act”. Read: Leakey, vets fault CS Balala for Tsavo rhino death suspensions “This interferes with the management, is intrusive and undermines the authority of the director general and senior management. It also causes confusion, anxiety and frustration and amounts to direct violation of the Act and public service regulations,” it said. It adds that the board’s independence was compromised and could not provide effective oversight over the management. Yesterday when the Star reached Leakey, he said he was unaware of the report’s content and could not comment. At the time of the assessment, KWS had 1,338 temporary staff out of 4,915 full-time staff who had been engaged for more than 10 years. It says 316 staff have been in acting positions for the last four years — 71 in senior management. “Coupled with interference of management by the Board chair, this further impairs effectiveness of KWS,” the report says. It cited low staff morale across all cadres and blamed this for high attrition rate in the agency. In reference to former board chair’s creation of the posts of chief operating officer and adviser, the report said, “The existence of positions that are not in the approved organisation structure, coupled with involvement of the chair in the day-to-day operations weakens the effectiveness of the director general and causes confusion to staff with respect to reporting line.” More: Leakey was out to kill KWS, Balala tells MPs in rhino deaths probe It said this was against the law and established parallel management structures at the service. The report also found inefficient accounting systems that exposed the organisation to fraud, misuse and misappropriation. The Auditor General’s report for the year ended June 2016 declared the KWS insolvent with a Sh5.8 billion deficit. The service has also not remitted Sh1.45 billion as staff contribution to NSSF — as per the financial year 2015-16. The report said, “This means that the continued sustainability of KWS depends on regular government support, development partners and creditors.” It said because of financial problems, the board diverted for operational obligations the endowment funds and compensation for the land hived off from national parks for SGR without seeking necessary approvals from the Treasury. “If the above situation is not addressed urgently, suppliers may withdraw their support which could lead to shutdown of KWS operations,” the report adds. The report points out cash and assets challenges at the service and blames it on ineffective cash flow management practices. “..at December 2017, receivables were more than adequate to meet KWS obligations to creditors. However, the collectability of the receivables was doubtful, with a 41 percent provision for doubtful debts,” the assessment revealed. Read also: Leakey links rhino deaths to 'lack of functional board' at KWS Click here for
the latest political news