A new board of trustees of the Kenya Wildlife Service took office on Monday against the backdrop of the death of 11 rhinos. The rhinos had been moved to their new home in Tsavo East National Park to allow them to breed. During the unveiling of the board, Tourism CS Najib Balala said the appointments were done in strict conformity with the requirements in the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013. “KWS, as an institution, requires men and women who will steer it to the next level through their well-reasoned and researched advice on the various complex matters it is confronted with as it goes about implementation of the country’s national agenda on wildlife conservation,” he said. Jochen Zeitz, Ian Craig, Betty Maitoyo and Fred Ojiambo are the new members of the board for three years. Their appointment is contained in a Gazette notice dated July 31, 2018. On July 26, Balala suspended six senior KWS officers following the death of the rhinos. An inquiry team concluded the deaths were due to multiple stress syndrome intensified by salt poisoning. The decision to translocate 14 rhinos from both the Nairobi and Lake Nakuru national parks was reached by the former KWS board of trustees in a meeting held on October 31 last year. Eight rhinos were translocated from Nairobi and six from Nakuru to the newly-created sanctuary in Tsavo East. However, the exercise was suspended on July 13 following the death of eight rhinos. One last female died this week. She has been nursing injuries following an attack by a marauding lion. Balala was accompanied by two PSs - Margaret Mwakima (Wildlife) and Joe Okudo (Tourism). He said the new board will help in reorganising and restructuring KWS to make it more effective and efficient. An audit report by USAID laid bare the mismanagement at KWS. PwC, an audit firm, in its assessment of the agency’s business for the last three years, said KWS faces operational and management paralysis. Weaknesses were established in legal governance, financial management, internal control systems, organisational structure, absorptive capacity, and sustainability. PwC said this in its April 2018 report in an audit sanctioned by USAID. The report indicts Richard Leakey, who was the board chair at the time of the audit, for making decisions that were contrary to the State Corporation code and Wildlife Act. Leakey’s board came into existence April 17, 2015. Its term expired on April 17. Balala said the new board will oversee the restructuring of KWS as well as enhancing staff productivity and motivation. 