Traditional views of how early societies were formed have been called into question by the discovery of a cemetery dating back 5,000 years. Experts say it was built by an egalitarian group of 'mobile pastoralists' - without a social hierarchy. It was previously believed that a stratified social structure was necessary to enable the construction of large public buildings or monuments. At least 580 people - men, women and children - were buried at the site in Eastern Africa millennia ago, according to archaeologists. The cemetery - near Lake Turkana, in modern day Kenya - is the earliest and largest monumental cemetery. The construction of such a big project contradicts long-standing beliefs about early complex societies. The international research team, which included experts from Stony Brook University in New York, say that the Lothagam North Pillar Site was a communal cemetery. They believe it was constructed and used over a period of several centuries, between about 5,000 and 4,300 years ago. Early herders built a platform about 98 feet (30 metres) in diameter and excavated a large cavity in the centre to bury their dead. After the cavity was filled and capped with stones, the builders placed large, megalith pillars, some sourced from as much as a half a mile (one kilometre) away, on top. Stone circles and cairns were added nearby. The researchers say that an estimated minimum of 580 people were densely buried within the central platform cavity of the site. Men, women, and children of different ages, from infants to the elderly, were all buried in the same area, without any particular burials being singled out with special treatment. The researchers said that essentially all individuals were buried with personal ornaments and the distribution of ornaments was approximately equal throughout the cemetery. They said these factors indicate a relatively egalitarian society without strong social stratification. Historically, archaeologists have theorised that people built permanent monuments as reminders of shared history, ideals and culture, when they had established a settled, socially stratified agriculture society with abundant resources and strong leadership. It was believed that a political structure and the resources for specialisation were prerequisites to engaging in monument building. Ancient monuments have previously been regarded as reliable indicators of complex societies with differentiated social classes. But the Lothagam North cemetery was built by mobile pastoralists who show no evidence of a rigid social hierarchy. Doctor Elizabeth Sawchuk, of Stony Brook, said: 'This discovery challenges earlier ideas about monumentality. 'Lothagam North provides an example of monumentality that is not demonstrably linked to the emergence of hierarchy, forcing us to consider other narratives of social change.' She said the discovery is consistent with similar examples elsewhere in Africa and on other continents in which large, monumental structures have been built by groups thought to be egalitarian in their social organisation. The research team said the discover has the potential to reshape global perspectives on how - and why - large groups of people come together to form complex societies. They said it appears that Lothagam North was built during a period of profound change. Pastoralism had just been introduced to the Turkana Basin and newcomers arriving with sheep, goats, and cattle would have encountered diverse groups of fisher-hunter-gatherers already living around the lake. The research team said newcomers and locals faced a difficult environmental situation, as annual rainfall decreased during that period and Lake Turkana shrunk by as much as 50 per cent. They believe early herders may have constructed the cemetery as a place for people to come together to form and maintain social networks to cope with major economic and environmental change. Dr Anneke Janzen, of the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Germany, said: 'The monuments may have served as a place for people to congregate, renew social ties, and reinforce community identity. 'Information exchange and interaction through shared ritual may have helped mobile herders navigate a rapidly changing physical landscape. 'After several centuries, pastoralism became entrenched and lake levels stabilised. It was around this time that the cemetery ceased to be used.' Study leader Associate Professor Elisabeth Hildebrand, of Stony Brook University, added: 'The Lothagam North Pillar Site is the earliest known monumental site in eastern Africa, built by the region's first herders. 'This finding makes us reconsider how we define social complexity, and the kinds of motives that lead groups of people to create public architecture.' The findings were published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Click here for the latest political news