North Korean state media called on
Monday for the United States to drop sanctions, saying Pyongyang
had demonstrated good faith by ending its nuclear weapons
testing and handing over the remains of US troops killed in
the Korean War. The statements came just days after a confidential United
Nations report concluded North Korea has not stopped its nuclear
and missile programmes, in breach of UN resolutions, and has
continued to conduct illegal trades of oil, coal and other
commodities. North Korea and the United States vowed to work to end
Pyongyang's weapons programmes at a landmark summit in June in
Singapore, but have struggled to reach an agreement to
accomplish that goal. The North's state media accused Washington of "acting
opposite" to its plan to improve ties, despite Pyongyang making
goodwill gestures, including a moratorium on nuclear and missile
tests, the dismantling of a nuclear site, and the return of the
remains of US soldiers killed in the 1950-53 Korean War. Such "practical measures" had already deprived UN Security
Council resolutions of their reason for being, said the Rodong
Sinmun, a ruling Workers' Party mouthpiece. "There have been outrageous arguments coming out of the US
State Department that it won't ease sanctions until a
denuclearisation is completed, and reinforcing sanctions is a
way to raise its negotiating power," the newspaper said in an
editorial. More on this: North Korea hasn't stopped nuclear, missile program - UN report "How could the sanctions, which were a stick the US
administration had brandished as part of its hostile policy
against us, promote the two countries' amity?" The editorial, which was run along with front page articles
and photos of leader Kim Jong Un's visit to a catfish farm, was
a fresh sign of Pyongyang's frustration over the slow-moving
nuclear negotiations. Under US President Donald Trump, the United States pushed
the United Nations to impose tough sanctions on North Korea as
Kim conducted a string of missile and nuclear tests last year. At a security forum on Saturday, the two sides sparred over
the Singapore agreement, with US Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo calling for maintaining sanctions against Pyongyang, and
his North Korean counterpart, Ri Yong Ho, criticising Washington
for "retreating" from ending the war during a speech. Pompeo suggested the North's continued work on its weapons
programmes was inconsistent with Kim's commitment to
denuclearise, although he expressed optimism the process would
be achieved. On his way back to Washington, Pompeo played down the
exchange of remarks with Ri, saying the tone was far different
than it was last year. "The minister made very clear of their continued commitment
to denuclearise," Pompeo told reporters travelling with him. "I
probably don't have his words exactly right, but it's pretty
close. Compare the anger, frankly, over years and years, and
hatred, as spewed by the North Koreans; his comments were
different." North Korea's propaganda websites on Monday also urged the
United States to drop sanctions and build trust. One outlet, Uriminzokkiri, lambasted the sanctions and
pressure campaign as "anachronistic" and a hurdle for better
relations, calling for efforts to officially declare an end to
the Korea War. The Korean War ended in an armistice, not a peace treaty,
leaving the US-led United Nations forces, including South
Korea, technically still at war with the North. The State Department has said it is committed to building a
peace mechanism to replace the armistice, but only after the
North abandons its nuclear programme. Maeri, another North Korean outlet, stressed the need for
US action to build confidence in response to the North's moves
to close its weapons programmes and send back the soldiers'
remains. "It takes two to tango," the website said. Kim Eui-kyeom, a spokesman for South Korea's presidential
Blue House, said on Monday the government had no information
regarding suspected sanctions evasion by North Korea as detailed
in the confidential UN report. South Korea is asking the North to speed up the process of
denuclearisation while asking the United States to show
sincerity concerning North Korea's demands for reciprocal steps,
Kim said. Also read: North Korea returns remains of US troops slain in War Click here for the latest political news