The current uproar and professions of shock over alleged bribery in the 'august' House is nothing new. Some MPs are accused of receiving bribes to kill the report indicting Cabinet secretaries over import of contraband sugar, some of it poisonous. But this is just the latest of a
series of reports and motions that have sailed through or been trashed due to vested interests with deep pockets. In the sugar drama, National Assembly leadership and Speaker Justin Muturi
have been blamed by Kieni MP Kanini Kega for rejection of the report. Muturi, Aden Duale (Majority leader) and John Mbadi (Minority leader) are
accused of being instrumental in killing the report in a vote on August 9. Kanini co-chaired the joint committee on Trade and
Agriculture that authored the report. Kanini said the Speaker did not allow committee members to contribute when the report was tabled. “All 26 members of my committee appended signatures to the document
but it is unfortunate the Speaker did not give
any of them the opportunity to contribute. I read malice in this because all
those allowed to speak were against it. It was
well-choreographed," Kanini said. Kanini said the House leadership had already decided to have the report watered down by the MPs. “I remember trying to encourage the Speaker to reign in members led by the
Majority leader who were consulting in high tones. I was wrong because
they had already made up their minds,” the irate MP said. “It was one of my lowest moments because I realised we were taken on a wild
goose chase. They did not have the interests of cane farmers at heart and it
was basically about business wars.” Prior to the debate on the report, some MPs are said to have pocketed Sh10,000-Sh30,000, based on their political influence. Everyone denies impropriety. The Committee on Powers and Privileges is yet to investigate. In an interview with the Star, Duale declined to comment on the sugar report
but said there are a series of motions, reports and approvals in the House after intensive lobbying. "I don't want to comment about the sugar report because that is like
flogging a dead horse. Even the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority
Bill, 2017 that I tabled was rejected. So this is not the first one to be rejected," Duale said. The Bill by President Uhuru
Kenyatta’s administration sought to streamline and coordinate the transport sector within
Nairobi and its neighbouring counties. It was withdrawn on Friday. During thwarting of the Bill in
March this year, Duale informed the House the Bill would be redrafted by
the Executive to incorporate views from all stakeholders. The Bill would have established an integrated, efficient and sustainable transport system
within five counties, Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Kajiado and Murang’a. Before the debate, a prominent
governor is said to have bribed MPs to shoot down the Bill. As for the sugar report, Mbadi told the Star he did
not whip his members to reject it. “If these members who talk in funerals are serious and think it was a mistake
for Parliament to reject the report, they should invoke Standing Order 49,
requesting the Speaker to allow them to reintroduce the report and
convince the House of its merit. The House can either pass or reject it,” Mbadi
said. House Majority chief whip Benjamin Washiali said they would restore the dignity of Parliament. “The image of
Parliament must be restored. It has been  seriously
eroded and it is not making some of us in the leadership
comfortable,” the Mumias East MP said. “We must restore the image of the House, even if it means sacrificing some members who have gone off the track. Parliament's image has taken a beating over integrity issues. In 2015, a National Assembly committee meeting turned rowdy as members accused each other over a Sh4
million bribe. MPs on the Agriculture committee nearly came to blows
after allegations were made that chairman Adan Nooru had received a
bribe from sugar barons to go slow on its
report on the sugar crisis. The closed-door session degenerated into shouts and sneers. Members demanded the press be admitted after other members
insisted the bribery allegations be made in public. There was a face-off. Some members said that
unnamed sugar barons had distributed money to some colleagues to water
down the report. Three
MPs — Fred Outa (Nyando), Ben Washiali (Mumias East) and John Kobado
(Uriri) —
who had declined to sign the report tabled in the House, insisted that
bribes were
paid to influence the report. Washiali and Outa denied ever
making the allegations, though the former maintained  the Sh4 million
allegedly deposited in Nooru’s account had a bearing on the “hollow” report
tabled in the House. “I have a feeling the Sh4 million
has had an effect on the report we came up with. I know the money was
deposited in your account and even if you want to kill me, I will say it,”
Washiali told the chairman. Nooru accused Washiali of pushing
the committee to indict "a particular person", which the committee
rejected, as there was insufficient evidence to link that person to the woes
at Mumias Sugar Company. In December last year, Parliament was a beehive of activity as nominees to the East Africa
Legislative Assembly went on a vote-hunting spree. The scramble for the few
slots at the Arusha-based Assembly followed a turbulent electioneering period. The spirited lobbying was infiltrated by a prominent Cabinet
Secretary and a governor championing their favoured  candidates. The
candidate with deep pockets
was guaranteed a slot. At that juncture, Nasa and Jubilee
MPs united to hasten the process of nominating Kenya's representatives to
EALA. Money was being disbursed openly to lawmakers, the sums based on their political influence. Some candidates refused to bribe their way in and sailed through. Some MPs claimed they had been drained
by their campaigning and this was an opportune time for payback. In a one instance, a prominent county boss stormed Parliament accompanied by his candidate and had
some legislators lined up to receive Sh20,000 each. In 2015, former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru was on the razor's edge when MPs almost
impeached her over corruption at the National Youth Service. But she survived. The Speaker declined Nandi Hills MP
Alfred Keter's motion to impeach Waiguru. Muturi said he had received the
MP's request for Waiguru's impeachment and had written back to him. He informed informed Keter that his
motion against Waiguru had only 80 signatures, after 17 MPs withdrew support. The motion — over a Sh791 million
loss at the NYS — required 87 signatures to be approved by the Speaker and 117
MPs to vote in favour. In the motion, Keter had alleged gross violation of the Constitution in management of the NYS,
leading to loss of public funds and financial irregularities. That was the second attempt to
remove Waiguru. The first in May 2014 was unsuccessful, as Igembe South MP
Mithika Linturi failed to appear to move his motion. Linturi had accused
Waiguru of intimidating and threatening public servants. He had garnered 98
signatures. The impeachment motion fizzled as he was said to have left the country. In the same year, the National
Assembly passed a report recommending dissolution of the Public Accounts Committee. The House Powers and Privileges had
recommended disbanding the 27-member watchdog committee chaired by Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba. The committee members had been found
culpable of breaching privileges of the House after claims of receiving
bribes to influence investigations against certain individuals. The Privileges committee, chaired by
Kuresoi North MP Moses Cheboi on behalf of Speaker Muturi, consequently
recommended that another, new-look PAC be reconstituted within seven days of the
resolution. Namwamba, Ahmed Abbas (Ijara), James
Bett (Kesses), Omondi Anyanga (Nyatike), and Cecily Mbarire (Runyenjes)
were
barred from the committee to be reconstituted for failing to
substantiate allegations of corruption leveled against their
colleagues. The five members were also required
to apologise from the Bar of the Chamber for imputing improper motives to their PAC colleagues in the meeting of February
26, 2015. While adopting the report, the House
dismissed an audio recording made by Ababu that captured the committee members,
including himself and ODM leader Raila Odinga, discussing the bribery allegations. The recording captured an MP
claiming that they received bribes from Defence PS Mutea Iringo to influence
the committee’s findings on Sh2.8 billion in confidential expenditure. In the same year, the former director of
medical services, Nicholas Muraguri, called claims that MPs were being bribed
to dilute regulation of the tobacco industry unfortunate and a "dirty game". British
American Tobacco is alleged to have bribed MPs to weaken smoking regulations. It denied the allegations. “Tobacco kills, but people from the
other side are always fighting back to control the sales and access to
these products,” he said.     