The small matter of relegation is now the focus of the 2018 SportPesa Premier League after the championship race turned into a procession as Gor Mahia wrapped up a record 17th top flight crown with a 2-0 win over arch-rivals AFC Leopards. As many as five teams remain in the danger zone but some will be more optimistic than others with half a dozen matches left to conclude the campaign. Chief among them will be new boys Vihiga United who had winger Amos Kigadi to thank as his lone goal in the 57th minute was enough to claim all three points in the relegation six-pointer away at rock bottom Thika United. The loss compounded Thika’s woes as they are stuck deep in the relegation zone, at the bottom of the log, with 20 points from 27 matches. The club sacked head coach John Njogu and replaced him with goal keeping trainer and club icon Joseph Ruto. Ruto will guide the club’s attempt to beat the drop with a visit to Kariobangi Sharks tomorrow their next challenge. Following the win, Vihiga climb a place up to 15th with 30 points, having played 28 matches. Wazito are the other side occupying the second automatic relegation slot after the 3-2 loss away at Kakamega Homeboyz. Frank Ouna’s top flight debutantes have 24 points. Chemelil Sugar are the unlikely occupants of the relegation/promotion playoff slot. The Awasi-based sugar millers were the victims of Ulinzi Stars, who beat them 2-0 at the Chemelil Complex to leave them with 28 points from 27 matches. Nzoia United, despite being in 24th place, are not out of the woods yet after a fifth successive loss, this time at the hands of their immediate former coach Bernard Mwalala and his Bandari side, failed to add to their 31 points tally. Zoo FC will feel they have secured another campaign among the elite as they held Mathare United to a 1-1 draw at the Green Stadium in Kericho. Mathare opened the scoring at the half-hour mark but Zoo FC restored parity with a calm finish just after the breather. Zoo FC are 13th on the log after the result with 33 points from 28 matches while Mathare are seventh with 39 points having played the same number of matches. Gor were crowned champions with a record six matches to spare after reaching an unassailable 71 points. Bandari are second—a colossal twenty points—behind the back-to-back champions with Leopards third with 48 points. Click here for the latest political news