Satellite photos from last week indicate North Korea halted work to
dismantle a missile engine test site in the first part of August. This was in
spite of a promise to US President Donald Trump at a June summit, a
Washington think tank reported on Wednesday. The 38 North project
said commercial satellite imagery of the Sohae Satellite Launching
Station taken on Aug. 16 indicated “no significant dismantlement
activity” at either the site’s engine test stand or launch pad since
Aug. 3. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said last month that
reports that North Korea had started dismantling facilities at Sohae
were consistent with a commitment North Korean leader Kim Jong Un made
at a summit with Trump in Singapore on June 12. The 38 North
report said significant progress in tearing down the test stand had been
made from July to early August, but added: “The components previously
removed remain stacked on the ground.” Sponsored It
said work to take down a rail-mounted transfer/processing building at
the launch pad also appeared to have stalled and it was not clear if the
work that had taken place on that was associated with dismantling or
modification of the structure. The 38 North report comes at a
time of widespread doubts about North Korea’s willingness to go along
with U.S. demands for it to give up its nuclear weapons. There was no immediate comment from the White House. The
UN nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
said in a report on Monday that it had not found any indication that
North Korea had stopped its nuclear activities. In Singapore, Kim
agreed in broad terms to work toward denuclearization of the Korean
peninsula but he has given no sign he is willing to give up his arsenal
unilaterally. In an interview with Reuters on Monday,
Trump defended his efforts to convince Pyongyang to give up its nuclear
weapons, saying he believed North Korea had taken specific steps toward
denuclearization. He said he would “most likely” meet again with Kim. However,
several members of the U.S. negotiating team said they had seen no
progress toward denuclearization and no sign that North Korea was
prepared to negotiate seriously until the United States promised relief
from sanctions in return. North Korea state media last week
blamed lack of progress in talks since the summit on members of the US
negotiating team and said breaking the deadlock would demand "a bold
decision on the part of President Trump". A commentary in its Rodong
Sinmun newspaper on Saturday said those opposed to dialogue were seeking
to derail talks by making baseless references to "secret nuclear
facilities" in North Korea. US officials have been trying to
persuade North Korea to declare the extent of its weapons programs,
something Pyongyang had always refused to do in past failed rounds of
talks. Trump’s national security adviser, John Bolton, said this
month that Pyongyang had not taken the necessary steps to denuclearize
while US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said Washington
was "not willing to wait for too long." Bolton said Trump, in a letter to Kim, had proposed sending Pompeo back
to North Korea for what would be his fourth visit this year and that the
president was ready to meet with Kim again at any time.   