A blessing because it is
re-awakening the region’s political consciousness and suddenly, communities and
leaders are waking up to the realisation that they have been sidelined and
marginalised in national politics and opportunities.  They are fatigued in the opposition and they
want to be in government — any government. 
In their reckoning, business should never be the same again by 2022. On the other hand, it is
a curse because it has created political disunity and uncertainty.  Leaders are falling apart, and others are
seeking alternative ways to remain relevant. 
After decades of dressing down the Jubilee government for Coast’s
underdevelopment, the bashing forums have stopped.  It is now everyone for himself. Ironically, many of the
leaders asking for political change belong to ODM, the party that has swept
every election at the Coast since 2007.  The fallout among the politicians has to do
with the 2022 succession politics and Deputy President William Ruto’s
presidential bid.  Two camps are emerging:  One is fronted by Mombasa governor Hassan Joho,
while the other is led by his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi. The political alliance and
dalliance that has existed between Joho and Kingi in ODM before the handshake,
is now falling apart.  Joho continues to
support Raila Odinga and ODM, while Kingi is crouching towards Ruto.  He has called for the formation of a
homegrown party and has cast doubt on the handshake, if coastal land issues are
not addressed. From the outside, the
Joho is linked to what he calls “like-minded” people, among them Baringo
Senator Gideon Moi, who is also the Kanu national chairman.  To cap up this relationship, Joho and Gideon met
in Mombasa about two months ago.  Sources
within the Joho camp hint to the fact that the governor is more comfortable
working with Uhuru’s former TNA wing of the Jubilee Coalition, rather than
Ruto’s URP.   Last week, Joho disclosed he would rather work
with Moi than Ruto. The natural ally of King’s
camp is Ruto. Politicians in this camp are working with Ruto, while others, such
as Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart, Suleiman Dori, have
said publicly they will support his 2022 bid. 
Thus, the protest for political change in the Coast region is about the
future of ODM, which has dominated opposition politics for a decade. Ruto’s bid is only
serving as a catalyst to effect this change. 
In so doing, it has driven a wedge among Coast leaders.   It
began last March in Voi town, Taita Taveta, when the raucous Jumwa asked coastal
communities to vote Ruto for President.   
She was supported by the gaggle of county leaders, who attended the
rally.  Within weeks, dozens of MPs had professed
to work with Ruto, if not to support his bid. The MPs who support Ruto
are from across the six counties of Kilifi, Kwale, Taita Taveta, Mombasa, Tana
River and Lamu.   Initially, the MPs, many of them from ODM,
were protesting against their exclusion from the March 9 handshake, which they
blamed on Raila.  Then it blew over to
include other issues such as opposition fatigue, their need to be government,
and the formation of a local party. The leaders of the
political change are Jumwa and Dori, who is also the Coast Parliamentary Group
chairman.  ODM national leaders have reacted
to the rebels by asking them to desist from discussing 2022 politics or supporting
Ruto.  The MPs have in response said that
given Raila shook hands with Uhuru and they are working together, they, too, should
be free to shake hands and work with other leaders, including Ruto. This is the
stalemate. This week ODM wrote show
cause letters to Jumwa and Dori for their stands. I can only speculate that if
ODM has to expel these MPs and fresh elections are held, this would be the
litmus test for the party.    If it loses
in those by-elections, it will be the end of its wave at the Coast. Conversely,
if ODM wins, that would be the continuation of the party wave beyond 2022. Something else.  It was reported this week that governor Joho
held private talks with Uhuru and Raila during their stay in Mombasa.  To deepen the political divide, the Kilifi rumour
mill says Jumwa was denied access to meet Raila at his new residence at Nyali, Mombasa.  Within Malindi and Kilifi county, Jumwa is a
sensation.  And some politicians have
scorned her, while others have encouraged her to soldier on.  POLITICS OF ETHNICITY The scramble for the
control of Coast politics is gradually turning ethnic, which is rare given it
is heterogeneous in nature.  The
divide-and-rule strategy is meant to isolate the majority communities such as the
Mijikenda, the Taita, the Taveta and communities from Tana River, like the
Pokomo, from the minority but more influential Arab and Swahili communities.  The rationale is that if these communities
were to be brought together and vote as bloc, they would tilt the elections in
favour of Ruto.  Perhaps, the DP would in
turn, peak one among the leaders of these communities as his running mate. This explains, in part,
why Ruto’s frequent visits have focussed on areas dominated by these
communities. But the handshake is consolidating the communities. Joho and Tourism CS Najib
Balala reconciled this week, the first time they met since the 2013 election, the
latter lost the Senate seat to Cord. The Joho-Balala handshake
is not only meant to consolidate political unity within their communities, but
also has to do with Balala’s 2022 governorship ambitions.  Even if ethnicity will be a factor in 2022,
the influence and wealth of the Arab/Swahili communities should not be
underrated. They have controlled Mombasa and Coast politics in the past
elections. This week, a reader of
this column called me about the regular visits by leaders and politicians to
the Coast.  He had in mind the visits by Uhuru,
Raila, Ruto, Moi, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula.  My answer is that there is a leadership
vacuum that needs to be filled.  It is
that vacuum that they are competing to fill. 