The presence of DPP Nordin Haji (pictured), EACC deputy CEO Michael Mubea, DCI George Kinoti, Assets Recovery Authority director Muthoni Kimani and other anti-graft bosses at the precincts of Parliament on Wednesday seems to have sent fear among some MPs. Well, the full-fledged team was not scouting for lawmakers allegedly implicated in graft but was on another mission. They were appearing before the Senate Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights committee to brief them on the status of the crackdown on graft. Some were spotted scrolling their mobile phones to get online updates on where and to whom the graft dragnet had been directed.  Is Youth Enterprise Fund CEO Josiah Moriasi concentrating a lot on politics at the expense of the functions of his office? Well, Corridors of Power has been informed that there is grumbling at the youth fund agency, with staff complaining that the CEO could have neglected his duties and chosen to plunge into the murky waters of politics to advance an agenda not so well within his terms of contract. Those opposed to his latest approach say the CEO should either resign to get into politics or take his work apolitically as a civil servant. We are told that perhaps it could be his obsession with politics that there is reported low uptake of loans among the youth. A group of youths, who have questioned the source of his funds, want a lifestyle audit done to see if his expenditure correlate with his income.  Residents of a sublocation in Homa Bay county have complained bitterly about the alleged appointment of a new assistant chief after the post fell vacant a few months ago. The residents claim that a village snob may have used his connections with a former MP to get the job for his wife, whose name was not even among the three shortlisted candidates. Those in the know whispered that the former MP used dubious means to obtain the appointment letter from the Interior PS’s office in Harambee House. The residents now fear that the village snob, who brags a lot about his connections, would lock out people seeking services of his wife if she is installed as the assistant chief.  A top Kisii University staff being trailed by EACC sleuths over graft allegations and who heads a crucial department has apparently disappeared. His close associate has confided in Corridors that he had travelled abroad a few weeks ago to evade arrest after smelling a rat. The anti-graft agency was tightening the noose around the officer before an insider leaked information to him, resulting in his hasty takeoff. To further complicate his trail, the officer left behind his phone in his university office, which misled the sleuths when they sought to arrest him. With information that the employee could be in a neighbouring country, perhaps the agency could mind crossing over.  