Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi has downplayed visits by politicians to the home of retired President Daniel Moi for blessings. A number of politicians have been to Moi's home since President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga's March 9 handshake. The visits have sparked speculation of looming alliances with Moi's son Gideon. The Baringo Senator is said to be training his guns on the presidency in 2022. Raila met with Moi, saying he wanted to wish the former President well after he was hospitalised in Israel. Observers argue that the truce between Uhuru, Raila and Moi has shifted the political landscape amid fears it is too soon to start 2022 campaigns. Read: Raila visits Moi at his Kabarak home, talk on state of Kenyan nation More on this: Uhuru, Raila, Moi talks fuel 2022 succession debate Raila's visit was quickly followed by one by Deputy President William Ruto, who also wanted advice from Moi. Ruto flew to retired leader's home but failed to meet him after waiting for three hours. It is not clear if Ruto had an appointment but sources close to the Moi family say there was none. A meeting with Moi, to wish him good health, could give a boost to Ruto's presidential aspirations and his claim to lead the Kalenjin nation. More on this: Was DP Ruto blocked from seeing Moi in Kabarak? On Saturday, Mombasa governor Hassan Joho met retired President Daniel Moi at his Kabarak home. In pictures widely shared on social media, Joho was seen chatting with Moi and Gideon. It was not clear what they were discussing since it was a closed-door meeting. But Ahmednasir, in a Twitter post, asked how the visits can inspire a future for Kenya. "How can the old political order inspire/bless the new/inspiring future? I don't understand Kenya anymore," Ahmednasir said on Monday. He added: "The blessing or endorsement by Baba Moi must be the kiss of death for anyone who wants to be our next President." His sentiments were echoed by some Kenyans who argued that Moi has nothing new to offer after his 24-year hold to power. "I agree with you. Things were really bad during Moi's time but these years have taken it to another level," a twitter user @emutoro said. "These duo have done nothing beyond PR and daylight thuggery." @GeorgesSavimbi said: " President Mwai Kibaki was 100x better than Moi, but I don't see these guys going to consult him or seek his blessings! Something is wrong with our political system." "You must be too young to remember how bad things were during Moi's reign of blood. Don't argue with a man who suffered under his boot heels," @Rogal69167475 said. RESPECT Another Twitter user @machetevga told the lawyer to respect the elderly and the presidents that Kenya has had. "He was our President and life was so much better than now. You cannot compare him with this kind of creatures we have now. Don’t talk as if you holier. You have your dark side too," he said. @JoeAsali said: "Let me tell you, there is something you are not getting. The Kabarak isn't about Moi. It's about Gideon but it's framed as Moi. You need to read beyond the headlines." "I agree with you @ahmednasirlaw we have 2 former presidents alive one ruled for 24yrs and did nothing to the economy the other one ruled for 10yrs and revamped our economy between the two who should politician seek the blessings?" @joshuamwash said. @NetoDomnic said: "Elders must be respected no matter the wrongs they did. There are leaders in this country who have ugly political order more than Moi and you praise them every day on your tweets." He added, "They maimed, killed in fact murdered, raped, forced out people from their land,be courageous to speak up on such." Also read: Is 2022 shaping up to be a one-horse race? Click here for the latest political news 