At least 12,000 patients were treated by the Cuban doctors across the country within a month after the medics arrived, Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has said. The state engaged the 100 medical specialists to improve health services in the country. Each of the 47 counties received two specialists in late June and early July. Kariuki asked county governments to provide conducive environment for all doctors to work effectively. “We are happy that a record 12,000 plus patients have been treated by the Cubans in a record one month. The specialists will be in the country for two years and we expect more patients to be treated during the period,” the CS said. She said the specialists settled well in their work stations in counties without hitches. Kariuki was speaking yesterday at Iten County Referral Hospital, where she made an impromptu visit to check on the utilisation of the medical equipment donated by the national government under the managed equipment services deal in January. The CS said the equipment supplied to county hospitals will help decongest referral hospitals. She expressed concern over congestion of patients at the Eldoret’s Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, saying the facility currently receives double the number of patients it should handle. “Plans are underway to expand MTRH from next year, but patients should make use of county hospitals so that referral facilities deal with referral cases,” Kariuki said. She told Elgeyo Marakwet residents to make use of a mammograph machine supplied to Iten County Referral Hospital under the medical deal for cancer screening. The CS said an ICU machine will be delivered to Iten hospital after the county government completes the construction of a room for the machine. Governor Alex Tolgos thanked the national government for the machines. He said they include a renal unit, radiology and theatre units. Elgeyo Marakwet got two Cubans ­  — Liev Herrera (plastic surgeon) and Gustavo Salazak (family physician)  — on June 3. The pair was deployed to Iten Referral Hospital but treat patients in other facilities on a mobile treatment programme. Tolgos said the plastic surgeon has operated on patients who sustained bullet wounds during banditry attacks in Kerio Valley. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen urged the national government to work closely with counties to improve health services.