Homa bay senator Moses Kajwang’ has chided Kenyans
for blaming MPs for corrupt practices, saying the august house is not “a house
of saints.” Kajwang’, who is the chairman of Senate’s Public Accounts
and Investments Committee, said the attributes of the members of parliament is
a “perfect reflection of the Kenyan culture.” In an exclusive interview with the Star at his KICC
office, Senator Kajwang’ challenged Kenyans to blame themselves because “it is
them that put the leaders there.” ” Corruption is entrenched in the Kenya’s social
fabric, it is fiction to expect parliament to be different,” he said. “Where isn’t there corruption in this country? Is it
in churches, families, Chamas?” he asked. Read: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report He, however, said that does not limit the parliament
from executing its mandate whether perfectly or imperfectly. The admission  that Parliament is not any different in
matters corruption could be a serious indictment on the house that has been
struggling to sanitize its name and restore its credibility in the face of
bribery claims swirling around it. The latest
accusation involved agriculture committee where it is alleged members parted
with as low as 10,000 to trash the report that put blames on Cabinet
secretaries Henry Rotich [Treasury] and Adan Mohamed [East African Community]. The committee reportedly found the two
culpable over the poisonous sugar scandal. Former Agriculture CS Willy Bett was
also implicated. But
Kajwang’ absolved members of any blame, saying MPs have been effective in their
work. “The role of
parliament is to flag off corrupt practices in our investigations, not to
determine culpability,” he said, adding that “Ours is to recommend applicable
actions by other relevant bodies, including EACC, DCI and others.” Kajwang’
said Kenyans have not yet appreciated the hard circumstances under which MPs
work while carrying out their oversight role. Citing his experience during the Ruaraka land
scandal investigation by his committee, Kajwang’ said their work is impeded
largely by “extremities of lobbying.” “There are
all manner of people with interest pertaining our work and so they approach us
to have our perspective be in one way or another,” he said. Kajwang’
said they encountered “unsolicited overtures and threats during their work.” Read: Sugar bribe dished out in toilet – MP The Homa bay legislator availed a detailed
letter signed by N.R Nyamai, an advocate for Francis Mburu; the person at the center
of the Ruaraka land saga where committee is accused of biased and prejudice in
their investigation. The letter
demanded the committee leadership (chairman Kajwang’ and Vice chair Mithika
Linturi) recluse themselves from the investigation, failure to which Mburu
would not appear or participate before it. Kajwang’
said the committee considered the letter an attempt of the Mburu (s) to “arm
twist, intimidate, and destruct” them from doing their work. The
legislator’s assertions can be considered a setback to people who look up to the
institution to lead the war on corruption. The
speaker of the national assembly recently gave new rules barring members of the
committees from hugging or having a close embrace with the witnesses appearing
before them. The number of those that attend sessions as friends of the
committee was also capped. To this
Kajwang’ said, “this is making a mountain out of nothing.” “Members have the
right to attend any committee as friends because if anything they do not vote”
he added. “Every
person presented before the committee is never guilty until proven by the court
of law, it, therefore, makes no sense to treat them like snakes,” he said. There have
been claims of witnesses before committees renting some MPs to defend them
during committee sessions, attending as friends. More: MPs deny reports linking them to sugar report bribery, say it is propaganda Click here for the latest political news