President Uhuru Kenyatta and US' Donald Trump have agreed to deepen cooperation on matters defence and security for efficient war against terror. Al Shabaab has in the past launched attacks in Kenya targeting civilians, in revenge for Kenya moving its troops into Somalia in 2011. Read: Mandera al Shabaab attack victim speaks of horrific killings Speaking during a joint conference, the two presidents pledged to build on acquisition of military equipment made in the United States. President Trump committed to further enhance Kenya Defence Forces capabilities to enable fight the enemy. "We have had very strong and excellent cooperation with the US in security and defence, especially in the fight against terrorism. Most important, we are here looking to enhance our partnership in trade and investment," Uhuru said. President Trump said Kenya and the US will continue to work together to grow their partnership in trade, investments and security. "We do a lot of tourism, we do a lot of trade and defence. And we working very much in security right now. We appreciate very much your being with us here," Trump said. Trump commended the Kenya Defence Forces for their service and sacrifice in combating al-Shabaab and ISIS in Somalia. He also lauded Kenya for taking a leading role in the East African fight against terrorism and for its sustained dedication to this effort. The leaders reaffirmed and strengthened their commitment to continued counter-terrorism cooperation against violent extremists who seek to take innocent lives and deny fundamental human rights. To further enhance this counter-terrorism collaboration, President Trump welcomed Kenya’s decision to join the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS. Democracy Uhuru thanked President Trump for the United States’ continued support of his administration’s efforts towards greater accountability, transparency, and institution building. The leaders resolved to elevate the relationship to a Strategic Partnership, affirming it as a cornerstone of peace, stability and good governance in Africa and the Indian Ocean region. This United States– Kenya Strategic Partnership will include an annual dialogue to advance mutual prosperity. Trade Trump thanked Uhuru for hosting the United States delegation of the Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa. To further enhance the economic partnership, the two leaders agreed to establish a United States–Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group to explore ways to deepen ties between the two countries. Further, the Presidents announced that their governments established direct flights between Nairobi and New York City, a move that will expand the economic and cultural ties between the two great countries. Read: US security agency audits JKIA as direct flights to New York beckons Recognising the importance of high-quality infrastructure, President Trump and President Kenyatta welcomed the proposal by United States engineering and construction firm Bechtel Corporation to build a modern superhighway from Nairobi to Mombasa. Both sides agreed to undertake further consultations to conclude the terms of the financing agreement. Click here for the latest political news