Two police officers charged with the murder of businesswoman Janet Waiyaki were on Wednesday released on Sh700,000 bail each. Justice Stella Mutuku noted that the prosecution did not table compelling reasons to warrant denial of bail. The judge said William Chirchir of Makadara and his co-accused Godfrey Kirui of Industrial Area must, however, not interfere, intimidate or threaten witnesses in any way. In the ruling, Justice Mutuku said the duo shall execute a bond of Sh2 million with two sureties of Sh1 million each. She gave them the option of depositing the cash bail with the court’s registrar to secure their freedom. Chirchir and Kirui have denied killing Janet on May 20 at City Park, Nairobi. At the magistrate's court, they have refused to plead to another charge of attempted murder of Bernard Chege. The lad was left nursing gun wounds following the bizarre shooting. Janet, 41, and Chege, 26, are said to have parked at City Park at about 10.30 am when they were attacked. The prosecution had opposed their release saying they were likely to interfere with witnesses. State prosecutor Catherine Mwaniki had told the court that they wanted to secure evidence of key witnesses including Chege, which she said could only be done in an environment where witnesses can testify without fear. Read: DPP opposes bail for cops in Janet Waiyaki murder case Similarly, Janet’s husband George Kirubi had urged the court to reject the application citing incidences he claimed were meant to threaten him. Kirubi referred to an incident in which he claimed someone shot at his house on June 17. He also claimed that three days later, he was pushed off Jogoo Road by a driver in a mysterious vehicle. He also said a mysterious fire broke out at his business premise at Gloria Hotel on June 23. However, justice Mutuku said the apprehension was not backed by persuasive evidence to lead her to the finding that there were compelling reasons against the accused's application. "I have considered the grounds in support of the application and those in opposition. I appreciate the apprehension of the prosecution that the accused persons may interfere with witnesses or abscond." She noted that the rights of the victims must be taken into account by ensuring that an accused person faces the trial for the acts he is said to have committed. "An arrested person has the right to be released on bail or bond on reasonable conditions unless there are compelling reasons," the judge said. The court directed that the file be placed before Justice Jessie Lesiit on September 19 for the setting of hearing dates before another court. Also read: Officers deny killing woman at City Park Click here for the latest political news 