Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has banned school buses from ferrying students after 7pm. Drivers found breaking the rule will be arrested and the bus will not be released until a fine of not less than Sh50,000 is paid. Mutua called for proper planning and adherence to the law when organising school trips. A special enforcement unit  from the Machakos  County Inspectorate has been formed to enforce and ensure compliance. The unit will work in conjunction with the police and other government agencies. Mutua said one of the issues facing  the country is  disregard of the law and subsequent lack of enforcement. “This, especially on our roads, has led to disorder, loss of  productive hours and fatal injuries,” he said. Mutua spoke yesterday when he unveiled road use guidelines. He said every week, relatives bury their loved ones who have died as a result of road accidents, many of which are preventable. “For many years, our roads have created orphans and left families suffering.  It is the responsibility of all of us, and especially governments, to do something to stop the massacre we face on our roads,” Mutua said. Mutua said vehicles emitting visible exhaust smoke will not be allowed to travel on roads regardless of whether they are heading to a Machakos destination or are on transit. “Emission of visible exhaust smoke by vehicles not only pollutes, obstructs the view of other motorists, but is also contrary to County Law, Kenya Standards (KS1515 ) and Traffic Act Cap 403, Section 55, 56 and Rule 27,”Mutua said. He warned that the vehicles will be towed. In addition, a fine of Sh150,000 will be levied on vehicles emitting visible smoke. “Therefore, if on transit, before you enter Machakos county from our neighbour counties of Nairobi, Makueni, Kitui, Kajiado, Kiambu, Murang’a and Embu, ensure your vehicle is roadworthy and not emitting smoke,” Mutua said. No vehicle will be allowed to obstruct other vehicles and cause traffic congestion. “Vehicles obstructing traffic, at times even over a Sh200 scratch, will be impounded and a fine of up to Sh50,000 imposed on the obstructing vehicles,” Mutua said. He warned that  vehicles that enter and block intersections or stop in the middle of the road to pick or drop passengers will be  fined Sh100,000 for each act of obstruction. This is applicable to both private and public service vehicles. Throwing of litter from moving or stationary vehicles is prohibited. “Machakos county spends a lot of money and time keeping our roads and sides clean and we will not entertain primitive behavior of throwing litter from vehicles as they drive on our roads,” Mutua said. He said vehicles in which passengers are spotted by residents, officers or CCTV cameras littering, will be stopped and the passenger fined Sh15,000. “If it is not clear which passenger committed the crime, the vehicle and all passengers will be held until they raise a combined Sh50,000 fine,” Mutua said. He said vehicles, especially lorries, that drive in a crooked manner – going forward but the chassis is facing sideways (broken centre bolt), will also not be allowed to drive on Machakos roads and will be impounded.