President Emmerson Mnangagwa urged
Zimbabweans to unite on Friday after he was declared the first
elected head of state since Robert Mugabe's removal from power,
but the opposition leader insisted he had won and pledged to
challenge the result. Sounding a conciliatory note after six people were killed in
a post-election crackdown by the military, Mnangagwa vowed to be
president for all Zimbabweans and declared his rival Nelson
Chamisa would have a vital role to perform in Zimbabwe's future. He also said the army's use of violence in Harare after the
vote would be investigated independently, although he also
suggested he understood the resort to military force, remarking
that police had been overwhelmed by opposition demonstrators. The army's clampdown and opposition claims that the vote was
rigged revealed the deep fissures in Zimbabwean society that
developed during the four-decade rule of Mugabe, when the
security forces became a byword for heavy-handedness. In an apparent effort at soothing those rifts, Mnangagwa,
75, said: "To Nelson Chamisa, I want to say: you have a crucial
role to play in Zimbabwe's present and its unfolding future. Let
us both call for peace and unity in our land." But Chamisa, 40, told reporters Mnangagwa's ruling Zanu-PF
had authorised the army crackdown on opposition supporters
because it knew it had lost the election, the first since the
army removed 94-year-old Mugabe from office in November. "We are going to explore all necessary means, legal and
constitutional, to ensure that the will of the people is
protected," Chamisa said. Voting passed off relatively smoothly on the day, raising
hopes of a break from a history of disputed and violent polls,
but the violence in Harare darkened the political atmosphere. After three days of claims and counterclaims, 75-year-old
Mnangagwa - a former spy chief under Mugabe - secured victory. He polled 2.46 million votes against 2.15 million for
Chamisa, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) announced in
the early hours of Friday morning. "This is a new beginning. Let us join hands," Mnangagwa said
on Twitter. "We won the election freely and fairly, and have
nothing to hide or fear." His bid to repair the image of a nation known for repression
and economic collapse was further hurt by a police raid on the
headquarters of Chamisa's Movement for Democratic Change and the
dispersal of journalists before a Chamisa news conference. Mnangagwa won 50.8 percent of the vote, official figures
showed, just over the 50 percent mark needed to avoid a runoff.
The delays in announcing the presidential results and the narrow
margin of victory fuelled the opposition accusations of rigging. He now faces the challenge of persuading the international
community that the army crackdown and lapses in the election
process will not derail his promise of political and economic
reforms needed to fix a moribund economy. European Union observers on Wednesday cited several
problems, including media bias and mistrust in the electoral
commission. Its final assessment will be crucial in determining
whether Zimbabwe can return to the international fold. The United States, which is weighing whether to lift
sanctions against Zimbabwe, said it was reviewing data by its
own and other election observers and urged all sides to act
peacefully. "We encourage all stakeholders and citizens to pursue any
grievances peacefully and through established legal channels,
and we encourage all political leaders to show magnanimity in
victory and graciousness in defeat," State Department
spokeswoman Heather Nauert said in a statement. VERIFY Chamisa, who accused the commission of trying to rig the
vote, said it should release "proper and verified" results. He told a news conference he would pursue all legal means
necessary to challenge the result, which had serious legitimacy
problems. He declined to divulge the specific action that his
party would take to challenge the election outcome. Christopher Dielmann, economist at Exotix Capital, said the
immediate priorities for Mnangagwa would be to continue on the
path of restoring the economy and boosting exports, helped by
international engagement. "By many accounts, this imperfect election delivered
sufficient transparency, especially in relation to past results
in the country, that should allow re-engagement to occur
relatively smoothly." Charles Laurie, head of country risk for Verisk Maplecroft,
said for international investors, Zimbabwe’s election was less
about an MDC or a ZANU-PF win, and far more about electing a
legitimate, stable and trustworthy leader. "There is a bleak pall over Mnangagwa's win," he said. South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa urged all Zimbabweans
to accept the poll results. Harare's traffic was thinner than usual. Water cannon and
anti-riot police remained outside MDC offices, a reminder of the
clashes between opposition and the security forces this week. "We are not happy with this election but what can we do?"
said Patience Sithole, a cleaner in Harare. "We don't trust these observers, we don't trust these
courts. I'm not sure things will ever change in Zimbabwe." The Herald newspaper, which acts as a government mouthpiece,
hailed the election as reflecting the will of the majority and
admonished the opposition, decrying "a culture of rabble-rousing
and sham protests of alleged rigging whenever a party loses." Click here for the latest political news