Defending champions Stray Lions and Swamibapa face off for the first time in this season’s NPCA Super League at Peponi School tomorrow. The two are second and third on the table with 14 points, separated by net run rate from four matches. They have lost a game each, to leaders Kanbis, and will be looking for a win to boost their chances of toppling the multiple league champions. Both sides have contrasting strengths into the match. While the hosts boost of a strong batting line up, the visitors has had a good show with the bat. But it’s likely that at a side that will use their strength well and probably improve on their weakness will carry the day. Stray Lions’ batting has seen them get to some comfortable scores while Swamibapa’s bowling has seen them bowl out all but one of their opponents in their last four matches. However, Swamibapa’s bowling will get one of the toughest of the season as they will be up against the league’s top batsman Sandip Kunchikor. The Stray Lions’ opening batsman has scored 364 runs in four innings with a highest score of 134. It will take a combined effort of Swami’s bowlers to tame the Lions’ top batsman. Kunchikor could get support from Anup Fulper and Tanmay Mishra Swamibapa too have something to brag for with the bat. The second and third ranked batsmen in the league — Deepak Pal and Naman Patel — are at Swamibapa. The visitors will also be hoping that on-form wicketkeeper Maurice Ouma will have a field day on the pitch. With the ball, Stray Lions bowling attack will have to dig in more if they are to stop Swamibapa’s batsmen. At Eastleigh High School, leaders Kanbis will have a chance to extend their lead when they take on bottom-placed and winless Cutchi Leva. From the current state of the league, the home team will get into the match confident of raking in maximum points before welcoming Stray Lions next week. At Ruaraka Sports Club, the home team will be looking at getting off the bottom of the table when they welcome Nairobi Gymkhana. From four matches, Ruaraka are yet to record a win and they will be working hard to get their maiden. In the Plate actions, Lenana School will play hosts to the battle of table-toppers when Obuya Academy and Ngara Sports Club meet. The two teams are only separated by net run rate in the second tier of the NPCA Super League. In other plate matches, Sir Ali Muslim will play Kanbis B at home with Kongonis welcoming Sikh Union at Nairobi Club.