National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi will issue direction on investigations into the claims that some MPs received bribes to reject the report on contraband sugar. The communication is expected tomorrow. Allegations that lawmakers pocketed between Sh10,000 and Sh30,000 at the Parliament precincts have led to criticism from Kenyans. The joint Agriculture and Trade committee prepared the report. House Majority chief whip Benjamin Washiali yesterday told the Star that the Committee of Powers and Privileges chaired by Muturi will verify the claims and evidence adduced to establish whether they warrant further action by the anti-graft agencies. “The image of Parliament must be restored. We have this feeling that it has seriously eroded and it is not making some of us who are in the House leadership comfortable,” the Mumias East MP said. “We must restore the image of the House even if it means sacrificing some members who have gone out of track. “As House leaders, we just came from Mombasa where we were discussing a number of things that need to be done to improve the services of the National Assembly. The speaker will communicate on this matter on Tuesday.” Read:Muturi to MPs: Produce dossier on sugar bribery claims According to the Constitution, the Committee of Powers and Privileges is mandated to inquire into the conduct of MPs who “breach of privilege in terms of Section 16”. It is expected to conclude its probe within 14 days and table its findings. The speaker has directed legislators who say their colleagues took bribes to shoot down the report to record statements. “I’ve instructed the clerk of the National Assembly to immediately write to the members who have been quoted in sections of the media citing incidents of bribery within the precincts of Parliament; inviting them to share their testimonies or any information that they may have with the Powers and Privileges committee,” Muturi said. He said the committee will study the information provided to establish whether there was breach of privilege through unethical conduct by specific MPs. “The Powers and Privileges committee, upon evaluation of the testimonies, may consider inviting the competent investigatory agencies, in particular the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, as provided for in the Leadership and Integrity Act to conclusively handle the investigations with the view to taking necessary action against any member found culpable of this grossly unethical conduct,” Muturi said. Also Read:'Arrest' looters of public funds, Uhuru tells youth Click here for the latest political news