President Uhuru Kenyatta has said he has lost lots of friends in the last few weeks as the fight against impunity intensifies. He wants government officials who approved the construction of buildings on riparian land arrested and prosecuted. This is after National Environment Management Authority demolished the multi-billion shillings Southend Mall on Lang'ata Road for being on riparian reserve. More on this: Prosecute officials who authorised buildings on riparian land - Uhuru Speaking during a church service on Sunday, Uhuru said he has been receiving many calls from friends who claim he is just seating and watching as demolitions continue. "I have been receiving many calls that you know.. how can you just watch as these destructions go on? You must stop it!.. and I say to them, It is difficult to stop, not because we love to destroy, but we must fight impunity," he said. "... because if we fail we will not achieve our dreams and a time has come for us to fight impunity. " Uhuru said a time has come for Kenyans to realise that no matter how much money you have, it cannot save you. "No matter how much money you have or big friends in big places, it will not save you ...We must recognise that for Kenya to succeed, impunity must end," he said. He said Kenyans must fight corruption, adding that graft is a force that "prevents us from achieving our dreams". This comes a day after embattled National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri was arrested over the alleged purchase of dubious land for the Standard Gauge Railway. Police also arrested the commission's chief executive/secretary Chavangi Aziz Tom and Kenya Railways Managing Director Atanas Maina. More on this: Swazuri, Kenya Railways boss arrested over SGR land compensation payouts Also read: Kidero son arrested as father stays in cell "We must reach a stage where we know that it is not about who you know or whether you know the President ...that should not be what makes a human being," Uhuru said. "No, it should not be how much money you have. Judge yourselves by your character, judge yourselves by the abilities and talents that God has given you. We must reward on the basis of what a human being has done." Uhuru said Kenyans should use their skills and innovation to better lives. "It is possible, and I believe it is. We need to join together and fight this battle. That is the only way our dream will become a reality. Let us lose friends now, we will gain others as we move forward," he said. "Let us lose friends and do that which is right in the eyes of God. The power of change is in each one of us." Click here for the latest political news