Frederick Lewis Donaldson, an Anglican priest, in 1925 listed the seven social sins in a sermon delivered in Westminster Abbey, London. They include wealth without work; pleasure without conscience; knowledge without character; commerce without morality; science without humanity; religion without sacrifice and politics without principal. Donaldson, in a few words, described what Kenya is going through. We are a country where stealing has become the norm. Both government officials and influential figures are involved, but they don’t realise that a single wrong money move trickles down to the poorest of Kenyans, including partly some of the thieves extended families. That some politicians oppose the fight against corruption is surprising. It’s not unusual to declare wealth as directed by the President. Those scared of the lifestyle audit, claiming its targeting a select few, should tell us if their masters are corrupt. Do the masters have money they cannot account for? In any case, we all declared our wealth in the last term just before the elections. Why don’t we audit you to see what you owned then and what you have now? In all good conscience all cabinet secretaries should have stepped aside by now to allow for investigations in their ministries. Or at least those whose ministries have been mentioned in scandals. Corruption knows no tribe or society. The billions lost in corruption can be channelled to the Big Four agenda. Kenya goes through a five-year election cycle. It gets so chaotic, with businesses and lives stopping for months. Traditionally, Kenyans vote along ethnic lines, which always leads to death and destruction. Perhaps if we elected leaders and not politicians this could be reversed. I once had a chat with President Kagame and he told me we fail the minute we elect people more interested in the next election and making money, ignoring leaders that think of the next generation. This could be a contributor to the rampant corruption. There is need to fix our electoral system as early as now. We cannot wait a few months to the next election to start running helter skelter. Do we have genuine officers at the IEBC? How is that we have so many appeals at the end of every election? Why do we have politicians with fake education papers running for office? Anyone who lies to get to power will still put their personal interests first. Leadership is a calling. Those who cheat to take up leadership roles do so to enrich themselves. Also, why are walking and talking 2022 politics now, when it’s barely an year since the last very highly charged election? Don’t we have more important issues raised by Kenyans? Let us exploit available opportunities to address tribalism, create jobs, win the corruption war and promote unity. And I thank President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga for putting their political interests aside for the handshake that cooled the political temperatures. Kenyans await a breakthrough with issues raised being addressed. We know it’s our responsibility as citizens to put them to task. We will definitely do our part so that we can live in Kenya at peace and as one family. A family that enjoys different cultures but same ideologies, reasoning and growth. We should also have a national convention so we can once and for all assure Kenyans and investors that Kenya has healed and is ready for business. At the end of the day we will debate, agree and allay fears. We might also agree on how to track stolen funds and return them to government to be put to right use. Kabogo is immediate Former Kiambu governor