Unease at EACC as Kinoti takes charge The simmering row between the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has finally boiled over in what might slow down President Uhuru Kenyatta’s anti-graft war. EACC has, for the first time publicly, told the office of the DCI to keep-off the investigation of economic crimes, laying bare their quiet turf wars. I also deserve unity deal goodies like Raila, Kalonzo tells President NASA co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka has told President Uhuru Kenyatta that he wants to get fully involved in the peace deal he signed with Raila Odinga. Kalonzo said following the handshake with Raila, other opposition leaders Moses Wetang’ula, Musalia Mudavadi and Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu should also be brought on board. Ojaamong makes U-turn, says he doesn’t support Ruto’s bid Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong has denied he will support Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential bid. He said welcoming Ruto in Busia did not mean he has joined his camp. Thirst for education drives the elderly to school in West Pokot Somewhere in the heart of West Pokot county, a determination to overcome illiteracy is unfolding. A makeshift classroom under a tree has drawn 50 elders who missed education due to poverty. They have no pen, no paper, and their teacher has no blackboard. Some students are sniffing tobacco. Others are chewing miraa. But they are all paying attention. High fuel costs dampen private sector activity Kenya private sector growth dropped to a six month low of 53.6 in July on account of high input cost due to limited supply of raw materials and global increase in fuel costs. Data by the International Energy Agency (IEA) shows that global oil prices have almost doubled since July last year when a barrel was quoted at $47.6 (Sh4760 ) to a high of $79 (Sh7900 ) mid last month. Yego, Chepkoech, Gathimba, relays team and Manangoi win 5 gold on last day Kenya won five gold medals as the 2018 Africa Senior Championships ended in Asaba, Nigeria last evening. Samuel Gathimba retained his title in the 20km men’s walk with seven-time women’s champion Grace Wanjiru settling for silver. EDITORIAL: Equip county hospitals to handle emergencies A number of the county hospitals are currently classified as Level 5 and are expected to provide specialised care, including intensive care, life support and specialist treatment. But unfortunately in the event of a road accident, they are found wanting because they are ill-equipped and have no capacity to handle an emergency. Kenyatta, which is already overstretched, ends up with the patients. Read more in today's Star editorial. 