With Six Days to payday and a new month, #TheRavenrend can’t wait to say goodbye to August... This month has been the coldest, longest and most effed-up month so far in 2018... The weatherman promised us some sunshine from mid-August, but all that was a rumour. The green mamba, aka Sunny, is still on the loose, with landlords fearing the worst, from Westy too EastyZoo... Corruption scandals keep popping like champagne bottles at B club... We have had a scandal a week, with the latest one being Sh1.3 billion lost in the Sports ministry... As all this circus unfolds, my governor has earned a new title. On top of being Sonko wa Ma-Bling, he's now also known as *Gadget Boy*. Why rich, wealthy businessmen still feel the urge to call him for favours beats me. Gadget Boy will record you without fear, shame or favour, and after that he will make you trend, not to mention be arrested for making that call... #TheRaverend's barman Kama, while serving me a drink at 40-Forty Lounge in Westlands, told me the reason why all these powerful men get caught in Gadget Boy's trap is because of “Kamotee”. I don’t agree with Kama but my barman somehow has a point, because what else possesses an intelligent billionaire to pick up their damn phone and make that call to Gadget Boy, asking for a favour and expecting not to be recorded and bursted??? Across the border, M7 has completely lost the plot... The guy has detained musician-turned MP Bobi Wine without trial... The streets of Uganda are lit AF!!! As of Thursday, Bobi Wine has been moved from the military courts after charges against him for possession of firearms were dropped, but he was immediately rearrested and charged with treason... But checking out Bobi Wine on TV since his arrest last week, I have to say for a guy who social media claimed had been tortured to near death, that’s far-fetched. The trumped-up charges are bad enough, but when we use propaganda en hyped lies to get mileage that also details the struggle... With the kind of torture Bobi Wine is supposed to have received with sijui ruptured kidneys and broken ribs, this may be a little confusing, because with such damage, BW would have been presented in court Thursday in a stretcher, unless he's Incredible Hulk. But then again it’s all politricks... Torture or no torture, what M7 is doing in UG is unacceptable, and like his predecessors, eventually he will be run out of KLA. So  #TheRaverend's message to M7 is simple: don’t f**K with the YOUTH... Bobi Wine is not Besigye. This musician will be your downfall, Mr M7... Back home, youthful MPs have condemned M7, but that’s all they can do because of jurisdictions. UG issues can only be resolved by Ugandans and maybe the toothless AU, where all of M7’s cronies sit... Back in the 254, the country's Muslim leadership could not even decide on a simple thing as the official date for the Idd celebrations, so the country ended up with two different dates, making this week one of the shortest ever.... ION SautiSol have dropped a conscious song called Tujiangalie, featuring Nyashinski, who they also featured in their previous single, Short and Sweet... The song has generated serious heat, with a section of Kenyans accusing the boys of gimmicks, and another section just loving the song's idea... #TheRaverend's opinion on the song is simple: “Tujiangalie” is a brilliant song. It has forced KOT/Millennials/Z-Generation to revisit historical injustices one by one. It's exciting  times to see the young Kenyans learning about our founding fathers... KOT Ninja can now know that Tom Mboya is not just a street in town, and before Rao/Baba, we had Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, his father... So whether  SautiSol and Nyash recorded the new song for money, hype, fame or their love of the country, I don’t care, because the reality is the song has touched a nerve in all Kenyans... Let me go and hang around my favourite local this evening as I enjoy football and wait for my banker friends, who I have inside information have been paid to pass by and buy me some cognac or two... I will revenge next weekend once my payday checks in... Be safe, don’t be corrupt and and don’t drink and drive; instead drink and walk or glide, whichever suits your swaggg!