President Uhuru Kenyatta’s SRC nominees have hinted at reviewing MPs’ perks, raising concerns of further burdening taxpayers. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission nominees were vetted yesterday by the National Assembly Committee on Finance and National Planning. Lyn Cherop (chairperson) and Dalmas Otieno (member) indicated that they could open a new window to renegotiate MPs’ pay. The issue of salaries and perks has been a source of friction between the first commission and the Parliament. Cherop was nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta after Parliament rejected former Kenya Power CEO Ben Chumo, who was entangled in a procurement scam. Read: MPs settle scores with Serem for cutting pay Soaring wage bill Alego Usonga MP Sam Atandi was the first to ask the nominees to clearly state their positions on MPs’ reduced salaries. Cherop told MPs to appeal against their job evaluation report if they are not comfortable with the current ranking, which puts them number 47 after the President. “The process of job evaluation has an appeal process. If MPs were not properly evaluated, then they have a right to appeal,” she said. Dalmas dismissed talk of Kenyan MPs being the highest paid in the world. He said their current pay is nothing compared to voters’ high expectations of their MPs. “I have heard that 30 per cent of the salary has gone to taxes. The current MP now gets 30 per cent [less] what we used to earn but the expectations of the people have not changed,” Dalmas said. “None has bothered to consider the nature of the MPs’ job. MPs still have to maintain retinues of supporters and people who believe anything can be done by their MPs.” In July last year the SRC proposed a significant salary cut for state officers, including the President, Deputy President, MPs, CSs and other officials. It cut MPs’ salaries from Sh710,000 to Sh621,250. MPs also lost a record five allowances and Sh5 million car grants. High Court judge George Odunga, however, temporarily barred the commission from implementing the new salaries. As of July last year the wage bill stood at Sh627 billion per year, eating up almost 50 per cent of revenue. In January Nasa and Jubilee MPs teamed up and rejected Uhuru’s plea to respect the SRC’s directive that eliminated car grants. Treasury gave in to MPs’ demands and all 416 legislators received Sh5 million for cars. The MPs are entitled to Sh5,000 sitting allowance every time they clock in for the plenary session and Sh5,000 for each committee sitting. Also vetted by the committee chaired by Joseph Limo were Halima Mohamud, John Kennedy, Margaret Sawe, Nelly Peris, Amani Yuda and Sophie Moturi. Read: I'm sorry if my toughness offended you, Sarah Serem tells MPs at vetting Click here for
the latest political news