Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka spoke lightly about NASA's Canaan journey on Saturday, saying there was no crossover as the Red Sea was infested with crocodiles. Grand change for Kenyans was the plan by Kalonzo, Raila Odinga (ODM), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). They joined forces before the August 8, 2017 presidential election with the intention of kicking President Uhuru Kenyatta out of State House. Uhuru won the election and Raila went to the Supreme Court with his objection, but Uhuru won again on October 28. Raila boycotted the repeat poll and has since united with Uhuru for the sake of peace and prosperity in Kenya. “We were all set to cross with our followers but those threatening reptiles could not allow us," Kalonzo said during the homecoming of Imaroro MCA Amos Peshut in Kajiado. "Going back to Canaan is still on our minds but that is to be discussed on another day. We are now focused on helping our President to fight graft. The President means well for all Kenyans with his resolve in fighting graft lords." Kalonzo assured Uhuru of his support in the graft war early in July, when he warned that there will be no Kenya if anyone blinks on the zeal and determination to slay the dragon. He said the momentum must be sustained "for the cancer that is fast eating the Kenyan economy to be put to death". Details: I'm ready to help you fight corruption, Kalonzo tells Uhuru In August last year, Raila maintained that the journey to Canaan was son course and he would not relent in the quest for justice. Following his May 9 handshake with Uhuru, he met outgoing US ambassador Robert Godec and discussed matters including the Building Bridges Initiative. His supporters then asked him to clarify if Jubilee was the ‘promised land’ he was to deliver them to. More on this: Canaan is unstoppable, we’ll get justice – Raila Also read: Clarify, is Jubilee Canaan? Raila supporters ask after he meets Godec At the homecoming, Kamba leaders asked Governor Joseph ole Lenku not to politicise the Nol-Turesh water matter if he wants peace with Makueni people. Read: Stop politicising Kajiado-Ukambani water issue, politicians tell Lenku In relation to this matter, Kalonzo told the docile Kamba community in Kajiado to leave politics to Maasai leaders. “You will be demanding too much if you start looking for seats in other people’s land. Respect them and they will respect you. I know that the Kajiado Maasai are humane and have a lot of respect for the other tribes they live with." Click here for the latest political news