The National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs committee has supported Kimilili MP Chris Wamalwa’s bill to move the election date to December.  The move was opposed by lawmakers, who cited cost implications. Wamalwa’s Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2018 seeks to move the date of general elections from the second Tuesday of August to the third Monday of December.  Members of JLAC, in a report tabled in the House yesterday, backed the Bill, saying it resonates with many Kenyans who appeared before the committee during public participation. The committee is chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo. It recommended the proposed changes in the Bill be adopted without amendments. The report stated that 71 per cent of people and organisations supported the date changes.  Homa Bay Town MP Opondo Kaluma – a member of the committee – dissented, saying there is no reason given in the Bill for changing the date to December.  “People should vote for leaders in areas where they reside full time, as opposed to voting for leaders in areas where they are on holiday in December,” Kaluma said.  The proposal divided MPs on the floor on whether to alter the date or not.  Whereas some MPs were pushing for changing the Constitution in parts to factor the proposal, some demanded lumping all the proposed amendments in a single referendum bill.  National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said the amendments will require a referendum as it involves extending the President’s term.  “The road ahead is expensive and bumpy. It is not a birthday party, the passage of the Bill will have cost implications,” he said.  Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch said, “The proposed changes affect tenure of all elective offices. There is need to stagger polls so that other elections take place in December and presidential elections in August.”  Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi called for consolidating all proposed amendments into one referendum bill as opposed to piecemeal changes.  In May, women told a subcommittee of the National Assembly’s Justice and Legal Affairs team at County Hall, Nairobi, the election date should be changed from August to December.  The coalition opposed the change of election date before the last election. In the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2018, Wamalwa says the date should reflect the “unique circumstances and tradition of Kenya”.  He says, “The Bill seeks to introduce a new date for a General Election that would be more favourable to Kenya’s circumstances.” Read:MPs collect views on change of polls date  Also read:New Bill seeks change of election date to December 