The six former and current Tana River officials, who are facing corruption charges, were released on Monday after being in custody since Thursday. The accused are officer Felix Mumba, ex-chief officer Mohamed Garucho, ex-roads director Thomas Chula, officer Mwameso Juma, roads inspector Jeremiah Kidowe and water procurement officer Abas Bute. Malindi chief magistrate Julie Oseko freed them on Sh500,000 bond each, with sureties of the same amount, with the alternative of Sh250,000 cash bail each. The magistrate ordered the accused person not to report to county offices unless in the company of police officers. “Do not make any contact, whether directly or otherwise, with any of the staff or witnesses called by the prosecution," she
said, adding they should remain in Kenya until the case is determined. She set the pretrial for August 20. Oseko issued the warrant for the arrest of the suspects on Thursday after they failed to show up in court to answer to charges of willful failure to comply
with procurement laws, uttering false documents and conspiracy to steal public
funds. The six denied the charges before a Malindi court on August 3. Chula, Kidowe, Juma and Bute, who are Tender Evaluation Committee members, were charged with failing to comply with procurement laws. Also charged are Abdulle Mustafa, Ayan Mohamed and Regional Drilling and Trading
Limited, a company allegedly awarded a tender to supply 100 collapsible
tanks without meeting requirements. Mustafa, Mohamed and the company are accused of forging and uttering false documents, claiming they
had completed works at Bomet Agricultural Training Center, Kenya School of Law
and Ewaso Ng’iro Development Authority. It was said that the forged
documents were to prove their experience and capacity to work with the county
government. All those mentioned were charged with conspiracy to steal public
funds between September and October 2016. Read: Lorry driver denies wrongdoing in deaths of St Gabriel pupils Click here for the latest political news