Two of the three IEBC commissioners who walked out of their high-profile well-paying jobs, citing irredeemable differences with the chairman, now want their positions back. On April 16, the three denounced chairman Wafula
Chebukati as incompetent with zero ability to lead. They resigned in
a huff at a well-attended press conference. But yesterday, in contrast to their noisy and well-publicised exit, vice chairperson Connie Maina and commissioner Margaret Mwachanya slipped back to Anniversary Towers that houses the IEBC headquarters — to the consternation of the staff and Chebukati. Watch:[VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader It is was unclear if commissioner Paul Kurgat who resigned alongside them, but was missing on Friday, also wants his job back. At the time of their exit led by Maina, they said that under Chebukati's
leadership, the IEBC boardroom had become “a venue for peddling
misinformation, grounds for brewing mistrust, and a space for
scrambling for and chasing individual glory and credit”. In their media briefing at the Stanley Hotel, the three confessed that the IEBC
had become dysfunctional with endless external interference. The dramatic
suspension of IEBC chief operating officer Ezra Chiloba, they said, was the clearest
manifestation of the dysfunction that obliterated their
feeble confidence in Chebukati. “Given the severe
deterioration of confidence in the commission chair, we find our
position as commissioners under his leadership no longer tenable.
Consequently, we regret to announce our resignation with immediate
effect,” the commissioners announced. And off they went. Maina and Mwachanya walked into Anniversary Towers at around 11am, right into
their offices that had remained unlocked. Sources told the Star that the two
were in the office for most of the day on Friday, reading newspapers and
going through past reports. Their return caught Chebukati, who has been busy fighting various court and parliamentary battles to keep IEBC alive, unawares. The two commissioners did not respond to phone calls. Chebukati has been stamping his authority at the commission and last month
locked Chiloba's office to deny him access following his
controversial suspension. Read: Chebukati to explain why he locked Chiloba out of office See also: IEBC WOES; Chiloba sues Chebukati for contempt IEBC communication manager Andrew Limo said the two were at the commission
offices to meet Chebukati. “I am told the two commissioners who allegedly resigned are here to see the chairman. I
can only report the purpose of their mission when I see the
chairman,” Limo told the Star But comeback efforts by the
commissioners immediately triggered an uproar, with
leaders across the political divide saying it was an embodiment of
impunity. “If there was ever
any doubt by anybody in this country that these guys represent an
embodiment of impunity, today is the answer...It an abuse of public
trust an an insult to Kenyans for them to attempt to go go back to
office, yet the issues they raised when they were resigning have not
been resolved,” Nasa CEO Norman Magaya told the
Star “It simply
demonstrates that the law doesn't matter in this country. You can
abscond office for as many months as possible and wake up one morning
and walk back to office. My opinion is that Kenyans should even
proceed to those offices and whip them out literally.” Human Rights activist Ndung'u Wainaina said the return of the commissioners would
further destroy the integrity of IEBC “The IEBC is on its
deathbed. It is in irreparable state. It has to be rebuilt afresh.
Those commissioners are a disgrace. They are mocking Kenyans. If any
has been receiving any payment, they should be surcharged,” he said Two weeks ago, the High Court ruled that the three commissioners were still
in office, as their resignation was unprocedural. High Court judge
Wilfrida Okwany said the commissioners only resigned via a press
statement, instead of formally writing a letter to the appointing
authority, President Uhuru Kenyatta. “As I have already
found in this judgment, the issue of the alleged resignation of the
four commissioners was a matter that was neither here nor there and
was not proved by any tangible evidence,” Justice Okwany ruled. They could have used this window to reclaim their jobs. The petition was
filed by Isaiah Kangwony on June 6 this year, challenging the
legality of the commission following the resignation of four
commissioners. Commissioner
Roselyne Akombe resigned days to the contentious October 26, 2017,
repeat presidential poll and fled to the US, saying her life was in danger. Read: Resignations and mistrust leave Chebukati in deeper IEBC crisis Yesterday Magaya claimed a wing of Jubilee was plotting Chiloba's comeback in preparation for the 2022
polls “When these people
were leaving office, I said these were the Jubilee wing of IEBC that was
attempting to arm twist the chairman to forestall any action against
Chiloba. Now once the chairman stood his ground and said Chiloba has
to be held to account, and the court upheld that the suspension was
legal, they are trying to make a comeback to salvage
Chiloba,” Magaya said National Assembly
Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chairman William Cheptumo from the Jubilee Party said
the return of the commissioners will continue to erode public
confidence in a commission which already has no quorum. Apart from
Chebukati, the other Commissioners are Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye Cheptumo said his committee had started reviewing the law to create a selection panel
to provide an avenue for replacement of the four Commissioners. He said the committee had
already summoned Chebukati and his team on Thursday to elaborate on
the implications of the court ruling and the lack of quorum at the commission. Chebukati
has been struggling to rebuild the integrity of the commission that
was destroyed after the nullification of the August 8 polls. Just
last week, he announced that staff manning critical sections will have
to undergo public vetting. “This
is to enhance the commission’s effectiveness and accountability, as
well as restore public confidence,” the commission said. Details: Akombe exposes the rot inside IEBC See: How rogue IEBC staff minted cash from sale of voters’ data Click here for
the latest political news