President Uhuru Kenyatta has condoled with the family of former 400m hurdles World Champion Nicholas Bett, following his death in a road accident on Wednesday. The 26-year-old died in a crash in Nandi, a day after returning from the continental championships in Nigeria. Read: Ex-400m hurdles world champion Nicholas Bett dies in accident Uhuru said he was "deeply saddened" by the athlete's death. "Bett earned the country great honours with his outstanding victories. My deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to his family, relatives and friends," he tweeted. Deputy President William Ruto said family, friends and the global athletics fraternity have suffered a "big loss". He noted that Bett was the first Kenyan to win a gold medal in a short distance race in Beijing, China. "Bett was part of the triumphant squad that topped the medal standings in the African Senior Athletics Championships in Asaba," he added via Twitter. "He was an affable, popular lad who was adored by his peers. We have lost a hero and a sporting great." More on this: Kenyans on fire, bag five gold medals on last day of Asaba meet In a tweet, Sports CS Rashid Echesa said: "On behalf of the sporting fraternity and the Ministry of Sports, I convey my sincerest condolences to his family. Rest in peace." Radio presenter Carol Radull said she was saddened by news of the death of the "champ" while NTV sports anchor Mike Okinyi said it was "a big shock". Kinoti Evans eulogised the world champion as a hero, adding "you have gone so early". Kibet Koech said he was deeply saddened by the loss of a "great athlete". "I wish to express my deepest condolences to his family and sincere sympathy to the athletics fraternity. We love you, Nick, but God loves you more," he tweeted. Sammy Juma noted that Bett was "very talented" and that "death has robbed us of a hero". Gilbert Kiplom added: "You did your part by representing the nation of athletes. Kenyans will forever miss you." International news agencies including the BBC, CNN, Reuters, Daily Mirror, the Sun and India's Jio Xpress reported Bett's death. Click here for the latest political news