So how were the recent deployments at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done? Sources whispered to Corridors that the reshuffle by CS Monica Juma included names of some people who have already retired. Others are said to be serving in diplomatic missions abroad. Was the top diplomat misled? In her memo, Juma said the deployment order takes effect immediately, triggering questions whether some retirees are returning to the ministry. Some staff were heard saying that the CS should consult widely especially with the human resource management department. Corridors however understands that the department has a new boss who is relatively new in government. Parliament is at it again. Why? MPs now want the catering department to provide them with a variety of delicacies and a daily food menu at the restaurant. A seasoned MP yesterday told the House plenary that the Parliamentary Service Commission should endeavor to recruit nutritionists to advice the lawmakers on what to eat so as not to contract deadly diseases. A delegation from the House departmental committee had toured Ireland and United Kingdom on a benchmarking mission and tabled a report domesticating various recommendations and findings from the trip. Well, a mole is questioning whether, if implemented, the recommendations would come with additional cost to the taxpayers. Let’s wait and see. Some Nairobi county MCAs were over the weekend overheard whispering aloud about what they called the unbecoming telephone manners of Nairobi governor Mike Sonko. The two lawmakers — a male and a female — confessed their discomfort in calling or receiving phone calls from the governor because of his obsession with recording calls and later sharing in public forums. Our mole heard that they would rather queue at Sonko’s office when they have a pressing issue than try a phone call whose finality they cannot guarantee. The MCAs’ worries were yesterday given credence when the governor shared a private conversation with Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu pleading for the release of his wife who had been nabbed by city inspectorate staff. The contraband sugar report that was rejected last week has elicited a flurry of press conferences at Parliament with lawmakers, some accompanying their colleagues without knowledge of the contents of the briefings at their fingertips. Yesterday, Corridors learned that a first time MP, immediately after a briefing, contradicted his colleagues saying that had he known the theme of the press conference, he wouldn’t have attended. Kenyans have castigated a section of MPs for allegedly taking bribes ranging from Sh10,000 to Sh30,000 to shoot down the report. The controversial report has spurred a blame game and endless press briefings. Click here for the latest political news