The chairperson of the task force on consumptive utilization of wildlife Dr. Ben Okita has dismissed claims by a section of conservationists that the direction Kenya was headed will wipe out some of the iconic species. Okita said "conservationists are speaking out of ignorance." Our terms of reference is very clear that hunting is not allowed,he said at his office. He at the same time dismissed claims that large ranch owners were lobbying for consumptive of wildlife with a narrative that several species had increased beyond the carrying capacity of the lands. Okita said all they were doing was to look at the modalities of how consumptive utilization could be aligned to the existing laws. "The Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013 says that utilisation and exploitation of wildlife resources by any party whether individual land owner or in a conservation area, and wherever else shall be practised in a manner that is sustainable,"he said. Conservationists have been up in arms saying the direction Kenya was heading could doom iconic species. They have raised concerns on culling, cropping and farming of wildlife. Okita however said all that the conservationists were referring to are grounded under the Act. He said the eight schedule of the Act had provisions on the licensing of consumptive wildlife utilization. It is an act of parliament, it means people were involved, he said. Okita said life sale,cropping,culling are allowed and there is nothing new, people are talking about cropping. They should however be subject to rules and regulations which will be made under the act. Tourism and wildlife CS Najib Balala formed the task force on April. The task force reviewed policy and legislative framework relating to consumptive wildlife utilization including the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013. It also looked at the implications and impact of allowing consumptive utilization of wildlife. Other work include the review of the impact of relevant international conventions,treaties and on the implementation of consumptive wildlife utilization in Kenya. It also identified international restriction (if any) that may impact on sustainable consumption wildlife utilization in Kenya among other work. On Culling, Okita said the CS may on recommendation of the service authorize culling of wildlife,and nobody can do anything about it. Okita cited crocodile,Tortoise,Chameleon,birds,Snails,Frog,Lizards,Butterfly,Ostrich and Plants as wildlife that can be farmed. We farm so that we can use them for recreation,conservation and trade,so farming in Kenya is going on, he said. Conservationists have also raised matters to do with whether the country has numbers to warrant consumptive utilization. Okita said sport hunting is prohibited and any person engaging in it will be dealt with as per the laws. Hunting is neither here nor there and that is the kind of things they are saying,he said. The Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013 describes “cropping” as harvesting of wildlife for a range of products; while “culling” means selective removal of wildlife based on ecological scientific principles for management purposes. Okita said the report will be ready by the end of the month. In Total, 22 public hearings were held. The Kenya Wildlife Service in 1990 initiated a pilot wildlife-cropping programme to reduce wildlife-related costs and develop markets that would allow consumptive uses of wildlife to be economically viable. Previously, consumptive exploitation of Wildlife had led to severe declines forcing the government to place a ban on hunting/dealing in wildlife in 1977. The ban was (under Legal Notice No. 120 issued by Late President Jomo Kenyatta). However, landowners continued to pressurize KWS in the subsequent years, lobbying for consumptive use of wildlife and claiming that several species had increased beyond the carrying capacity of the lands.