Recycling garbage through income-generating activities was the main theme in songs presented at the ongoing music festival in Nyeri. The 92nd festival at Dedan Kimathi University of Technology entered its fourth day yesterday. Primary schools highlighted the importance of using garbage to make profit. However, boy schools seemed to have avoided the Environment – Waste Management theme under Class 265, an outcome adjudicators criticised. Milimani Primary form Rift Valley carried the day with 88 marks in the category, followed by God Bura from Nyanza with 87. St Joseph Primary from Coast came in third with 86. Trainer Peter Kibet said Milimani has participated in the event five times but never won first place. “The song was about how we can recycle waste and stop littering.” It emphasised on the need to sort waste and live in a clean environment. “This year we are happy we emerged winners. We are very happy.”  Where are the boys? Adjudicators questioned the absence of boys in some of the performances. “Does it mean these schools don’t have boys?” one adjudicator said. The judges added that teachers and school administrations should encourage boys to sing as well. The festival gave children an opportunity to speak out on violence against them through 14 choral verses. The schools narrated the violence children undergo through family members, school and community. The theme of the English choral verse special compositions under Class 1035H was No Violence Against Children is Justifiable. All Violence Against Children Can Be Prevented. Makueni School from Eastern emerged the best with 90 marks. The second position went to Line Member from Rift Valley with 89. Rapogi Primary from Nyanza and Kakamega Primary from Western tied in the third position with 88. Makueni performed a verse titled Aunty Boss, which was about a house help who is a sex pest and abuses children. Trainer Joram Ojwang said, “We addressed the plight of children. Our message was that children need to be safe at home and free from harassment by adults.” The school has won two trophies in the ongoing festival. “This was an impressive performance given that it is our first year in the festival,” Ojwang said.  Solutions needed The adjudicators said the majority of the groups spent a lot of time  highlighting the violence, but not how to fight it. They also observed that it was good to tone down in some phrases such as ‘touching private parts’, saying there are poetic ways of talking about issues in society. Such phrases embarrass the elderly and the young, one judge said. The judges also criticised lack of originality, saying some lines were picked from known songs. The forms of violence against children include sexual, emotional and physical. In a study carried out in Kenya in 2010 on violence against children, 66 per cent of girls and 73.1 per cent of boys experienced physical violence before they attaining 18 years. Some 32 per cent girls and 17.5 per cent boys experienced sexual violence, while 26 per cent girls and 32 per cent boys reported emotional violence. Unwanted touching is one of the most common form of sexual violence, followed by attempted non-consensual sex, pressured sex and physically forced sex. A key message in the class was stopping of any form of violence against children.  Child neglect Some 391 cases of child abuse were reported between October and December last year. A report released in January by Childline Kenya said the most frequently reported abuse was child neglect at 116 cases, followed by physical abuse and sexual abuse at 100 and 76 respectively. Since 2006, Childline Kenya has been running a 24-hour National Child Helpline 116 that allows Kenyans to report child abuse. The immediate family members were reported to be the greatest culprits of child neglect and physical abuse. Neighbours came in second at 63 cases, with most of them falling under sexual abuse at 33 cases. Childline Kenya senior management team leader Martha Sunda and legal officer Joy Kitunge said December reported the highest number.