Kanbis will be seeking to avenge their NPCA Super league first round loss to Swamibapa four weeks ago when the two sides battle it out in the third round matches of the NPCA Elite League at Nairobi Jafferys tomorrow. Kanbis lost by two wickets after they had posted 279 for 4 at home in the first round matches of the new look NPCA 50 overs league, a result that skipper Rajesh Bhudia attributed to poor fielding. “As much as there were a number of poor decisions from the umpires, I feel we didn’t do ourselves any justice. We dropped many chances and in the end this came to haunt us,” Bhudia said about the loss at their backyard. Both teams will be looking to build on recent good starts in the Elite league after registering two wins each so far. Kanbis has so far won against defending champions Stray Lions and Ruaraka while Swamibapa have beaten Nairobi Gymkhana and Ruaraka. “From our point of view, we want to carve out our own performances, and it would be great for us to turn the tables from what happened last time,” Bhudia said. If the performance of the last two matches is anything to go by, Kanbis looks a stronger side while Swamibapa have to put up a stronger show. Swamibapa exhibited a patchy display in the last match against Nairobi Gymkhana but still managed to win, somehow. Apart from strong batting, Swamibapa’s bowling has not been at its best. In their last match, it took five wickets haul from Naman Patel to stop the home team. Last season’s best bowler Jadavji ‘Bhimji’ is yet to sparkle and seems to have lost his mojo. With veteran Lameck Onyango not in his best fitness level, Swamibapa is more weakened in their bowling. The former national team player was forced to play with an injured leg last weekend. Bhudia said he was more confident of his side’s chances in tomorrow’s match, pointing to the experience and success of the players in his side. “We have got more experienced players who have won for us matches in the past and we are confident they are up to the task, Kanbis skipper added. “We have had more success for a long time, we probably feel a lot more confident at this point of time.” Defending champions Stray Lions will be seeking to move out of unfamiliar fourth place when they host Nairobi Gymkhana. The loss to Kanbis put them in a chasing situation to the leaders Kanbis and second placed Swamibapa and will looking to beat third placed Gymkhana and the net run rate in the Kanbis-Swamibapa match works in their favor.