Congolese opposition leader
Moise Katumbi was refused entry into Congo via the country's
land border with Zambia on Friday when he tried to return from
exile to submit his candidacy for December's presidential
election, he said in a tweet. Katumbi, one of the main rivals of President Joseph Kabila,
left Democratic Republic of Congo in May 2016 after he was
accused by the government of plotting against Kabila. The millionaire businessman and former governor of the
copper-mining Katanga region was sentenced to three years in
prison the following month for real estate fraud. Katumbi denies
the charges and says they are aimed at preventing him from
contesting the election on December 23. Concluding that he would not be permitted to land his
private jet at Kinshasa airport, Katumbi tried to enter at the
border between Zambia and Katanga on Friday. "The regime has forbidden me from landing and barricaded the
border," Katumbi tweeted. "My crime? Wanting to enter my country
and file my candidacy. In trying to block me, they want to deny
the rights of the Congolese to a real election. I will fight!" Also read: Thousands rally in Kinshasa for video link with exiled Kabila opponent Footage from his campaign team sent to Reuters TV showed him
with a crowd of thousands of supporters at the border town of
Kasumbalesa, on the Zambian side. His treatment contrasts markedly with that of Kabila's other
main rival, former warlord and runner-up presidential candidate
Jean-Pierre Bemba, who was allowed to land his plane and given
police protection for his return to town. Bemba filed his candidacy on Thursday, an unlikely comeback
after his war crimes conviction at the ICC was overturned,
freeing him from a decade in prison. Both pose a real threat to Kabila or his chosen successor in
the upcoming election, especially since the president's
popularity has waned over the years. "I hope for a unity of the opposition. I have started
meeting with opposition leaders," Bemba told journalists in
Kinshasa on Friday, in an apparent attempt to galvanise Kabila's
opponents. "The principle is ... how to choose the best
candidate who could represent the opposition at the election." In power since 2001, Kabila has refused to step down since
his mandate ran out in 2016. This has raised fears he will defy
constitutional term limits and spark a violent backlash by the
population and militia groups active in the country's east. Also read: Dangers behind Bemba's possible presidential candidacy in Congo Click here for the latest political news 