The National Police Service Commission is prepared to release thousands of officers in drastic reforms. Chairman Johnston Kavuludi said Kenya is a free country and the police will have the choice of serving as officers or pursuing personal interests. “Those willing to leave the service are allowed to go home. I know many who left to avoid the vetting and they are doing well,” he said. Kavuludi said the new guidelines to be launched this month will address the conflict of interest within the service. Officers running restaurants, pubs and bars, private security firms and PSVs will have to close up shop or risk dismissal. “All officers must declare their business interests and apply to the NPSC, through the Inspector General, for clearance,” Kavuludi said. “Anyone found guilty will be interdicted, given a chance to defend themselves and dismissed if found guilty.” The Star established the proposed merger and reform have received strong resistance from top officers. The reforms are meant to harmonise operations and eliminate overlap of functions. Overlapping of functions within security agencies has led to clashes and misuse of resources. Officials have told the Star the reorganisation will leave hundreds of top officers redundant. A police source said, “Several people will resist the reforms or go home to avoid confrontation with the state and KRA over taxes and penalties.” Others expected to leave are officers who are not trained, but joined the service from other positions such district commissioner and district officer. They are likely to be deployed to Foreign Affairs or Interior ministries. “We have few officers but we must have them committed to serving this nation. We will also hire more.” During the National Police Service Commission vetting, which started in 2015, many officers were said to operate multiple businesses. They also declared millions of shillings deposited in their accounts but failed to explain the sources. The NPSC also established massive mobile money transfers from junior to senior officers. The money is suspected to be proceeds of corruption. Some officers transacted up to 60 times with their seniors. Some of the transactions were between them and officers who were no longer serving with them in the same area. The commission established officers manage numerous businesses, including matatus, restaurants, bookshops, clearing and forwarding companies, petrol stations and rental property. Some of the businesses are in direct conflict with their job responsibilities. Some officers are afraid if they declare their businesses they might be transferred or reassigned to avoid conflict of interest. The reforms bar police officers from engaging in employment or other activities that bring additional income, unless they are cleared by the commission. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to receive the report from the NPSC chiefs at the end of the month. It is the commissioners last assignment before their terms expire.