Members of the National Assembly want the Parliamentary Service commission to hire blind people to massage them in the gym. Nominated MP David Sankok told the House yesterday that blind masseurs are better in their job. “We are asking Parliament to go to the Machakos School for the Blind and hire some of those people because they can do a better job,” said the legislator nominated by Jubilee to represent people with disabilities. MPs also want the catering department in Parliament to provide them with a variety of delicacies and a daily food menu display. The committee on Members’ Services and Facilities chairman Ezekiel Machogu yesterday tabled a report in the House that recommended the Parliamentary Service Commission make radical changes in the catering department. The committee drafted the report after conducting a benchmarking visit to the United Kingdom Parliament and the Northern Ireland Assembly between March 12 and 16. professional chefs Machogu told the House the PSC should undertake a staff skills audit in the catering department. The report also seeks to establish a catering management information system to help address procurement and administrative problems. MPs want PSC to consider measures of professionalising the management of catering services by employing professional chefs, deploying a procurement specialist, an accountant as well as retraining existing staff. Read:MPs complain against bad food, tea offered by catering department They also want staff to do attachment in five star hotels. They want the commission to consider an overhaul of the current kitchen, restaurant, bar, stillroom and the members’ lounge. “There is need for the commission to install suggestion boxes in various strategic points within parliamentary buildings for feedback on quality and responsiveness of catering and cleaning services,” the report reads. Seme MP James Nyikal said there should be nutritionists at the parliamentary restaurant. “Our catering service should do more than provide food,” he said. Read:[VIDEO] MP storms out of Parliament cafeteria over milkless tea Click here for the latest political news