Nairobi and London have reached a deal to return cash stolen in Kenya and stashed in British banks. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday said the deal is part of the renewed fight against corruption. The Head of State spoke during a joint press conference with visiting UK Prime Minister Theresa May at State House Nairobi. This is the second agreement Kenya has signed with a foreign country after a similar one reached with Switzerland on July 9. “Depriving people of the proceeds of their crimes is a major deterrent against the vice. We are determined to make it painfully unrewarding and expensive to get involved in corruption in Kenya,” Uhuru said. He said other agreements reached during their bilateral talks included cooperation on national and regional security. There was specific emphasis on fighting al Shabaab terrorists. May promised to support Kenya by providing military equipment to enhance borderline aviation security, capacity building and information sharing. Related: [VIDEO] Kenya honours Theresa May with 19-gun salute at State House Read: British PM Theresa May arrives for bilateral talks with Uhuru She said her administration will increase funding for Amisom forces fighting terrorists in Somalia. “The UK is no longer just training British soldiers in Kenya, but training with Kenyans to promote security in East Africa to boost their capacity,” May said. Uhuru said, “We call on other members of the international community to also support this important mission on the vanguard of the security of our region.” On trade, Uhuru said Kenya will be pushing for an increase in exports to the UK on the basis of a fair market arrangement. He said Kenya is seeking a mutual win-win arrangement within the Commonwealth. The President welcomed British investors to take advantage of Kenya’s Big Four Agenda, saying “any investments here are guaranteed to benefit both the investors and ourselves”. On Youth empowerment, Uhuru said he asked the UK government to support the government’s commitment of increasing opportunities in vocational training. PM May said together the countries can ensure the next generation of energetic, ambitious Kenyans can get good well-paid jobs so that they can contribute to Kenya’s long-term prosperity. "That’s not just good for Kenya; it’s good for the UK too," she said. May said her administration will align investments and expertise to ensure the agenda attains its objective. “UK is the largest foreign investor in Kenya. Our vision is to be the biggest investor in Africa by 2022," she said. May said the UK is working on a seamless exit from the European Union to ensure Kenya continues to enjoy duty-free access to its markets. The PM further praised Uhuru's commitment to political reconciliation saying she will fully support  the objectives of the handshake he reached with Opposition leader Raila Odinga. "The UK stands ready to support an inclusive building bridges process as you work to further strengthen your democracy and institutions," May said. Click here for the latest political news