Boda boda operators in
Lamu Old Town have protested against being barred from accessing and operating
from the heritage town. A
few days ago, Tourism executive Dismas Mwasambu announced that all operators found operating from the Old Town will be arrested and charged. The county wants to protect the town, which was listed by Unesco as a world heritage site in 2001. Conservationists are, however, concerned that trends in
architecture, dressing and trade may result in the town being
delisted as a heritage site. The booming boda boda business at the heart of the town has almost paralysed the only traditional
means of transport in the town —  donkeys. To save the town, the county government convened a meeting in coordination with
stakeholders from the departments of tourism, trade and culture. The meeting agreed that minimising and restricting boda boda operations in the Lamu archipelago
would preserve the Old Town while allowing the
operators to earn a livelihood. The
town currently has at least 200 boda boda operators. Yesterday, the
operators brought businesses in the town to a standstill as they demonstrated against the new directive. They said it is oppressive and meant
to drive them out of business. The operators said they have also been barred from operating inside the
Shella Beach town, which is less than three kilometres from the Old Town. The new directive does
not affect Shella as the town is on the outskirts of the Old Town. The operators demonstrated from Lamu town all the way to Duduvila area in Shella. They accused a senior county security official of
colluding with a section of tourists residing in Shella to frustrate them and
stop them from accessing the town. The Lamu Boda Boda
Association spokesperson, Mohamed Badi, said inasmuch as they have heeded the new directive, it is wrong to bar them from freely
operating on the outskirts of the town. He said driving them away will
kill the business as Lamu and Shella are the only towns on the island. Badi said they will have nowhere to pick or
drop their passengers. He said the new development also
contravenes a previous agreement between them and the county
government. “They told us to stay
on the outskirts and that includes Shella. Now they tell us we can't access
Shella too. That is not what we agreed on initially. We wont let this matter rest
until they allow us do business,” Badi said. The operators convened at Duduvilla, where they closed the Lamu-Shella road with their motorbikes. It took the
intervention of police officers, who engaged the operators for more than three hours for the standoff to be resolved.