Efforts to reconcile Embu Governor Martin Wambora with former senator Lenny Kivuti are in high gear. Various leaders including Embu bishops and business community want the two leaders to work together. Yesterday, Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga said he has reached out to the former senator to withdraw his appeal at the Supreme court and work with the governor. Last week, Wambora said he was ready for ‘handshake’ with Kivuti and would work closely with him. Ndwiga said President Uhuru Kenyatta had advised the country to unite on development and end politicking. Ndwiga said this spirit should extend to the county level. He said Governor Wambora and Kivuti should emulate the handshake by President Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “I have reached out to Lenny so that we discuss some of these things so that we can tone down on politics and concentrate on the many matters that affect this county since they need concentration without distraction,” he said. He said all Embu leaders, including those who lost in the August 8 election, should and deliberate on development, for the good of Embu. Ndwiga hailed Wambora for continually and publicly extending an olive branch to Kivuti so that they can work together after the Court of Appeal upheld his August 8 election two weeks ago. Kivuti has already filed a notice of appeal against the August 17 court of appeal judgment. Yesterday, Ndwiga joined the county bishops and chamber of commerce leaders in asking Kivuti to end the court battles and work with the governor for the next four years. Last Sunday, the two rivals came face-to-face at Full Gospel Church of Kenya in Mutunduri Village of Embu North Sub-county. They joined Deputy President William Ruto’s wife Rachel when she presided over a thanksgiving ceremony for the church’s retired Bishop Reverend Samuel Muriithi. During the ceremony, also attended by Manyatta MP John Muchiri, Wambora extended an olive branch to Kivuti calling him his brother. He said he was ready to work with him and all the other leaders in the county for the sake of development. Kivuti is yet to respond.