Parliamentarians, school heads and parents have raised a red flag over increase in drug abuse among primary and secondary school students. Kenya Primary School Heads Association chairman Shem Ndolo said most students consume edible tobacco, commonly known as ‘kuber’. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairperson Indimuli Kahi on Friday said students abuse of alcohol, tobacco, prescription drugs, cannabis and other psychoactive substances. Kahi said a majority of school heads remain mute on the matter for fear of victimisation. “School heads cannot come out and report an emerging drug problem in school because fingers point back at them asking them where they were when students engaged in drugs,” Kahi told the Star on the phone. He said the opening of day wings in boarding schools has contributed to drug abuse among students. Kahi said substance or drug abuse has hurt academics, resulting in poor performance, conflict and violence and irresponsible sexual practices. Senate Education Committee’s Christopher Langat said hard drugs penetrate learning institutions raising fears there could be a connection with the fires and unrest experienced recently in schools. “I have visited some schools in the country and I was shocked during one visit when I discovered the students were high on drugs,” he said. National Assembly Committee on Education chairperson Julius Melly said they will soon seek answers from stakeholders on ways to curb the increased drug use in schools. Speaking to the Star, a student from a Nairobi school said drugs are sneaked in during opening days, events outside and within school, through subordinate staff, visitors and day-scholars. He said some students fake sickness and use syrup bottles to sneak in alcohol. Others carry drugs in bandages they wrap around their legs or hands. Those bold enough sneak out of school and come back with drugs, the student said. Some students acquire drugs by buying from those who sneak them in school. “Drugs are hidden in inner wears. Those that are not bulky such as cigarettes and marijuana are put along the fence where students can access them easily,” the student said. Psychology expert Alex Munyere said dependence on drugs is seen as a disease, focusing on organic and psychological processes. Munyere urged the government to implement prevention and lessons such as health education. 