I do not believe Kenya is cursed but we have to stop inflicting injuries on ourselves, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Speaking during the launch of Phoebe Asiyo's memoir on Thursday, Uhuru said Kenyans should work together instead of hurting one another. "I don't believe we are cursed, I believe we have self-inflicted wounds we need to remove," he said. Uhuru asked Kenyans and leaders alike to emulate the kind of relationship he has with ODM leader Raila Odinga. "Let us continue to remove this curse. Work together as we are doing with my brother Raila, so that we leave a prosperous nation," he said. He added, "We need to work together to ensure an equitable nation where every single Kenyan regardless of ethnicity, gender or tribe feels at home." "That is the commitment we have made between me and Deputy President William Ruto that makes us more united." Since the handshake between Raila and Uhuru on March 9h, Kenya has experienced much-needed peace. After two months of the truce, some leaders claimed Raila was trying to scuttle peace Jubilee. On Wednesday, Uhuru asked leaders to stop politicising the handshake, adding that his newfound relationship is solid. The President said he has a deeper understanding with Raila than some politicians think. “There is a much deeper understanding between myself and Raila — an understanding that is driven by the desire to ensure we leave this country much stronger, more united and more focused than it has ever been,” Uhuru said. More on this: My newfound ties with Raila stronger and deeper than many may think, says Uhuru Also read: Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila The leaders have a nine-point agenda that seeks to end ethnicism, corruption, exclusivity and divisive elections. Other concerns listed include security, devolution, national ethos, shared prosperity and responsibility. Uhuru and Raila’s decision to work together shocked many — both in Jubilee and Nasa, especially after last year’s bruising presidential election when Raila claimed his victory had been rigged out. The two have formed a committee to collect and collate views on how best to unite the country. Click here for the latest political news