Three Jubilee senators have denied a plot to oust Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen. Senate deputy Majority whip Irungu Kang'ata, his Kiambu counterpart Kimani Wamatangi, and Millicent Omanga (Nominated) said there is no such a plan. The legislators said such a decision has not been conceived at all as it would be ill-advised and counter-productive. "No way," Kang'ata said in response to a query by the Star on the plot to kick out the Elgeyo Marakwet senator from his position. This came a day after Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe hinted at the plan against the legislator for allegedly sabotaging the party agenda. National Assembly majority whip Benjamin Washiali was also roped in over "disobedience to party positions and presidential
directives". See also: No crisis to warrant Jubilee PG meeting, says Tuju But Kang'ata questioned the Senator's mandate in the plan to eject Murkomen "given that they were not involved in his appointment." The parliamentary leadership was picked by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. The lawmakers just heard the names read out to them during a PG meeting at State House on August 30, 2017. "Do they (Senators) even have powers to do so. That is not their mandate," the Murang’a senator told the Star. Murkomen has, however, denied opposing the president’s agenda saying he is loyal and committed to supporting Jubilee programmes. For his part, Wamatangi downplayed the existence of such a plan. This came in the wake of fresh infighting within the ruling alliance that threatens derail government programmes. "We are not planning to remove Murkomen, no," Wamatangi told the Star, contravening Murathe’s position. Nyeri senator Ephraim Maina and Omanga also said they were not aware of any such plans. Jubilee has planned a meeting for early next month to review the performance of the House leadership amid reports of a possible resolution to have rebellious leaders axed. More on this: Amidst growing rebellion, Jubilee retreats to discuss its future Click here for the latest political news 