Maize farmers in the North Rift have warned they will shift to other cash crops from next year because of poor payment, leaders have said. Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago said Kenyans "should prepare for less ugali" in their table. He said despite farmers in Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and Elgeyo Marakwet being the largest maize producers in the country, they are impoverished. "We have mapped out Uasin Gishu county. Farmers in Timboroa are better off growing pyrethrum and coffee. Moiben farmers should plant animal feeds for dairy cows," Mandago said. The government owes farmers in excess of Sh3 billion for maize supplied to various NCPB depots. "We have no contract to produce maize and feed any Kenyan. We can’t continue growing maize when prices remain poor and payments are delayed. Farmers are tired of empty promises," he said. Read: Maize farmers threaten to cut production over Sh3.2 billion debt See: Farmers protest ill treatment, no pay after NCPB stops maize intake Elgeyo Marakwet deputy governor Wisley Rotich said maize prices dropped drastically from Sh3,200 per 90kg bag in January to Sh1,200 this month. Rotich blamed uncontrolled importation of maize for the poor prices. "Farmers still have the maize they harvested last year in their stores. In the North Rift, they are expected to begin harvesting maize for this season from October," Rotich said. "Maize from Mexico and cheap imports from neighbouring countries flooded the National Cereals and Produce Board depots. This is the last year for Elgeyo Marakwet farmers to grow maize on a commercial scale." Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos and his Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang also backed diversity of crops. Last week, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said farmers will be vetted afresh before receiving payment the cereals board for maize delivered from last year to January. This sparked fury among farmers who said the move will further delay their pay. Click here for the latest political news