Former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero's son Ronald was on Friday charged with storage of substandard petroleum products. He was charged with storing 14,000 litres of diesel and 28,000 litres of gasoline which did not meet the Kenya Bureau of Standards specifications. Ronald denied the charges before Chief Magistrate Francis Andayi and was released on a cash bail of Sh100, 000 or a surety bond of Sh300,000. The case will be mentioned on September 24 and the hearing starts on September 4. Ronald was charged jointly with others yet to be arrested. Ronald was arrested on Thursday just moments after the court released his father on bail. His father spent the second night at Integrity Centre because his lawyers were not able to process his Sh2 million bail on time. Motorist David Nyamu lodged a complaint with police after fueling at the Shell Petrol Station at Ridgeways along Kiambu road owned by Kidero, on August 3. Samples taken by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations found that the fuel was substandard. Ronald's lawyer Steve Luseno said the fuel had been sold out and requested the court to restrain the police from shutting down the station. Luseno said detectives investigating the matter are planning to close it. He requested the court to issue restraint orders. He said the regulation of fuel dealers is in the purview of the Energy Regulation Commission. He said the commission had not raised concerns over his client's station. ERC has contracted a private company SGS to conduct the standardisation checks. "We have not seen the report being alluded to and the commission has not conducted any investigations. We are yet to receive a complainant from the ERC," Luseno said. He said the matter should be returned to the ERC who have the technical capacity to determine the matters raised through the complaint and police should not usurp the powers of the commission The station is supplied fuel by Vivo Energy Limited. Luseno said the company has maintained the fuel was supplied to them by the Kenya Pipeline and meets the Kebs standards. State counsel Kajuju Kirimi had sought orders to have the directors of the Vivo Energy appear at the DCI headquarters for grilling. But Andayi dismissed the application. Andayi said the company is not listed as a party in the case and there is therefore nothing to warrant the orders sought. Andayi said the police can only seek such orders through a miscellaneous application with a sworn affidavit explaining why they need the orders. More on this: [VIDEO] Kidero arrested over mismanagement of funds Other details: [VIDEO] Kidero, ex-City Hall chiefs nabbed in anti-graft purge Click here for the latest political news