Pastor Ann Wanyoro will on September 14 know whether she has a case to answer after being linked to the death of lawyer Paul Magu, his wife Lydia Wangui and their three children. Kiambu principal magistrate Justus Kituku yesterday said he will make a ruling as the prosecution closed its case after all witnesses had testified. Defence counsel Waithera Mwangi had no submissions to make. Wanyoro had denied charges that between November 23 and 25, 2014, she had a hand in 35-year-old Magu’s death. She was also charged with having a hand in the deaths of Wangui, 35, and their children Allen, 9, Ryan, 8, and Tiffany, 6. She is out on a Sh2 million bond. During the hearing, it was said Wangui went missing on November 23, 2014, and her body was found partially burnt in a thicket near Paradise Lost on Kiambu Road. Magu left home with the three children in his car but returned home alone before travelling to his rural home in Kiganjo, Thika, the same day. Magu is said to have jumped in front of a Garissa-bound bus along Thika Road on November 25, 2014. A suicide note stating, “I cannot live a life of ridicule and embarrassment. Let it be,” was later found. The bodies of the children were later found in different parts of the 2,500-acre Tatu City estate land in Ruiru. Magu’s father Samuel Muhiu was the first witness to testify. He said the day before Magu killed himself, he was acting strange. He had been talking to himself and screaming in his room the previous evening and that morning he wore his mother’s clothes. Margret Njoki, a househelp, had told the court that on November 23, Wangui had sent her to the shop and was dressed up, ready for church. On her return, the children told her their mother had gone to church with Wanyoro. Njoki said she was later sent by Magu to Nairobi to buy flour at Nyamakima from their Muthaiga pipeline home and upon returning, Wangui was not in the house, but she noticed the leaves of an avocado tree, flowers next to the house had been burnt and there wer ashes at the bottom of a vehicle parked outside the house. The next day Magu left never to return.