Members of a former powerful family in the Maasai Mau Forest are among individuals to be held culpable for massive encroachment. It has also emerged that most land ownership documents are fake. Documents in the Star’s possession show that some companies and businesses associated with the late former senior chief Lerionka ole Ntutu’s family are among five group ranches that extended beyond adjudicated boundaries into the forest. Ilngina Contractors Limited —whose directors are Agens Naropil Ntutu ( 490 shares), Kiteleiki Ntutu ( 490 shares) and Kunini Ntutu ( 20 shares) — extended their boundaries beyond the adjudicated boundaries deep into the forest. Izmir Enterprises, whose directors are Sahir Mughal and Asiya Mughal, also encroached into the forest. Shares held by the two directors were not immediately known. Read:Mau evictions could hurt DP Other companies and business names in the five group ranches that extended beyond their adjudicated boundaries are Kaetoni Enterprises (director Mary Tamooh) and Kesumin Investment ( director Joseph Rotich). Sanyana enterprises — whose directors are Nathaniel Getonge (four shares) and Pacifica Nyambongo (one share) — also extended into the forest. livestock spared Others companies include Kamaleto Limited, Kapchi Farm, Katendwa Limited, Loresero Enterprise, Namelok Farm Enterprises, Ololarusi Investment Farm and Omugasi Service Company. The directors and their shares of the seven are not known. The 12 companies and business names were allocated land or transacted land in the five group ranches extending beyond adjudicated boundaries. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko tabled the documents with the National Assembly on Monday. He had been asked by the Environment committee explain efforts to save the forest. The CS tabled documents with the Kareke Mbiuki-led committee detailing how group ranches illegally hived off the forest before selling land to unsuspecting individuals. The documents showed the Sisiyan group ranch originally had 447.5 hectares. That balooned to 1,059.7 ha after subdivision, bringing an additional titled forest area of 732.5ha. The Nkaroni group ranch had 1,597.5ha during the first registration. It shot up to 7,861ha, an addition of 7,127.3ha. In another case, the Enoosokon group ranch had 155ha that later ballooned to 1,723.4ha, an addition of 1,593.4ha. The Enakishomi group ranch had 844.5ha before it ballooned to 8,169.4ha — 7,324.9ha. The Reyio group ranch had 26ha, before increasing to 323ha after subdivision. In total, more than 17,000ha were illegally hived off the forest. Maasai Mau covers 46,278 hectares. The documents show that the genesis of Maasai Mau encroachment started when five group ranches adjacent to the bloc adjudicated in 1970s applied for consent from the ocal land control board to subdivide their land among members. The boundaries of their land were well defined at the time. Read: Narok residents demonstrate against Murkomen, support Mau evictions However, government officials, politicians, private surveyors and influential people irregularly expanded the boundaries of the group ranches beyond original adjudication areas. They fraudulently issued people wth title deeds. By 2005, illegal encroachment into the forest due to the expansion had created 1,963 parcels covering 17,101ha. “The ballooning of areas beyond the original adjudicated group ranch boundaries led to massive encroachment and degradation into Maasai Mau, hence, the genesis of the current crisis,” Tobiko said. He wants action taken against encroachers, even as the second phase of evictions gains momentum. During the first phase of the evictions — from July 6 to 10 between Nkoben River north boundary and Kosia —1,772 households totalling 8,860 people were moved out. About 3,000 head of livestock were removed in an exercise in which crops were spared. Approximately 4,500ha were recovered during the first phase. A profiling exercise in 2008 targeting 7,971 households showed that over 30 per cent( 2,436 ) household heads have no documents to support occupation of land. Over 62 percent claimed ownership Also Read: KOT rap Murkomen for dragging Raila into Mau eviction row Click here for latest political news