The Kenya Secondary School
Headteachers Association has called for structured dialogue between TSC and unions to prevent a nationwide strike from September 1. KESSHA chairperson Indimuli
Kahi on Wednesday said it would be costly to disrupt studies in the third term. He asked Kenya National Union of
Teachers (KNUT) and Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) to
engage the Teacher Service Commission on ways of forestalling the crisis. "I do not wish to comment on this matter
because it is being handled by the unions, but as teachers, we do not wish
to see studies disrupted." Speaking to the press on
the sidelines of the 10th African Confederation of Principals (ACP) in Mombasa, Kahi said the strike will affect smooth learning in schools. TSC and KNUT are expected
to meet on August 21 to iron out some of the issues raised by teachers among them
the transfer of school heads (delocalisation), performance appraisal, and promotion of teachers. On Monday, KNUT Secretary
General Wilson Sossion warned that the nationwide teachers’ strike in
inevitable if TSC fails to heed to their demands on August
21. "If they do not listen to
some of our demands, we shall invoke the weapon which we have restrained to
use for a very long time, and that is strike action," Sossion said on the first day of the 10th ACP Conference. "We are very clear about
the promotion of teachers. It is an intellectual right. Therefore, it
is not neither negotiable nor reducible." "We are very clear on the appraisal system which has been rolled out by TSC. That system is a big issue globally and Europe has dropped it. Who are we to
adopt it in Kenya?" Sossion asked. Read: Strike on if TSC bulldozes, ignores teachers' demands, Sossion warns He said: "TSC must prepare itself
for sufficient concession so that teachers can remain free and do their work
freely. We are not opposed to ideas of originating new policies that affect
teaching, but there must be wide and extensive consultation." However Kuppet’s
chair Omboko Milemba differed sharply with Sossion and rejected the attempts to disrupt school activities in third term. "We are writing to TSC to negotiate
some of the component in the Collective Bargaining Agreement 2017-2021. The CA
is not a cast in stone, it is negotiable and can be renegotiated," he said. Click here for the latest political news