Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion has said teachers will proceed with the September 1 strike. Yesterday he said teachers will walk off the job despite calls by President Uhuru Kenyatta to review the delocalisation policy to save teachers with families. The Teachers Service Commission last week agreed to look at the policy on performance appraisal. Secretary Nancy Macharia did not explain to what extent the appraisal policy will be reviewed. Previously, the TSC said promotion of teachers will be based on work done and not academic qualifications, while Knut wants tutors to be promoted for qualifications earned. Despite the directive being partial, Sossion praised the President’s move, saying it is an inch closer to unions winning the fight in protecting teachers’ welfare. See also: Sossion threatens strike over 'inconsiderate' transfer of 557 principals However, Sossion said the union will not call off the strike unless the TSC abolishes some policies. “We expect to meet the Teachers Service Commission on Thursday. Resolutions that will arise from the meeting will guide whether the strike will proceed or be called off, but as for now the strike is still on,” Sossion said. The Thursday meeting seeks to give the fate of the strike. In attendance will be Kenya National Union of Teachers, ahead of re-opening of schools for third term next Monday. Among policies in contention include delocalisation, Teacher Performance Appraisal and Development and non-promotion of teachers. Sossion says the delocalisation policy was implemented contrary to the definition agreed in the 2013 Collective Bargaining Agreement. “Delocalisation is not similar to transfers, but TSC made it look so. Delocalisation was agreed on in the 2013-17 CBA but was to be done on teachers entering service for the first time. TSC came and took teachers already in-service and moved them to other counties,” Sossion said. The secretary general said performance contracting and teacher performance appraisal and development have a negative bearing on school performance. More: Primary school heads oppose Knut strike calls Click here for
the latest political news