The planned motorists strike that was to start today morning has flopped. The aborted strike was organised by Kenya Motorists Association to protest the proposed 16 per cent Value Added Tax on petroleum products from September 1. The association's chairman Peter Murima had asked motorists sympathetic to their course to dump their vehicles on the road between 7.30am and 9.30am. A spot check by the Star indicated that the strike did not happen as planned. But speaking to the Star on phone, Murima said the strike took place adding that it will take place every Wednesday for two hours. "The strike started as planned and has taken off very well. In fact, it started at  Roysambu estate where all the actions were carried out," he said. Murima said some motorists who were in solidarity with the members kept off the roads and that is why there was no traffic around Nairobi. "We will do this every Wednesday until the government can change this dynamic. We will even go to court if they don't want to change this," he said. Earlier, Matatu owners association chairman Simon Kimutai told Citizen TV that the responsibility of PSV's is to carry passengers, not to go on a go slow. Kimutai said the planned strike flopped for lack of consultation from stakeholders. "What is important is to sit and discuss with those who have done it before. Asking people to leave or park their vehicles on the road whilst inconveniencing other motorists is not the solution," he said. The MOA chairman said the fuel hikes will affect every consumer and not only the public service sector. If implemented, the new prices will see an increase of about Sh15 to Sh17 per litre of fuel. Read: Petrol prices rise in ERC review "I sympathize with the situation. It's not our liking ... we cannot absorb this cost. We will not be in the business. We can make 70 per cent losses if that happens," Kimutai said. Kimutai noted that they will be fair to the consumers adding that the fares will only be added by about Sh10. "We will calculate and absorb the impact caused by the fuel. If you were paying Sh30 bob It will go up by Sh10 bob. The long days of matatus misbehaving are history," he said. When asked if matatu owners can think of other ways to bear the cost, Kimutai said its not an easy thing to do. "However creative you could be, at the end of the day cash is involved- we do not get any subsidies from any position," he said. "It would have been great for the government to explore other avenues that can increase revenue to the government or collection of taxes." Kimutai said people have the misconception that there is a lot of money in the matatu industry adding that "It is a very expensive venture to get into," "It is very risky and has minimal profits... We have had fare hikes for a long time and we do it in a good way," he said. SECURITY Police had been mobilized and ordered to disperse any motorist who tries to block roads in the planned protest by motorists over proposed fuel tax. Police warned that they will not allow such a protest and urged those planning to do so to desist from the move. Click here for the latest political news