Farmers will start receiving payment for maize delivered for last season from September 7, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said on Thursday. He told the Senate Committee on Agriculture that the fresh vetting of farmers that began on August 20 is nearly complete. The CS said 297 farmers, who have been successful vetted, will be the first to get their cash. Eugene said only genuine farmers will be paid and unscrupulous traders will be exposed. Read: State to vet maize farmers afresh before paying Sh1.4bn "By yesterday (Wednesday), out of the 998 farmers who have not been paid for delivered maize, 723 farmers have collected vetting forms. Only 317 farmers have filled and returned the forms," Eugene said. The CS said the Sh1.4 billion provided by the government will cover 61 per cent of pending payment for farmers. "This cash will be complete within 21 days and we will request for more funds from the Treasury to pay the remaining 39 per cent," Wamalwa told the committee. Farmers opposed the fresh vetting, saying it will further delay their payment. See: Maize farmers reject vetting, demand dues More on this: Farmers, NCPB split over vetting before payment "We do not want to receive the same mistakes made in the past," he said. Wamalwa spoke hours after DPP Noordin Haji ordered a purge on current and former officials at the National Cereals and Produce Board over fraudulent payments for maize deliveries. Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe, former cereals board CEO Newton Terer and finance boss Kiprotich Ng'elechey were arrested on Thursday. Others include a chief and traders in Eldoret who colluded with officials at the depots to be paid millions of shillings at the expense of farmers. The DPP said the officials went against a budgetary allocation of Sh6 billion for the purchase of 2m bags of maize and paid out Sh11.4 billion for bags that was mainly delivered by traders during the 2017/18 financial year. He said the amount was never budgeted for by the Strategic Food Reserve Oversight Board. Read: Newton Terer, chief arrested over Sh6bn NCPB maize scam Click here for the latest political news