The Mau Forest issue is not a contest between two communities so nobody should use it as a tool for the 2022 political contest, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko has said. Tobiko said this on Monday when he faced the parliamentary Environment and Natural Resources Committee to give details of ongoing restoration efforts. He said that to resolve the issue once and for all, it must be de-linked from politics and approached as the "life and death matter" it is. MPs had alleged plans to kick out a certain community in preparation for the next general election. Tobiko noted that all reports that have been generated have recommended the removal of all illegal settlers; he said the next phase of evictions, targeting about 40,000 families, should go on. Related: The politics of the Mau Forest Also read: Raila mastermind of inhumane Mau evictions, Rift MPs claim NO COMPENSATION FOR EVICTEES The CS told MPs that all squatters must be kicked out of the forst and those who are too poor possibly compensated on humanitarian, not monetary, grounds. He said there will be no compensation for affected families as this will "legalise fake titles". Tobiko noted that there are 716 individuals with purported title deeds while 4,439 others have documents such as sale agreements and allotment letters. "There are 2,741 individuals with no documents other than those for occupying land," he said. During the session, a section of MPs from Rift valley region ignited a hot debate after Tobiko termed the land documents of those being evicted as "mere papers.' Kipkelion West MP Hilary Kosgei took the CS to task over the term which turned the hearing into a shouting match. The CS had just finished explaining that one cannot transfer a title deed if what he or she has is not a genuine document. “The title deeds that those who have been evicted hold are not valid.  If you have an invalid title you cannot transfer a parcel of land to another individual, no matter how many documents you sign. Those are paper title deeds,” Tobiko had said. Koskei told him: "There is no community that produces title deeds and you cannot cannot call people's titles papers." Ronald Tanui (Bomet Central) and Dominic Koskei (Sotik) appeared before the committee led by Kareke Mbiuki as friends of the National Assembly. Tanui wondered why the joint eviction team is burning down houses yet promises were made for a humane exercise. Bomet East MP Beatrice Kones said those who bought land did so under the willing buyer-willing seller agreement so they should not be subjected into untold suffering. Read: Rift Valley MPs turn wrath on Tobiko over Mau evictions Also read: No negotiating Mau evictions, Tobiko tells Rift Valley leaders ILLEGALLY ACQUIRED GROUP RANCH LAND Tobiko denied owning a parcel of land in the forest and noted that the task force by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga gave him a clean bill of health. He said that since the Mau was not available for allocation, those allocated land must be held criminally responsible and compelled to pay back. During the hearing, it became apparent that all group ranches illegally acquired land inside the forest. In Sisiyan group ranch, the original area at first registration was 447.5 hectares. However, the total area after sub-division ballooned to 1,059.7 hectares. Nkaroni group ranch had 1,597.5 hectares during the first registration but this ballooned to 7,861 hectares. The Enoosokon group ranch area at first registration was 155 hectares and 1,723.4 hectares after subdivision. In the Enakishomi group ranch, the area at first registration was 844.5 hectares and 8,169.4 hectares after subdivision. In the case of Reyio group ranch, the area at first registration was 26 hectares and 323 hectares afterwards. This brings to over 17,000 hectares, the size of land that was illegally hived off the forest. "The ballooning of areas beyond the original adjudicated group ranch boundaries led to massive encroachment and degradation into Maasai Mau, hence the genesis of the current crisis," Tobiko said. He told the committee that Maasai Mau Forest, Trans Mara forest and eastern Mau Forest were jointly valued at Sh17 billion by Lake Victoria Basin Commission in 2011. Mbiuki promised Tobiko that the committee will help secure funds. The ministry requested for Sh25 billion but got only Sh10 billion for 2018/19, 80 per cent of which will go to personnel emolument. More on this: Narok residents demonstrate against Murkomen, support Mau evictions Click here for the latest political news