A censure motion has been filed against Treasury CS Henry Rotich days after MPs rejected the poisonous sugar report that had indicted him. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa wants Rotich censured by Parliament for contravening the Constitution, gross misconduct and incompetence. The motion returns Rotich to the spotlight after escaping last week’s indictment in the sugar report. The motion seeks Rotich’s sacking for failing to review the interest rate cap law. It was filed on Wednesday and has the potential of pushing out Rotich should it sail through the long and winded process. First, it has to be evaluated by Parliament’s legal office to determine whether it meets the high threshold set by the Speaker for removal of a Cabinet Secretary. The mover must adduce sufficient evidence of wrongdoing before the motion is allowed to proceed. If approved, the MP must convince at least a third of the 349 MPs ( 117 ) to sign up for it to be tabled for debate. The House will then debate it and, if it finds merit, set up a special committee to probe the allegations, at which point the CS would be called to testify. The committee would prepare a report with recommendations for the whole House to debate, adopt or reject. The resolution of the House will be binding on the President. Read: Two Western Mps want CS Rotich sacked over sugar scam Yesterday Barasa told the Star that he believes he has watertight grounds to force Rotich out of office. “The caps were meant to create obscene profits for cartels operating in the financial sector,” reads part of the petition. The MP avers that “because of poor monetary leadership offered by Rotich, banks have shifted lending to government and large corporates”. “There is no bank that has collapsed as a result of the rates cap but the government continues to borrow more money while Kenyans suffer,” says Barasa. Rotich is also accused of presiding over the country’s ballooning public debt, which has overshot the IMF recommended standard of 50 per cent of the growth domestic product by over 6 per cent. “It is very clear that the interest rates cap was not meant to serve Wanjiku’s interests but rather serve the National Treasury’s high borrowing appetite,” the motion states. Barasa said lack of leadership at the Treasury has seen money lenders and shylocks continue to charge borrowers obscene rates beyond the caps. Also Read: MP Barasa files censure motion against CS Rotich over interest rate caps, sugar Click here for latest political news 