Twitter users on Monday watered down Deputy President Wiliam Ruto's 2018 Lifetime Achievement Award in Uganda saying it was Robert Kyagulangi who deserved the honours. In response to Museveni's tweet thanking Ruto for Kenya's commitment to Uganda, the users from Uganda and Kenya questioned the circumstances under which the DP was awarded. They said Kyagulanyi alias Bobi Wine who is the MP of Kyadondo East constituency in Wakiso near Kampala deserved the title owing to his fight for liberation. "You were once a liberator Museveni, what happened? Let @HEBobiwine free. He is a young man passionate about the livelihood of the youths," user Hassan Junya said. Uganda's singer Maurice Kirya said he sympathised with Bobi's situation commending his bravery, positivity, and courage. "No. Excuse me sir, this is not what we are about to do congratulating other people amidst denying others freedom," twitter user Bisangwa Shawn said. Activist Boniface Mwangi said he was happy with the demonstrations to free Bobi Wine. "The people of Western, l love you! Thank you for leading on this. Nairobi we are on for #FreeBobiWine on Wednesday, 22nd August." "We are marching to the Ugandan Embassy on Riverside drive," he said. Faith Mandela said Ruto winning the Achievers of Award was a joke of the year. For his part, David Muthengi said it was not about Bobi Wine, Uganda or Kenya but the tyranny, impunity and injustice. "Eeeh!!! How about congratulating youth leaders like @HEBobiwine for standing against tyranny? The same reason that took you to the liberation war of 1986," Hillary Taylor said. Bobi Wine was arrested with other 34 people in the northwestern town of Arua following chaotic election campaigns on Monday last week. He is still detained at a military camp facing treason charges. Read: Museveni calls Bobi Wine torture 'fake news' The United Kingdom has issued a travel advisory to its citizens informing them that the arrest has led to heightened political tension. "There is an increased likelihood of protests, which may turn violent, across Uganda," the UK said in a brief statement. Also read: Bonfires, tear gas as Ugandans demand lawmakers' release Click here for the latest political news