Two petitioners have written to the Judicial Service Commission seeking removal of three Court of Appeal judges over their conduct on the eve of last year’s polls. Activist Khalef Khalifa and lawyer Evans Oruenjo filed complaint against judges Erastus Githinji, Martha Koome and Fatuma Sichale, whom they accuse of violating the law and being accomplices in subversion of justice. This is in reference to the judges’ decision to suspend George Odunga’s decision declaring appointment of 290 returning officers illegal during the last year’s repeat Presidential election. The complainants say the judges never held any sitting as required and arbitrarily issued the orders. The petitioners want the JSC to institute a probe into the conduct of the three judges. In an affidavit, a copy of which  was seen by the Star, the complainants said Githinji, Koome and Sichale are biased and cannot serve in public offices. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Oruenjo accused the JSC of dragging its feet over the matter, adding that they are yet to receive communication from the commission since filing a petition on April 19, 2017. On October 16, 2017, Khalifa filed judicial review miscellaneous applications in Mombasa, challenging the IEBC’s move to appoint the ROs without adhering to elections regulations. Odunga, in a ruling delivered on October 25, 2017, ruled in favour of Khalifa, finding the hiring of the 290 ROs a violation of election rules. The judgement was short-lived as the three judges on the same day squashed Odunga’s verdict. “On the same day we had neither been notified of any contemplated appeal nor served with proceedings by the IEBC lawyers. We were served with the application and record of appeal on October 31, 2017 and November 13, days after the election had been held,” Khalifa said in the sworn affidavit. “The concerned judges never sat for hearing of the application yet issued orders suspending the judgement.” It is this orders that have come to haunt Githinji, Koome and Sichale, almost nine months since the repeat presidential exercise. “On October 25, there were matters scheduled for hearing and determination by the Court of Appeal concerning the October 26 repeat elections,” Oruenjo said. “...matters failed to take off because Court of Appeal judges never showed up, leaving one to wonder why they were readily available later that evening without a functioning registry and staff, and given that they all were operating outside Nairobi.” Rule 2(b) of the Court of Appeal says an application is first made under certificate of urgency and one Court of Appeal judge will certify it as urgent. It is then heard before the parties before the High Court’s decision is made. The complainants say to date, the judges are yet to issue a ruling on the purported application yet the order was ‘extracted’ from the judgement and signed by them. To prove that no session of the Appeal court proceedings was conducted on the day, the petitioners want JSC to supply them with CCTV clips of the court premises between 2pm and 6pm on October 25, 2017. They also want the commission to provide them with October 25, 2017 drivers’ logbook and trip sheet for judges. During the period, Githinji was based in Kisumu, Koome in Malindi and Sichale in Nyeri.