Living separately, even where they are physically together, Kenyans feel
and think differently, feel different and unequal and develop a set of ideas
and beliefs that separate them from one another. The “anti-other people” ideas and philosophy that separate communities
are called negative ethnicity. After years of living together with the cancer
of negative ethnicity, Kenyans have become more ethnic —more Kikuyu, more Luo,
more Kalenjin and more Kamba, than they are Kenyan. In their thinking and politics, Kenya has become a country of ethnic
enclaves, where people find less space, history, market, protection, solidarity
and identity than in Kenya that has bigger space. After being antagonised for many years, Kenyan communities have recoiled
from the bigger space, where they have, unfortunately, been attacked into the
smaller tribe where they seek solidarity, protection and defence from the other
communities, whom they identify as enemies. To make Kenyans one, they must be made to think as one. They must
be made to share, not just common space where they live, but also resources such
as jobs, protection, economic infrastructure, land, factories and government amenities.
Without sharing these resources on merit, Kenyans cannot not become one. They
will remain enemies and finally fall apart. I believe it is either tribes will either eat Kenya up, and become
independent countries and nationalities, or Kenya will eat tribes up and become
a truly one country and one people irrespective of their colour, language,
geography, resources, numbers and history. I believe in such a case, Kenyans
will become a patriotic nation pulling in one direction. I believe Kenya needs nationalistic parties and organisations that every
Kenyan will be free to join and lead. These nationalistic parties will treat
all Kenyans as equal and equally, deserving available resources of the land. I believe Kenya needs nationalist leaders that will serve and govern
every part of the land without discrimination or favour. That equal treatment
by government will endow every Kenyan piece of land with equal development and
citizenship. I believe Kenyan communities should be equal and be accommodative and
accept good leadership from any Kenyan, notwithstanding their ethnic origins. I believe ultimately, Kenya should absorb and dissolve every tribe into
one big tribe called Kenya. However, Kenyans cannot live in one Kenya with one Kenyan identity and
still owe their loyalties and patriotism to their respective tribes, whose
identities negate their Kenyan identity, whose usefulness cannot compete with
that of the country, continent and the world, and whose time and relevance are
no more.  If Kenya will survive as one, it must abandon negative ethnicity.
However glamorous, embracing negative ethnicity is like riding a tiger. You
will end up in its belly. The nation cannot coexist with the tribe. Either the
nation will eat the tribe or the tribe will eat the nation.