Jubilee leaders have called on their new-found partners -Wiper Party and ODM- to respect the party’s structures if they are to strike a healthy working relationship. The leaders drawn from the Mt Kenya region said Kenya’s political landscape had changed and it now requires politicians to adjust their approach to issues. The more than 15 Jubilee MPs spoke on Sunday in Nyeri County during two different church services in Karatina. Led by DP William Ruto, the leaders noted that “all those joining us should know that they are coming into a union that is focused on transforming Kenya.” “We are no longer engaging in political marriages whose aim is to push for selfish interests. As Jubilee leaders, our primary customers are Kenyans,” said Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro. Read: Kalonzo's Wiper party resolves to support Uhuru's agenda in Parliament On July 28, Wiper announced that it will support the Jubilee administration's Big Four Agenda agenda in Parliament particularly. The move came about five months after ODM leader and Nasa principal Raila Odinga reached a truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9 in what has now come to be famously known as the handshake. Wiper said it is satisfied with Uhuru's efforts to fight corruption and will henceforth support him in his development agenda. After the March 9 truce, Raila said the unity deal was informed by the need to unite a divided country following the hotly contested August 8 presidential elections. Nyoro said it was unfortunate that some people had boarded the Jubilee ship with the goal of distablising it. His remarks reverberated those that have been previously made by Ruto's allies in the Rift Valley led by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nandi counterpart Samson Cherargei. Similar sentiments were voiced by other leaders who spoke in Karatina including Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Deputy Senate Speaker Kithure Kindiki, Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and Mukurweini's Anthony Kiai. They said the spirit of the handshake was to unite and develop Kenya. “We are united as a party. We are working together to transform Kenya,” said Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami. Read also: What handshake means for Ruto Ruto observed that through unity, the Jubilee administration was intensifying the implementation of its development agenda for Kenyans. He said time was up for hate-based politics and divisive rhetoric and urged leaders to focus on activities that would empower Kenyans. “Most of what you are reading in the media is propaganda. But as Jubilee, we have no time for wrangles, we are focused on the Big Four Agenda and its implementation,” Ruto said. He said Nyeri County had been allocated Sh25 billion for road projects as part of the country’s infrastructural development. “The government has also set aside Sh1 billion to this county for the implementation of Phase II and Phase III of the Last Mile Connectivity Programme targeting 25,000 new households,” said the DP. Besides these, Ruto said at least 30 milk coolers would be given to Nyeri County as part of the government’s initiative to assist farmers to add value to their milk produce. “We would like to see farmers record more earnings from their milk, coffee, tea, among other produces. This way, they will also create jobs to youths,” he said. The leaders said Jubilee government understands where it has brought the country from, where it is currently and where it wants to take it. They said they would support Ruto’s 2022 presidential quest, saying that he is the best pick to lead Kenya. Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina said that Central Kenya had already “taken the bride price, and we will not be taking any other because it is a taboo”. Other MPs present included Caleb Kositany (Soy), Gichuhi Mwangi (Tetu), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), Catherine Waruguru (Women Rep, Laikipia). Tinderet's Julius Melly, Liza Chelule (Woman Rep, Nakuru), Daniel Rono (Keiyo South) and Hillary Kosgei (Kipkellion West) were also present. More: Handshake blows up ambitions Click here for the latest political news