The National Police Service Commission has set tough new conditions that bar police officers from engaging in almost any business outside their work. According to guidelines prepared by the Commission and seen by the Star, any officer who wants to engage in business, or any other activities, must first seek clearance. If their application is accepted, he or she will have to comply with stiff conditions for conducting the business, or leave the service. Those who already operate businesses are required to declare them, otherwise they will be subjected to disciplinary action should the commission find out. If upon application the commission is satisfied that the officer can continue to run the business and serve the public, then they will be required to abide by a raft of conditions and restrictions where their interests are concerned. “Applicants should be aware that this may involve the commission undertaking intelligence checks on both the applicant and the proposed business interests and associates,” reads the policy. During vetting, it emerged that many police officers were engaged in business and many were worth millions of shillings, despite earning relatively low salaries. The guidelines are contained in six new policies that the NPSC — the employer of police — has introduced as part of police reforms. The policies cover police training, housing, counselling and chaplaincy, police welfare and conflict of interest. The regulations took effect yesterday. More on this: New rules restrict police officers from receiving gifts Also read: How government abandoned ambitious police housing project NPSC chairman Johnston Kavuludi said the draft policies would guide the operations and other critical aspects of the Police Service. “The commission has been guided by the law and I am happy to reveal that we have been able to complete and operationalise the regulations on vetting, discipline, promotion and transfers, recruitment and appointments and several other critical areas,” Kavuludi said. Using proxies to conduct business has also been outlawed and any police officer found culpable will be deemed to have violated the new guidelines. “Failure to record a personal interest that arises during the course of a member’s duty shall attract disciplinary proceedings upon revelation,” the rule warns. Apart from seeking permission to do business, police officers will not be allowed to use service time to attend to personal business or engage in activities that constitute conflict of interest. Police officers who own shares in companies will also be required to declare them to the National Police Service Commission so it can determine if that constitutes conflict of interest. "A member of the service shall not hold shares or have any interest in a corporation, partnership or other body, directly or through another person, if holding those shares or having that interest would result in the officers' personal interest, including the interest of a spouse, relative or business associate, conflicting with his official duties," reads the policy. The policy describes conflict of interest as involving “a conflict between the public duty and the private interests of a member of the service in which the member’s private capacity interests could improperly influence the performance of their official duties and responsibilities”. Influence peddling in promotions is also prohibited and companies associated with staff will not participate in tenders for the provision of services to the Police Service. In line with the Public Officer Ethics Act, gifts received by police officers during work will be surrendered to the Inspector General. It will be considered as a donation to the office. “A member of the service who receives a gift or donation shall declare the gift or donation to the Inspector General within 14 days of receipt of the gift,” according to the rules. All officers will declare a conflict of interest during operations to their supervisors, and it will be recorded in a register at the IG’s office. Under the new policies, police are prohibited from receiving monetary or any other gift that will compromise their integrity. In a departure from the current practice, all police officers will be entitled to a standard house where they work or a flat-rate house allowances based on their rank to rent accommodation of their choice away from their stations. The NPS will conduct general maintenance of the houses but occupants will pay for breakage. Click here for the latest political news