Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei is mobilising organisations to compile a list of victims of human rights abuses. She wants survivors to be prepared when a bill she is sponsoring for compensation comes up for public participation. Shollei is waiting for the National Assembly leadership to approve her draft bill for their compensation. She spoke on Sunday during a breakfast meeting organised by Kenya Transitional Justice Network, National Victims and Survivors Network and Survivors of Sexual Violence Network in Nairobi. The purpose of the meeting was to consult on reparation for victims and survivors of gross human rights violations. Shollei said if her bill is approved, it will be easier and cheaper for the government to compensate abuse victims. “It is not so much about the money, but acknowledging that people were wronged. For reparation, victims will not use the court process for compensation," she said. Shollei said the Solicitor General owes victims billions of shillings in unpaid compensation. Related: Bill seeks to create agency to pay victims of injustices She said in the case of the Wagalla Massacre that occurred in Wajir in 1984, the government can put up a school or a project for the community as a way of reparation. Shollei said a committee should be formed to decide if some of the people who lost property can be compensated. In March, Shollei drafted a bill seeking to create a special commission to oversee reparation of victims of historical injustices documented in the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report. The Kenya Reparation Bill, 2017, states that the cruelty meted out on Kenyans can only be resolved through the creation of the agency. It will be tasked with receiving, probing, evaluating and processing applications for reparation claims. Some 2,000 victims who suffered violence between 1963 and 2014 should get Sh500,000 each, the bill proposes. In 2015 during the State of the Nation Address in Parliament, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the creation of a Sh10 billion Reparation Fund to compensate survivors of historical injustices. He asked the House to process the TJRC report. “There is no Act backing the Reparation Fund and as a result, no one has been compensated. State officials have been going on retreats and meetings, but they have never come up regulations to implement the fund,” Shollei said. Click here for the latest political news