Seeming to have total control over Parliament, it is unavoidable that if
President Uhuru Kenyatta will continue to wage the war on corruption, the three
arms of government will become major theatres of that war, depending on whether
it will be graft or anti-corruption war that will conquer and use them. Graft has an advantage over anti-corruption war. For starters, this
dragon has been entrenching its roots in government and private sector for over
50 years since Independence. From whence Ndegwa Commission legitimised corruption
in the civil service, the corrupt have accumulated trillions they are ready to use
to defeat the anti-corruption war back. Chapter Six of the Constitution on
ethics was shelved to allow the corrupt to dominate in Parliament and the
Executive. Finally, corruption enjoys the support of negative ethnicity, which
puts graft several steps ahead of the anti-corruption purge in the fight for
control of the soul of the nation. Already, corruption controls Parliament with bribes as low as Sh10, 000,
which are not punished as crime. The Executive, and now Parliament, control resources of the country by
weakening parliamentary committees such as the Public Accounts Committee, which
could otherwise reign in on the corruption that is annually exposed by the
Controller of Budget and the Auditor General in their reports. Unfortunately,
they perpetually sabotaged at either the committees level or on the floor of
the House. In the fight against imported sugar, the python of corruption first
emasculated the government through its ministers, who are accused of pouring
tonnes of money to fortify corruption in P­arliament, before swallowing the
House and the Executive. Now, neither of the two can tell Kenyans whether the imported
sugar is safe for consumption or it is laced with mercury, thus unsafe for
consumption. Because corruption is as dangerously sweet as poisoned sugar, this is
the recent graft case that will sink the nation into the bottom of the ocean of
corruption. Imagine what would happen if sugar unfit for human consumption is
released to the market and millions ended up contracting deadly diseases from
its use? In the war against corruption two things must be clear in regards to
Parliament and the government. With the levels of moral decadence in Legislature, the National Assembly
cannot be relied on to wage the war on corruption. Instead, this crackdown must
arrest and prosecute all those who have taken bribery in Parliament. Though I joined Parliament believing it can be a tool of
liberating the country, having refused to protect the country against poisonous
sugar, the current House lacks patriotism to protect the country against
diseases, deaths and the ruin of sugar farming. And the war over the sugar report had some winners – CS Aden Mohammed, CS
Henry Rotich and Ambassador Willy Bett and William Ruto’s arm of Jubilee
government, whose more than 150 MPs voted strongly to protect the URP
ministers. Clearly, Ruto’s MPs are well organised in Parliament,where they
regard anti-corruption war as a foe against William Ruto. Uhuru’s arm of the Executive and Parliament lost the battle. To sustain
the crackdown on graft, Uhuru must urgently launch the lifestyle audit which
seems to have stalled, protect the country against imported poisonous sugar by
incinerating it and demand equal justice for all perpetrators of graft when prosecuted. 