E-commerce platform Avechi based in Kenya has slashed delivery shipping time to a record 3-4 hours in a bid to encourage more Kenyans to use online shopping. Some Kenyans in the past have been hesitant to embrace online shopping; this has been occasioned by a variety of factors like slow delivery and high shipping costs which the fast rising e-commerce firm is keen to address. On Avechi, clients are enjoying drastically reduced delivery time of 3-4 hours down from 48 hours. This could never have come at a better time. Online shopping in Kenya has been on an upward trajectory ever since its inception according to a recent report by Google.  The report, Consumer Connected Study 2017, attributed the growth to the rising internet usage. Avechi was originally started as a physical shop before morphing into an online shopping marketplace.  The online retailer is renowned for a unique selection of smartphone brands that are offered at the best competitive prices in the market. Some of these include Oneplus and Xiaomi which are international best sellers. Other than smartphones and tablets, the firm has ventured into all kinds of electronics like TVs, home theaters, cameras among others.  Furniture is also a new category where vendors can sell products on Avechi.com Avechi has achieved its superfast delivery/shipping times to its customers through various partnerships with delivery companies such as Sekunde. From furniture to fridges, Avechi pulls no stops in ensuring you get the right product at the right time. Different shipping modes to cover all product types Avechi has stepped up its onslaught on delivery time by offering convenient methods of shipping. Avechi Express Shipping is the perfect fit for clients ordering for products such as smartphones, TVs, fashion and other small items from local vendors. It takes up to 3-4 hours to receive a package vis-a- vis this mode of delivery. For fridges, washing machines, home theaters and other bulky items from local vendors, a shipping mode dubbed "Local shipping - Bulky Items" works best. Products coming from global sellers take 7-14 days to be delivered. This is through Avechi Global shipping which has costs on shipping covered in overall price of the products. Products comprise smartphones; phone accessories, fashion, and house hold appliances among others. Fashion items can also be ordered as well. Convenient shopping using Avechi’s new mobile app For a seamless shopping experience, the online marketplace has introduced a new android application - Avechi online shopping. The new app offers a new, smooth and fast homepage allowing users to browse easily through a catalogue of thousands of products. Additionally, the app has been customised to filter by category and alert users of the latest deals and offers at the swipe of a finger