The widow of the murdered Kiru Boys High School principal told judge Joel Ngugi she is unwell and cannot continue with the hearing of the case. Jane Muthoni said she needs medical care, adding that the prison administration at Langata prisons refused to take her for a medical checkup. Read: Killer of Kiru Boys principal jailed 7 years, told court wife ordered murder More: I was offered Sh200,000 to extract Kiru principal's messages, murder case witness tells court Principal Solomon Mwangi was murdered between November 6 and November 11, 2016 and his body was found in Kiahuria farm, Kiambu county. His hands were tied, face badly bruised and some of his teeth were missing. Muthoni and Isaack Nganga alias Gikuyu being represented by their lawyer Francis Njanja told the court Muthoni needs to visit a gynecologist and she has been requesting to be taken to hospital to no avail. The matter was up for hearing with forensic experts and investigating officers testifying. Njanja requested the judge to allow the matter to proceed in Nakuru High Court where he was posted to save him travels to Kiambu. State counsel Catherine Mwaniki was not opposed to the matter being heard in Nakuru. “We are ready with the remaining witnesses and we would wish that we finish up the matter and agree to proceed with the matter in Nakuru as it is best that we look at it in the long-term of the trial,” she said. Ngugi granted that the matter be heard in Nakuru and gave directions that the case  be mentioned on October 12 in Kiambu so that he can give dates for hearing in Nakuru. However, prosecutor Mwaniki applied for Nelson Mangati’s - the main suspect in the murder case who went missing  -file to be closed as he has never been captured and his whereabouts were unknown. Muthoni and Nganga were arrested and charged with murder. They are still in custody after they were denied bail. Details: Two suspects in Kiru Boys principal’s murder to remain in custody longer Click here for the latest political news