Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has called for the restructuring of all organisations involved in protection of human rights. Matiang'i said it was necessary if all institutions involved were merged into one to save taxpayers money. The Senate had in May proposed the merger of Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, National Gender and Equality Commission (NGEC), and the Office of Ombudsman. Matiang'i said he will initiate the debate on the same adding that it will be easier for wananchi to get services from the bodies if they operate from one pool. He spoke at the launch of the KNCHR Strategic Plan in Nairobi on Thursday. The CS faulted the 2010 Constitution for creating a commission to
achieve all the the three other constitutional bodies are currently doing. Matiang'i said the move was not constitutional but
political and transitional adding the commissions work
at cross purposes most of the time. He said it was important to distinguish the roles of the Secretariat and full-time commissioners. "It is vital to discuss how KNCHR and other NGO bodies concerned would re-engage with the Interior ministry because our relationship is often characterised by acrimony." "The Interior ministry does not intend to pursue that path anymore," he said. Read: Ombudsman, NGEC fight planned merger The CS challenged the KNCHR to be more accessible to all those who need its services, including security agencies that have suffered human rights abuses. The former Education CS urged the rights agency to approach the Interior ministry with a view of correcting rather than condemning, "in the spirit of building bridges". He added the Ministry would seek advice from the Attorney General regarding the numerous court cases of activists sued by the state. The suits arose from matters such as the right to picket, demonstrate and petition public authorities. KNCHR chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori said though their budget is constantly cut by the National Treasury, the commission will continue to use the resources available to deliver results. Also Read: Stop inhumane Kibera demolitions, KNCHR tells KURA Click here for the latest political news