An employee who sent out a racist email at the Chandarana Foodplus has gone missing, the management now says. Managing Director Hanif Rajan, head of HR and head of communications on Monday told the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) that Rima Patel has absconded duty. Rajan said they have tried to reach her, but she is not answering calls. Rima was also expected to record a statement. The managers appeared before the commission after boycotting summons last week. The NCIC chaired by Francis ole Kaparo last week issued summonses to the managers to explain the context in which the email said, "free gifts was focused on white people." Kaparo said the commission wants to know what the message meant by the racial connotation. But Rajan and his team failed to show up after a long wait. "We shall, however, still review the statement because it is obnoxious for any person in business to engage in acts construed to be racist. Kenya is not the right place for that," Kaparo said, adding that the commission is disappointed that even foreigners can discriminate against Kenyans. See:Chandarana bosses snub Kaparo team after summons over racist email The managers later indicated they would appear before the commission Monday morning. NCIC Assistant Director Legal and Complaints Department Kyallo Mwengi said the managers told the commission that Rima had gone missing. "They appeared before the commission, filed some statements but told us that Rima Patel has not shown up. She has not been answering her phone since yesterday," Mwengi said. He told journalists though the managers were cooperative and agreed to share her home address, they disclosed that Rima is an Indian citizen whose special pass expired on Sunday. Mwengi said the managers were told the matter will only proceed after Rima presents herself. The supermarket apologised after the email went viral. It reads in part, “We are delighted to inform you that our supermarket chain, would like to give you free vouchers to winner/raffles/best performer/runners-up candidate in upcoming events. As we are now focusing on white people to 'attract our supermarkets' sic,” read the mail in part. The management said the "error was done by a newly recruited staff in the marketing department". Managers said the worker involved had been punished. Read:Chandarana punishes author of racist promotion email Click here for the latest political news