Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka are reading from a different script in their opinion on the impact of the handshake. Raila said his truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta will ensure all state institutions "work" to end perennial problems bedevilling the country. However, Kalonzo said that the effect of the famous handshake "appear to be only superficial". The former vice president said the handshake has only brought about 'apparent calm' and that the country is not yet out of the 'woods'. The two spoke during different sessions of the former MPs' National Cohesion and Integration conference held at the Safari Park hotel in Nairobi. "The handshake only appears to have smothered the fire without completely putting out the embers," Kalonzo said. "It is like a man covering a festering wound with a bandage without treating it first." The Wiper leader reiterated that deep feelings of resentment, hatred, and suspicion are still among Kenyans. He singled out victims of the previous and last year's pre and post-election skirmishes. "These victims are not about to be easily convinced by a political truce resulting from a simple handshake." "These are the people we should be most concerned with when we talk national healing and reconciliation," Kalonzo said. He added that genuine repentance by aggressors of political violence is required to realise true healing, reconciliation, and cohesion. Also read: Uhuru to leaders: 'Stop politicising the handshake, my relationship with Raila' But Raila held that the 14-member Building Bridges team will put forth recommendations that will see the country cure the ills in the long run. He hinted at the possibility of the team proposing a referendum that will address the key constitutional challenges in the country. Raila singled out the need to change the structure of government from the presidential to a parliamentary system and reduce the number of governors. On this, the ODM leader said creating regional leaders will be a reprieve to taxpayers faced with huge expenditures arising from salaries and bills accrued by county governments. "South Africa has nine premiers while Nigeria with millions of people beyond one hundred has 36 governors. Can Kenya continue to sustain 47 governors with our poor economy?" he asked. "Let’s be reasonable as Kenyans and put this matter to Kenyans for debate. The Building Bridges task force is looking into such issues and it will bring forth for Kenyans to decide." The former Parliamentarians’ chairman Humphrey Njuguna backed the call for the referendum to change the Constitution amid cheers from the group. Njuguna said the ex-lawmakers demand a dignified life after leaving Parliament to continue with contributions that impact positively on national development. "Throughout our post-colonial history, it has been frustrating for former leaders after they leave the August House. We have nurtured a culture of forgetting our heroes," the former Gatanga MP said. Also see: Raila decries mistrust in getting ex-MPs counsel on state affairs Raila, in his address, also put on the spot independent commissions and ministries that are not working to end impunity and corruption in the country. "We have 15 independent commissions with members earning salaries every month. Why is it that all these institutions are not working? Corruption is still there," Raila said. Click here for the latest political news 