Women leaders have called for peaceful co-existence among Kenyan communities to help foster nationalism and cohesion in the country. Nominated Senator Zipporah Kittony, Phoebe Asiyo, Kisumu first lady Dorothy Nyong’o and her Kisii counterpart Elizabeth Ongwae said Kenyans should embrace patriotism and unity. They noted that meaningful development can only be realised when there is peaceful co-existence among the different communities. The leaders said Kenya will not achieve 'Big Four Agenda'- food security, manufacturing, affordable housing and health as envisaged by President Uhuru Kenyatta without political goodwill, peace and unity. They were speaking during the Kisumu community dialogue forum held at the Jomo Kenyatta sports-ground. Dorothy championed for a united Kenya and vowed that she will team up with like-minded individuals to spearhead reconciliation campaign in areas hit by conflicts. She asked Kenyans to rise above past injustices as they seek for amicable solutions that promote cohesion. Dorothy said Kisumu has witnessed the brunt of violence and it was high time leaders should fully embrace dialogue during conflicts. Her Kisii counterpart echoed the sentiments saying counties cannot realise economic development without peace and unity among Kenyans. “We must learn to dialogue and not engage in violent activities whenever we have problems. We are all Kenyans and when the country burns we all perish,” Elizabeth said. For her part, Asiyo urged politicians to emulate step taken by President Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga in uniting the country. She commended the two leaders as selfless and statesmen who have the interests of Kenyans at heart for agreeing to foster unity and development. Asiyo said the unity-pact between Uhuru and Raila has seen a massive change after the disputed presidential election and should be supported by all leaders. Kittony said Kenya is bigger than individual and asked elected leaders to rally their people in championing peace and unity instead of hatred. “We are all Kenyans irrespective of where you come from. We must be our brothers and sisters keeper for the country to prosper economically,” she said. Kittony urged citizens to embrace patriotism, peace, forgiveness and reconciliation. Click here for the latest political news 