EACC has arrested Parklands MCA for demanding a bribe of Sh 5.7 million from the owner of Concord Hotel in Westlands. Jahendra Malde was arrested on Saturday for soliciting bribe from Rahim Chatur and his father Madat Chatur to allegedly stop demolition of the hotel. '"This was as an inducement to prevail upon the Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko not to order the demolition of the Hotel on riparian land," EACC tweeted. EACC said the bribe was to be shared with 19 other MCAs who are members Nairobi County Assembly Legal Committee. Each member was to receive Sh300, 000. The MCA will be charged in court next week. But Sonko's spokesman Elkana Jacob said Malde’s action was a clear case of extortion as the county did not have a plan to demolish the hotel. EACC agent pretended to be a staff on a certain city bank, where Malde was sent to collect the 'treated' money. To cover his footprints, Malde had also sent a certain lady only identified by one name as Priti to collect the cash. Therefore, the EACC agent identified herself as Alice, who was pretending to be bank staff had to act fast, saying that she had to make sure that the money is delivered to Malde. On reaching the destination, other EACC sleuths pounced on Malde arresting him after he had received the Sh5.7 million stashed in a box. Last week, Sonko warned that all properties on road reserves, waterways or riparian land will be demolished. The county boss said no one will be spared in the crackdown which will include his property in Buruburu. More on this: Sonko lists grabbed properties in City Hall reclamation plan The government has earmarked 4,000 buildings for demolition because they sit on riparian land. In a report by the National Environmental Management Authority dated June 26, and based on inspection visits to riparian areas within Nairobi county, nine buildings and structures were found to be on riparian land. Read: Over 4,000 buildings to go in operation to secure Nairobi River Also read: Ukay could be next in demolition wave Click here for the latest political news