The war on corruption will not be won through drama, Devolution CS Eugine Wamalwa has said. Wamalwa took a swipe on the recent polls on corruption by Ipsos Synovate saying the survey was "doctored and dramatised". Speaking at the first peer-to-peer governors' conference in Makueni, Wamalwa also took issue with the way corruption suspects were being arrested. "We all agree that one of the biggest challenges facing devolution is corruption. But I want to caution that this war will not be won by the drama we see with the Friday night arrests and the dramatic opinion polls," said Wamalwa. He said there was a need for national government to find a way of partnering with counties to fight corruption from top to bottom "We must commit to work together and start the fight against corruption from the family level. It's through reviewing our religious values and those of our children that we will be able to win the war on corruption," he said. Read: Devolution conference expected to rake in Sh200m for Western Also read: Uhuru, Raila top guests at fifth devolution conference in Kakamega Council of Governors Vice Chair and Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru said a recent governor's summit underscored the need to strengthen public participation. She said they had resolved that each county sets up peer review mechanisms and partner with civil societies to ensure vibrant structures are in place to enhance public participation. "It's in this regard we as counties, coordinated by the Council of Governors, have initiated consultations with Nepad and APRM to develop a county peer review Mechanism Similar to the one that the Presidents have at the African Union Level," she said. After this mission, she added, each county will develop a plan for implementing Priority Action for Improving public participation mechanisms, structures and practices for effective delivery of Services. Waiguru said each governor will identify one priority action to be implemented and delivered within the next 100 day based on the rapid resource initiative framework. "This will enable us to share and celebrate the results of the implementation process in each subsequent peer learning mission," she said. Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana said public participation makes it possible for citizens to engage their government on a regular basis and not after every five years. "Apart from Makueni's Sh33 million ward development budget, we are discussing the possibility of our 300 cluster committees becoming direct implementors of local development initiatives as is done in India. We want to see whether they can have annual development work plan and they can source funding not only from the government but also other development partners", he said. Read: CoG on the spot over Sh196m summit cash Click here for the latest political news   