Complex acquisition procedures and corruption are the greatest challenges in the health sector, EACC CEO Halakhe Waqo has said. Waqo said on Friday that setbacks in the procurement of pharmaceutical and non- pharmaceutical supplies have resulted in a loophole that causes consumers to suffer. “Challenges in the acquisition of supplies provide the opportunity for unreasonable market prices of goods and variants in fees charged at the dispensing stages,” he said. He addressed journalists at the commission's Nairobi office while releasing a report on the state of medical supplies in Kenya. Citing numerous systemic corruption cases, the CEO noted their readiness to tackle malpractices in the sector. In May, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission said health departments in all counties were the most corrupt. The National ethics and corruption survey report stated that the level of corruption in county health services stood at 37.4 percent and that public works and services followed at 22.5 percent. Waqo said hospitals at times take advantage of situations and charge patients too much for medicine. “Something going for Sh700 at Kemsa level goes for Sh35,000 at a hospital,” he said. "Can you really call that profit?” The chief executive said the report will be used to improve medical services and ensure transparency and accountability in the sector in line with the Big Four agenda, one being universal healthcare. Commission chairman Eliud Wabukala pointed out that some of the language on medical supplies is not well understood by consumers but that they still make purchases. On transparency, Wabukala noted it will help customers understand what they take and whether it is worth the money. The former Anglican Church leader said he was surprised that medical insurance is more expensive. “I was surprised that [cash payments are lower than figures] in insurance covers where the price goes up,” he said. He said they will take appropriate steps following the report which highlights weakness, loopholes and opportunities in the area of pharmaceuticals. Wabukala lauded the government for the intensified corruption war saying "we are in a process of curing what we have done wrong in terms of corrupt practices". He added: "This is very painful but is necessary because without curing the rotten places in our management and health systems, we shall collapse.” In 2016, Kenya’s Health ministry could not account for Sh5 billion which saw Philanthropist Bill Gates say such incidences would discourage donor funding . Last year, the US Embassy in Nairobi withdrew Sh2 billion funding, following reports of a Sh3 billion scandal at the Health ministry. Read: Health tops in corruption in county government, EACC reveals More on this: Few pharmacists reason for wrong prescriptions, deaths at hospitals - KPA Click here for the latest political news