About 600 winners emerged in all the genres at the Kenya National Music Festivals, which end tomorrow. However, only about 40 teams will be selected from the winners to entertain Kenyans during the gala. The KMF entered the second week yesterday. The gala will be on Thursday. Event chairman Peter Wanjohi urged Kenyans to attend and “witness the very best of the winners”. The first week featured performances by Early Childhood Development Education children, primary schools, special needs learners and teacher training colleges whose performances ended on Friday evening. National anthem A total of 52,730 learners from the four levels participated in the event and were accompanied by 3,439 teachers. They included 1,492 ECDE learners, 40,619 primary school children and 10,619 TTC learners. The event was held at Dedan Kimathi University of Technology. “We are aware that a few primary schools were not able to participate in the national festival due to transport challenges,” Wanjohi said during a briefing to the media. Read:Music festival starts with unity as theme “But the Ministry of Education will continue working on that to ensure every child in Kenya is accorded the opportunity to participate in this talent development programme.” During the second week of the festival, secondary schools, technical and vocational institutions and universities will be performing. There were a variety of themes during the first week of the festival, with some primary school children, TTCs and secondary schools singing the national anthem. This, according to Wanjohi, was introduced to ensure all learners are able to sing the national anthem in Kiswahili. Other themes include the Big Four agenda to enable Kenyans learn through poetry and music what the government plans to implement. Primary schools addressed the issue of the Big Four agenda. Experts from india The themes of countering violent extremism and terrorism, online safety and safe use of the internet were also addressed by primary school children. Festival executive secretary Ruth Agesa said oriental music also ended on Friday. Experts from India had arrived to adjudicate the category. Also Read:Nyeri traders scramble for permits ahead of music gala Click here for the latest political news