Knut has said the September 1 nationwide strike will go ahead if the teachers’ employer fails to heed to their demands. The Teachers Service Commission has called for a meeting on August 21 to resolve some of the issues raised. But Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said the TSC should not try to bulldoze its agenda. “The TSC should adequately prepare to heed to our demands on August 21. If they do not listen to some of our demands, we shall invoke the weapons, which we have restrained to use for a very long time, and that is strike action,” he said. Sossion addressed the press on the sidelines of the four-day 10th African Confederation of Principals (ACP) conference at the Pride Inn Paradise Hotel, Mombasa. Read: We want dialogue but won’t take punitive policies lying down – Knut He said the TSC should prepare to listen and concede to all teachers’ demand. “We would not wish there would be a stalemate. The TSC must prepare itself for sufficient concessions so that teachers can remain free and do their work freely. We are not opposed to ideas of originating new policies that affect teaching, but there must be wide and extensive consultation,” Sossion said. He said they will soon dispatch their demands to the commission so the August 21 meeting will be structured and successful. List of issues Among the issues teachers want addressed are the transfer of school heads (delocalisation), Teacher Performance Appraisal and Development, and promotion of teachers, among others. “We are very clear about the promotion of teachers. It is a right, an intellectual right, therefore it is not negotiable nor reduceable. We are very clear on the Teacher Performance Appraisal and Development system, which has been rolled out by the TSC,” Sossion said. “That system is a big issue globally and Europe have dropped it, who are we to adopt it in Kenya?” He said the transfer of school heads is breaking marriages. “We shall stand against delocalisation of teachers, which is breaking families and hurting education and other accompanying policies that we were not consulted,” the Knut secretary general said. Sossion said this time they are on a policy war with the national government and not salaries as has been the norm. “We want to protect and preserve education and our freedom as teachers. Any policy that is formulated without our involvement, we shall stand up against it,” he said. On Saturday, Knut assistant secretary general Collins Oyuu said the delocalisation of school heads is bad for the teaching fraternity. Bad for rhino bad for man He said 11 rhinos died at Tsavo East National Park after they were delocalised and the same fate might befall many school heads if they are forcibly delocalised. “Do you want us to die the same way the rhinos died at Tsavo after they were delocalised? No, we shall not allow that to happen, and it’s either you listen to us or we will down our tools,” Oyuu said. He spoke in Mombasa during Knut Mombasa Branch Annual General Meeting at Ronald Ngala Primary School. Oyuu said it has been established that out of the 70 schools that have experienced unrest, 58 had new heads, proof that students are going on rampage because of delocalisation. “The issue about students fearing examinations is just a fallacy. TSC should know that schools are burning because of this delocalisaton of school heads,” he said. Click here for
the latest political news