There are fears the government might not achieve its Big Four agenda because of poor consumption of local products. Kirinyaga entrepreneur Njiru Mkombozi yesterday said there aren’t enough funds to implement the Big Four development plan. The pillars include manufacturing, universal healthcare, affordable housing and food security. In April, the Jubilee administration said it was seeking the support of counties to have governors align their development plans with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s one million homes dream. Financial infrastructure A concept paper prepared by the presidency says the administration would push to put in place legal and financial infrastructure this year to roll out the ambitious project. The national government wants to work closely with the counties to build the homes. It intends to first create a substantial ‘land bank’ for the homes and allocate financing for supporting infrastructure, including power, water and roads. The government has far-reaching legal proposals to align legislation with its ambitious plan to cover major cities and towns. But Mkombozi said public colleges and universities still use imported goods. The proprietor of the Nice City Mall in Ngurubani, Mwea, cited the rice industry, which he said is hurt by imports from Thailand and Pakistan. The trader said the government cannot expect to get adequate fund from local farmers to finance the development plan if their rice, coffee and tea remain in their stores. “The farmer is greatly oppressed in a big way. The state should start by looking for foreign markets and get rid of brokers,” Mkombozi said. Poor markets He also faulted the poor miraa market. In April last year, Meru politicians dismissed recommendations of the Miraa Task Force presented to Uhuru at State House, Nairobi. Led by Michael Mutembei, they said the Sh1.2 billion the President directed be released should be an afterthought, not the priority. The leaders said the main problem is lack of markets for miraa. Mutembei criticised a recommendation that farmers be given money to buy seeds through a sacco, terming it  not a well-rehearsed idea.