The parliamentary committee probing poisonous sugar yesterday indicted Treasury CS Henry Rotich, EAC CS Adan Mohammed and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett and ordered they be investigated. The joint committee on Agriculture and Trade directed DCI George Kinoti to establish the culpability of the three in allowing poisonous sugar into the country. In a report tabled yesterday, the team said the Cabinet secretaries, through acts of omission and commission, were responsible for exposing Kenyans to contaminated sugar, risking lives of millions of Kenyans. The probe team chaired by Kanini Kega of Kieni and Adan Haji of Mandera East said Mohammed —who was minister for Industralisation and Trade — failed to safeguard safety and quality of sugar. Read: Your sugar has mercury, lab results show Rotich, the report said, allowed excess importation of duty-free sugar through a record four gazette notices within five months. Bett — now Kenya’s high commissioner to India — waived duty for 14 companies, denying the country billions in taxation, the report says. Not spared were sugar barons, whose consignments were found unfit for human consumption. The team wants Kinoti to investigate and prosecute them for flooding the market with contaminated sugar. According to the 62-page report, sugar impounded at Nairobi’s Moi Airbase and at Webuye West in Bungoma county tested positive for mercury. The findings were  submitted to the committee by the Government Chemist. Kenya Bureau of Standards results showed lead and copper in the sugar seized at Diamond Wholesalers godown in Eastleigh, Nairobi, and  Paleah Stores in Ruiru, Kiambu. Mercury is highly toxic and can damage the brain, central nervous system, lungs, kidneys, heart, and immune system. “All sugar that does not comply with the set standards and hence is unfit for human consumption should be destroyed by the multi-agency task force or any other appropriate government agencies within 21 days of the adoption of the report,” the committee recommends. The parliamentary team called for release of sugar complying with Kebs standards. The revelations support earlier remarks by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i that imported sugar was laced with heavy metals — mercury, arsenic, lead and copper. Read: 63% of impounded sugar unfit for human consumption - Munya The committee, which was twice extended, was bitterly split as members accused the leadership of attempting a cover-up of sugar barons and officials. Last week, the team failed to agree on conclusions of the report it was preparing in Mombasa.They abandoned the process and returned to Nairobi. A member of the committee told the Star the  38 committee members had to walk out on Kanini and Haji before they could have their way on a hard-hitting final report. “We were forced to walkout from the two chairs before we could agree on our final report, they [Kanini and Haji] found themselves alone in the room,” the source said. Click here for the latest political news