Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa have eulogised former UN secretary general Kofi Annan who died in Switzerland at age 80. The two leaders addressed residents on Saturday at Kanduyi Stadium during a celebration mass for Bishop Norman Wambua for 20 years in service. They described Annan as a pillar that helped Kenya achieve the peace deal during the 2007-08 post-election violence. “It’s with consternation and shock that I have learned of the passing on of a distinguished son of Africa and diplomat par excellence who helped bring peace in Kenya in 2007- 08,” Wetang’ula said. Read: Former UN chief Kofi Annan dies at 80 He said Annan is the first black African man to be the secretary general of United Nations, where he served amicably with integrity. The Ford Kenya boss described Annan as a consummate politician and diplomat who was softspoken but firm. “I feel proud as a Kenyan who was sent by former President Mwai Kibaki to visit President John Kufuor of Ghana during the 2007-08 post-election violence where many Kenyans died. We agreed we would bring in a team of eminent Africans lead by Annan and supported by President Benjamin Mkapa and Mama Gracia Machel to help the then burning Kenya,” he said. See: Uhuru, Ruto steer clear of Kofi Annan's mediation in Kenya as leaders mourn envoy “We sat at Serena and through Annan’s wisdom, we helped to reduce the temperature of politics in the country and he was able to instill some responsible degree of hygiene in our politics.” Wetan’gula said Annan led Kenyans into midwifing the Constitution. He said Annan also helped establish the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission. “To honour this great son of Africa, I urge you President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Jubilee government to fully implement the TJRC report that helped us look at our past and present and focus on our future,” he said. Wamalwa said Annan was a good friend to Kenyans and helped solve many issues. “We are saying sorry to his family and to honour him, let us embrace the handshake that was there on March 9 between Uhuru and [Nasa leader] Raila Odinga,” he said. More: Kofi Annan: A champion of peace and best example of humanity Click here for
the latest political news 