 Starring: Gabriel Macht, Rick Hoffman,
Sarah Rafferty, Amanda Schull, Dulé Hill, Katherine Heigl Seasons: 8 Season premier: July
18  Before the fairy
tale wedding of the century took place between Prince Harry and actress Meghan
Markle on May 19, the whole world was abuzz with the shy
biracial actress who was about to become a real-life princess. If nothing else
brought attention to the television show Suits, then this wedding definitely
gave it a worldwide publicity. In the seven seasons fans like myself have been
watching Suits, we’ve fallen for the bromance between street-smart Mike Ross
and steel lawyer Harvey Specter. But we stayed loyal to the show as we watched
the budding romance between Mike and paralegal Rachel Zane (Markle). As the season
closed last year both actors decided to leave the show, hence the Royal
Marriage. This move would have certainly been catastrophic for the show if not
for the overwhelming publicity the show got for having one of its casts turn
into princess. With a whole new viewership interested in the show that made Markle who she was, Suits revamped the cast and storyline by evading
the story of Rachel and Mike. In the new
season, Rachel’s father Robert Zane has partnered with Harvey and Lewis Litt to
revamp their firm. Robert brings with him a cutthroat tough right-hand man…well,
woman, Samantha Wheeler. And with the absence of Mike, Harvey relies heavily on
Alex Williams. Alex and Samantha battle it out to become the next name partner;
while Robert and Harvey go toe to toe on the management of the firm. With new
and old lawyers fighting for their chance under the bright spotlight, the firm
is left at stake as everyone is only focused on their own personal agenda. As a brand-new
show to the new viewers, the show is a great legal drama that is ruthless and
exciting. But to the rest of us who have been with the show from its pilot, we
are too broken-hearted about the break-up of the ferocious duo, Mike and Harvey,
to find anything else just as inspired.