Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka found himself on the receiving end for asking President Uhuru Kenyatta to order charges against the 'Pangani Six' politicians charged with hate-speech dropped. Kalonzo's plea to Uhuru to ask Attorney General Kihara Kariuki to review the charges in the spirit of the handshake sparked an uproar on Wednesday during the former MPs' conference. On June 17, eight politicians were arraigned and released on bail for alleged hate speech after spending four days in the cells. Lawmakers Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Florence Mutua (Busia Woman Representative), and Governor Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu) still have their case pending in court. Also charged were former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire and the ex-Machakos senator Johnstone Muthama. Kalonzo, at the Wednesday meeting, said that as an advocate, he finds the cases a waste of public money. "The President in the spirit of the handshake and forgiveness should ask the Attorney General to review charges against the Pangani Six," he said at Safari Park Hotel in Nairobi. More than 200 ex-legislators under their Former Parliamentarians Initiative met to discuss their role in promoting national cohesion and unity in line with Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga's handshake. Kalonzo's sentiments elicited an uproar from some former legislators led by Kabando wa Kabando (Mukurweini) who warned that dropping the charges would encourage impunity. "Dropping the cases would promote impunity. We should not be asking the President to drop the cases because he did not draft the charges. Independent institutions should be left to work without interference and that is what the President has said," Kabando said. Kalonzo, in a quick rejoinder, disagreed with the former legislator on letting corruption suspects off the hook on grounds their cases amount to serious economic crimes compared to the Pangani Six. However, Kabando said he can only support the cases to be dropped once lawful ways are followed such as Kalonzo kick-starting negotiations with the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to drop the cases. "I know most of my colleagues would support such a process because it would strengthen the handshake. All pre-handshake politically related cases can be terminated through negotiations with relevant constitutional bodies not through President's interference," he said. It was not the first time the Wiper leader came up with the proposal. On May 6, he asked the President to order the cases dropped in a "show of true forgiveness'. More on this: Kalonzo wants Uhuru to drop Pangani 6 cases to show true forgiveness The accused lawmakers, largely Jubilee Party and National Super Alliance die-hards, earned the Pangani Six tag after spending four days in the Pangani police cells. Read: Pangani 6, Muthaiga 2 ‘earned’ time in cell The heated debate between Kalonzo and Kabando forced Bosire, who is facing incitement charges, to cut in and said their cases should not be dropped instead the hearings should proceed to the final verdict as per the law. "The charges should not be dropped. We will fight them in court with our lawyers. I know these charges were politically motivated to curtail our freedom of speech by the state in responding to hate utterances by the Gatundu South MP," Bosire said. He insisted that incitement charges against them are baseless since it was the government's ploy to intimidate them for speaking on behalf of the people. Muthama, however, differed with Bosire and backed Kalonzo's call to have their cases dropped. "These charges are a waste of time and public funds. I agree with what Kalonzo said and those opposing are doing so within their democratic guarantees. We cannot have everybody agreeing on the same things," Muthama said. The former Machakos Senator insisted that two counts of incitement allegations levelled against him cannot hold water, hence, his call to have them dropped. Click here for the latest political news 