At least three people were killed in
Zimbabwe's capital Harare on Wednesday as soldiers opened fire
to disperse stone-throwing opposition supporters who accused the
ruling party of trying to rig Monday's presidential election,
witnesses said. Gunfire crackled in the streets while troops, backed by
armoured vehicles and a military helicopter and some with their
faces masked, cleared the streets. One person was shot dead near a bus rank, witnesses at the
scene told a Reuters photographer. The deployment of soldiers and their beating of unarmed
protesters is a setback to President Emmerson Mnangagwa's
efforts to shed Zimbabwe's pariah status after decades of
repression under Robert Mugabe, who was ousted in a coup in
November. Even before the violence, European Union observers
questioned the conduct of the presidential and parliamentary
poll, the first since Mugabe's forced resignation after nearly
40 years in charge of the Southern African nation. Read: EU observers offer mixed picture of first Zimbabwe vote since Mugabe exit The unrest started soon after opposition Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC) leader Nelson Chamisa claimed he had won
the popular vote. Also read: Victory is certain, Zimbabwe opposition candidate tells voters Scores of his supporters who had been burning tyres in the
streets then attacked riot police near the Zimbabwe Election
Commision (ZEC) headquarters. Officers responded with tear gas
and water-cannon. "I was making a peaceful protest. I was beaten by soldiers,"
said Norest Kemvo, who had gashes to his face and right hand.
"This is our government. This is exactly why we wanted change.
They are stealing our election." United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called on
Zimbabwe's political leaders and people to exercise restraint
and reject any form of violence. Justice Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi said the army had been
called in to ensure "peace and tranquility". A police spokeswoman said the troops were deployed at the
request of police, who could not cope with the violence. They
will remain under police command, the spokeswoman, Charity
Charamba said. However, without the international community's stamp of
approval for the election, Zimbabwe's next leader will struggle
to unlock the billions of dollars of international donor finance
needed to get the shattered economy back on its feet. The EU observers expressed concern about delays in releasing
the results of the presidential contest, a two-horse race
between Chamisa and Mnangagwa, head of the ruling ZANU-PF party. As gunfire echoed through downtown Harare, Mnangagwa called
for calm and urge patience while results were collated. Many protesters accused the army of unprovoked brutality. "We had no weapons. Why are the army here beating us?
shooting us? This is not an election it is a disgrace on our
country," one young man, Colbert Mugwenhi, said. A Reuters witness saw soldiers with sticks beat two people
and counted at least five trucks full of soldiers. "We are tired of them stealing our votes. This time we will
not allow it, we will fight," said one protester who wore a red
MDC beret in central Harare. "ONE-SIDED" The electoral commission had said it would start announcing
results for the presidential race from 10.30 GMT but that was
then pushed back at least 24 hours. Read: Zimbabweans vote in first election since Mugabe's removal With three seats yet to be declared in the parliamentary
contest, ZANU-PF had 144 seats compared to 61 for the MDC,
meaning the ruling party achieved the two-thirds majority that
permits it to change the constitution at will. Chamisa said the early release of the parliamentary results
was a deliberate ploy to prepare Zimbabweans for a victory by
Mnangagwa, a former national security chief nicknamed 'The
Crocodile' and commonly referred to by the initials ED. "The strategy is meant to prepare Zimbabwe mentally to
accept fake presidential results. We've more votes than ED. We
won the popular vote (and) will defend it," Chamisa said on
Twitter. Before the violence, EU Chief Observer Elmar Brok said he
did not yet know if the shortcomings would have a material
effect on the outcome of the vote, but criticised the electoral
commission for being at times "one-sided". The EU's assessment is critical in determining whether
Zimbabwe can repair its image and attract the foreign investors
needed for an economic revival. The EU did not understand why the release of the
presidential result was taking so long, Brok said. "The longer it lasts that the results of the presidential
election is not known, the more lack of credibility it
provides," he said. Zimbabwe was once one of Africa's most promising economies
but became descended into corruption, mismanagement and
diplomatic isolation in the latter stages of Mugabe's
administration. Its population of 13 million is struggling amid shortages of
foreign currency, unemployment above 80 percent and lack of
foreign investment. Click here for the latest political news