Ukay Mall in Westlands could be the next building to be demolished. The government has earmarked 4,000 buildings for demolition because they sit on riparian land. In a report by the National Environmental Management Authority dated June 26, and based on inspection visits to riparian areas within Nairobi county, nine buildings and structures were found to be on riparian land. Among them are Fuata Nyayo informal settlement, Plot No 209/12227 off Mbagathi Way, Riverside Lane, off Riverside Drive, LR No 209/12184 along Lower Kabete Road, LR No 209/18650 along Chiromo Road/Arboretum Drive, Riverside Drive Taj Apartment, Village Market waste water plant, Westgate car park and Nakumatt Ukay car park and the commercial building. According to Nema, the buildings had been given a three-month notice, which expired on Sunday after the launch of the regeneration plan to restore Nairobi city. Read:Over 4,000 buildings to go in operation to secure Nairobi River An inter-agency team comprising officials from Nema, Water Resources Authority, the Nairobi government, ministries of Environment and Public Works, among others, was formed to bring down structures that had encroached on wetland. So far, Shell petrol station and Java outlet in Kileleshwa, and Southend Mall have been demolished. Ukay Mall is among buildings in Langa’ta, South C, Nairobi West and other parts of Nairobi that were affected by floods following the long rains experienced from March to May. In May 2016, the Nakumatt chain store housed by the mall was hit by floods and goods swept off the shelves. Westlands MP Timothy Wanyonyi then called on the county and national governments to demolish the building as it was poorly constructed and on a river. According to the Ukay Mall management, the building is not put up on a river but sits 10 metres from a canalised stream. The building manager, Veeral Shah, said they adhered to all the requirements  when putting up the building, including seeking approval from Nema, the National Construction Authority and  the Nairobi county government. Shah said they had not been served with a notice. He said Nema had actually approved a proposal to make the stream canal bigger and ensure the building and the community around it were safe. A spot check by the Star yesterday showed the building is under renovation and while some tenants were packing and ready to vacate, others were staying put. One of the tenants said the management has assured them of their safety and that they should not move out. Click here for the latest political news