Western leaders have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to form a Commission of Inquiry to probe the sugar scandal. This was captured in a petition read out during the late Kijana Wamalwa's 15th Anniversary celebrations on Thursday. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and governors from the region endorsed the petition. In the petition read out by Vihiga Governor Wilber Otichilo, the leaders decried the losses suffered by farmers who rely on sugar as a source of livelihood. Bungoma's Wycliffe Wangamati was also present. "We want the commission to iron out all the issues causing the collapse of the public sugar firms which were established in this region," Mudavadi said. They expressed concern that the production of sugarcane in the region has declined by 41.2% yet the crop is the backbone of the region's economy. The production level moved from 639.7 metric tonnes in 2016 to 376.1 metric tonnes in 2017. Also read: The poor status of Kenya's sugar industry "It is clear that the sugar cane sector is in a crisis. The importation of Sh34 billion duty-free sugar into the country ruined the farmers," part of the petition reads. Wamalwa promised to personally hand over the petition to the president for quick action saying they will no longer sit back and watch farmers suffer. The leaders, who have formed what the call a bi-partisan united front, further reiterated their commitment to ensuring that they speak in one voice. The impetus of the united front is to allow them to ride in one political vehicle in preparation for the 2022 general elections. Wangamati said they will initiate a massive voter listing drive in the IEBC's continuous registration plan. Senator Wetang’ula said time has come for the leaders in the region to have one united front that will have an impact on their quest for the presidency. "We are fed up with the belief that we must play second fiddle to others when hunting for the presidential seat yet we also have ambitions." Also read: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report Click here for the latest political news 