The Teachers Service Commission has hit back at Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion for referring to the institution as rogue. Commissioner Saadia Abdi said the teachers' employer operates in an open-door policy, is not a rogue and loves its employees. On Tuesday, Sossion blamed unnamed persons at TSC saying they are abusing
the independence of the commission to craft policies
that are stressing teachers. "The independence of
TSC is not the independence of an individual. It is for the independence
of teachers of this great nation." "Since 2015, we have seen over 82
circulars that are very difficult to implement," Sossion said on
Tuesday. But Abdi said the policies that Sossion complained about are in line with the
development of education sector in Kenya. The officer was representing TSC chairperson Lydia Nzomo at
the 14th Kenya Primary School Heads Association conference in Mombasa. "Policies are normally made to regulate, to improve, to set
standards and to set a pace for the future of any institution," she
said. She said TSC will continue coming up with new policies to make sure its
employees are happy. TSC and Knut are expected to meet on August 21 over the
issues of mass transfer of school heads (delocalisation). The meeting is also expected to deal with rows on teacher
performance appraisal and promotions. Sossion warned that if the talks fail, teachers will start a nationwide strike
as from September 1. Both primary and secondary heads are, however,
against the calls for a strike. On Tuesday, Sossion warned the Kepsha chair Shem Ndolo and
Kenya Secondary School Association chair Indimuli Kahi against meddling with the labour affairs. Also read: Keep off labour issues, Sossion tells principals for opposing strike plan He said the circulars such as Number 7 of 2018 that was issued in May to abolish all the schemes of work must be recalled. "The issue of abolishment of the scheme of service is going
to withdraw Sh5 billion teachers’ benefits every year. That is a big
blow," Sossion said. Click here for the latest political news 