Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion has blasted Kenya Primary School Heads Association and Kessha of meddling in labour matters. Kepsha chairperson Shem Ndolo and Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association's Indimuli Kahi have distanced themselves from Knut's call for a strike beginning on September 1. Knut called the strike if talks between the Teachers Service Commission and the union fail. Sossion said, “When I speak about taking some action, some people try to intimidate me. I lead a free and strong union that is free to decide its own programmes, through teachers. I urge Kepsha and Kessha to keep away from labour matters, wacha kabisa (stop immediately).” Speaking yesterday during the second day of the 14th Kenya Primary School Heads Association conference, Sossion said the planned nationwide strike is still on if TSC fails to address the issues raised by next Tuesday. The issues include delocalisation of school heads, performance appraisals and promotions. Sossion said someone at the TSC is abusing its independence by coming up with many policies that "stress" teachers. He did not mention the names behind the policies. “The independence of Teachers Service Commission is not the independence of an individual. It is for the independence of teachers of this great nation. Since 2015, we have seen over 82 circulars that are very difficult to implement,” Sossion said. He said one of the circulars that should be recalled is circular Number 7 of 2018 issued in May, which he said abolished all schemes of work. “The issue of abolishment of the scheme of service is going to withdraw Sh5 billion teachers’ benefits every year. That is a big blow,” Sossion said. He said the circular particularly targeted teachers with new and higher qualifications. “You know very well that academic qualification is an intellectual right that must be compensated by the employer, and the Code of Regulations of the Teachers in Section 73 and 74 recognizes these rights. A policy cannot replace piece of regulation that is in place,” said Sossion. He said the Teacher Performance Appraisal and Development (TPAD), which is being implemented by the TSC, in it current format bad for teachers. “TPAD, the appraisal system in its current form is very disturbing, dehumanizing and affecting teaching in this country,” he said. On the issue of the delocalosation, he said, teachers have started to die because of it. “I’m sorry to report that one teacher died today because of being he was delocalized from Marwakwet to Baringo. He has died from Malaria and we are sure it is the mosquitoes from a new environment,” said Sossion He said they are not going to accept policies that are not negotiated and agreed. “Delocalization must stop forthwith because it is against the International Labour Organization. ILO norms are very clear, teachers must be posted to their localities, where they are linguistically connected, culturally connected and emotionally connected,” he said.