Private developers that have encroached on riparian land around Lake Naivasha have until the end of the month to move or face forceful eviction. Nakuru County Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the grabbed land lies on eighteen corridors that lead to the lake. The land, he said, has been turned into flower farms and high-end hotels. "The county did issue a notice that expires on August 31 that required people who may have also encroached onto public land to retract. Those who don't, we will possibly take the necessary measures," Kinyanjui said. Read: Over 4,000 buildings to go in operation to secure Nairobi River He spoke on Tuesday when he visited Kihoto corridor which was recently opened up by the county. Kinyanjui said the opening of the corridors will grant the public free access to the lake and also allow the local communities an opportunity to exploit the lake's economic potential. "For quite a long time the access to lake Naivasha has only been through the private hotels and private land next to the lake and therefore the public has been denied access to the lake unless they go through these major private developments." The governor revealed that the corridors will be developed into recreational parks for public use. He said efforts by the county government to reclaim public land was bearing fruits with one investor having already handed back one of the grabbed public lands. “A land set aside for construction of low cost houses had been grabbed but am happy to announce that this has been returned to the county and the titles have been surrendered,” he said. Kinyanjui called on those who have encroached on riparian land to co-operate in the exercise and avoid confrontation. More: Southend Mall finally brought down Watch: [VIDEO] Java Kileleshwa hit as NEMA demolishes structures on riparian land Naivasha MP Jane Kihara who had accompanied the governor condemned the investors for blocking the corridors. She welcomed the move by the county government to reopen them saying that her office will support the exercise. Lakeview MCA Karanja Mburu, who is the brains behind a motion in the county assembly to reclaim the grabbed corridors, said that time was ripe for locals to benefit from the lake. “We thank the executive in the county government for backing this noble idea of reclaiming the riparian land and reopening all the grabbed public corridors around this lake,” he said. Nairobi has over the past weeks been the epicentre of demolitions of buildings erected on riparian and public land. The exercise is being conducted by a multi-sectoral team comprising of the National Environment and Management Authority, Nairobi County Government, Kenya National Highways Authority, and the Water Resources Management Authority. The demolitions have the blessings of President Uhuru Kenyatta who has stated openly that not even the rich and mighty will be spared in the revitalized war on impunity and corruption. So far, Southend Mall on Mbagathi Way and Ukay Mall in Westlands have been brought down. The multi-sectoral agency on unsafe structures have also issued a demolition notice to Airgate Mall, formerly Taj Mall, on Outering road, which expires by August 30. See: [VIDEO] Impunity must end! I've lost many friends over demolitions -Uhuru More on this: Prosecute officials who authorised buildings on riparian land - Uhuru Click here for the latest political news