 The once
greatly admired American system of electoral justice and democratic governance
is currently under assault from within and by the unlikeliest of attackers. It’s
hard to imagine how the country survives without long lasting and perhaps
permanent damage in some areas. But it’s not
the first time the country has had a president loathed this much. In the 1824
election, for example, no candidate had a clear majority in the Electoral
College. The election was, therefore, sent to the House of Representatives
where one of the candidates, Henry Clay, supported John Quincy Adams, who was
elected as president on the first ballot. Adams's victory shocked Andrew Jackson,
who had won the popular vote and fully expected to win. When Adams later
appointed Clay secretary of state, Jackson Democrats cried "corrupt
bargain," and were enraged at the seemingly quid pro quo arrangement. As president,
John Quincy failed to develop the political relationships needed — even among
members of his own party — to effect significant change. It didn't help that
his political opponents were set on making him a one-term president, which they
succeeded. No one can make
the case, but it wouldn’t surprise anyone if someone does, that Uhuru Kenyatta
and Raila Odinga had a deal before October 26, last year, to let the President serve
his second term akin to the deal Adams made with Clay. However,
there’s no doubting the handshake has made it possible for Uhuru to serve
peacefully and without a parallel government headed by Raila, which would made his
governing all but impossible, if not altogether bloody or chaotic, in the
least, given how things were poised before the handshake. The handshake,
whose broad objectives are being carried out by the Building Bridges to Unity
Advisory Task Force, is not without its naysayers but it’s safe to say none of
them are as astute and politically savvy as the brains behind the handshake
that can collectively be referred to as Raila. The taskforce's
chairman, Yusuf Haji, and vice chairman Adams Oloo delivered the report to
Raila and noted they are organising a national convention in Nairobi to collect
views from wananchi and later plan regional and town hall meetings to interact
with those who may not have a chance to come to Nairobi. In other words,
we have a remaking of the orange democratic movement that gave us the 2010
Constitution. Question is, what’s this movement afoot and what shall it give
us? To this writer
and all progressives, this is got to be the Third and Final Liberation of Kenya
movement and, that being the case, we have a few dream items we hope can be
accomplished as we get ready for transformation of our country, finally, to
political maturity and prosperity felt by all. These dreams
are, not in any particular order, first, to ensure the ongoing war on
corruption is real and we, in fact, see a parade of corrupt individuals hauled
to jail, and assets recovered, while instituting mechanisms to ensure there is no
more looting. Call this our
mother of all our dreams. Second, can we
please finally have an electoral board that can conduct transparent, open and
fair elections, where the victors are determined by voters, not vifaranga vya
komputa? The corollary to that is the demand that the President himself sees to
it we never again have the kind of in-your-face, thuggish rigging we’ve
witnessed in the past and his not vying again should be an imperative to erase
this past and chart a new legacy by ensuring that this dream is achieved with
his help. Third, let the
handshake give us a government of national unity, which has become a useless
cliché as phenomenon. It’s inexcusable and sinful for two tribes to hoard all
plum jobs and now even any meaningful job at the expense of the rest of the
country. That only sows seeds of discord that lead to continued hatred and
divisiveness among Kenyans. We’re all
Kenyans and deserve equal or at least equitable share in the country’s pie, be
it in jobs or resource allocation.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States  