DPP Noordin Haji has ordered the arrest of seven officials from Homa Bay County Assembly over the loss of Sh26 million public funds. They are said to be involved in a fictitious procurement and payment of MCAs' allowances for the financial years 2014/15 and 2016/17. In a statement on Thursday, Haji said those involved are the county assembly clerk, Members of the County Assembly, together with suspects from finance and procurement department. Haji said the payments were made through procurement of hotel services and payments of MCAs' allowances. They include; Micheal Owino Ooro, Issac Nyandege, Judith Omongi, Otieno Bob Kephas, Caroline Sang, Morris Amok and Edwin Okollo. "I have received the file and I am satisfied the persons named herein actively participated in the perpetration of the alleged criminal activities and should, therefore, be charged and prosecuted," he said. Haji said they will be charged with various economic crimes. In February, some Homa Bay MCAs asked the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate cases of alleged corruption at the assembly. They accused some top assembly officials of using public funds to serve their personal interests. More on this: Homa Bay MCAs want anti-graft agency to probe misuse of funds Last year, the EACC raided the assembly and some officials were arrested. The commission said at least Sh400 million had been misused. A healthy working relationship between DCI chief George Kinoti and Haji is said to be the force behind the new anti-corruption purge. Unlike their predecessors, Ndegwa Muhoro and Keriako Tobiko, who literally could not see eye to eye, the new pair has a good working relationship. Haji and Kinoti have become the new champions of the anti-corruption war. Less than six months after taking office, the duo has gone after big names in the NYS and Kenya Power scandals. Top officials in government, who in the past seemed untouchable, have been arrested and charged. More on this: Good relationship between DCI, DPP shapes war on corruption Also read:Turf wars: Unease at EACC as Kinoti takes charge Click here for the latest political news