Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday denied snubbing the Senate Committee meeting probing the Ruaraka land matter. Through his spokesman Mwenda Njoka, the CS said the letter inviting him to appear before the Senate on Monday at 8am arrived in his office yesterday at 4pm. “We were not aware of this meeting therefore, there was no way we could have snubbed the senators,” Njoka said. The Senate committee said yesterday that they would go ahead and write their report without the input of the CS. Matiang’i was Education CS when partial compensation of Sh1.5 billion was made to Whispering Palms Estate Limited – a sister company to Afrison Export and Import Limited and Huelands Limited. Senate Public Accounts and In- vestments Committee had invited Matiang’i to appear before it last Friday to shed light on the Sh3.2 billion compulsory acquisition of land hosting Ruaraka High School and Driving Primary School. Matiang’i said he was also not aware of this invitation. The committee chaired by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ said, “We have listened to all the wit-nesses and CS Matiang’i was the final person that we thought could shed light on this matter. His non- appearance will not affect the work of the committee and the report that we will draft.” Last weekend, the committee retreated for report writing and said it is confident that by the end of this week, the report will be ready. “We shall table it on the floor of the House next week,” Kajwang’ said. Matiang’i was slated to respond to Education CS Amina Mohamed who appeared to pass the buck back to him, her predecessor, for not adhering to recommendations of an internal report to authorise Sh1.5 billion payments for the controversial land. “After the process was initiated by the National Land Commission, a team was sent out to verify facts on the ground. The team came back with a report. The recommendations entailed in the report were not fully followed,” Amina told the committee. Amina said she could not understand why the payment was made in haste. Read: Ask Matiang’i about Ruaraka land purchase, Amina tells Senate Also read: Swazuri: I didn’t initiate compensation for Ruaraka land FULL PAYMENT She said she did not consider the payments an emergency that necessitated they be factored into a supplementary budget. “The letter that we received from the National Land Commission said that we should urgently compen- sate for this piece of land. When I read that letter, I had the same question in my mind; that these schools had been in the land for 30 years, why was it so urgent to compensate?” she asked. “I have not had any discussion with those who were in office then to find out why there was urgency for compensation. Maybe as per that time there was certain urgency in addressing the issue. I was not in office at that time,” she said. Lands CS Farida Karoney had told the committee that the government ought to have followed due process during the acquisition of 13.7 acres of land. “We could have done better as a government on the process of purchasing the land,” Karoney said. But Swazuri told the National Assembly Lands committee chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai that the Ministry of Education would only receive title deed for the piece of land once the full payment of Sh3,269,040,600 is cleared. More on this: Ruaraka land broker turns state witness Click here for the latest political news