The Cabinet on Tuesday approved the establishment of the National Kiswahili Council. The proposal was in line with Article 137 of the East African Community Treaty. The agreement provides that Kiswahili shall be promoted, developed and used as "Lingua franca” of the EAC. The Council will be a consultative body whose functions are improving government policy on developing, protecting and supporting Kiswahili. It will also coordinate the work of national and regional associations, cultural entities, educational and other organisations working in the area of Kiswahili. The Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, also approved the creation of the Kenya National Shipping Line (KNSL). It also gave the nod to the Likoni Cable Car system to address the human traffic challenges across the Likoni channel. The impetus of the revival of KNSL, notes from the meeting show, was to create a mechanism for growing the blue economy. "The recovery strategy proposed among other things, giving the company the sole mandate to handle cargo," the briefs from the meeting state in part. It adds that the move will see Bandari College upgraded into an academy and a centre of excellence to train the people that will work in the shipping line. "The revival of the shipping line will also save the country Sh300 billion per annum, money that is normally lost when using other shipping lines." Cabinet ministers also pointed that refurbishing of the shipping line will create 10,000 jobs in the Coast region. "It will also integrate the Lamu Port, South Sudan, Ethiopia Transport (LAPSSET) Corridor, Kilindini Harbour and the Northern Corridor to ease the transportation of cargo." For the Cable Car venture, members of the Cabinet said the project, sponsored by a Kenyan and Austrian company, will be capable of moving 5,500 passengers on either side of the ferry's route. "It is estimated to cost Sh4.1 billion and will be implemented as a 25-year Build Own Operate Transfer (BOOT) public-private partnership," Uhuru's administration stated. The Cabinet also granted approval for Kenya to host the Global Sustainable Blue Economy Conference (SBEC) which is scheduled to take place in Nairobi later in November. Click here for the latest political news 