Classic 105's fan Captain Kale, who is known for his harsh criticism, has urged women to submit to their husbands, just like it is written in the Bible. (Ephesians 5:22-33) "Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to the Lord. 23 For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. 24 Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything." "My wife is very submissive. There is no day I have reached home before her. Any woman who got into marriage for the right reasons is very submissive not those women who get married because of money or unwanted pregnancy," he told Word Is. Kale, who is known for commenting on various topics on Classic 105's morning breakfast show, is an advocate of men's issues. "Most women, after a year or so in marriage, get bored with their husbands and that's why some of these guys chase after side chics. Side chics are slowly taking over marriages. They treat you like a small baby and spice up bedroom matters," he said. Although Captain Kale approves of men having side chics, he cautions the women not to feel so comfortable, saying; "No man will ever leave his legally married wife for you. All these men want is to have fun and nothing much. Also, do not get pregnant for married men, you will have yourself to blame because many [are] already done with taking care of children." The regular contributor in the Maina and King'ang'i show says he cannot spend money on any woman who's not his wife or relative. "The only woman I can spend money on is my wife, my mother, and sister. But I cannot spend my money on a side chic." Relationships between young women and old men (popularly known as sponsors) have been the talk of the town. Kale says, "Greed for money is the root of sponsors. Nowadays, some women don't want to work hard but date old men to foot their bills." Kale is against such relationships and he says, "Sponsors are done with life and all they're waiting for is death. Most of them will never marry you! Even if he marries you at 60, while you're 30, he won't live for long. Stop wasting your precious time and go for a partner who's slightly older than you!. In short, you'll never be happy dating an old man or woman." He urged parents and father figures to provide for their daughters so they are not swayed by worldly goods. 