Kenya’s leading designer John Kaveke and other iconic African fashion designers have created 12 extraordinary outfits using data extracted from Johannesburg, Lagos and Nairobi. The Fabric project launched in Johannesburg on August 23.  Kaveke has been at the forefront of unveiling revolutionary trends, some of which were showcased last week during the New York Fashion Week. He launched his fashion label in 1999 and is well known for his bold contemporary style. He is a free-spirited individual with a passion for reconstructing vibrations through his work. John Kaveke said there was no better way to tell the story than through fashion. “Fashion and technology are a universal language, and the two combined create a formidable team,” he said.  The power of technology and fashion have combined in a thought-provoking project that demonstrates how data can transform African cities. Tech leader Siemens used data from the three African cities and wove it into unique fabrics that tell a story about each city.  Three iconic African fashion designers then used the fabrics to create one-of-a-kind outfits, which are as stylish as they are smart.  Siemens South Africa group communications head Keshin Govender said, “This is how we thought to express the aspect of digitalisation. As urbanisation rapidly increases, cities need to start preparing for the effects it will have on infrastructure, energy, water and transportation systems.”  Adding, “Data gives greater insight into what makes each city tick, helping us make calculated decisions and improve service delivery to the people. Through the Fabric project, it was evident that the challenge is not what to do with the avalanche of data but rather accessing reliable and recent data.  “This project has highlighted the need for access to data to make sound urban planning decisions.”  Siemens is well positioned in automation, electrification and digitalisation to find solutions to the various problems of today. It is uniquely positioned to unlock the potential of digitalisation through its combination of digital expertise, domain know-how and understanding of hardware to leverage digital technologies and optimise operations.