It was smooth sailing for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nominees for principal
secretaries and envoys as MPs yesterday adopted the vetting committee report
and approved their appointment. The move now paves way for President Uhuru to officially appoint them to
serve in their new stations. Former top sleuth Ndegwa Muhoro and ex-SRC boss Sarah Serem were among the
nominees whose approval by the Defence and Foreign Relations committee
generated heated debate on the floor of the House. Serem heads to China as Kenyan ambassador while Muhoro will be the
ambassador in Malaysia. Some MPs had threatened to shoot down Serem’s nomination on the basis she
was behind MPs’ salaries cut during her tenure as the head of the Salaries and
Remuneration Commission. The MPs accused her of not being a team player and having poor negotiation
skills they said contributed to strikes. “It is only a wise man who changes his position. I am happy Sarah Serem is
going to change in a far country. Now she will be in China and there is no Internet
in China which she can use to influence decisions,” National Assembly Majority
leader Aden Duale said. Minority leader John Mbadi said the former SRC boss needs to learn
interpersonal skills to enable her work with other people. “Let’s approve Sarah Serem as our ‘handshake’ but let her learn that when
you are given a position of leadership, you should not use such office to
demean other people,” Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo said. MPs had voiced concern with Muhoro over the numerous cases of extrajudicial
killings and forced disappearances during his tenure as the country’s top
detective. Defence and Foreign Affairs committee chair Kajiado South MP Katoo Metito
confirmed they received two petitions against Muhoro but only one was
considered as the other was time barred. “On Muhoro people had issues but the complexity of the office he was holding
should be appreciated,” stated Mbadi. Also approved were former State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu (United
Kingdom), Lt Gen (rtd) Samuel Thuita (Israel), Lt Gen (rtd) Johnson Ondieki
(Turkey), Nicholas Ogego (Saudi Arabia) and Chris Mburu (South Sudan), former
Kasipul Kabondo MP Paddy Ahenda (Qatar) and former Ainamoi MP Benjamin Lang’at
(Namibia). MPs also approved President Uhuru’s nominees for PS Francis Owino (Youth)
and Esther Koimett (Transport).