He squeezes my
throat gently. “You have to trust me,” he says. He keeps squeezing as he rubs
my clitoris with his other hand. He dips a finger inside me and I try and gasp
from the sensation but his hand is still around my neck. The pressure doesn’t
totally restrict my breathing though... But I can barely get a breath out. The
whole thing feels very intense and I’m getting seriously aroused. The carotid arteries on the sides of my neck carry lots of
oxygen-rich blood to the brain. Rob is restricting that blood flow thereby
producing feelings of light-headedness and giddiness. This is also heightening
the sensations he is causing as he alternates between stimulating my clitoris
and dipping his fingers inside me. He presses my neck harder and harder, the
chokehold now cutting off all my air supply and then suddenly, releases the
pressure. I am not ready for what happens next. The sudden rush of oxygen back
to my brain gives me a sense of euphoria and my body racks up and down with an
orgasm I have never experienced before. That is like an out of body experience.
It’s unimaginable. I can’t quite put it into words. My body takes time to calm
down; probably as confused as I am by whether I was just about to die or had
just experienced heaven. “We need a set of
rules,” he says interrupting my pleasure filled thoughts. He gently kisses my
neck that’s probably going to bruise. “Rules?” I ask
confused. “Yes, rules of
engagement. But right now you have to leave,” he says looking at the clock on
his bedside. My meeting! I
can’t be late for that. I jump out of my bed and get dressed. His fluids mixed
with mine are sneaking down my thighs. This is what you get when you don’t wear
underwear. “Can I use your
bathroom?” I ask. He points me in
the direction of it. It’s a tiny space where the shower and loo are in the same
room. Oh crap. I wipe myself off with some tissue; no way I’m taking a shower
here. What type of rules is he talking about? I stare into the mirror and touch
my neck. That was some crazy, kinky stuff! He was legit strangling me a few
minutes ago! I laugh at the absurdity of it all. I wonder if he wants to give me
a contract like Mr. Christian Grey in ‘Fifty Shades of Grey’. That will be a
hoot! I leave the
bathroom and find him waiting for me in the living room holding my coat. He
slides it on for me. “What rules?” I
ask again. “Think about 30
things you want from me, I’ll do the same and we’ll exchange the lists,” he
responds. “Think of me as a genie in a bottle, whatever you ask of me I will do
and vice versa.” “Anything?” I ask. “Yes, within
reason.  Don’t ask for a trip to Mars,”
he says. Looking around his
dump of a place, I can guess what his list will consist of. Probably wants an
upgrade or something. I grab my bag and he walks me out. He’s the perfect
gentleman. I make it home in record time, there’s no traffic yet. I take a
shower and get dressed. Walking is a problem. I’m very sore. It feels like I’m
carrying around an iron rod in my vagina. My meeting is long. It drags on till
after lunch. I wonder what everyone on this table would think if they knew what
I was doing before I got here. I instinctively touch my neck again. What a
naughty girl you are, Samantha.    