President Uhuru Kenyatta will today hold talks with US President Donald Trump as he kicks off tight, high-profile global engagements with superpowers. According to his schedule, Uhuru will in a month hold high-level diplomatic meetings with the leaders of the US, Britain and China. On Thursday, Uhuru will host British Prime Minister Theresa May at State House, Nairobi. This would be May’s first visit to Africa since coming to power. Shortly thereafter, Uhuru will fly out to China for the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). The three meetings come at a time when Uhuru is grappling with the funding of his Big Four agenda, the President and his delegation are keen to tap from foreign investment. No cracks in Jubilee as claimed by media, detractors — DP Ruto Deputy President William Ruto On Sunday dismissed claims of cracks in Jubilee. He said the party is united and firmly under one leader — Uhuru Kenyatta. Ruto said JP was conceived and formed to unite the people and cannot have camps. Ruto said claims he and his allies plan to take control of the party are generated by those who have all along held reservations about his ties with the President. Millions of pupils go without textbooks for eight months The Education ministry is on the spot over missing textbooks meant for three classes in upper primary under the new government distribution policy. Millions of pupils in Standard 4, 5 and 6 have not received textbooks since January. School heads, who spoke to the Star, said no funds to buy books were sent to schools. In January the government adopted a textbook a distribution policy that slashed government capitation meant to buy books. MPs cut gaming tax by 20 per cent Parliament has bowed to pressure from the gambling sector to cut the 35 per cent tax on betting and gaming services to 15 per cent. A report on the consideration of the Finance Bill, 2018 shows that the decision was made to preserve the economic and social contributions of the sector to the people. "Section 29A of the Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Act is amended in subsection 1 by deleting the expression thirty-five and substituting therefor the expression fifteen," committee on Finance and National planning said in the report. Did senators ask for Sh100m on Ruaraka report? A Senate panel has summoned four senators over allegations they tried to extort Sh100 million to influence the final report on the Ruaraka land probe. The Powers and Privileges Committee chaired by Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has written to the four lawmakers who allegedly demanded the money from Afrison director Francis Mburu to face the panel this Thursday. Mburu wrote a statement and submitted an audio recording to the DCI, implicating Public Accounts and Investments Committee members. Your Weather NAIROBI: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Low 12ºC. High 24ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 80%. MOMBASA: Partly cloudy during the day, generally clear at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. KISUMU: Partly cloudy, with a possible thunderstorm. Low 19ºC. High 27ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 30%.  