The Federation of Kenya Employers says government is targeting them with the Finance Bill 2018, warning it will push companies out of business, rendering many people jobless. Last month, High Court suspended the implementation of new taxes imposed under the Finance Bill 2018, including those on mobile money and kerosene. Justice Wilfrida Okwany issued the directive after activist Okiya Omtatah challenged the implementation of the new tax measures saying the matter had not been discussed in Parliament as required by the law. Speaking during the board meeting held yesterday, employers said most components of the Bill target them including 0.5 per cent housing levy, a robin hood tax on money transfers in excess of Sh500,000 and proposed National Hospital Insurance Fund. ‘’The level of taxation proposed in the Bill coupled with successive increases in the Statutory Minimum Wages have added significant costs to doing business and companies will most likely rethink their decision to stay in this market,’’ FKE statement read. FKE chief executive Jacqueline Mugo said it is employers who do bank transactions in excess of Sh500,000 while remitting salary components and borrowing from banks. The Finance Bill proposes a 0.05 per cent tax on money transferred by banks, money transfer agencies and other financial service providers in case of money transfer of five hundred thousand shillings or more. ‘’The Bill will see employers be punished for paying salaries. Employees taking loans from their respective Saccos in excess of Sh500,000 will not be spared either,’’ Mugo said. She added that Robin Hood tax will increase the cost of reinsurance as the foreign reinsurance companies will certainly push up premiums by five per cent. They also asked the government to provide Judiciary with adequate finance to conduct its functions. ‘’We call upon the government to review the budgetary allocation to the Judiciary and ensure it is adequately funded to enable it play its role in the dispensation of justice as envisaged,’’ employers said. They also asked the government to take action on officers who sanctioned mass importation of sugar in the country saying this has killed the local sugar sector. 