For the first time in Kenya, the war
against the perpetual systemic and endemic corruption has taken a new direction.
With this momentum, the current misery and poverty caused by graft, which are
now the normal conditions for ordinary citizens, will be history, that is if
all patriotic Kenyans support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s clarion call. On July 27, 2018, at 07:09 hours, the
President tweeted:  “Wakenya wenzangu, the war against corruption and
economic crimes is about the wellbeing of our Republic. Let’s all join hands
and vigorously fight this vice”. This is a call for revulsion against
acceptance of misery and poverty caused by greedy and selfish criminals in our
society. With
this green light, what should happen in my judgment is to an end our almost inexhaustible
patience to wait for corrupt people to fix corruption. We should now take the
corruption dragon head on and slay it. There is really nothing for patriotic
Kenyans to lose in this fight. The
public response to the President’s call has been climactic.
As of last Saturday, at 3pm, the tweet had generated 6.1k likes, 1.4k Retweets,
and 1.3k replies. A review of the first 200 replies shows 57 per cent of the respondents
are skeptic compared to 43 per cent who are optimistic of this new approach to
fight corruption. The majority
skeptics say corruption cannot be eradicated within the economic and political
system we currently have, and that the President and his team are responsible
for the runaway graft. In my opinion, this is an ominous fallacy. The root causes and the solutions for corruption, in my belief, are anchored in society. I don't believe that any sort of legislation, no matter how
strong or
any anti-corruption agency, no matter how well-staffed, can yield any benefit until and unless it is accompanied by the
will of the people. Government doesn’t lead society; it reflects society. If people in government are corrupt, it is because
this corruption, is pervasive throughout the society. After
the President’s appeal to the public, the question we need to ask ourselves is:
Can the citizens make a difference in the war on corruption? The answer is, yes.
 Research by the United States Institute
of Peace published under the banner Governance, Corruption and Conflict reveals
“Citizen’s campaigns at the local level can, in fact, be one of the most
effective ways to fight corruption”. In
his Citizens Against Corruption book,
Pierre Landell-Mills demonstrates how ordinary people are no longer prepared to
accept the predatory activities of dishonest officials and are successfully
challenging their scams. The optimists
are quite enthusiastic, and are even advocating lynching of corruption
suspects. Geoffrey Nelson_Prof says: “Bwana Rais, kindly suspend the constitution
for only 2 hours 49 minutes, then leave the rest to us. I guarantee you that
there will be no more corruption once we are done”. This is a dangerous proposal
that can lead to anarchy in this country. There is no evidence that mob justice
will end corruption. A 2009 study by International Center on Nonviolent
Conflict found that over the past 110 years, violent campaigns succeeded in
only 26 per cent of all the cases compared to 53 per cent in nonviolent and
civilian-backed campaigns. We
have even recently seen groups of courageous and dedicated citizens take direct
and peaceful demonstrations against graft. Last year, 10 million Koreans
assembled in Seoul and drove out President Park Geun-hye from Cheong Wa Dae
(Blue House/State House) because of corruption. No stone was thrown, no bullet
was fired but she has now been jailed for 32 years. The approach by President
Kenyatta is the right way to go, albeit for short-term results. In the long-run,
this war cannot be independent from the reform of the Kenyan society. If certain historical and
cultural reforms are not made, corruption will continue to be a problem
regardless   of the actions directly
aimed at curbing it. This conclusion is based on two observations. In Kenya,
the government is viewed as an instrument for wealth accumulation. In addition,
politicians are required to present expensive gifts at weddings; donations
during birthday parties, celebrations, anniversaries and fund raising
ceremonies. This is a huge burden for elected leaders. I
conclude by suggesting two great rules. One; we must all tackle corruption from
the position that anyone who engages in corruption is an enemy of the country
and two, Kenyans must have pride in their country by keeping their purposes
perfectly straight, perfectly pure, and perfectly aboveboard.  Kitau is first Kenyan
Ambassador to the Republic of Korea (2009-2014) ngovikitau@yahoo.com  