Trade Cabinet secretary Peter Munya has said that the national commodity exchange will be functional by October. He said the exchange will enable farmers sell their produce at real time market prices, helping them cut out middlemen. Munya spoke at a panel discussion at the ongoing National Trade Week at KICC, Nairobi. He said lack of market information poses a major challenge to local traders. Farmers and traders attending the forum said lack of information flow between national and county governments has disadvantaged them in terms of markets and the items in demand. A fruit farmer from Makueni said they watch helplessly as their harvest goes to waste due to lack of market linkages. "I am a mango farmer, and when I tried to get information from the relevant export institutions on how to sell my produce internationally, I was referred to my county export officers, who unfortunately were clueless on the information that I needed,"she said. Instead, she ended up taking the officers through information within their own docket. Munya said farmers need to be organised in groups and trained to help them export their produce to markets such as the USA through the AGOA strategy. "For the strategy to work, and for farmers to reap maximum benefits this round, small scale outgrowers need to revive the co-operatives and other organisations which can help them with capacity and support such as the right seeds to grow in order to meet stringent regulations needed for international markets," he said. Munya said despite their efforts, farmers remain the least paid in the whole chain. He said they should be equipped with information on the right crops to give them a competitive edge. The CS said counties in cotton growing areas should revive the crop by buying farmers BT cotton seed which grows faster and has better yields. He said plans for the revival of Kicomi Mills in Kisumu are on while Rivatex is now operational. The forum said information on Kenya's trade agreements should be accessible on open source platforms