Police are probing the death of a city lawyer reportedly linked to a fraud at City Hall. A postmortem showed lawyer Steven Kariuki died of heart complications.However, Nairobi governor Mike Sonko last week said Kariuki had been used to transfer money from county accounts to those of top officials at City Hall. Sonko said the lawyer, who died on July 27 at a bar in Loitokitok, could have been poisoned. He said Kariuki, also known as Karis, was scheduled to record a statement with the police investigating the alleged fraud.  “Some of the beneficiaries of this deal planned the assassination of the advocate, who was supposed to record a statement on the matter under investigation,” Sonko said.Loitokitok DCI officers have recorded statements of two men who were having drinks with Kariuki.“Also remember, eliminating lawyer Kariuki Mburu doesn’t mean you have covered up the case. The lawyer’s partners are still alive. The accountants who transferred the funds are still alive. Sonko is still alive,” the governor tweeted. Sonko said Kariuki was killed by people fearful of being arrested over the investigation into the Sh58 million fraud. A report by Loitokitok police said Mburu was discovered dead after having drinks with a friend at a bar in the area.Government pathologist Johansen Odour has recommended further toxicological tests  after Sonko’s claims. The workers noticed Kariuki had slouched his head on the table after several drinks. The  attendants  thought he had fallen asleep but realised he had died after they attempted to wake him up. The management called the police, who confirmed he was dead.  Sources close to the family said Kariuki’s wife and mother witnessed the postmortem and agreed to bury the lawyer after pathologists convinced them there was no foul play.However, the family also called for further toxicological tests following the claims by Sonko. The postmortem results showed Kariuki died of complications resulting from enlargement of the heart, medically referred as cardiomegaly, which may be caused by high blood pressure. Click here for the latest political news