Kenya has embarked on a fresh journey to unite its people, Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said. Raila on Friday said the country has for decades faced the challenges of ethnic antagonism, corruption and deteriorating inter-community relationship that hamper development. The journey, he said, will integrate communities and create an enabling environment for Kenyans to realise their potential. "This will only happen when we stop regarding people based on their tribes and consider them as Kenyans," Raila said. He spoke during a graduation ceremony at Murang'a University of Technology. He called on Kenyans to remain optimistic by embracing brotherhood, saying people are often stronger together. He warned that corruption will destroy the country if not stopped. "We must stop making corruption easy and tolerable by closing all sanctuaries for the corrupt," Raila said. The Nasa leader said it was unfortunate that the country comes to a standstill every five years during elections with violence in which lives are lost. He asked Kenyans to dedicate their energy to the realisation of the dreams of those who fought for the first and second liberation. The defined the goal as the searching for a perfect nation. He said people should not tire until the dream is realised. "The sacrifices and the spirit of freedom fighters that birthed the multi-party democracy and the new Constitution should be embraced to take the country forward," he said. Raila also lauded the university for awarding an honorary degree to veteran politician Charles Rubia. He Rubia is a modern-day hero and a man of many firsts who was relentless in the fight for multi-partism. He said Rubia refused to join the club of people who never suffered, sacrificed nor learnt and instead chose to fight for what he believed was right. "Together with others, he stood for our country and put it on a trajectory to be one of the strongest economies in Africa," Raila said. he further added. Raila reminisced a press conference that Rubia held in 1990 together with fallen hero Kenneth Matiba when they challenged the Moi regime to open the country up to multipartism. As the pressure mounted on the government, he said, government officials toured the entire country castigating proponents of muiltipartism. "It took huge courage to stick to the fight until the end," said Raila. Raila was accompanied by Homabay woman representative Gladys Wanga and Kisumu woman representative Rose Nyamunga. Wanga lauded the handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta for fostering unity among communities. "The handshake has made it possible for us to come to Murang'a today. It has made the country one big happy nation where people shake hands and exchange hugs," she said.  