Governor Mike Sonko
has appalled many and received criticism over his 'unethical' habit
of recording his phone conservations. He not only records
the conversations – some with prominent people and considered
confidential – but also leaks them to the public.He once recorded President Uhuru Kenyatta before releasing the tape to the public. His latest victims are Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu and Nairobi businessman Praful Kumar. But the flamboyant
city boss is unmoved. In fact, he says he is not stopping anytime
soon. So why exactly does Sonko capture his conversations?. Well, he
says it is his style of fighting corruption and impunity that have
been entrenched at City Hall. “I am not doing
public relations exercise or seeking political mileage from my
actions. War against corruption is like that against terrorism or
cancer,” he says. Sonko says this is
the only way to expose the corrupt individuals who have reaching out
to him with advances to get building approvals or be awarded tenders
at the expense of the general public. “As elected
leader, I owe it to the electorate to protect public funds and
resources. I have fought corruption and I will sit a poor Nairobians
suffer because Sonko has been bribed,” he said. Sonko claimed that
City Hall used to lose between Sh20 million and Sh30 million a day
but his actions of exposing the corrupt, suspending officers involved
and impromptu office raid have helped. But his critiques
claims Sonko is a person full of public relations whose intention is
to burst and embarrass his friends in public. On Monday night,
Sonko laid a trap for Nairobi businessman Praful Kamar in his
(Sonko's) Kanamai home in Kilifi. Kamar was arrested for attempting
to bribe the city boss with Sh1 million to allow him add two more
floors to his hotel in Gigigri. Speaking on Milele
FM yesterday morning, Sonko said he had set cameras all over the room
where he was to meet the businessman and alerted EACC detectives. “He was to give me
Sh50 million but because of the strict rules in banks, he brought Sh1 million and promised to be giving me Sh3 million per day until I
receive all the money. He he has been following me since January and
I had told him that I would arrest him if he comes with the money,”
Sonko said. Immediately after
Kamar's arrest, Sonko leaked a recording of his conversation with the
businessman where he asked him to follow the law if he wanted the
building approved. Last Wednesday,
Sonko also leaked an audio of his conversation with Kiambu Governor
Ferdinand Waititu. In the audio, Waititu was pleading with Sonko to
release his wife Susan Wangare and 14 other who had been arrested by
county askaris over illegal constructions in the CBD. Sonko, in the
recording, promises to release Wangare but fails to do so. Wangare
was charged and released on bail. But Sonko said he
recorded the conversation to prove to the country that he does not
spare even those considered as influential in his war against
corruption. “It [promise to
release Wangari] was a trap and if you trap someone, you can say
anything. I told him [Waititu] to talk to the president but I knew he
would not because just a few day before he has criticised the
President and I for fighting corruption,” he said.