Airtel Kenya has warned of a looming collapse of the telecommunication sector due to market inequalities. In a document submitted to parliament last week, the telco is calling for market regulation by the Communication Authority to create a level playing field. Also, Airtel wants Safaricom to be declared a dominant player for controlling 67 per cent of the market share. Currently, Safaricom leads the market with 29.54 million subscribers, Airtel follows with 8.68 million while Telkom comes in third with 3.79 million subscribers. According to the mobile service provider, any player in control of 50 per cent and above of the market should be declared dominant. “We feel that a declaration of dominance will facilitate full implementation of the much needed remedies by the Communication Authority as empowered by the law,” the document read. Proposals made by the Indian firm to mitigate dominance include introduction of mobile money agent interoperability. This means agents can use one float for all consumers hence subscribers can deposit and withdraw from the same agent on a shared float basis. “Mobile Money is growing, however, one operator has significant market power thereby denying the customers of choice,” Airtel said. Other proposals include justification by a dominant player to the regulator before introducing a new tarrif,and enjoyment of bonuses for not only on-net calls but also off-net calls. Based on their findings, subscribers will prefer to stay with or join the larger network, in order to take advantage of relatively low on-net prices as compared with the off- net prices of entrants. In addition, Airtel wants the regulator to kill Promotional offers and refunds given by a large player on loyalty programmes such as Bonga Points. “Refunds, bonuses and loyalty programmes create a lock in effect and are anti-competitive as they force the customer to continue using the services of a dominant firm in order to benefit from these programs,” the telco said. Lastly, Airtel proposes introduction of zero rated mobile termination rates. It noted that the cost of terminating a call on the larger mobile operator is much less than the cost of terminating the same call on the smaller operator due economies of scale. As at 2017 Airtel paid about Sh2.6 billion to Safaricom as against Safaricom's Sh1.2 billion to Airtel. Last week, Airtel slashed its cross-network call charges by 50 per cent in a bid to shore up its subscriber numbers. While addressing the Parliamentary committee earlier on Monday last week, Safaricom chief executive Bob Collymore said a move to declare them a dominant player is a punishment. He said the declaration would see them lose millions of its customers. In the last two quarters ending March 2018 Safaricom has lost 2.12 million customers according to CA while Airtel has gained 2.08 million customers. CA in its study is recommending retail price interventions, Mobile Termination Rates, tower sharing and national roaming to prevent abuse of dominance. According to Airtel, conclusion of the study should be proportional and able to address the market inequalities to ensure that consumers have choice.   