Kiambu deputy governor James Nyoro has said former governor William Kabogo had a formidable development record and was all but unstoppable. Although Kabogo upgraded healthcare and built roads, he had little respect for public participation, Nyoro said on Sunday. That was his downfall. Speaking at Soul Winning Ministries in Limuru on Sunday, the deputy governor said that if he had not joined forces with (current) Governor Ferdinard Waititu, neither of them could have defeated Kabogo. Nyoro said Kabogo only lost the election because he lacked public relations skills and there was inadequate public input into development projects. Kabogo also was accused of belittling women on numerous occasions during the campaign. “We cannot say he wasn’t working. He had done a lot of work. What he lacked was public participation,” Nyoro said. Early 2017, the Ministry of Health named Kiambu the third best in healthcare, after Embu and Garissa counties. Nyoro said he held seven meetings with Waititu and they decided to form one ticket to defeat Kabogo. The deputy governor commented during a thanksgiving service organised by Bishop Harun Ngaruiya and his son Ngaruiya Junior. Other leaders who attended the service included former outlawed Mungiki sect leader Maina Njenga, MPs Martha Wangare (Gilgil) and James Githua (Kabete). Nyoro said he will never complain again about being sidelined by Waititu. He said time was running out and the two need to fulfil their campaign promises. “One year is gone. I have complained several times over being sidelined. I want to make it clear, I will never complain again. We need to work hard to improve infrastructure, and do what is expected of the county government,” he said. Nyoro urged leaders to support President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto’s efforts to fight corruption and develop the country. MP Githua praised the government for investigating scandals and ensuring culprits face the law. He said Uhuru’s Big Four agenda cannot be achieved if there are corrupt officials in government. “The Big Four agenda has to be achieved smoothly by fighting corruption. Graft has hindered so many important projects issues  in this country,” he said.