  Former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero’s son Ronald was on Friday charged with storage of substandard petroleum products. Ronald was charged with storing 14,000 litres of diesel and another 28,000 litres of gasoline, both of which were said to be substandard. The products failed to meet Kenya Bureau of Standards specifications. Ronald was charged jointly with others who were not before court. The co-accused are yet to be arrested.His arrest followed a complaint from motorist David Nyamu who said he was given adulterated fuel at the Shell petrol station at Ridgeways along Kiambu Road on August 3.  The station is owned by Ronald. Samples taken for testing by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations found the fuel was substandard.  Ronald denied the charges before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi. He was released on a Sh300,000 bond or an alternative bail of Sh100,000. The case will be mentioned on September 4 ahead of hearing 20 days later. His lawyer Steve Luseno said the fuel has been sold out and requested the court to restrain the police from shutting down the station. Luseno said detectives investigating the matter were planning to close downthe station.  The lawyer said the Energy Regulation Commission had not raised any concerns about the fuel insisting that his client had complied with ERC regulations.  The commission has contracted a private company - SGS - to conduct the standardisation checks.  “We have not seen the report being alluded to and the commission has not conducted any investigations. We are yet to receive a complainant from the ERC,” Luseno said.  He said the matter should be referred to the ERC who have the technical capacity to determine issues raised through.  He said police had usurped the powers of the commission.  Fuel in Shell petrol stations is supplied by Vivo Energy Limited.  Luseno said the company said the fuel was supplied to them by the Kenya Pipeline and it met Kebs standards.  Prosecutor Kajuju Kirimi sought orders to have the directors of the Vivo Energy appear at the DCI headquarters for grilling.  Andayi dismissed the application. Andayi said the company is not listed as a party in the case and therefore nothing warranted  the orders sought.  The court said police can only seek such orders through a miscellaneous application with a sworn affidavit explaining the need to do so.