Embakasi North MP James Gakuya was Thursday charged, jointly with 12 others, with fraudulent acquisition of Sh39,858,050. The CDF cash was allegedly used for fictitious road construction contracts. Gakuya and his brother Patrick Wairungi are accused of receiving Sh19,691,772 for supplying nothing. The court was told that Wairungi's Mabaks Enterprises was also paid Sh11, 691,771 for construction of Muoroto AP road. The suspects allegedly received the money between July 8 and November 20, 2015. The MP, alongside Teresia Macharia and Stacy Njoki of Hunyu Bush Clearing and Nurseries, was also charged with fraudulently receiving Sh7.6 million from the CDF on November 20 of the same year. The money was listed to have been paid for clearing of bushes along DO's road. In the third count, Gakuya was charged alongside Wairungi and Salome Kimamui of Tresmu Investments with receiving Sh12,566,278. The amount was listed to have paid for the construction of Cinema road. The MP was also charged with four counts of conflict of interest. He is accused of having an indirect interest in the awarding of tenders for construction of roads which were awarded to Mabaks Enterprises. The company was awarded most of the tenders. Others are Maitu Njeri, DO's and Cinema roads where Sh8 million, Sh7.6 million and Sh12, 566,278, respectively, was paid. The Embakasi North CDF account manager Leah Guchu and Nairobi county acting accountant Cleophas Oyaro were charged with failure to comply with the Public Procurement and Disposal Act of 2005 relating to tendering of contracts. Guchu was accused of failing to ensure the CDF entered into written contracts, based on tender documents, in the deals awarded to Mabaks, Hunyu Bush Clearing and Nurseries and Tresmu Investments. All the suspects denied the charges before Milimani Chief Magistrate Felix Kombo. Gakuya was released on Sh2 million bail or a Sh5 million bond. Guchu, Oyaro and the others were released on different bond terms. Click here for the latest political news