Anxiety is high at Kenya Wildlife Service as the new board takes charge. Staff are uncertain of their future at the wildlife conservation body which for years has had senior managers with certificates and diplomas supervise their juniors who hold Phds and Masters and are authorities in their relevant fields. Even though most of those angling for the director general’s position have few academic papers and are slightly junior in the service, some are breathing a sigh of relief that the new board will help recognise merit competencies and academic qualifications that could see them promoted after years of stagnation that has been blamed for staff demotivation and haemorrhage. “People with only a pilot’s licence have in the past been headhunted to come and head departments here. I hope this is a new dawn for us as purely merit will be considered for any job here,” a staffer told corridors. ***** Could a certain governor be setting up people to deflect attention? The governor is in the eye of a storm after a certain community made an official complaint to powers that be over his covert arm-twisting tactics. Those who have fallen prey to the governor and his handlers are told the money is for ‘protection’. The community is seeking the protection so they can go about their business with ease without fear of being blackmailed and threatened. They claimed that the cost of doing business had gone up because of uncertainties and threats. ***** Just when is the retirement age for public servants in Kenya. It seems the enforcement of the law regarding the mandatory retirement age limit of 60 is not universally applied to all cadres of the public service workforce. Corridors has learnt that two top officials at the ministry of Interior and a development authority CEO seem to be exempted from this rule. The officials, who are more than 70 years, are stuck in office to the bewilderment of many. Some staff at the agencies wonder who is protecting them and aiding them to break the public service code. Is death the only thing that will evict them from office? ***** As the probe on how Fahad Dahir, the deputy director of Somali Intelligence Agency, acquired Kenyan passport C024542 as well as an identity card No 22847167 goes one, one of the commissioners at an independent commission is in panic mode. The commissioner is worried he might fall victim soon. Corridors has learnt that the said commissioner holds an American passport issued on September 26, 2007 and a Kenyan one issued on August 17, 2012. Interestingly, the passports show the said commissioner was born on January 1, the place of birth is different and two countries apart. How can one person be born in two separate locations o the same date? ***** Click here for
the latest political news 