Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu emerged victorious yesterday as criminal proceedings filed against her by Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji were formally brought to a halt. The DCJ, represented by a team of 32 lawyers, successfully tabled an amended order which was accepted by the court. Though the DCJ is not completely of the hook, she will not  be tried pending the determination of an application she lodged at the High Court challenging the criminal proceedings. Read: Magistrate declines to accept High Court orders stopping Mwilu's trial High Court judge Chacha Mwita on Wednesday said she has raised constitutional issues which ought to be determined before a decision to charge him with fraud and abuse of office is reached. The order however was only accepted by the court yesterday because the defence team had listed it under the wrong file. The magistrate had directed the lawyers to go back to the judge to rectify the mistake, which they did, leading to the suspension of the proceedings at the magistrate’s court. Mugambi on Friday said he had perused the amended order and was satisfied that it relates to the case before the court. In addition, the magistrate said the trial against lawyer Stanley Munuvi, who faced charges alongside the DCJ, is equally stayed. “The proceedings will rest and status quo maintained:” said Mugambi. While the application filed by Mwilu at the High Court will be heard on October 9,  parties will appear before the magistrate court on October 22 for mention. Read: Justice Chacha Mwita
suspends criminal charges against Mwilu After the case was marked as suspended, the DPP, through State counsel Alexander Muteti, said the proceedings, though a matter of acute sensitivity should not be taken as an affront to the independence of the Judiciary. “We respect the court, we respect rights of individual persons and as an office we do expect that just like the accused persons do expect fair trial” he said. Separately, National Assembly’s public accounts committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi said Mwilu’s case was not politically-motivated. Noting the renewed drive in the fight against corruption, Wandayi said people should let the agencies, including DCI, EACC, and DPP involved in the anti-graft campaign, to do their work. “I don’t see any politics in the prosecution of Mwilu. Let the institutions do their job as required by law,” he told the Star yesterday in an interview at a Nairobi hotel. “Give the institutions a break. Let them work,” he added. The position taken by Wandayi appears to be at variance with that of his ODM party, which sparked off the public debate of possible political motivation in the prosecution. In a statement signed by its secretary general on Tuesday, the party said the arrest was likely part of the “revisit” promise of the jubilee administration. “It is to be remembered that at the height of the fight for electoral justice the Judiciary came under sharp criticism with the Jubilee side promising to “revisit” what they called “problems” within the Judiciary,” the party said in a statement. Click here for the latest
political news