The lyrics of an old crooner Kenny Rogers come to mind in relation to our current political situation: “You got to know when to hold ‘em, know when to fold ‘em; Know when to walk away and know when to run; You never count your money when you’re sitting at the table; There will be time enough for countin’ when the dealing’s done.” In many games, be it cards or gambling, there is a danger in showing one’s hand or ace too early. Such moves give one’s opponents opportunity to launch a counter-offensive, often with disastrous results. That Deputy President William Ruto showed his ace and counted his money while sitting at the table is not in doubt. For starters, he breached rule number three in the 48 Laws of Power by failing to conceal his intentions. The rule basically states as follows, “Keep people off balance and in the dark by never revealing the purpose behind your actions. If they have no clue what you are up to, they cannot prepare a defense. Guide them far enough down the wrong path, envelope them in enough smoke, and by the time they realize your intentions, it will be too late.” Supremely confident after routing the opposition and leaving them in disarray, the sky was the limit for this alpha politician. This overconfidence could easily yield fatal results. Former vice presidents Daniel arap Moi and George Saitoti were also adept at concealing their intentions and or ambitions. Flaunting the same before their ruthless respective Presidents would have seen them swiftly cut to size. Matters started going south for Ruto immediately he laid claim to the presidency 2022. What started as a small torrent by a handful of Central province politicians stating that their community did not owe Ruto any debt has grown into a full-scale political tsunami. Apart from the debt politics. We now have issues of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy, the corruption purge, the Mau Forest rehabilitation, the Gideon Moi question and the Building Bridges handshake. Is the Deputy President the subject of a hitherto almost silent conspiracy or has he fallen afoul of Murphy’s Law? Murphy’s Law is a popular adage that states, “Things will go wrong in any given situation or more commonly “whatever can go wrong, will go wrong.” It did not help matters that Ruto went immediately into permanent campaign mode after the 2017 elections. Permanent campaign is a political science theory and phrase usually used by incumbent presidents to place disproportionately large amounts of time visiting key electoral areas or counties and a comparatively small amount of time visiting areas or counties that pose little electoral importance to them. This more or less guarantees their reelection for a second term. Permanent campaign mode when employed by a deputy is not only unusual but abnormal. It has the effect of relegating the President into a ‘lame duck’ and creates a shift in the centre of power, a situation that may not be desirable or acceptable. It also appears to completely ignore the constitutional role of the current President. Uhuru and his handlers on the other hand intend to leave a lasting legacy and do not want to be mere appendages to a grander plan. Part of the resistance to Ruto arises from the permanent campaign mode phenomenon. It did not take long before pronouncements from State House and the Office of the Deputy President began showing a distinct disconnect and hawk-eyed opponents of Ruto immediately picked it up. That political enigma and Opposition leader Raila Odinga had managed to wriggle himself into a position close to the President and having his ear has not helped matters. With his political history of forming coalitions then destabilising political parties from within, the Ruto wing has reason to worry. The solution however does not lie in emotional knee-jerk reactions like those of senators Murkomen, Cheragei and Sang. These only add insult to injury.