Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has called on the DCI and EACC to make public names of those behind Josephine Kabura's affidavit in the first NYS corruption scandal. The governor, who was Devolution Cabinet secretary when the Sh791 million scandal was unearthed in 2015, maintained that she did not touch a single cent of the loot. She threatened to name the authors of the said affidavit if the EACC fails to do so. The county chief did not specify the period of her ultimatum. She further said: "Those who looted the NYS money are people who are still in government and are well-known by the investigative bodies." "I presented myself to the Parliamentary Accounts Committee and was grilled for several hours. PAC did not make recommendation anywhere that I be prosecuted." The governor spoke in Kagio after rolling out NHIF registration for the county residents on Wednesday.  At least 124,000 households are targetted in the door-to-door listing. "I wrote to EACC six times demanding that they make public the reports of the investigations into the scandal as well as Kabura's affidavit but they have failed to do so," Waiguru said. Waiguru also threatened to sue research firm IPSOS for naming her among the "most corrupt people" in a survey released by Tom Wolf on Wednesday. She accused the firm of being used by her political detractors to blackmail her. Waiguru said she has already instructed her lawyers to file a defamation case against IPSOS. The governor had sued former Machakos senator Johnson Muthama and NASA leader Raila Odinga for defamation over the NYS issue. The case is ongoing. Also read: Raila wants Uhuru as witness in court over Anne Waiguru She faulted Raila for calling for her lifestyle audit arguing that the reasons given did not meet the threshold required to call for such a wealth review. On the NHIF for residents, Waiguru said the county has set aside Sh30 million for the activity this financial year. She said the county is working with technology firm PHARM Access so that residents can use the mobile application M-TIBA to pay for the health insurance. Click here for the latest political news