Farmers in Rift Valley have revived the row over privatisation of the New KCC, saying they will not accept fresh plans by the government to sell shares of the company. The farmers yesterday said the government has forwarded the plan to the Privatisation Commission, without consulting them. They spoke at a meeting in Eldoret. “We had discussed all issues on New KCC and agreed it will be reverted to farmers directly and there will be no such thing as privatisation. That is the plan and we will not accept anything else,” spokesman Joseph Ruto said. Moiben MP Silas Tiren and KFA director Kipkorir Menjo, who were present, said New KCC whose assets are now valued at more than Sh15 billion belong to farmers. Read: Farmers demand ownership of New KCC, reject privatisation Tiren said they have forwarded a memorandum to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Last week, the government expressed satisfaction with the turnaround of the New KCC dairy firm, which has attained a profitability with a turnover of more than Sh10 billion. The turnover was Sh7 billion three years ago and Trade PS Chris Kiptoo says the improvement is attributed to modernisation of the New KCC factories. “We are impressed with what we have seen and it shows we have capacity to manage our institutions well to benefit Kenyans and create more jobs,” Kiptoo said. He had led a delegation to assess facilities at the refurbished New KCC factory in Eldoret. The factory was rehabilitated at a cost of Sh400 million. Firm CEO Nixon Sigei said farmers’ payments have increased from Sh800 million to Sh2 billion annually. “We are now exploring more markets for our products outside the country,” Sigei said. This will be to add on business in Uganda, Tanzania and parts of the Middle East. New markets are being explored in areas like DR Congo. Kiptoo said the firm is benefiting farmers and producing high quality products for the international market. The dairy firm seeks to consolidate its gains and play a central role in the dairy sector. More: KCC dismisses claims on unhygienic milk packaging environment Click here for the latest political news