MPs want top Sports ministry officials to explain the Sh1.7 billion expenditure flagged by Auditor General Edward Ouko. They are to appear on Monday next week. The National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has written to Sports PS Kirimi Kaberia to shed light on the issue. The money was meant for preparation for the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) Under 18 World Youth Championship. The global tournament was held in Nairobi from July 12 to 16 last year.Wandayi said Kirimi will appear with all ministry officials involved in planning the tournament. See also: 20 MPs fly to Russia to enjoy World Cup Wandayi said the committee had been schedule to examine accounts for 2014-15 in September.“But because of public interest raised by the Auditor General in the 2016-17 financial year, we have brought forward our meeting,” he said yesterday. “Before we hear them [ministry officials], we cannot say much.” Ouko in a report tabled before the National Assembly said the Sports ministry could not account for Sh1.7 billion out of the Sh3.5 billion allocated for the global tournament. Irregularities cited The report, tabled by Majority leader Aden Duale, showed the State Department for Sports and Development was allocated Sh1.7 billion, Sports Kenya Sh1.1 billion and Kenyatta University Sh689.6 million. Ouko said the expenditure was full of procurement irregularities, unaccounted for medical supplies, lack of documentation, single-sourcing and unsupported expenditure. The auditor’s report revealed that another Sh67.5 million was paid to M/S Patel studio to procure media agency services and Sh70.5 million to M/S Inter Management Group for sports marketing and events. No advertisement was issued for request of proposals and the evaluation reports as required by law. The auditor’s report questioned a further Sh3.4 million paid to Safaricom to supply mobile phones  — without supporting documents. Ouko questioned the delay in refurbishment of the Stadion Hotel, which was to be completed by November 2017. More: 'Angry' Kenyans scold MP's over Russia's World Cup trip Click here for
the latest political news