Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria sparked a Twitter debate on Monday after asking Gor Mahia to stop begging for money. The legislator congratulated Gor Mahia for winning the Premier League having humiliated their bitter rivals AFC Leopards to a 2-0 win on Saturday. The performance saw them lift their 17th unprecedented SportPesa Premier League title. Read: Gor Mahia humiliates AFC to a 2-0 win to retain the 2018 SportPesa Premier League title "Congratulations my boys K'Ogalo for clinching KPL 2018. Now we have three major headaches to overcome," Kuria said on Facebook. Kuria challenged the club’s management to come up with permanent solutions of ending their consistent financial challenges. "...always begging for money for air tickets despite our mighty brand and getting a serious challenger at the local level, Viva," Kuria, who is a K’Ogalo fan, said. The Gatundu South MP asked the players to also qualify for the quarter-finals at the continental levels and not only locally as they have previously done. The MP’s comments comes days after President Uhuru Kenyatta bailed out the team with a Sh6 million handout to enable them honour a CAF Confederation Cup match. Read: Gor Mahia on fire as they close in on Confederation Cup quarters WHY THE TREND "Ukiona Moses Kuria anatrend jua kuna mtu ametusiwa mahali (when you see Moses Kuria trending, just know that someone has been insulted)," twitter user @Oddcharley said. He added: "For Moses Kuria to trend he must have talked shit, Kenyans are focused on important issues EACC matters; corruption sagas, SANY SANY 'unbribed master', Handshake and President Kenyatta visit at White House." "Moses Kuria" trending on a Monday is a sign of jovial week-ahead," @ken_kipruto said. @alekidariusz said: "I see Moses Kuria trending najuiliza, "sasa huyu amefanya nini tena?" (What has he done again). "‏Moses Kuria trending??? How?...why...did he speak in mother tongue," @ColeterK said. @WuonDollar said: "When you see Moses Kuria's name trending know that somebody crazy has done something stupid. #CrazyMonday IEBC." Click here for the latest political news