Traders and city residents, whose houses have been demolished, protested on Wednesday morning against forcible evictions. Among those affected are small scale business people who operated in open air markets and residents of Kibera slum where a link road is to be constructed. Read: Mutindwa market flattened in Nairobi crackdown on illegal structures  /MAUREEN KINYANJUI  /MAUREEN KINYANJUI The demonstration organised by Muungano wa Wanavijiji and land rights organisations began at Freedom Corner. The protesters then marched to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure headquarters. Chanting and carrying banners, they said they were evicted from Mutindwa, Subha soko, Westlands market, City Cartoons near Wilson Airport, KPA on Mombasa Road, Woodley soko and Moi Girls' Kibra. Also in the protest were people around Railways Kibra, Kibra-Lang'ata link road, Lavington, Yaya Soko and Kaloleni-Makongeni Railway. Those from Kijiji Kabete, NITD, Kapatagat and Dam village said they were evicted for the construction of James Gichuru-Liloni road, a project funded by World bank. Around 200 people who were left homeless want the institution to stop the funding and for the government to find them other places to live. They however acknowledged receiving eviction notices before the demolitions.  /MAUREEN KINYANJUI  /MAUREEN KINYANJUI  /MAUREEN KINYANJUI Muungano wa Wanavijiji president Ezekiel Rema said the county and national government should stop the evictions and let residents live in peace. The protesters said they are not against Jubilee's Big Four agenda but that the government should find them alternative settlement areas. "We do not have roofs over our heads; our children are out in the cold," Kibera resident Winnie Njeri said. They planned to present a petition to Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and Parliament on ending the wave of evictions. More on this: Bulldozers leave 5,000 Kibera children homless, out of school Related: Where were you? Kenyans ask NEMA as South End Mall is torn down Click here for the latest political news