STARRING: Constance Wu, Henry Golding, Gemma Chan, Awkwafina, Nico Santos, Lisa Lu, Ken Jeong, Michelle Yeoh, Ronny Chieng BASED ON: Crazy Rich Asians by Kevin Kwan RELEASE DATE: August 15  Sometimes our film choices are determined by the popularisation of the film in question. During the past week, the film Crazy Rich Asians has been trending on every social media site… for a good reason. It wasn’t until I watched the movie that I understood why everyone was talking about it. The film is legendary in its own right. Not only is it the first Asian-only cast film to come out of Hollywood in 25 years, it also speaks to a universality of cultural pressures. Rachel Chu, economics professor at New York University, thinks her boyfriend Nick Young is just a regular History professor. But her assumption is proven wrong when he invites her to Singapore for his best friend’s wedding as well as to introduce her to her family. As it turns out, Nick Young is the son and heir to a Chinese real estate magnate in Singapore. His family’s vast wealth has made him the most-desired bachelor in Singapore. A gossip blogger manages to take a picture of Rachel, and the news about Rachel and Nick spread like wildfire. Nick’s forbidding mother immediately dislikes Rachel for being ‘too American’. And although Rachel is received warmly by other members of the family, she knows she has entered in a world where she doesn’t belong. With Constance Wu taking the lead position in this film, fans of Fresh Off the Boat feel completely at home with her performance and portrayal of the Chinese culture. This film is not only representative of the Asian community, it’s also just a funny movie. The performances are breathtakingly fresh. The experience feels like one big party that we don’t want to leave after two hours. The completely Asian cast provides a much-needed break from the recycled Hollywood faces. The big-shot Hollywood producers who say that minority made films will not stand out in the Box Office have been proven wrong twice this year. Once by Black Panther and now by Crazy Rich Asians.  Star Rating: 5/5 