People with high level of education are less likely to use tobacco and are less exposed to related diseases. The Global Education Monitoring Report 2017-18 found that education is the strongest determiner of tobacco use in both poor and rich countries. Those lacking formal education are more likely to smoke. In Kenya, at least 25 per cent of tobacco users have only acquired primary education, while 15 per cent have secondary education, the report says. The study by the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse estimates that 2.2 million Kenyans use tobacco products. Out of this, two-thirds smoke cigarettes. Read: Students device ways to sneak drugs into schools “Those lacking formal education are 1.75 times likely to smoke than those with at least secondary education in low-income countries, and 6.5 times likelier in middle-income countries,” the report says. The low prevalence among the literate is linked to the knowledge they have on adverse health effects. Expert Caren Sang said most illiterate users are oblivious of the dangers posed by tobacco. “Those educated can easily comprehend the message of effects and relate it with what they learn in school,” the head of tobacco control at the Health ministry said. The report says education was previously perceived to have negative effects on health behaviour because better educated population “could afford unhealthy lifestyles”. But as availability of accurate health information increased, the relationship between education and healthy behaviour became positive, it adds. Read: Tobacco, alcohol a bigger threat to human health than illegal drugs - study “The mediating influence of education on non-communicable diseases is not straight forward. Education affects behaviour through cognitive and psychological benefits, wealth status and empowerment,” the report reads. Globally, tobacco is the leading cause of preventable deaths. Some 21 per cent of adults smoke. In 2015, 6.4 million people died of tobacco-related ailments. Cigarette smoking causes lung cancer. According to the National Guidelines for Cancer Management, it is linked to more than 70 per cent of lung cancers in Kenya. Most countries conduct anti-tobacco campaigns through informal education. Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance chairperson Joel Gitali wants tobacco education included in the curriculum to boost awareness and reduce consumption. “There is need to mainstream tobacco control. Having it in the curriculum will make it examinable and this will be a step ahead in the anti-tobacco campaign,” he told the Star yesterday. More: Anti-tobacco lobby calls for stronger laws Click here for the latest political news