Parliament has betrayed Kenyans and is the new bastion of corruption, ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi has said, in a stinging rebuke on MPs for rejecting the sugar report.Musalia who has rejected calls for unity government blasted MPs for throwing Kenyans under the bus and turning Parliament into a house of sleaze and cover-ups.“Parliament should therefore be in the spotlight of investigations as abetting criminal negligence and corruption,”Musalia said yesterday. “The lasting imprint is that in reality, Committees of Parliament are instruments of sanitising sleaze.” On Thursday, Jubilee and Opposition MPs ganged up up to trash the committee report amid claims some lawmakers were paid as low as Sh20,000 to kill the report. The report had among others recommended that Treasury CS Henry Rotich, his ex-Industrialization counterpart Adan Mohamed should be investigated over the sugar mess. Yesterday, a tough talking Mudavadi said what played out in the joint committee on Agriculture and Trade and during teh plenary suggests the whole affair was driven by vested interests and compromised members. The whole process, he said, was designed for cover-up. “As it would turnout, the report was a spirited ploy to exonerate known culprits,”he stated. Mudavadi called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to urgently establish a commission of inquiry to unearth the truth about the contraband sugar.“If anything, there is also a more compelling reason why Uhuru must act in haste to urgently establish the JCI,”Musalia said. According to the NASA Co-Principal, Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale openly claimed the sugar imports was a executive order from Uhuru. “Duale stated innumerably that imports of contraband contaminated sugar and evasion of tax to the tune of sh10.6 billion by sugar barons had the implicit blessing of the President. It does not matter that the invocation of the Uhuru’s name was used to defeat an already compromised report,”he said. “The president owes it to Kenyans to exonerate himself from this complicity smudge. The only credible avenue is for him to establish a Judicial Commission of Inquiry.” Musalia said the move by MPS yesterday will hurt poor Kenyans as they will never know if the sugar on their tables is poisonous. He also said sh10.6 billion in taxes due from the imports will be lost while sounding the death-knell on the ailing sugar factories’ hopes of revival. “Both 500,000 impoverished sugarcane farmers, ailing sugar factories and millions of sugar consuming Kenyans in general have been thrown under the bus by none other than their institution of Parliament,”he stated.