Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has banned vehicles in the county from ferrying students after 7 pm, two days after eight pupils died in a crash. Those who defy the directive will be arrested and taken to the nearest police stations or designated "comfortable" holding areas. Their vehicles will only be released if they pay fines of not less than Sh50,000. Mutua said a special unit of the inspectorate had been established to enforce this and other laws, which he noted are in line with Commuter Motor Vehicle Act, 2015 and the Machakos County Non-motorized Vehicles Act of 2016. "The unit will work with police and other relevant agencies,” he  told a press conference outside his office on Monday. The announcement came after nine pupils of St Gabriel Primary School died while 32 were injured when the bus they were in collided head-on with a lorry at Kanginga area, about two kilometres from Mwingi town. In the accident at at about 11pm on Saturday, the bus driver lost control so the vehicle overturned and plunged into Kanginga River. More on this: Eight pupils killed after school bus collides with lorry in Mwingi Read: Uhuru mourns eight pupils killed in Mwingi crash Mutua also announced a ban on vehicles that emit visible exhaust smoke, whether they are heading to Machakos destinations or are on transit. "This will apply to private, public transport vehicles and lorries which will not be driven on Machakos roads until they are fixed and [the owners] fined Sh150,000," he said. Those found obstructing will have their vehicles impounded and will pay fines of Sh50,000. "Vehicles that enter and block intersections or stop in the middle of the road to pick or drop passengers will face fines of Sh100,000 for each act of obstruction," the Governor said Throwing litter from moving or stationary vehicles was also prohibited, the punishment being a fine of Sh15,000. Those found driving un-roadworthy vehicles will be fined Sh200,000 and will not be allowed to proceed until they repair the vehicles and and get the approval of relevant authorities. Vehicles driven after 7pm with either one or both lights off will be stopped, towed and the drivers fined Sh20,000 per missing light. This is applicable to motorcycles, private and public vehicles. In announcing the rules, Mutua also noted that the Constitution, in its fourth schedule, article five, gives county governments responsibilities over sectors including county roads, street lighting, traffic parking and public road transport. "Majority of the time, accidents, traffic congestion and poor road use are caused by bad attitudes and disregard for others and the law," he observed. Related: [VIDEO] NTSA maps 273 accident black spots, 199 in Northern Corridor Click here for the latest political news