The Kenyan Parliament is historically important and that partly informed why Kenyans designed the Constitution the way it is. Kenyans stood for the position that a Member of Parliament should have only one job in order to prevent conflict of interest. This is because when MPs were also Cabinet ministers, ministers were easily manipulated by members who were pursuing personal interests. So Kenyans wanted effective oversight and legislation from the MPs so they could concentrate on their work. Kenyans wanted to ensure Parliament as an institution stands independent of the Executive so that Members of Parliament can provide a solid check and balance on the Executive. Although this Constitution will turn eight years old on August 28, we have never been able to overcome the traditions and behaviours of the old Constitution. We got a new Constitution but kept the old mindset, traditions and practices. That is why the behaviour of Parliament today is no different from that of the past. MPs used to troop to State House to look for development but under the new Constitution MPs were given a full mandate in the budget-making process. MPs have a bigger role in designing policies and appropriations of the national budget. MPs were thus expected to perform with the highest degree of integrity, credibility and authority, which hasn't happened. To make sure MPs are facilitated to do their work, the Parliamentary Service Commission was formed to look into their welfare. In consultation with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, it was supposed to agree on terms of service and conditions of MPs, including setting their salaries. MPs were not supposed to earn allowances because they pocket salaries. But because of blackmail, they now get sitting allowances and they are obsessed with things like car grants, tea, snacks and now want five-star chefs and food services. These MPs don't pursue the public good but their personal interest. Parliament today has become the graveyard of the public good. The executive director for International Centre for Policy and Conflict spoke to the Star Click here for latest political news