People going to Kiambu Level 5 Hospital yesterday morning found six heads of pigs placed outside the main gate with tags written ‘Kiambu hospital thieves’. The heads were placed strategically for all to see. The hospital in the past one month has been in the news for the wrong reasons. There have been claims that the hospital has been offering poor services, many patients sharing one bed and others sleeping on the floor, and lack of bedding, food and drugs. Yesterday patient Kamau Njenga said he saw an unmarked vehicle outside the hospital at 7am and a man covering his face dropped the pig heads and fled. “I went close to see what he had dropped and I saw the heads,” he said. Henry Njoroge said the pig heads are a protest by disgruntled residents who feel the hospital has let them down.“I do not think leaving pig heads outside the hospital is the right way to express concerns. There are better ways of solving issues,” he said. Njoroge said he has visited the hospital and services have improved. The hospital administration did not comment on the incident. Police were called in to investigate. On Tuesday a family in Ikinu village, Githunguri, was in shock after the body of their relative went missing from Kiambu Level 5 Hospital mortuary. It was later established there had been a mix-up and the body had been wrongly taken the previous day by another family and ferried to Kirinyaga county. In early July, a 20-day-old baby, who had pneumonia, had been confirmed dead by Kiambu hospital doctors and the body released to the family only for the baby to gasp while being taken for burial. The baby was rushed to Gatundu Level 5 Hospital, but died later. Early this month, Governor Ferdinand Waititu said there is nothing he can do about the influx of patients to Kiambu hospitals. The governor denied that patients were being served bad food. He attributed the drugs shortage on the Integrated Financial Management System, which was not operational in July. He said no one will be sacked over the matter. Click here for the latest political news