Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday hosted Kirinyanga governor Ann Waiguru at his Karen home, a day after they both dismissed an Ipsos survey ranking them as corrupt. Ruto used the opportunity to say that he will not be distracted by the under-the-table political tactics by his opponents. "We are ready for a contest. But a real contest where the turning of the lives of the ordinary people matter. That is the kind of competition I would like to engage in," Ruto said. He added; "We have beaten them in serving Kenyans, now they have opted to fake opinion polls. As a matter of fact, they will never match our development records. focus on issue-based politics rather than going into an arena of fake opinion polls and fake stories." He spoke during the breakfast meeting with Waiguru and 33 members of the county assembly from Kirinyaga. The meeting also discussed collaboration between the national and county governments on development. After the meeting, Ruto said the government has offered full backing to enhance service delivery including legislative, advisory and monetary support. "We expect all leaders- MCAs, MPs, senators and governors- to work together and serve the interests of the people," Ruto said via Twitter. The two have been a subject of discussion since Wednesday when the Ipsos poll ranked them as the top two most perceived corrupt leaders. According to the poll of all political leaders in Kenya — current and past but still living — 33 per cent of Kenyans said they perceive the DP as the most corrupt. Waiguru ranked second at 31 per cent, ahead of former President Daniel Moi (17%) and President Kenyatta (11%). Pollsters interviewed 2,016 adults across the country between July 25 and August 2 on a variety of issues. The poll indicated that only 21 per cent of respondents are “certain” that President Uhuru Kenyatta will succeed in his war against corruption, although the majority (51%) believe he is sincere. Releasing the report on Wednesday, Ipsos senior research analyst Tom Wolf said respondents were asked: “Of all the current and past but still alive political leaders you can think of, which two do you think are or were the most corrupt?” Ruto's spokesperson David Mugonyi dismissed the survey saying it was doctored by political distractors. "The opinion was paid for by the political detractors of the DP who think this will help their course to the presidency. The findings are part of the political scheme by the usual failures because how do you measure perception?” Mugonyi said. Waiguru on her part threatened to sue IPSOS over the alleged claims. Read: Ruto's graft headache as he dismisses ‘most corrupt’ poll as sponsored Also read:Ruto's graft headache as he dismisses ‘most corrupt’ poll as sponsored