Plans by the National Police Service Commission to enlist 5,000 new recruits have been frozen after commissioners failed to agree. The commission met on Monday to discuss a planned hiring in which recruits were to be admitted to police colleges by mid-August. Top police commanders, including IG Joseph Boinnet, DIGs Noor Gabow and Edward Mbugua, attended the meeting. A meeting last Friday failed to reach an agreement. Civilian commissioners had planed to conduct the recruitment and recruits to report to the Administration Police College in Embakasi and police college in Kiganjo by October 1. The proposal was rejected by the three police commanders. The commission, however, agreed to fire 50 police officers who failed vetting. Earlier, the police commanders had objected to a proposal to fire 300 police officers mainly from the traffic department who failed the vetting. The issue of four senior police officers who were moved to the Interior ministry was also a heated subject of discussion in the meeting. The four top cops including former GSU commandant William Saiya and former AP deputy chief Fred Mwei were transferred to the Interior ministry in February. Other senior officers moved to the Interior ministry include Peter Mwanzia, who was the police head at SGR,  Gideon Amalla (Central region police chief) and Moses Kipsambu who was in charge of stores at the AP headquarters. The four were further deployed to the Ministry of Education as consultants and advisers on security affairs to universities. Sources yesterday said the  three police commanders objected to a proposal to return the police chiefs to Vigilance House after the Education ministry turned them away from being seconded to the posts of university security bosses. Kavuludi told other commissioners that the four top cops would be coming back to Vigilance and Jogoo house, but the police chiefs objected. The commission resolved that the tops cops be deployed to the Office of the President where the CS would decide their fate. Earlier, Boinnet and his deputies have objected to the sackings as well as the recruitment until a new commission to succeed the Johnston Kavuludi-led one comes into office. They said their decisions are likely to be challenged in court, with barely a month before Kavuludi and his team exit office. Kavuludi and his four civilian colleagues have been pushing ahead with the two items before their exit, but they have faced resistance from their police counterparts on the commission. The sources told the Star there has been growing suspicion between the commissioners, with Kavuludi and his civilian colleagues reading mischief in the police chiefs’ reluctance to conclude the two agenda.