Amani National Congress Party leader Musalia Mudavadi will camp in Nakuru from Wednesday as he strategises for his 2022 presidential bid. The Nasa co-principal is expected to receive defectors from other parties. Party director of political affairs Godfrey Kanoti said Mudavadi will hold discussions with various interest groups. Those expected to defect include former jubilee aspirants and officials of the defunct TNA and URP parties.Mudavadi will also meet councils of elders and community groups. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Kanoti said Mudavadi will pay a courtesy call on Governor Lee Kinyanjui before touring Nakuru Town East and Nakuru Town West constituencies. He will then tour Rongai and Naivasha. “This is part of his strategy for laying the ground for his 2022 presidential bid. He will receive at least 1,200 defectors from various parties,” Kanoti said. BIG FOUR AGENDA He said Nark Kenya’s Martha Karua and former Kiambu governor William Kabogo are expected to attend the tour. The Nakuru tour will be followed by similar charm offensives in Kiambu, Murang’a and Nyeri counties before the month ends. Nakuru county ANC chairman David Atiti said his party boss will lobby support for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Mudavadi has already declared that he will run for President in 2022. “We welcome any party wishing to join us to consolidate support and a national outlook. We are open to work with like-minded leaders for a better nation,” Kanoti said. Mudavadi is expected to speak against corruption and promote electoral justice, among other issues of national interest. “He campaigned in this region in 2013 and in 2017 when we were seeking votes for Raila Odinga. This time he is seeking votes for himself,” Kanoti said. Kanoti described Mudavadi as a non-tribal politician who has backed candidates from various regions for the presidency. “We expect them to return the favour,” he said. ANC is an affiliate of Nasa, which also has Ford Kenya, Wiper and the Orange Democratic Movement. Mudavadi’s co-principals in Nasa Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya and Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper have declared interest in the presidency. It is not yet clear whether ODM’s Raila Odinga will make another attempt in 2022.