On Thursday, President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady
Margaret Kenyatta invited hundreds of Kenyans and a couple of diplomats to
State House to witness the launching of Phoebe Asiyo's autobiography appropriately
entitled It Is Possible: An African Woman
Speaks. All these years, I have heard Nyagoro
speak. She was never loud, rarely assertive, unlikely to be flustered by plenty
of nonsense that pollutes many a political discourse but always firm, sharp in
delivery and alarmingly disarming. So the subtitle of her book is true to her
character: The lady has always spoken, made plenty of good sense and floored
many persons (read "men") who have contested against her in electoral
politics in her long career. But on that later. The gathering in State House, occasioned by Nyagoro's timely move to launch her
autobiography, was an idea whose time had truly come: A living testimony that
coming together, Kenyans can climb impossible mountains. Yote yawezekana. Politics
based on ephemeral and ill-thought out ideas can cause unnecessary conflicts
among people, especially when they provide the fodder used to feed the
ambitions of self-centered politicians, who are usually political careerist men
and women without any political or social causes that they sincerely champion
in life. I felt at home in State House, mingled freely with colleagues I have
hardly seen for some time, seeing the happy twinkle in some people's eyes
asking the question: "Can it be possible, this handshake thing?" Yes,
says Phoebe, "It is possible". CS Margaret Kobia and her colleagues in
the State Department of Gender and Women Affairs rose to the occasion by
initiating the programme of honoring Women Trailblazers in their own right on
this very memorable occasion, and the President duly honored the Trailblazers.
This move was of great symbolic importance to Nyagoro, thereby situating her
history where it truly belongs as an inspiration to many women. The President
must be equally commended for establishing this tradition that, as he promised,
will now be an annual event. From where I sit, I have heard very familiar
voices sending messages to State House to the effect that women would like to
be honoured "as they make history" and not "when they are almost
at the touchline after a long race." I hope you get me Your Excellency. The story of Phoebe Asiyo's life is riveting, her achievements are at times
unbelievable but everything springs from a story, which is at no time
extenuated. She was born in a family headed by an evangelist of the Seventh Day
Adventist Church: Jaduong' Joel Omer. As a leader in the church, Joel was a
firm but loving parent, says Phoebe. "He worked hard for the mission and
would travel far and wide on his bicycle, preaching the gospel," adds
Phoebe. I can now see why Phoebe and my mother
Dorca have been such good friends: My father, a pastor in the Anglican Church,
fitted that profile perfectly. "My mother, Mriam Amolo (Nyar Omolo),"
adds Nyagoro, "was a traditional midwife who doubled up as a pediatrician".
Interesting parallels here: My mother Dorca Owino (Nyar Amolo) brought us up
treating many ailments that we had with traditional herbs, and extending her
fledgling medical profession to the neighborhood and to her "sisters in
Christ." Her medical prowess fitted perfectly with her Christian faith.
After all, Jesus also healed the sick, at times through magic! Let us wind the clock forward, discovering on our way that a young woman who
had been so well brought up and given Christian education married an equally
well groomed young man called "BRAG", a very appropriate name for a
young Luo with his swag! But the complete name, to say the truth, was Bezellel
Richard Asiyo Genga, hence BRAG. As fate would have it, the marriage between
the two was never solemnized in church, as Nyagoro would have wanted it. But
the result of that union proved love can be as strong a bond, if not stronger,
than the piousness of religious ceremony when not sincerely meant. Nyagoro's history demonstrates the life of a woman who was never in a hurry to
overreach herself as a wife, mother, freedom fighter, professional in her
prisons duties, social worker, women's leader or politician. She was never
socially imprisoned by ethnic identity, yet she identified very strongly with
her cultural background and has always spoken with authority on Luo customs and
traditions, following in the footsteps of her father, the second
"Ker" of the Luo after Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. But Nyagoro as a
traditional custom in any society could, never tolerate such backward practices
as female genital mutilation strange in Luo society, in her capacity as a
health worker and defender of women's rights. When it came to debates on such
topics in Parliament, Phoebe was always ready to demonstrate her relentless
commitment to the liberation of women. 1979 was somehow a turning point in Kenyan politics. The first election after
Mzee Jomo Kenyatta's demise in August 1978 was held
that year. This was to mark Daniel Moi's first year as President as well, so
one obviously expected the new President to back to the hilt his own supporters
running for Parliament. Nyagoro, without getting any node from Moi, jumped into
the fray, facing the Kanu chairman and chairman of the disciplinary committee,
David Okiki Amayo. What a daring woman! But there were two bigger guns in the
politics of Luo Nyanza, who backed her candidature and proved harder nuts to
crack for Amayo. These were elder Paul Mboya, the new Luo Ker after Joel Omer,
and Jaramogi, already proven as the doyen of opposition politics in Kenya
against the Kenyatta/Moi authoritarian regime. The journey to enter Parliament
against all odds proved successful. It was possible, through resoluteness and
determination, coupled with intelligent strategising, for a woman like Nyagoro
to beat male political supremacists at their own game. But in the course of
that struggle, a fellow woman, posing as her supporter, tried to kill her
through poisoning her food. Politics is not just a question of gender: It is a
matter of political belief, identity and commitment. Nyagoro was to go through
many trials and tribulations that only a reading of her exciting autobiography
will lead you to discover. So read on. For those of us who got involved in the struggle for the Second Liberation, we
cannot forget Nyagoro's contribution to the Constitution making process. She
was not only a member of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission chaired by
Prof Yash Ghai, but most of us benefited from her work as a parliamentarian,
and those of many other women legislators, in gathering material to give
content to the new constitution. In the 1992-97 Parliament, Raila Odinga, Paul
Muite, Gitobu Imanyara, James Orengo, Mukhisa Kituyi and myself used to be
referred to by our fellow male MPs — in derogatory tones of course — as
"honorary women" for our support for women causes. If to be an
honorary woman is to keep company with Phoebe Asiyo "Nyagoro", then I
very humbly accept that honour. And I am sure my mother, Dorca Owino Nyamolo,
will be very proud of me. Congratulations Nyagoro for a battle
well fought, an exemplary life richly lived and memories we shall cherish from
your history.