Public officials engage in procurement malpractices with contractors after tenders are awarded, a lobby on economic affairs has said.  The Institute of Economic Affairs yesterday said the collusion has cost taxpayers billions of shillings. IEA chief executive Kwame Owino said public officers colluding with the contractors violate agreements concerning quality, price and timing.  “The government is not doing well in procurement. Our money is not guarded properly to know how it is spent. The mischief in tendering occurs during the post-award stage of contract management,” Owino said.  He spoke in Nairobi during the launch of a 38-page IEA report termed Public Procurement in Kenya. It is based on an analysis of Auditor General Edward Ouko’s reports from 2013-16 for ministries, departments and state agencies.  “Substantial change in contract conditions to allow time or higher prices for the bidder, lack of supervision from public officials or collusion between contractors and supervisors are risk areas of corruption in public procurement,” part of the report says.  It adds that product substitution, substandard work, false misallocation of the cost between contracts and duplication of invoice for goods and services not supplied are part of graft schemes.  IEA proposes that the government should adopt open contracting principles and regularly publish information on procurement from the pre-tendering, tendering and post-tendering stages.  “The country should consider adopting the Slovakia model, where a government contract is not legal until it is published.”  The move involves putting an unambiguous public disclosure provision in all state contacts and publishing details on progress and performance of the contract. The lobby wants the government to impose stringent penalties and sanctions to corrupt individuals. It says hefty fines or punishment will discourage graft.  IEA proposes strict adherence to electronic procurement, strengthen internal audit and ensure proper management of tendering records. Owino said there is more transparency during the pre-tendering and tendering stages, although flaws and graft malpractices are witnessed.  For instance, IEA points out that conflict of interest and corruption are witnessed during the tender evaluation process. Gifts exchange hands or pledges for future rewards are made after bidders land the contract. The report discloses that poor procurement planning, influence from external forces on officials tendering decisions and failure to budget realistically occur during the pre-tendering stage.  “We need to reduce human interaction in procurement to enhance transparency. We should embrace online platforms,” said Transparency International-Kenya representative Philip Gichana.