The highly anticipated Everton versus Gor Mahia match for the SportPesa Trophy will take place on either Tuesday November 6 or Wednesday November 7 with the exact date to be determined in due course, match organiser SportPesa has announced. The friendly match slated for the UK, is part of SportPesa’s efforts to develop local football through leveraging on its international partnerships. It will be held at Everton’s home— Goodison Park Stadium in Liverpool. This will be Gor Mahia’s maiden trip to the UK and the first time for a Kenyan Club to play on English soil. “This is an amazing opportunity for the players and Kenyan football because it is worth more than anybody could offer money for,” an elated Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr said. “I am very excited. It is an opportunity for Gor Mahia to put Kenya on the global football map by playing one of the most established clubs in the UK,” added Kerr. SportPesa CEO Ronald Karauri said the tour will give Gor Mahia players a chance to play with the best and sample one of the oldest and best stadiums in the world - Goodison Park. Everton is one of the most established clubs in the UK, having played the most number of top-flight games in English football. Gor earned a chance to play Everton after emerging the winner of the second edition of the SportPesa Super Cup held between June 3 and 10 in Nakuru, Kenya, featuring eight teams from East Africa. Karauri said the friendly will be a good exposure platform for the Gor Mahia players whom he said have given their best to put Kenya on the global and regional map in matters football. This will be the second time Gor Mahia face Everton, after meeting for the first time in Dar-es-salaam oin July last year after winning the inaugural Super Cup tournament. Gor also played English Championship side Hull City at a match held in Nairobi on May 13 this year. The match was sold out, with the 60,000-seater capacity Moi International stadium, Kasarani filling to capacity for the first time in recent years.