The government will disburse Sh3.6 billion in bursaries to 120,000 students who will join technical colleges from September. Each student will get Sh30,000. They will also benefit from Helb loans of Sh40,000 each. DP William Ruto on Saturday said the government has in the last three years equiped 130 new technical colleges and the focus on technical training is to provide manpower required for the success of the Big Four agenda. He spoke at the Eldoret Sports Club, where he launched a training and empowerment programme for 700 youth from Kesses constituency. It was initiated by area MP Swarrup Mishra. A cow programme for families in the constituency was also launched. Under the empowerment plan, more than 700 youth will join the Eldoret National Polytechnic to acquire various technical skills. “Mishra’s initiative will go a long way in helping the government to meet its objectives of equiping our youth with skills to prepare them for job opportunities,” Ruto said. Read:Embrace Technical training to bridge skills gap, DP Ruto tells youth He also outlined development programmes so far initiated by the Jubilee administration in Uasin Gishu, where he said 200km of roads are under construction. Ruto said in 2013, only 60,000 households were connected to electricity in the county, but the number has risen to 200,000. He said Sh800 million has been provided to connect another 20,000 households in phases two and three of the project. The DP said Sh500 million has been set aside for the cash transfer programme for the elderly, the disabled and orphans in the county. Ruto said they will also be enrolled in the NHIF scheme. He said Sh1 billion medical equipment has been given to Uasin Gishu. Under the housing agenda, Ruto said Uasin Gishu has provided 20 acres for the development of the first 2,000 houses and the project would employ 8,000 youths during construction. Counties, he said, should strive to process agricultural produce to standards needed for international markets. Also See:'Arrest' looters of public funds, Uhuru tells youth Click here for the latest political news