The National Land Commission (NLC) has raised the alarm about the grabbing of more than 1,000 acres of communal land in Kerio Valley. British firm Tullow Oil has identified Block 12A within Kerio Valley covering more than 7,000 km2 in parts of Baringo and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties for exploration. Read: Residents protest exclusion as Tullow begins Kerio Valley oil exploration Also read: Our oil-rich 5k acres grabbed – Keiyo clan Tororei said investigators sent to the valley will map out all areas that the local claim has been grab NLC commissioner Samuel Tororei, who led a fact-finding team to the location on Monday and Tuesday, warned that land grabbing could lead to violent conflicts. “We were shocked to find out that an entire piece of communal land has been sub-divided and registered under some individuals without the knowledge of the community," Tororei said. "Residents are being turned into squatters on their own land." The commission has dispatched a team of investigators to the region to investigate land disputes Clan members and elders in Kerio Valley petitioned the NLC for intervention. “A large part of our ancestral land has been grabbed and sold to influential personalities who hail from outside the region," their spokesman Joel Kiptanui said. Kiptanui, an 80-year-old elder, emphasised that they will fight for their property. "We want the NLC to urgently come to the disputed land and correct the mess to avert conflicts that may be very ugly because the community will defend its right to own the land." He added that the culprits had blocked residents from access the land. The lack of registration documents makes grabbing and sale of land to unsuspecting buyers easier. Tororei said: "The commission is concerned and cautions those involved to stop the practise that may cause conflicts in Kerio Valley.  [The investigators] will give a report that will guide the commission's decisions on the land in question." The NLC is under investigation over 96 acres of controversial land, 13.5 acres of which are occupied by the Ruaraka and Drive Inn schools. More on this: Ruaraka: How NLC defied court order Click here for the latest political news