Three more suspects have been arrested and a gun recovered in the ongoing investigations of murdered Gitathi-ini assistant chief Peter Nyuguto. Police officers conducting the investigations in Nyeri believe the recovery of the gun is a big breakthrough in identifying the people who killed the chief. The suspects were arrested in a security operation as they transported the weapon which was wrapped in a piece of cloth. Their arrest brings to eight the total number of suspects that have so far been arrested in connection of the murder. Read: Cops hunt killers of slain Nyeri assistant chief Assistant chief Peter Nyuguto was shot three times in the chest at his home on July 26. Area regional commissioner Wilson Njega made the revelation during the burial of the Chief at Gitathi-ini village on Friday. “We recovered a gun yesterday (Thursday) during our operation which means we have illegal guns within and they must be recovered,” Njega said. He said those who were caught with the gun are from Kamakwa area of Nyeri County. “We will pursue the criminals to the bitter end,” vowed the regional commissioner. Leaders who attended the funeral called on the government to arm chiefs enable them protect themselves. Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor, who is also a member of the Administration and National Security committee in the National Assembly, was the first to make the call. "As a member of the security committee, I will appeal to my chairman so that we put a strong case in coordination with government officers who are here so that we can get our chiefs and assistant chiefs armed,” he said. Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange who chairs the security committee said they are deeply saddened by the murder of the assistant chief saying nobody should die in the hands of criminals. “On behalf of the Administration and National Security Committee and the national assembly, I want to assure the entire country that those who murdered the chief will not get away with it. We should hunt them down and swiftly bring them to justice,” he said. Read: Baringo boss wants chiefs given guns Koinange said the national government is keen on improving the terms of service of administrators which include equipping chiefs with vehicles, motorbikes and other facilities to help them fight crime. He said the issue of compensating administrators who die in the line of duty will also be addressed. Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga urged the government to ensure the suspects are arrested saying this was the second time a chief had been killed in the area. “I support that chiefs should be armed but that is not enough, they should also be insured,” he said. Kahiga said there is need to change the constitution so as to put the administration police under the national government administrators including chiefs to improve their security. The chief is survived by a widow and three children. More: Guns for chiefs in Northeastern war on terror Click here for the latest political news 