A court on Wednesday ordered two Homa Bay county assembly officers remanded until Monday when a ruling on their bond will be delivered. Assembly clerk Bob Kephas and senior accounts controller Maurice Amek will be held at the Homa Bay GK prison. This was after they pleaded not guilty to the corruption-related charges before senior principal magistrate Thomas Obutu. The two were accused of alleged misappropriation of Sh27.8 million in financial years 2015/2016 and 2016/ 2017. Defence lawyers Ishael Nyaribo and Daniel Bosire asked the court to grant their clients a bond due to their medical condition. Nyaribo said Kephas suffer from hypertension while Amek is on treatment after he was shot and a bullet logged in his belly. "The accused persons are under medication due to different illnesses. We ask that they are granted bond today to avoid complicating their situation." Nyaribo argued that detaining the two in a police cell would worsen their condition. However, Senior prosecutor Hellen Mutellah objected the request on grounds that medical documents presented before the court could not be immediately authenticated. Obuto said he will on Monday make a ruling whether to issue a bond or not to the two officers. The two were arrested by police within the court premises after they sought to present themselves in court following a warrant of arrest against them. They had evaded arrest by EACC following an order by DPP Noordin Haji on Thursday last week. Earlier, five former and current members of the County Assembly Service Board, who were arrested on Thursday last week, were released on Sh2 million bail or a surety of a similar amount. They are Caroline Chepkemoi, Edwin Okello, Judith Omogi, former Majority Leader Owino Ooro, and his former Minority counterpart Isaac Nyandege. The five were given the bonds on conditions that they would not interfere with investigations and that they would not skip court proceedings among other conditions. Read: EACC arrests five HomaBay county officials over Sh26m loss Click here for the latest political news