UNICEF has pledged $150 (Sh15 billion) to support Universal Health Coverage pillar of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Health CS Sicily Kariuki revealed this on Wednesday after holding a meeting with UNICEF Kenya representative Werner Schultink in Nairobi. "Had a productive meeting with the representative of @UNICEFKenya, Mr. @janwerners. @UNICEF has pledged 150 million US$ to support #UHC through immunisation and nutrition programmes for the next four years," Kariuki said in a tweet. "We also discussed the ongoing immunisation rapid results initiative," she added. The cash will be a boost to the Big4 budget estimated at about Sh460 billion. During the budgetary allocation in June, Treasury CS Henry Rotich said Sh44.6 billion has been set aside for the agenda on providing universal healthcare. More on this: Sh44.6bn set aside for Universal Health Coverage as Big Four takes shape Should UNICEF deliver on its pledge, this will ease pressure on the exchequer and bring the total expenditure from the public coffers to Sh29.6 billion. In this year’s budget policy statement, Rotich said the government targets 100 per cent Universal Health Coverage for all households by 2022. This will be full health coverage to a projected national population of about 51.5 million Kenyans. Rotich said over the five year period, it will have set up ten new referral hospitals and four new comprehensive cancer centres. He added that 21 additional hospitals – equipped with surgical theatres, radiology and dialysis equipment will also be set up. According to the CS, the doctor to patient ratio will have improved by 50 per cent from the current 9:10,000 to 14:10,000. Under the agenda, he said 1.36 million women will be enrolled under the Linda Mama initiative, 1.5 million poor households will have full health coverage while 1.79 million elderly people aged above 70 years will have access to free medical care. "The government will also continue with the digitisation of the health information management especially NHIF, an endeavour that will increase efficiency and reduce overhead costs by 3 percent and foster faster online registration," Rotich said. Click here for latest political news  