Former president Barack Obama turned 57 on Saturday, and his wife Michelle was one of the first people to kick off the celebratory messages. The former first lady took to social media early Saturday morning sharing a photo of her husband overlooking a scenic landscape. "Happy birthday @BarackObama!" she captioned the image. "The view is always better with you". Former vice president Joe Biden also sent Obama well-wishes, posting a photo of them sharing a laugh outside a store. "Our lunches together were a highlight of every week at the White House. Last week's trip to @DogTagBakery was no different. Happy birthday my brother, my friend." Other messages were soon pouring in for Obama leading to '#ObamaDay' and 'Happy Birthday Mr President' to trend on Twitter. "Happy #ObamaDay," John Legend tweeted. "We in Indonesia (where he lived for a few years) toasting our President". "Happy birthday, @BarackObama," Ellen DeGeneres wrote. "You busy? We could use some help". Congressman and civil rights activist John Lewis posted a photo of Obama embracing him in a hug, writing: "Happy Birthday, @BarackObama #goodtrouble". Actor Mark Hamill wrote that he missed Obama's 'intelligence, dignity, gravitas & graciousness in the Oval Office'. Retired basketball player and civil rights activist Bill Russell said he wishes Obama 100 more birthdays 'because we need you'. "And Happy #ObamaDay Illinois Thank you for all you do," he added. Eleven-year-old Mari Copeny also took to Twitter to send a birthday shout-out to the former president. Copeny made headlines when at eight-years-old she wrote a letter to the White House asking Obama if he could meet a group of people coming to Washington DC to watch congressional hearings on the Flint water crisis. Obama responded by visiting Flint, which has not had clean water since 2014. "Happy birthday to the greatest president of all time... love you!" she captioned a photo of her staring up at Obama. "Happy Birthday Mr President". Others took a jab at current president Donald Trump, while telling Obama how much he is missed in the White House. "There is only one trait that a great man & petty man share: they are both predictable. We can always count on Pres. Obama to lead in times of great challenge. And, we can always count on Pres. Trump to create great challenges. Happy Birthday to Pres. Barack Obama- true greatness!" Ron Davis tweeted. Davis is the former director of the US Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services and executive director of the President's Task Force on 21st Century Policing under the Obama Administration. Illinois, Obama's home state and where he served as senator, is celebrating Obama's birthday all day after declaring August 4 as a commemorative holiday in honor of the 44th president. The state law went into affect this year marking Saturday as the first ever Obama Day. The state law says the day is 'set apart to honor the 44th president of the United States of America who began his career serving the People of Illinois in both the Illinois State Senate and the United States senate, and dedicated his life to protecting the rights of Americans and building bridges across communities'. Obama and wife Michelle kicked off his birthday week at Beyonce and Jay Z's On the Run II show in DC. A video of the couple dancing to a Jay Z song went viral. Click here for the latest political news