Nairobi witnessed a rare spectacle in
May, when about 300 youths invaded toilets at OTC, Bus Station, Muthurwa and
KPCU. An agitated operator at OTC shot in the air to flush them out. The youths had letters purportedly signed
by former county secretary Leboo Morintant, showing that the licences of the
initial operators had expired, and that the toilets had been handed over to
them. But Public Toilets Operators Association
of Kenya chairman Tom Makale would not take it lying down. It took the
intervention of officers from Kamukunji Police station to disarm him and whisk
him way, after a surging crowd threatened to lynch him. The fracas brought to the public’s
attention tensions in public toilet management that have been simmering since
2006. They spilled from boardroom meetings and court battles to the open. And on June 4, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko intervened. He ordered that all public
toilets in the city be used for free. Sonko also announced plans to put all the
toilets under the county government for better management, following persistent
wrangles and alleged corrupt dealings among the operators. In so doing, the governor waded into a
battle two previous administrations have unsuccessfully fought for over 12
years. The operators, who have been running the toilets since 1999, fiercely
resisted his directive, arguing that the toilets were their personal
investments. “We built those toilets from scratch after
they had been run down by the former city council,” Makale said. However, investigations by the Star have
established that there is more to the dispute than meets the eye. On one hand,
there is the question of giving Nairobians a safe and decent environment to
relieve themselves. But while it costs only Sh10 per person,
cumulatively there are millions of shillings in revenue involved,
which makes it a big business — so much so that private investors have
overstayed their welcome to manage them. PRIVATISATION PROCESS There are three categories of public
toilets in Nairobi: those built by the former council (mostly in markets),
those built by the Constituency Development Fund, and those built through a
partnership between the council and the Nairobi Central Business District
Association. Of the three categories, only the ones
constructed through the NCC-NCBDA partnership are being managed by individuals.
This is the category the governor targeted in his directive. Documents seen by the Star show the plan
to privatise the toilets was mooted by the former council’s Water and Sewerage
Committee on September 23, 1999, endorsed by the Planning Committee on
September 28, 1999, and approved by the General Purpose Committee on November
3, 1999, which green-lighted the construction of 12 toilets. Technical officers had at the time noted
that there were inadequate public toilets in the CBD, and nearly 50 per cent of
the existing facilities were dilapidated and non-functional due to poor
management. "There was urgent need to mobilise
resources to improve the situation through construction of new facilities and
rehabilitation of existing ones," the document reads. Subsequently, the council, through NCBDA, advertised
and invited interested investors to apply. Applicants were interviewed and
successful ones awarded contracts. They were to build, operate and transfer
back to the county government after they recovered their money and made some
profits. COURT INJUNCTIONS In 2006, problems started emerging after
the council floated tenders inviting the public to bid for the running and
management of the public lavatories in the CBD. The operators went to court and obtained
an order barring NCC from interfering with the toilets. The order was issued by
current Attorney General Paul Kihara. The parties were asked to sit and resolve
the dispute. They agreed that the operators would be remitting Sh10,000 to the
council every month. In December 2014, the then Environment
chief officer Leah Oyake published in the dailies that all operators were
required to apply afresh. She did so “without consultation”, forcing the
operators to go back to court. Makale says Sonko’s administration
came with a new strategy to kick the operators out of the toilets — that of
using ‘goons’. In June this year, he wrote to Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and county
commissioner Kang'ethe Thuku to protect them from the ‘goons’. They also went to court the same month
over the invasion. Lady Justice Njuguna ordered the county officers and the
Kamukunji and Central Police officers to flush out the invaders. But the county government says the
operators were to hand over the toilets back to the council after 10 years of
operation. “We had a valuer who, after valuations,
told the parties that after 10 years, the investors shall have recouped their
money and made some profit,” the county director of environment Lawrence Mwangi
says. However, he says, the investors did not
hand over the facilities but instead engaged the county government for
renewable three-year contracts. The last contract expired in December 2014. “These are public facilities standing on
public land. There is no way someone can say they entered a partnership that
had no exit clause. They were not supposed to run those facilities for life. They
are for the public, and they need to be given competitively to deserving
people,” he says. So why are the operators reluctant to hand
over the facilities back to the county, despite recovering the money they spent
and making profits? MILLIONS AT STAKE Investigations by the Star have revealed
that this is a multimillion-shilling industry run by a few groups and
individuals. The same individuals also run public toilets in major towns,
including Nakuru, Eldoret Kisumu and Mombasa. There are 63 public toilets in Nairobi — 17
in the CBD and 46 in estates and markets. There also about 517 private toilets
in the capital. The operators charge Sh10 per visit. Our investigations, figures released by
City Hall, and admissions by youths employed in the toilets reveal that daily
collections from toilets vary, depending on location. A single toilet in the CBD collects up to
Sh30,000 a day. This translates to Sh900,000 a month or Sh10.8 million a year
per toilet. This means that some Sh184 million is generated from the 17 public
toilets in the CBD annually. “There is one toilet in the CBD that
raises up to Sh60,000 a day. They are making a lot of money from this
business,” Mwangi says. Those in the estates and markets collect
between Sh1,000 and Sh5,000 per toilet per day, or between Sh30,000 and
Sh150,000 every month, or between Sh360,000 and Sh1.8 million per year per
toilet. The county government rakes in Sh20,000
per month in rent from each of the 63 toilets (Sh1.2 million per month or
Sh15.1 million per year from all the 63 toilets). It also charges Sh10,000 per
toilet for licence. Each of the 517 private facilities raises
an average of Sh2,000 per day or Sh60,000 or Sh720, 000 annually. In total,
about Sh1 million is realised daily or Sh31 million per month or Sh372 million
per year is collected from the 517 private toilets spread across the county. But Makale downplayed the money issue,
saying their intention in building the toilets was not to make money. Rather,
it was to change the image of Nairobi and help Nairobians who were being raped
and mugged in the toilets by criminal gangs and street families. “We are not so wicked to say that you
cannot enter a toilet if you do not have money. No, we don’t do that. We are
humane. We have old people, we have children, we have other deserving cases
that cannot afford to pay to enter the toilets. We allow them to go in for
free. Some people come with Sh2 and I tell my staff
not to chase them away,” he says. Youths who run the facilities on behalf of
the managers say about five bails of tissue papers are used per day. A bail
costs Sh890. They also buy about 5,000 litres of water for Sh3,500 per day, as
well as soap and other disinfectants at an average cost of Sh1,500. Each toilet
has about three people working there. Each earns Sh1,000 a day. They also incur
electricity expenses and in some instances, pay police officers to guard the
facilities. Environment executive Larry Wambua says
the court order the operators are clinging on to expired. “What they are showing is a 2015 court order,
which is interim in nature. An interim order only lasts 14 days. They have
never gone back to court again. So that court order expired and we cannot
rely on it,” he said. The executive says all public-private
partnership arrangements have exit clauses, and the one they have with the
operators was not an exception.