Your favourite MPs now want to be served tea by five-star catering staff at their beck and call as they recline in their seats, supervised by a public health specialist. In the evening after a hard-day’s work, they will stretch out in their revamped gym to the soft and tender touches of blind masseurs. Besides the five-star bar services with continental and traditional cuisines, and top-of-top-of-the range 4WD cars bought by you, they also want a facelift to their glittering offices. Gorasia dares state to demolish Taj Mall The Multi-Million shillings Taj Mall which is along the Outering Road will finally be demolished by end of this month because the building is on a road reserve. The multi-agency team yesterday asked all the tenants to vacate the building by August 30 when it plans to demolish the building. The chairman of the multi-sectoral committee on unsafe structures Moses Nyakiongora, said that the building will be pulled down because it is on public land. Meru macadamia Chinese market Macadamia farming in Meru county began more than 20 years ago. The crop, however, yielded little profit and many farmers cut down the trees in the 1990s and planted crops such as coffee, which were more profitable at that time. However times changed and the crop, whose profits had nose-dived, began yielding fruit following demand from as far as Asia. The arrival of Chinese in the market about two years ago encouraged more farmers to venture into macadamia farming. Saving Lamu from Unesco delisting Boda Boda operators who shall be found operating inside the Lamu Old town will now be arrested and charged. The move is aimed at protecting the Old town as a heritage site. Lamu old town was listed by Unesco as a World Heritage Site in 2001. There has however been concerns over the rising trends of westernization in terms of architecture, dressing and trading. This has attracted the concern of conservationists who feel the situation may result in the old town being delisted as a heritage site. Click here for the latest political news