As the county governments strive to sustain their operations, the citizenry should be on the lookout for the county finance bills 2018, where the counties have creatively identified new revenue streams to fund their activities. The Constitution allows the counties to impose property rates, entertainment taxes, charges for services provided, and any other tax or licensing fee authorised by an Act of Parliament. But most of the counties have not aligned their revenue collection laws, if any, with the Constitution This in itself is a breach of the mother law, hence, the licences/levies or taxes are not legally constituted. In addition, for every user fee levied, a commensurate service should be expected. County governments are imposing user fees and charges primarily to raise revenue, without the necessary anchorage to policy and legislation or link with service provision. The main economic rationale of user fees/charges is not to produce revenue but to promote economic efficiency. In this regard, the county governments should be clear on the services they intend to offer from the licence or user fees that they seek to implement. There are other opportunities for the county governments to collect revenues from land rates. However most counties have limited their revenue collection streams to entertainment taxes and charges for services. This is because there is currently no overarching law at the national level that guides the counties in their imposition of property rates. Outdated property legislation (Valuation for Rating (Cap 266 ) of 1956 and the Rating Act (Cap 267 ) of 1963 ) and valuation rolls imply low coverage and base of properties, which undermines property related revenue. Further, the absence of an integrated database among the counties and between the two levels of governments means that sharing of information is not possible, which compromises enforcement. In this regard, the county governments are required to enact property rating and valuation legislation. In addition, the county governments can collect more revenue from the national government through the Contribution in Lieu of Rates (CILOR). However, since devolution no county government has received CILOR payments from the national government. CILOR refers to annual payments by the government to rating authorities in respect of government land. Some of the reasons why county governments have been unable to collect CILOR is due to the lack of up-to-date valuation rolls and legislation to support imposition of property rates. Secondly, administrative guidelines on post-devolution CILOR claims processes have not been clarified and county administrations are unfamiliar with payment procedures. The practice by the county governments to impose taxes, fees and charges through the finance bills is not the best. They are expected to develop sector-specific revenue legislation and only use the finance bills to alter the amount, rate of a tax or fee by amending the clause in the principal law that dictates the rate. This is how it is done by the national government where, at the national level, the Finance Act does not impose taxes, fees and charges; it merely alters the amount or rate of a tax or fee by amending the clause in the principal law that dictates the rate. Thus, the National Finance Act operates like an annual Statute Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill. This approach is consistent with accepted revenue-raising practice, whereby sector-specific legislation imposes taxes, fees and charges and provides for easier financial regulation of each sector. Further, the county governments should pursue the alignment of revenue raising laws to the Constitution. This has been made easy by the provision of the county model laws by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. Lastly, it is important that the revenue laws being developed are subjected to the Statutory Instrument Act 23 of 2013 to not only ensure stakeholder participation but also that they have been subjected to Regulatory Impact Assessment. This way their implementation will overburden the stakeholders.