Facebook is revamping the way businesses appear on its mobile platform. The social media giant said it's redesigning the Pages for about 80 million small businesses on its smartphone app. Now, utilities will be featured front and center on the page, enabling users to interact with businesses more easily, such as making a reservation at a restaurant or booking a hair appointment. It'll also help consumers obtain more information about events and promotions the company is offering, as well as photos of the business. As part of the change, Facebook is adding related Pages to point users in the direction of other local businesses. "Inside the Facebook app there's no easy way to discover new businesses," Alex Himel, Facebook's vice president of Local, told TechCrunch. "The focus here is to make it easy to discover new businesses which we think any business will be excited about." The redesign will appear differently based on each category in the local business section. Facebook is starting with Pages for restaurants, local services and TV shows, with other custom designs coming for other Pages in the future. The firm is also streamlining the recommendations feature on Pages, by including crowdsourced reviews and improving reviews themselves by instituting a 25 character minimum. Facebook is emphasizing its renewed focus on businesses by adding a 'Local' section to the Facebook app and the desktop website, where users can see which places are recommended the most, as well as what events their friends are attending. The move comes as Facebook has also made some changes to its News Feed, so that it pushes friends' content to the top of users' feeds, in lieu of promotional content. For some businesses, it has meant that their content is less likely to seen by users. Facebook says it plans to address this problem in the near future. "We know that the core value that we bring to businesses on the platform is reach," Himel told TechCrunch. "Instead of time spent, we're focusing on having meaningful interactions in your feed. We know a lot of meaningful interactions are about local businesses or with local businesses. We're planning to talk about this later this [year]..." Click here for the latest political news