A man who kept the bodies of his wife and child in his house for years, believing that they would resurrect, has finally buried them. Kitu Munyoki's wife Lydia Ndila succumbed to tuberculosis in 2014, a year after their daughter died for reasons including not breastfeeding. "After the baby died, my wife and I agreed to preserve the body in our home. A year later, my beloved wife died," Munyoki said. "Shortly before that, she had told me that she would come back after nine years. That's why I lived with her dead body in the same house. I was waiting for her resurrection." The bodies were discovered in October 2016 and taken to Migwani morgue. The woman's family reportedly refused to bury them without the performance or rituals. Mortuary attendants said they did not understand how the man managed to preserve the bodies for three years. They said they were well-preserved and had no smell. A neighbour said: "He preserved the bodies using herbs only known to him and nothing artificial was applied. It is alleged that the man applied jelly to his dead wife and daughter's bodies." At the burial on Monday at Munyoki's Ndaluni home in Mwingi West, Kitui county, he told mourners that Ndila went to write a Bible and will return to "save people". He said his wife's last words were: "I have not gone. I will come back." When news of Munyoki's choices hit the media in 2016, he gave police the same explanation after they arrested him. He was released after spending six months in jail. "She is on a journey. She will return. She told me not to bury her. Put yourself in my shoes. Given such instructions, what would you do?” he said at the time. Munyoki said he does not subscribe to any religion but prays to a god. When the matter was reported two years ago, Grace Muli, who served as assistant chief, said they were shocked and that the man did not let visitors into his compound. "Kitu chased anybody who dared enter his compound," she said. Muli said she got the report from Munyoki’s mother-in-law Pauline Ndunge who had travelled from Tala, Machakos county to visit her daughter. Ndunge said she had last seen her daughter in 2013. Munyoki’s mother Mary Mwalale said her son once threatened to beat her when she insisted that she wanted to see Ndila. “He always told me that my daughter-in-law had travelled to her Kangundo home,” she said. Mourner Muthui Kitili said the man has "extraordinary powers" and claimed that he ate snakes and dogs. "He can as well cut a very big tree within one hour," he said. Click here for the latest political news