School heads and boards of management will be prosecuted for charging fees in public primary institutions, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Principals will also be held accountable if they ask parents to make any payments in day secondary schools. The DP said chiefs and county commissioners will be held liable if children in their jurisdictions fail to attend school. He was speaking in Saku constituency, Marsabit county, on Friday, “We want equality in our society, it does no matter whether you are from a poor or rich background. If we can achieve universal access to education, we are able to attain that dream as a country,” he said. Ruto said from next month the government will start giving Sh30,000 bursary to every student attending technical training. He said this is aimed at boosting transition from secondary to tertiary education. The DP said the Higher Education Loans’ Board will also give the students Sh40,000 annually to cushion parents from the burden of paying fees. “We have built technical training colleges in Saku, Laisamis, Moyale and North Horr. The government plans to set up one college in each constituency,” he said. “The technical training will shift our form of education. It is competence-based training that would prepare Kenya for a major economic take off, which is anchored on the Big Four agenda,” he said. The DP said Kenyans want development and not leaders whose politics is driven by hate and tribalism. Ruto told Kenyans to exploit the business opportunities brought about by the tarmacking of the Isiolo-Moyale Road, which connects Kenya to Ethiopia. He said Sh2 billion has been put aside for a water and sewerage system that will be commissioned in October. “More Sh10 billion water projects will be set up in Sololo, Moyale, North Horr, Laisamis and Loiyangalani in the next five years,” he said. Saku MP Ali Rasso said the meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and US President Donald Trump and the visit by UK Prime Minister Theresa May is a signal that Kenya is on the right track. He said leaders in Marsabit support the fight against corruption, but "it should not be used as a political tool". Garsen MP Ali Wario said they will support the DP's 2022 presidential bid. Marsabit governor Mohamud Mohamed said leaders should support the government's Big Four agenda. The DP was accompanied by Marsabit senator Godana Hargura, nominated Senator Naomi Wako, Marsabit Woman Representative Safia Sheikh Adan, MPs Chachu Ganya (North Horr), Musa Arbelle (Laisamis) and Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa Click here for the latest political news      