President Uhuru Kenyatta's failure to declare vacancies at the IEBC could have caused the circus in which two ex-commissioners are attempting to reclaim their jobs, four months after their dramatic exit. The details emerged amid speculation that a powerful government official was behind the audacious attempt to return by ex-commissioners Connie Maina and Margret Mwachanya. The two appeared at Anniversary Towers, IEBC headquarters, for the second day yesterday, accompanied by armed AP guards. The security detail raised the question of who assigned the police to guard them and who sanctioned their return. The two first brazenly returned on Friday last week and unlocked their offices with their keys. Chairman Wafula Chebukati was gone. They proceeded to settle in and read newspapers. They also demanded all office furnishings, telephones and computers be returned. A source told the Star yesterday that one of the resigned commissioners had said head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua was aware of their return to IEBC. Calls to Kinyua's office went unanswered. Yesterday, however, Maina and Mwachanya were unsuccessful in their attempts to enter. Security personnel barred them and the locks to their offices had been changed. Chebukati called them strangers who had no business at the IEBC and were acting with impunity. "It is absolutely wrong and a violation of Chapter Six [on Integrity] of the Constitution to come back unless you have been reappointed, which is not possible since at IEBC you only serve once, and you go," Chebukati told journalists outside Anniversary Towers. Former IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe resigned and fled the country 10 months ago, citing rears fears for her life, but she has not been replaced. Three others — Maina, Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat — publicly declared their resignations on April 16, and have been away ever since. They told a press conference they were resigning because the commission was dysfunctional and Chebukati was a failed leader. See: [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader By law, the President should declare such vacancies within seven days. "The President shall publish a notice of a vacancy in the Gazette within seven days of the occurrence of such vacancy," the IEBC Act states. In court documents, Nkatha, Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat said they sent their resignations to Uhuru on April 16. "I formally tendered my resignation letter to the President as is required under the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Act," three separate affidavits signed by the former commissioners state. "As far as I am concerned, I have resigned as a commissioner but my resignation is yet to be officially communicated and no vacancy has been declared. It can, therefore, not be said that I am the reason recruitment has not commenced." Some electoral experts say Uhuru's failure to declare the vacancies is to blame for the current stand-off and questions over the commission's ability to conduct major business without a quorum. "For me, yes, the blame is on the President...That is the biggest problem in my view. Dr Akombe resigned last year and we all saw it was a public resignation, same as the current ones. But from that time, no one seems to talk about the status of Dr Akombe's absence from the Commission," Elections Observers Group national coordinator Mulle Musau said. On Friday, Maina and Mwachanya quietly walked back to Anniversary Towers and demanded full restoration of their office equipment and privileges — even after initially clearing and returning commission assets. The return of the ex-commissioners under armed police guard triggered speculation that they must have backing from some quarters in government. When asked why the ex-commissioners were accompanied by armed police bodyguards, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett told the Star he was not aware of this development and promised to get back with details. He had not responded by 6.30pm press time. Yesterday, Chebukati rejected the two returnees and insisted they had resigned. He refused to meet them and only addressed journalists at Anniversary Towers. "They came on Friday and we were surprised to learn that they had retained some of the keys, which they had not handed over, and accessed their offices," Chebukati said. The IEBC boss is now playing hardball with his former colleagues who publicly disparaged him as incompetent. "Today (Monday) they came back to see me. I didn’t manage to see them but I asked them to go and put in writing what they want to see me about. And if and when they do so, we shall address the issues which they may want to deal with," Chebukati said. On April 20, four days after the resignation of the three commissioners, Chebukati separately wrote to head of Civil Service Kinyua and Treasury Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge. He asked Kinyua whether the resignation of trio was procedural and if Uhuru had formally been notified. The poll agency boss also suggested to Thugge that the salaries of the three Commissioners should be stopped immediately. It has emerged, however, that neither Kinyua nor Thugge responded to Chebukati's letter. "I wrote to the Treasury PS to stop their salaries. I am not certain whether that was done," Chebukati told reporters yesterday. In their affidavits in court, the three commissioners said their salaries were stopped. Two weeks ago, the court ruled that their resignation was unprocedural, presumably the grounds for the two to demand their jobs back. Yesterday, Chebukati maintained the commissioners were strangers and could not be allowed back. Nkatha and Mwachanya didn't respond to calls or text messages. It is understood that ex-commissioner Kurgat, a former government bureaucrat who served for many years as an ambassador, is not interested in the job "I am in Eldoret but let's leave the matter to the Judiciary and Parliament," Kurgat told the Star. He remained non-committal on whether he was in support of his colleagues who are pushing to have their offices back. Also read: IEBC Three to be replaced, Chebukati maintains Click here for the latest political news 