President Uhuru Kenyatta has met Mombasa governor Hassan Joho thrice since he landed in the county last week, two sources close to them have disclosed. Overall, the meetings resolved that each will work to build the other’s legacy. Uhuru has maintained a low key profile since he jetted in the Coastal city last Thursday. But yesterday, the President made an unexpected visit to Lamu county. The President who was accompanied by Transport CS James Macharia, Chief of Defence Forces Samson Mwathethe and other top government officials toured the Lapsset site at Kililana where he held a closed-door meeting with the contractors. He then proceeded to inspect the 15km Mokowe roads constructed by Kura. Uhuru also inspected the 135km Lamu-Garsen road being constructed by H Young company. The President also met companies in charge of natioanal projects and asked them to speed up work. The president wants projects completed before the end of August. He said construction of the Lamu-Garsen road is crucial for the security of Lamu and the entire Coast region. "Construction of this road is not just for the benefit of Lamu but will
go a long way in ensuring security in the entire coast region," hesaid.
The head of state said national projects that will not be done by August should at least be done by end of 2019 latest.
He said the road leading from Hindi town to the Lapsset site needs to be
completed as soon as possible saying that the project site can't be
adequately accessed with poor roads.
"You can't have a project of that magnitude like the Lapsset and you
don't have good roads to access it.We need that road to be constructed
fast for easy access to the port," said President Kenyatta.
The Cs Macharia pledged to ensure the presidents directives pertaining the projects are implemented soonest.
The 15km Mokowe feeder  roads cost Sh.1.2 Billion. On meeting with Joho, sources said the President opted for the meetings to remain private. Uhuru and Joho are serving their final terms. The first meeting was on Thursday at a residential home in Vipingo Ridge, Kilifi. The meeting was primarily between Uhuru and opposition chief Raila Odinga about the progress of the Building Bridges Initiative. But Uhuru expressed interest in the ongoing restoration of Mombasa. Raila, the sources said, invited Joho who also lives in Vipingo. Uhuru reportedly said Nairobi’s restoration was facing challenges and wars that could dent his legacy. He told Joho Mombasa was the perfect town to restore as it is not only the gateway to East and Central Africa, but its achievement would imprint his name. “Joho promised he will work towards Uhuru’s goal,” one source said. This meeting culminated in Monday’s statement by Uhuru asking the National Land Commission to revoke the Kibarani dumpsite allocation. Uhuru also announced regeneration intervention modelled from Nairobi. balala input The second meeting took place at Nyali Golf Club on Friday. Before its start, Joho and his friends including Mombasa speaker Harub Khatri, were hosted for a lunch at Raila’s home in Nyali. While dining, Balala called Joho and informed him that Uhuru had issued a directive that both should join forces and restore Mombasa as tourism destination. Late in the afternoon after the lunch, Joho was driven to the golf course and played with the President. Their security detail were kept at bay. That day, Environment CS Kiriako Tobiko flew in, met with Mombasa team and discussed about the Kibarani dumpsite. Tobiko briefed Uhuru and Joho was informed about the deliberations concerning Kibarani by his team. On Saturday, Raila flew back to Nairobi. The third meeting was on Monday noon at Uhuru’s Nyali residence which borders the Indian Ocean. Before this, Joho met Tobiko and Balala at his office where they later announced that Kibarani will be decommissioned and converted into a green park. Tobiko was accompanied by Nema chairman John Konchella and director general Geoffrey Wahungu.  Balala was backed by Tourism and Wildlife PSs. At the meeting, Balala asked Joho to identify 10 priority issues that needed his ministry’s input. Tobiko said his focus will be Kibarani and instructed the Nema bosses to help the county in clearing garbage. The meeting resolved that a bilateral gathering between the concerned Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries in the regeneration plan be held September 14.