President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga led Kenyans in mourning Privatisation Commission chairman Henry Obwocha. The former Cabinet minister died after collapsing at his Nairobi home on Friday night. Read: Ex-West Mugirango MP Henry Obwocha is dead Uhuru described him as a "distinguished long-serving public servant whose service will be greatly missed." The president, in a Twitter message, said he learned of the former lawmaker and accountant's death "with deep sadness." For his part, Raila said: "My very sincere and heartfelt condolences go out to his family, the people of Mugirango whom he served with dedication as MP and the Abagusii community in general." DP Ruto said the late served the country with distinction, mettle and performed admirably in the Planning and National Development docket. "My condolences to the family, friends and the people of West Mugirango in Nyamira county following the passing on of former minister Henry Obwocha," Ruto tweeted. Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula said: "Obwocha distinguished himself as a great Ford Kenya MP in the 7th Parliament." Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said the late exemplified servant leadership and selfless devotion to public service. "I pray that the Almighty God grants His peace, comfort and grace to Hon Obwocha’s family during this period and in the days to come," Matiang'i said. The Privatisation Commission said his devotion and passion for the implementation of the agency's programme was unwavering. The commission said Obwocha worked diligently, selflessly and with integrity "even in the midst of resistance that sometimes turned violent." Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said that the death of Henry has robbed Kenya of a great, dedicated leader and lawmaker. "As West Mugirango MP, he served his constituents with great diligence and commitment, earning their trust, love and respect -- factors that contributed to his being one of the longest serving MPs from the area, "Kalonzo said in his condolence message. Kalonzo added that in the debating chambers during his heyday, Henry was one of the most eloquent MPs, particularly on matters to do with accounting and governance. "At this most trying time for the bereaved, I offer my heartfelt condolences. May the Almighty God grant them the inner peace that comes from His everlasting comfort." Click here for the latest political news