It is complex, perplexing and pointedly incongruous, yet, as someone
has suggested, it seems to be a destructive endeavor by Uhuru Kenyatta to
remake himself and the bad legacy of his father. It has been suggested that Uhuru
and William Ruto lack the moral high ground to fight corruption as they have
either been associated with, benefitted from or have been involved in aspects
of corruption in one way or another. They have prime assets strewn all around
the country, whose acquisition was not quite aboveboard, and so how does it go? Whether or not they have the moral high ground to fight corruption,
the good news is that they are at least doing something about it, even if it
will be hard to convince many that they are not just marveling at the suffering
of others, when they, too, should be suffering. Uhuru made us believe he, too,
is suffering, having lost many friends in the process. It is not clear why he
had so many friends who were corrupt but, yes, losing them was quite painful
for him nonetheless. He does not know how many more friends he will lose and he
does not know when his own suffering will stop but perhaps, as Franz Kafka
suggested, “…only when I have become satisfied with my sufferings can I stop.” Will it will stop when Uhuru is satisfied with his own suffering or when
he is satisfied with the suffering of everyone involved? Rhetoric aside, it may
not be so soon in the coming because there are many faces to it and its
extremely difficult to get to the bottom of it. It is as though Uhuru is
solving a 5x5 Rubik’s Cube blindfolded. Such is the nature of corruption —
faceless and shadowy. There are now many who are counting their losses and tears are
freely flowing in the ongoing demolitions and evictions, and even the “first
lady” of Uhuru’s home county found herself in the dock over corruption. They
did not see it coming, neither did we. We were all resigned to our fate with
corruption as a way of life. Most, however, are victims of very shrewd
individuals or cartels and are second, third or even fourth owners of the
properties when the earlier owners sold and shipped out. The government itself
watched as all these happened, and it now coming ton ‘correct’ mistakes it took
part in creating. But where does it start and where does it end?  RETROACTIVE FIGHT OF CORRUPTION The prefix retro refers to
anything that comes to us from the past. Corruption that happened in the past
has its place and even though we got used to, or even overcame its effects, it still
does affects us today. It is like a bullet lodged in the body. While the body ultimately
gets used to its presence, it is never all well and it is probably a matter of
time before it creates trouble. If you take your time to study the nature of
Kenyan corruption, you will note it has had different characteristics over the
years. In the colonial days, much of it involved theft by public servants –
both European and African although the Africans often paid for it while the
Europeans largely got away with it. But in establishing the colonial state, the
British had to evict Africans to create ‘Crown Land’ over much of Kenya at
virtually no cost. Much of this land was allocated to settler farmers
particularly in highly productive land in the so-called White Highlands. To
this day, European-owned multi-nationals in Tea and other sectors still hold
huge tracts of land corruptly acquired from the Africans and they continue to
quietly enjoy such corrupt holdings, shamelessly I might add. They, however,
created a class of landless individuals most of whom turned to the gazetted
forests in search of land for subsistence. The independence government badly
bungled the resettlement programme and many landless and poor remained just so. Poor urban planning by the same government led to near chaos from
where much of the evictions emanate. The destruction of buildings on riparian
land cannot, therefore, be fully blamed on the victims. Many pictures on social
media showed how major cities in the world are built right to the edge of the
water — Paris, Venice, London and even New York. Even the Houses of Parliament in
London are situated right by the Thames River and so it should have been wiser
for the government to explain what the proximity of the Kenyan buildings to its
rivers is affecting. After independence, corruption involving land dwelt largely on
private land. From such matters as taking public loans to acquire land but without
the intention of repaying it to outrightly dispossessing people from their ‘rightful’
private farms. The stories are many. Kenyatta One era saw many lose their
private holdings to well-heeled individuals and those in power. In 1968 one
powerful politician in my native Nandi county is said to have simply walked
into the beautiful home of a remaining settler named Rawson-Shaw, and simply
shooed him away. The settler lost nearly 2,000 acres of land walking away with
only the clothes he was wearing. In the Moi era, most of the corruption on land mainly involved public
land. Everything from school playgrounds, forestland, trust land, land owned by
public corporations and research facilities, state houses and state lodges and road
reserves etc. The key word in this period was ‘land grabbing’, which is an
interesting word as it suggests the land was taken away ‘suddenly’ or
‘hurriedly’ which was often the case. Much of the stolen land was resold to
state corporations and often at heavily inflated prices. DP Ruto’s cases with
the Kenya Pipeline Company were along these lines.  In April 2004, Ruto was arrested and charged
over a Sh272 million deal, in which Ngong Forest land was sold to Kenya
Pipeline. In the post-Moi era, corruption mainly involved the theft of public
funds at source. Scandals were mainly financial involving procurement of goods and
did not involve the transfer of a public asset other than the money. We are still
in that situation. If you look at the main corruption issues, the money was
stolen from ministries and state corporations, and sanitised through purchase
of prime property and construction of, among other things, housing and
commercial facilities. Someone even suggested that most of the money led to the
proliferation of shopping malls in Nairobi.  RETURN OF THE DEFRAUDED The state corporations that lost their money by either being forced
to purchase what was once public land or being forced to part with key land,
which is now very valuable, are returning to reclaim their former possessions. The
Kenya Railways is also doing the same even though much of Nairobi once belonged
to it. It is perhaps the single biggest loser of land holdings. Another case is
the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, which is claiming the parcel on which Weston
Hotel, associated with DP Ruto, stands. Across the road from the same spot, Kenya
Prisons lost land in Nairobi West, which is now under various developments,
including the schools, medical facilities, entertainment and residential properties,
among others. These developments are associated with powerful individuals and
it will be very difficult to get them back without leading to major losses in
income, jobs and other economic activities and of course, friends for Uhuru.
There is also prime property opposite Kotetni Primary School in Kisumu county,
which was controversially sold to a powerful individual and (now) Uhuru’s close
friend. Would we do this? How far are we going to settle the grand monster of
corruption.  DUTERTE METHOD During the Anti-Corruption Summit at State House in 2016, Uhuru expressing
his frustration over graft, famously stated, “Do you expect me to go and set up
a firing squad at Uhuru Park so that people can be happy?” The statement
received many reactions, including one that advised him that if the kitchen had
become too smoky, perhaps it was time to vacate it. It is clear the weakest
link in the war on corruption has been the Judiciary, and now, as we observed
in utter horror this week, Parliament itself. Knowing that things would not get done as fast as he would have
loved to, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte turned to extra-judicial
methods, including once rolling a construction bulldozer over several luxury vehicles
confiscated from corrupt individuals. Drug lords and dealers did not get to see
the inside of a court. Even Uhuru once ordered the blowing up of a drug boat
complete with its cargo in the Indian Ocean. Such kind of action must however be consistent, persistent and fearless.
Uhuru must demand that Ruto demolishes Weston Hotel and this would of course
not go down well with his friend or his friend’s friends, who are now fast
becoming his enemies. Uhuru, too must return certain assets acquired by his
father for which he was/is a beneficiary. Is this possible? It remains to be seen if DPP Noordin Haji will prosecute his father
for being adversely mentioned in the acquisition of certain state land as was
established by the 2003 Commission of Inquiry into the Illegal/Irregular
Allocation of Public Land. His father, former Provincial Commissioner Yusuf
Haji and now a senator, was also adversely mentioned in other reports for human
rights abuses and even abuse of office among a litany of other charges. I honestly do not believe that this is possible. I certainly would
not do that to my father and for this, the fight against corruption will always
fail.    