Deputy President William Ruto wants leaders to align their programmes to the Big Four agenda. He said the successful implementation of the manufacturing, universal healthcare, food security and affordable housing agendas will create jobs for the youth in rural areas. Ruto urged leaders to put aside issues of last year's general election and focus on development. The DP spoke at Gaichanjiru High School on Friday during a tour of Murang’a county. “We cannot afford to let down President Uhuru Kenyatta. We must have one accord. When the Big Four agenda succeeds, Kenya will succeed,” he said. Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki, Governor Mwangi was Iria (Murang'a), Sabina Chege (Woman Representative, Murang'a), MP Esther Wahome (Kandara), MP Nyoro Ndindi (Kiharu), Esther Emanikor (Woman Representative, Turkana) and MP Ruth Mwaniki (Kigumo) were present. Ruto said existing schools should be expanded to boost education instead of building new ones that lack proper infrastructure. He said the government is putting emphasis on development of vocational education by establishing technical training institutes in all constituencies. Wa Iria said they will not allow anyone to distract Jubilee’s agenda. Related: Boost for Uhuru's 'Big Four' as UNICEF pledges Sh15 billion for health See: Manufacturers to get new incentives to boost production - Uhuru He said leaders at the grassroots should work as a team to ensure President Uhuru leaves a legacy through the Big Four agenda. He said Uhuru and the DP should go down in history as leaders who improved the lives of Kenyans. Nyoro dismissed a plan by Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda to bar Ruto from running in the 2022 election. Ouda sought to have the Constitution amended to block the DP from being on the ballot, but the motion was shot down in Parliament. “They can try everything like they did with the ICC cases, but flopped. They will not stop an idea whose time has come,” Nyoro said. Kindiki asked leaders to work together to implement Jubilee's agenda. The DP also addressed wananchi at Golden Palm Hotel and Thaara Primary School grounds in Maragua. He said for a long time, Kenya's politics had been anchored on tribalism, lies and division, which derailed development. “Now, it is development-focused. We built the Standard Gauge Railway line that had been talked about since independence. Our road network has improved and we have extensive power connections in the country,” Ruto said. When he launched Metumi Councillors Sacco in Kandara constituency, the DP said it should not be a platform for petty politics. “We want to see your Sacco changing member's lives,” he said. Click here for the latest political news