Did a State House official block pictures of Deputy President William Ruto
and former US President Barrack Obama during his recent visit from going out to
the public. Corridors is authoritatively informed that the official directed the
photographers to ensure that all the pictures taken go through him before they
are released to the public. They never saw the light of day. According to our moles
the official has on a number of occasions blocked speeches and press releases
from the DP’s office from being sent out using the State House channels. *** A prominent city lawyer has been accused by a section of parents of making
their children feel out of place at one of the city schools. Sources whispered
to Corridors that the lawyer makes several trips to the school just to deliver
toys to his child when classes are going on. Other kids are envious and so keep
nagging their parents to do the same. Now some teachers are asking why Wakili
can’t give the toys to his kid when he's home. Some parents have openly
protested that the lawyer’s behaviour is unacceptable and he should either
shape up or they get their children out of that school. The class teacher is
also being accused of singing the lawyer’s hyms which staff from the
institution believe is very unprofessional. The lawyer featured prominently during
the presidential petition. ** A top ranking state official implicated in the Ruaraka land scandal has
assembled a pack of 12 top lawyers who meet in his office every week to review
the content. This is after he tried to seek a political avenue to solve the
issue in vain. With the matter having been lined up for debate in the Senate,
the official is said to be considering flying with his battery of lawyers to a
neighbouring country to strategise how to handle the matter before it explodes.
Corridors is reliably informed that the official is determined to do everything
to change the course of investigation into the multi-billion land saga. ** A city businessman and politician who vied in one of the seventeen
constituencies in Nairobi in the August 2017 election is shocked. The man
who is fond of withdrawing large sums recently got the shock of his life when he
walked into one of the banks to withdraw Sh10 million but was told a government
agency had obtained court orders to freeze his accounts. Those in the know say he
has over 50 accounts spread in several commercial banks. The man walked out
disappointed and has not been spotted in public since that day. How things
change.  