Thirdway Alliance Kenya has rubbished the handshake task force as unconstitutional and a private deal which is unenforceable as a public cause. In a letter to head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot said the 14-man team should be disbanded. He termed it a waste of public resources. Aukot has joined politicians to criticise the deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga that has been hailed across the globe. Read: Uhuru tells off handshake critics, says will continue working with Raila “The joint communique under reference is a personal agreement between the President and an individual ... the agreement should not have resulted into being described as a public initiative,”Aukot said. He contested the repeat presidential polls on October 26 to the chagrin of Nasa. Aukot said the task  force offends the spirit of public participation and that the 14 members were not vetted. He said implementing the Building Bridges Initiative report will amount to imposing the aspirations of two individuals on the people of Kenya. The team was gazetted on May 24 and given a year to prepare a report on issues affecting Kenyans. They can however make periodically written recommendations for action by government. The task force is chaired by Garissa senator Yusuf Haji and deputised by University of Nairobi don Adams Oloo. Other members are Agnes Kavindu, Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Prof Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura, Major (Rtd) John Seii, Bishop Lawi Imathiu, Morompi Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu and Archbishop Zacchaeus Okoth. The terms of reference of the task force are to evaluate the national challenges outlined in the Uhuru, Raila March 9 deal. They are then to make recommendations and reform proposals that will build lasting unity. The joint communique identified nine areas of action. Read: It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru These are divisive elections, ethnic antagonism and competition, lack of a national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, safety and security, corruption, shared prosperity and respect for human and civil rights. But in his letter, Aukot said the team is usurping the powers of constitutionally created institutions. He names among others the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and Kenya National Commission of Human Rights. Aukot further says the task force reference undermines the already existing reports such as the TJRC, Kreigler and the Akiwumi 2009 reports. On Wednesday, Uhuru told leaders to stop politicising his relationship with Raila. He termed the relationship with Raila as a “deeper understanding” meant to fulfil the dreams of Kenya’s forefathers. “There comes a time when we should let go of petty politics. There is much deeper understanding between myself and my brother Raila Odinga,” Uhuru said. More: ‘Nusu mkate’ not part of handshake, Raila says, intensifies calls for Constitutional change Click here for
the latest political news