A month ago, I drove on the Kisumu-Kitale highway, whose construction is taking forever. Kisumu-Kakamega is almost done; Kakamega-Webuye is reassigned contractors now and then; and the Webuye-Kitale bit is complete save for road markings, which makes it a death trap for those daring to overtake. There is chaos on this road. There are rough, dusty, muddy, unkempt narrow and bumpy diversions. Most diversions are at rusty marketplaces, where the road snakes and cuts into shop verandas revealing that rapacity to grabbing isn’t reserved for the nouveau riche. Indeed, grabbing of public access and road reserves has been rampant in rural areas, but not publicised. We don’t get to hear more of the grabbing mania only because of the conspiracy of silence among rural brethren. Communities conspire to protect each member whenever the law threatens. They conspire to ‘eat’ an access road as much as hiding a thief. Neighbours, with the support of chiefs, routinely tell roads officers they have ‘agreed’ against a road passing between them. And it’s taboo to report a thieving neighbour’s son to the police. Unintentionally, exposure of rural poverty and its manifestations seems to be at the top of the road construction agenda. Markets that appeared prosperous now look decayed, exposing lack of spatial planning, water and sanitation, courtesy of road construction. What we call towns in rural areas are just shanties made of bricks and iron sheets haphazardly strewn along a road. Most have yellowed and rusted with age. In some markets where latrines have been ripped open by road construction machines, the stench is unbearable. Little wonder that no county government has applied for a market to be upgraded to a town as provided for under the Urban Areas Act. Finished parts of the road have become death traps for lack of warning signs. As happens with new roads, they excite drivers who throw caution to the wind as they cruise along. Only recently, two fatal accidents at Chavakali and Kamukuywa cost numerous lives. The other death trap is the matatu; police and operators have suspended traffic rules for the duration of the road’s construction. Four passengers squeeze into a row of seats meant for three as the jalopies zoom past waving police officers. The road is also testimony to the poverty in the region, given dead stock investments by the roadside. Everywhere standalone new buildings meant to host shops are uninhabited. Most retirees’ investments end up in these unattractive buildings in equally economically dead market centres, thus accelerating their demise. It’s been a tradition in this region that when you retire, you build a shop or a maize miller. Oversubscription in these poor investments and lack of local purchasing power result in ruin. Nonetheless, however much the markets manifest poverty, they’re also a celebration of architectural prowess and masonry marvels. The new road enables us to view the dilapidated buildings standing strong in stark contrast to rickety new ugly neighbours. The old retain the stoicism of master craftsmen who built them. This must be the story all over Kenya that decries the dearth of skilled artisans in the building sector. It’s what convinced the government to establish at least one Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) institute in each of the 290 constituencies. Save for the fact that national government has played truant and made TVETs a ping-pong game with county governments, it is unfortunate that where TVETs are established and equipped, there are no takers. Youth are crying out for opportunities but when life skills training that does not result in immediate cash rewards is on offer, they shy off. To encourage the youth to enrol in TVETs, the Vihiga government, for instance, set up a Sh21 million bursary kitty. To the shock of residents, the uptake has been extremely poor while youths idle in the villages. This calls for massive national enrolment campaigns and reorientation of youth towards artisan training.  kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,