An Eldoret court has ordered the Central Bank of Kenya to allow anti-corruption officials to scrutinise cereal board's accounts used to pay maize farmers Sh8 billion. Chief Magistrate Charles Obulutsa directed that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) forensic investigator be allowed to probe the accounts for the Strategic Grain Reserve Trust Fund in various banks. The accounts are suspected to have been used to pay brokers and traders at the expense of more than 3,500 farmers. The commission obtained the orders pursuant to an application by Richard Kilimo, a forensic investigator at the EACC. In an affidavit filed in court, Kilimo said the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) officials colluded with cartels to deliver maize at depots fraudulently for unprocedural payments. "The accounts may have been used to pay Sh8 billion to the cartels," Kilimo said. Related: [VIDEO] EACC arrests PS Lesiyampe, NCPB finance boss over Sh6bn maize scandal Read: Lesiyampe, NCPB finance boss expected in court at 2pm - EACC See: Lesiyampe, former NCPB boss released on Sh3 million cash bail He said the commission suspects the maize may have been imported particularly from Uganda. Kilimo told the money may have been paid through the Strategic Grain Reserve Trust Fund account 1000217189 at the CBK. Following the order, the commission will access valid documents linked to the accounts. The investigators will probe how the cash was channelled to accounts held by traders who imported the maize. The bank has been ordered to release bank statements, account opening forms, banker’s books, mandate cards and instructions notes to the commission. Magistrate Obulutsa said he is satisfied with reasons given by the commission while seeking the orders. "I now authorise Richard Kilimo, an inspector of the EACC, to investigate documents associated to the account between July 1, 2017, to May 31, 2018," Obulutsa said. Some of the traders who were paid by the board are among the suspects who were arrested. Among them are Agriculture PS Richard Lesiampe and former NCPB chief executive officer Newton Terer. Read here for the lastest political news