Deputy President William Ruto and MPs supporting his 2022 presidential bid yesterday bashed the media over bad publicity. The DP accused the media of spreading rumours and propaganda about division in Jubilee. He told residents to ignore the reports, saying the party is united. Ruto spoke at Rititi PCEA parish and Mathaithi church in Mathira, Nyeri, during two fundraisers. At Rititi, the DP gave a personal donation of Sh1 million and another Sh1 million from President Uhuru Kenyatta for purchase of the church bus. Read: Weta raps 'Hon. Ruto' for media attacks, Nasa security withdrawal He proceeded to Mathaithi, where he also gave out similar amounts to complete the church construction. “This is the time to unite Kenyans and deliver services such as construction of roads, providing electricity and improving education and health.” The DP went on, “Sometimes back, our President told us the biggest role of newspapers is wrapping meat.” Senate deputy speaker Kithure Kindiki said all elected leaders are behind the DP. “There is no problem in Jubilee. We are together moving forward,” he said. Laikipia woman representative Cate Waruguru urged the media to look for another agenda, not the alleged Jubilee split. “Stop peddling lies and propaganda, which are not bound by facts.” Soi MP Caleb Kositany told journalists to give Uhuru and Ruto time to deliver their promises. On development, the DP said Sh25 billion has been set aside for road construction to enable farmers transport produce. On the Last Mile Connectivity programme, Ruto said Sh1 billion has been set aside for connecting power to 25,000 households in the second and third phases of the project. The DP said 30 milk coolers will be taken to Nyeri. He added that the government will improve the value of farm produce such as coffee, milk, horticulture and tea to earn farmers better returns. “Selling raw farm produce must stop. To grow our economy, we must ensure our produce is improved through manufacturing, which is a pillar in the Big Four agenda.” The DP said Kenya will no longer sell semi-processed coffee and tea as this denies farmers major earnings. Click here for the latest political news