New garbage ATMs to buy city waste will be installed In Nairobi’s central business district with the street families being the targeted sellers. The machine, which takes the shape of a big fridge, is a ‘reverse’ vending machine that has two bowls on both ends. On one side people will deposit organic waste while the other bowl will be for recyclable waste like plastics. Read: Sonko takes garbage skips to Nairobi estates, hires youths The machine has a sensor to identify the kind of waste deposited. For example, when plastic waste is deposited on the the bowl for organic waste, it will be rejected and a pointer will direct the client to the right bowl, said the proprietors, Next Level Escalating Enterprise. It also has TV like screens on the sides meant for corporate adverts as one way of generating income for sustainability of the project. “Atleast this can provide entertainment to the street families or even news,” NLLE director Lulu Ahmed told the Star yesterday. "We plan to install 40 of them in CBD by end of this year." Nairobi generates 2,475 tonnes of waste daily of which 270 tonnes are never collected daily, according to the National Environmental Complaints Committee. Ahmed says the machine will not only improve waste recycling but also create jobs for the street families hence reduce petty crime and the number of beggars in the same streets. When someone deposits the garbage in the machine, it weighs and classifies then issues a shopping voucher. She said they are identifying supermarkets where the vouchers can be redeemed in kind. “We expect there will be few beggars if not at all, instead the street boys will be engaged in collecting the garbage now that the machine will be paying them. I am sure even the beggars will be few. At least there will be something for them to do,” she said. More: How Nairobi can fix its serious garbage problem The waste will be recycled and sold to make the programme sustainable. Acting Environment chief officer Isaac Muraya said the county welcomes all the efforts put forth in finding solution to the waste management problem. “Nairobi city county government endavours to provide a clean environment to all its citizen as stipulated in CAP four, part two article 42 of the Kenya constitution 2010,” Muraya said. National environmental management authority Director General Geoffrey Wahungu, said the innovation is timely. “NEMA appreciates the deployment of of the green technology geared towards sustainable development as long as its actual operation and installation meets legal requirements especially those set by Kenya bureau of standard (KEBS) and NEMA,” he said. Ahmed said she developed the concept but the machine was built in Turkey. “I went to the University of Nairobi where one of the administrators, Eng. John Maina, liked the concept but asked me to pursue it abroad because of capacity constraints at the university. I went to China, sold my concept but they asked me to wait for at least six months. It is until I consulted further that I got a company that understood my invention at Izmir in Turkey and the engineers agreed to work on my idea,” she said. Also see: Uhuru asks team tasked to transform Nairobi to sort out garbage, traffic menace Click here for the latest political news