Militia violence in Democratic
Republic of Congo has prevented aid workers from reaching some
potential cases in an outbreak of Ebola that has so far killed
44 people, the World Health Organisation said on Friday. At least 1,500 people have been potentially exposed to the
deadly virus in North Kivu province but the violence means
officials cannot be sure if they have identified all the chains
by which it is spreading in the east of the vast country. "We don't know if we are having all transmission chains
identified. We expect to see more cases as a result of earlier
infections and these infections developing into illness," WHO
spokesman Tarik Jasarevic told a news briefing in Geneva. "The worst-case scenario is that we have these security
blindspots where the epidemic could take hold that we don't know
about," he said. The WHO, using figures compiled with Congo's Health
Ministry, said confirmed and probable cases numbered 78 in
total, including 44 deaths. About 1,500 people have been
identified as contacts of people infected with the disease,
which causes fever, vomiting and diarrhoea. The outbreak is spreading across the lush farmlands of
eastern Congo. Its epicentre is the town of Mangina in North
Kivu province and it has already reached neighbouring Ituri
province. Congo has experienced 10 Ebola outbreaks since the virus was
discovered on the Ebola River in 1976, and it has altogether
killed some 900 people altogether. An epidemic between 2013 and 2016 killed more than 11,300
people in West Africa. The United Nations children's agency UNICEF said an
unusually high proportion of the people affected in this
outbreak were children. Two children have already died from the disease, and centres
in Beni and Mangina were treating six children infected by the
disease or suspected to be. UNICEF said it had also identified 53 orphaned children who
have lost their parents to Ebola. "The impact of the disease on children is not limited to
those who have been infected or suspected," said Gianfranco
Rotigliano, the UNICEF representative in Congo, said in a
statement. "Many children are faced with the illness or death of their
parents and loved ones, while some children have lost large
parts of their families and become isolated. These children
urgently need our support". The WHO said more than 500 people including health workers
have been vaccinated against the disease. It had deployed more
than 100 experts to Mangina and Beni towns to oversee tracing,
vaccination and safe burials. There were however "red zones" near Mangina which aid
workers could not enter for security reasons, Jasarevic said. Also read: No handshakes, no helmets in Congo city preparing for Ebola Click here for the latest political news