The Muslim community should establish the office of the Grand Mufti, Tourism CS Najib Balala has said. A Mufti is an Islamic scholar who interprets and expound on Islamic law (Shariah and Fiqh). The office will have jurists qualified to give authoritative legal opinions known as fatwas. According to Balala, Muslims have failed to unite and speak in one voice when it comes to agreeing on the dates of important events in the Muslim calendar like Ramadhan and Eid. The religion has also expressed different views on issues of family planning and interest on bank loans. Whereas some say family planning is allowed, others oppose it. On Tuesday, while attending the Eid-al-Adha prayers at Sheikh Zayed Centre in Mombasa, Balala said to end this impasse, the office of the Mufti should be created. “I will lead the Muslim faithful to organize a forum where we can discuss this matter so that we can have an office of a Mufti. We want to do this for the unity of Muslim faithful in the country,” said Balala. Read: Duale wants chief Kadhi punished for Eid-Ul-Adha confusion Kenya’s Chief Kadhi Sheikh Ahmed Muhdhar has sharply differed with the national government for setting up Tuesday (August 21) as the national holiday for Muslims’ Eid-al-Adha (the culmination of pilgrimage to Mecca). Sheikh Mudhar argued that the government's choice of day contradicted Koranic teachings, adding that the holiday should fall on Wednesday. This has irked the national government, led by the National Assembly Majority Leader Adan Duale, who said they will review the Chief Kadhi’s conduct on opposing government declaration. Balala said the Chief Kadhi cannot make a decision on contradicting matters because his office is a judicial office, whose mandate is only marriage, inheritance and divorce matters. “He cannot make the decision on other matters that are outside his jurisdiction. Therefore, we need an office of the Mufti, who is a person highly scholarly and can make a decision on behalf of the Muslims,” said Balala. The Tourism Cabinet Secretary said he will also lobby the national government to have the Mufti office anchored in law. “We necessarily do not need a legislation to have this office in place, because a Mufti is not a choice of the government, but the choice of the Muslim. However, if the government see it fit to have the officer anchored in law, it will be much better and we shall lobby for that,” said Balala. The Kenya National Muslim Advisory Council chairperson Sheikh Juma Ngao said the Muslim community needs to speak in one united voice and Mufti will be the only link. “We read the same Quran, we pray to the same Allah (God), we are the same ummah (faithful), but we are always disagreeing on simple things like dates of Ramadhan and Eid. We now need someone who will guide us,” said Ngao. He said Rwanda, Burundi, Egypt, Uganda and Tanzania have created the office of the Mufti and Kenya needs to copy from its neigbours. Click here for the latest political news 