The concept of desire is easily misunderstood in the context of fulfilling a dream. Often, people feel that their strong desire for an outcome is enough to make it happen. This is part truth. Desire is key to the fulfilment of your dream, but it’s only an element. Sometimes, you can experience frustration in the pursuit of your dream because of the conflict between your desire and your identity. It is the struggle between what you want and who you are. You want to be a medical doctor, but you lack the discipline required to put in the hours of study, practice and hard work needed to make it happen. You want it desperately, but the mismatch between your desire and identity works against you. In the pursuit of a dream, desires alone won’t work. The motivational speaker, Les Brown, said: “You don’t get in life what you want, you get in life who you are.” What you want is irrelevant if it doesn’t match the reality of who you are. Society is full of dreamers who have lofty ideas with little or nothing to show for it. Ideas are not isolated elements. Who you are affects the realization of your dream. Generally, people are blinded to this truth because they live unconsciously. They have been programmed by society and naturally play out the script of this programming. So, they don’t realize that the nature of their person is stopping them from reaching their goals. They are not conscious enough to identify the limiting mindsets, so that they can unlearn and reprogram their minds for success. For instance: you dream of being an air hostess in a major global airline and travelling the world for free. But, you have a bad temper – easily angered, impatient with distasteful manners. Considering it’s the hospitality industry, your nature will ensure you don’t succeed – except you consciously change so that your nature matches your desire. Often, in such cases, you hear people say: “that’s just who I am; that’s just the way I am.” It’s easy to underestimate the effect of the thought patterns that create who you are. Truth is: your person attracts your results. We forget that our thoughts pull our convictions our way. You attract what you think and believe. Do you want to attract different outcomes? Think differently. Search for the kind of thinking that guarantees the change you prefer. Engage the new thoughts and you will begin to attract new and exciting experiences. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com