Barely a year after wrapping up their high school studies, Sharon Chepchumba and Lorine Chebet are over the moon after making it to the final national volleyball women’s team to the World Championships set for Japan from September 29-October 20. The former products of national champions Kwanthanze High School headlined the five new faces set to debut at the global stage as head coach Japhet Munala unveiled his final team of 14 players. Having written their final exams last year, the youthful duo who have already signed for Prisons, joined the experienced libero Agrippina Kundu, KCB’s Christine Siwa and Melvin Kasaya, who plies her trade locally with Pipeline in the national team to the global show. Chepchumba, who was voted the 2017 Most Valuable Player (MVP) at the nationals and the East African Secondary School Games, could not hide her joy in making her maiden cut to the national team ahead of World Championships. The left attacker vowed to work hard and cement her place in the first team despite the competition from the senior players. She said: “I am elated to be in the national team for the first time and to make the cut to the World Championships. It comes courtesy of hard work and I will maintain the fighting spirit. I am aware starting roles at this level are limited to the experienced players but through hard work, I am sure I will punch my way to the starting list.” Similarly Chebet said she is determined in establishing herself in the national team. “It’s a joy to be in the national team and to make it to the global stage. I want to be a consistent figure in the squad and I am aware it calls for hard work.” Munala said: “They have impressed in the training sessions and they really deserve to be in the national team. Age is catching up with our senior players and its prudent to start exposing their replacements to high profile tournaments at a younger age so as to gain experience.We have had good preps and it’s my hope this time round, we will make it to the top five.” Meanwhile, seasoned left attacker Mercy Moim retained the armband while her rival in the position Everlyne Makuto was the biggest casualty as she was dropped to the team headed to the East African Community games in Burundi. Full Squad: Mercy Moim, Violet Makuto, Janet Wanja, Edith Wisa, Jane Wacu, Triza Atuka, Emmaculate Chemtai, Noel Murambi, Elizabeth Wanyama, Agrippina Kundu, Christine Siwa, Melvin Kasaya, Sharon Chepchumba, Lorine Chebet.