Kenyatta National Hospital has faulted the salaries agency over the workers’ strike. Treasury PS Kamau Thugge was accused of not approving health workers’ allowance. Documents filed in court show the hospital tried to work with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission on the dispute. But the agency said non-professional health workers or administrative staff are not entitled to the allowance. The position by SRC led to the matter being referred to a conciliator appointed by the chief industrial relations officer from the Ministry of Labour. The conciliator recommended that the union’s members be paid the allowance. “We wrote to the SRC that they review their position to pay allowance to non-medical professionals, but they are yet to respond,” part of the court documents show. “We also wrote to the Treasury PS in July, requesting for approval of the expansion of the allowance to cover all staff at KNH in accordance with the conciliator’s recommendations. The same is yet to be acted on.” The hospital says it cannot implement the recommendations because it relies on the Treasury for personnel emoluments. “We cannot interfere with the duties of the commission, which is solely charged with the responsibility of determining, setting and advising on remuneration, salaries, benefits and allowances in the public sector,” the hospital says. The conciliator’s recommendations increase the hospital’s annual expenditure on staff emoluments by Sh302,850,000, and a total of Sh757,125,000. If the arrears are considered, it will require the approval of the National Treasury for it to be effected. “We are unable to effect the same without the budget and express authority of the National Treasury,” the hospital said. Labour and Employment Relations Court justice Maureen Onyango has restrained hospital workers from withdrawing labour or effecting a general strike. She issued the orders after the hospital, through lawyer Wilfred Mutubwa, said the majority of the people invited by the union to go on strike, ( 3,000 to 4,000 staff) are medical professionals who already earn the health workers service allowance. “The intended strike is largely by those not aggrieved by the dispute and hence a sympathetic strike outlawed by the Labour Act.” KNH says it made an effort to resolve the matter, including seeking the requisite approvals from Treasury and the SRC to stop the strike. The hospital said withdrawal of labour by the workers will affect its operations and jeopardise lives of thousands of people seeking medical attention. “While the right to engage in industrial action and to go on strike is guaranteed in the Constitution, the same is limited by operation of the Labour Relations Act to exclude essential services such as medicare, which is the primary activity undertaken by KNH.” The hospital said it engaged the workers union throughout, to elaborate efforts towards an amicable settlement.