IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has been summoned by a parliamentary committee on Thursday to highlight the state of affairs at the electoral agency. He will appear before the Justice and Legal Affairs committee chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, days after two of the three commissioners who had resigned reported back to work. Margaret Mwachanya and former vice chairperson Consolata Nkatha left their positions in April and denounced Chebukati as incompetent. They showed up at the IEBC’s Anniversary Towers offices last Friday. It is unclear if commissioner Paul Kurgat, who resigned alongside them but was missing on Friday, also wants his job back. At the time of their exit, the three said the IEBC boardroom had become “a venue for peddling misinformation, grounds for brewing mistrust, and a space for scrambling for and chasing individual glory and credit” under Chebukati’s leadership. On Thursday the JLAC, which oversees the electoral agency, will seek answers regarding the commissioners’ return and operations at the commission. Chebukati and commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu are expected to tell MPs how the return of their colleagues could impact the institution’s work, especially given that there have been concerns about lack of quorum. Read: I don't know if ex-commissioners are being paid, Chebukati tells MPs Cheptumo yesterday said the commissioners will inform MPs to what extent have affairs been affected following the exit of Nkatha, Mwachanya and Kurgat. Commissioner Roselyn Akombe left the commission days to last year’s repeat presidential election and fled to the US, saying her life was in danger. “Even before the Friday incident, we had invited the commissioners to inform us what was happening at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, including what they could do or not do due to lack of quorum,” Cheptumo said. The committee could go back to the drawing board, given that MPs had started forming a select team to replace the four commissioners who left office. Also See: IEBC saga: Chebukati misses date with MPs over by-elections Click here for the latest political news