 Migori ODM nominee for senator
Ochillo Ayacko has begun campaigns
for the October 3 by-election,
amid divisions among party leaders. On Tuesday, Ayacko’s campaign caravan transverse the county
major towns after being given a direct ticket on July 27, a decision that has
divided the party into two. Already a section of party officials have said they will
defy a directive by the Orange House, the party’s headquarters, to campaign for
Ayacko saying the decision to hand him a direct ticket was against democracy
which the party stands for. On Monday county party leaders led by county ODM organising
secretary Joseph Nyambori, Uriri constituency chairman Ooko Atong’a and his
secretary general Amos Kepher said they will not campaign for Ayacko. On Tuesday several Nyanza region party activists and
officials led by Nyanza ODM Coordinating Committee chairman Ochieng Ruku gave a
statement saying they won’t support Ayacko. “In last elections we had party officials who went against
ODM nominees in several seats and campaigned for independent candidates as they
were not satisfied by party decision, in this spirit we won’t support Ayacko,”
Kepher said. Atong’a said they will not accept a decision to curtail
democracy in the county which is cosmopolitan and warned party leaders to
verbally attack and threaten them and other leader, especially governor Okoth Obado,
who have taken a similar stance. Two weeks ago ODM leaders led by Suna East director of
elections Junet Mohammed and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi warned that the party will
not hesitate to take disciplinary action against those who will decampaign
their candidate. Their warning was in response to Obado who said he will
support Dalmas Otieno of National Liberal Party ticket who was locked out of
ODM nominations. “We won’t be intimidated by our party and we want other
leaders to respect Obado who is the county ODM patron, our decision is to
support Dalmas at the ballot,” Atong’a said. The elections has brought to fore division in party ODM
officials as county chairman Philip Makabong’o and Secretary General Joseph
Olala, including Junet were accused of decampaigning Obado, ODM ticket  on governor race in  2017 for Ayacko who vied on Independent
ticket. Already the ODM party is planning campaigns in Migori through
several governors, senators and legislators to recapture the seat that was left
after senator Ben Oluoch Okello succumbed to throat cancer last month. Other leaders who will vie for the seat are educationist
Solomon Hodo, former county Kuppet Secretary General Kennedy Makasembo, current
Kuppet chairman Orwa Jasolo and Businessman George  Ayacko, who is Ochillo’s cousin. Both will vie as independent candidates. Ends