Soysambu/Mitua MCA Stephen Wamalwa has unearthed corruption at the Bungoma assembly by way of fictitious payments to contractors and suppliers. Speaking to the press at the assembly buildings on Friday, Wamalwa alleged that on several occasions, assembly clerk John Mosongo has sanctioned payments for services that were not rendered. He cited the case of the payment of Sh510,000 to a Kisumu hotel for a seminar said to have taken place from December 7 to 12, 2017. He said MCAs found no such seminar took place when they reviewed their diaries. “We have documents showing that 25
MCAs attended a workshop of the agriculture committee, in which I am member. We didn’t, but the hotel was paid,” he said. Reached for comment by phone, Mosongo confirmed that the payment was false but said staff may have colluded with suppliers. “We are aware of that case. We suspect that staff in our system are behind it. We have told MCAs that we are following up the matter," he said. But Wamalwa noted that this was not the first case and that county operations are hampered by lack of cash. He said his investigations revealed many such payments and that he will table a motion to discuss the conduct of workers. “This is a well choreographed plan that [involves] particular contractors and suppliers who are paid for doing nothing and thereafter the
money is shared." The MCA wondered why the invoice from the hotel was
dated December 17 yet the payment voucher was initiated two days earlier. “This a well choreographed scheme
to defraud the assembly. We can't pretend to be over-sighting others when the house
is corrupt," he said. Wamalwa also asked why the clerk did not send a memo to the agriculture committee on the retreat before the payments were made, as is usually the case. "To show the level of conspiracy, the procurement department requested payment January 15, 2018, long after the payment had been made," he saod. The MCA who was armed with documents asked the EACC, the DCI and DPP to quickly intervene and save the county from wanton
corruption. Related: No room for corruption in Bungoma, Wangamati tells enforcement officers Click here for the latest political news