Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu has sensationally claimed that there have been efforts to remove her from office after she joined in nullifying President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election last year. In an affidavit filed in court, and obtained exclusively by the Star, Mwilu says that following threats made by the President after nullification of his first win, a series of events have targeted the Judiciary, specifically the majority judges. The vote was 4-3, Mwilu read the majority opinion and was adamant that the presidential outcome must be overturned and a rerun scheduled. The court cited massive "illegalities and irregularities". How maize loot was shared The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission yesterday revealed how unscrupulous traders took home a chunk of the Sh11.3 billion set aside to pay maize farmers. EACC assistant commissioner Jackson Mue in charge of the North Rift yesterday told MPs that of the 10,636 maize suppliers, 146 suppliers made a delivery worth Sh4.5 billion. This means that only Sh6.8 billion was left to pay more than 10,000 farmers who delivered maize in 2017-2018. He testified before the Senate Select Committee on the maize crisis. Kenya honours Theresa May with 19-gun salute at State House British Prime Minister Theresa May was honoured with a 19-gun salute upon arrival at State House, Nairobi on Thursday. She inspected a guard of honour ahead of her bilateral talks with the host President Uhuru Kenyatta. May was received by Uhuru and DP William Ruto before the deafening sounds of the fired cannons rented the air. IAAF hands Okeyo life ban, fines him Sh15m for funds mismanagement IAAF Council member and former Athletics Kenya vice president David Okeyo has been banned from athletic activities for life and a Sh15m fine levied upon him for financial malpractices at Riadha House. Okeyo alongside co-accuseds, former AK treasurer Joseph Kinyua and Isaiah Kiplagat, immediate former AK President (now deceased) were charged for diversion of substantial funds for their direct or indirect personal benefit in breach of the IAAF Code of Ethics. Cycle lanes to bring down accidents on Jogoo Road Pedestrian accidents along Jogoo Road are expected to decline as the Kenya Urban Roads Authority sets up cycling lanes on both sides. The 1.2-km stretch will run from Landhies Road to the Likoni Road roundabout (Church Army section). Pedestrians continue to lead with the highest number of fatalities in road accidents in Nairobi. Your Weather NAIROBI: Cloudy – day and night. Low 13ºC. High 21ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. MOMBASA: Showers in the morning and late at night. Low 21ºC. High 27ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 30%. KISUMU: Partly cloudy, with a possible thunderstorm. Low 18ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S and variable. Chance of rain 30%. Click here for the latest political news 