Baringo South MP-elect Charles Kamuren wants Pokot herders to leave the constituency as "enough is enough". Kamuren, who won the Friday vote, said his top agenda is to resettle thousands of members of the Tugen and Ilchamus pastoral communities. They have been displaced by armed Pokot bandits since 2005 in parts of Mukutani, Arabal, Ruggus and Noosukro. “The listed areas fall under Baringo South so I, being the people's father, want Pokots to assemble their livestock and leave before I am sworn-in," he told his supporters in his victory speech in Marigat town on Saturday. Kamuren said the herders must also leave Sirata, Kiserian, Ramacha, Kapndasum, Embossos, Ngelecha and Lokumkum. Read: Pokots turn to banditry ‘as last resort’ More on this: [VIDEO] 2,000 flee after 70 houses burned in Pokot-Elgeyo bandit attack The Jubilee Party politician said that the Pokots may be eyeing a boundary change but noted that they will not allow this. Baringo county is inhabited by the Tugen, Pokot and Ilchamus pastoral communities, which Kamuren wants to unite. “It rained recently so the whole of Pokot land in Tiaty is green. They should prepare to move back immediately because my people are displaced yet they also need pasture for their livestock" he said. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo and Kamuren were asked to ensure Pokots stop pushing boundaries and engaging in cattle rustling and other bandit attacks. Kamuren said: "I am older than Kamket so I will act on my commands." While noting that Baringo South's key concerns are insecurity and poor education standards, he promised to improve the sectors. Read: Jubilee's Charles Kamuren wins Baringo South by-election Also read: Kamuren pledges unity, development for Baringo South residents Tiaty MP William Kamket disrupted Kamuren's speech with a surprise appearance for the victory roadshow. Kamket, a KANU die-hard, said his leadership agenda centres on peace and unity. "I [congratulate] you, my brother Kamuren, for being elected and welcome you to Parliament," he said after noting that he was on his way to Tiaty. "I am a peace-lover. I will support every effort intended to preach peaceful coexistence among our people." Click here for the latest political news