Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has said that he will not stop laying traps on corrupt individuals. Sonko has in the past exposed secret recordings of individuals attempting to bribe him. In his latest expose, Sonko released audio conversation between him and Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu. Waititu was heard pleading with Sonko to release his wife who had been arrested in connection with illegal construction in the city. He also exposed businessman Praful Kumar for alleged bribery claims. Prafur was caught on camera attempting to bribe Sonko at his Kilifi home. The anti-corruption body said it arrested Praful Kumar with Sh1 million after they were alerted of the events at the governor's residence on Monday. The trader is said to have gone to meet Sonko at his Kanamai residence when the EACC officers were called in. EACC Lower Coast regional boss George Ojowi said Kumar had gone to Sonko's residence with the bribe for the governor to approve the construction of a hotel. The county government on August 16 stopped works at the facility situated near the United Nation offices in Gigiri. But on Wednesday, Sonko said Waititu and Praful should serve as a lesson to any person thinking of carrying out impunity in the city. “Waititu is my friend and his wife too, I know I will lose many friends on this fight on corruption,” Sonko said. Sonko said Waititu's projects will not be stopped as long as he applies for the approval. The governor added that the only persons he will not record are President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. He also warned land grabbers that they will not be spared. Sonko asked them to think of offering an alternative land or they risk demolition of their illegal structures. He cited the owner of grabbed public land in Gigiri where the private developer has proposed to do a modern fire station for the county. The same private developer has also agreed to construct the public amenities on behalf of the county. Read; Waititu’s Sh250m prime downtown building at centre of wife’s arrest Also read; EACC detectives arrest Nairobi trader over Sh1m bribe for Sonko to approve hotel Click here for the latest political news    