Tourism CS Najib Balala has been urged to step aside and take responsibility for the death of 10 rhinos at Tsavo East National Park. Union of Veterinary Practitioners national chairman Benson Kibore yesterday told MPs Balala and Kenya Wildlife Service acting director general Julius Kimani should beheld accountable. The rhinos were being translocated from Nairobi and Nakuru national parks to the newly-created sanctuary in Tsavo East National Park supported by WWF-Kenya. The rhino deaths were due to multiple stress syndrome and salt poisoning. The KWS board had directed that no translocation should happen unless the concerns on the safety of the water at the park were adequately addressed. Kibore told the National Assembly Environment and Natural Resources Committee the CS and DG should aid investigations into the deaths. He accused Balala of acting with impunity instead of protecting national heritage. Read:Leakey, vets fault CS Balala for Tsavo rhino death suspensions “Asking the veterinary doctors to go to hell when we demanded answers and reinstatement of colleagues amounts to belittling and discrimination,” he told the committee chaired by Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki. “CS Balala should reinstate the veterinary doctors he suspended. We feel the CS has not only trampled on the Constitutional rights of veterinary doctors but also the people of Kenya.” Heads of veterinary and capture services Francis Gakuya and Isaac Lekoror were suspended after the animals died. Kibore and his counterpart from the Kenya Veterinary Association Dr Samuel Kahariri told the committee Balala did not have powers to suspend the doctors and that such obligation was vested on the KWS board, which was not constituted by then. Read:[VIDEO] 'Go to hell', CS Balala tells critics amid probe into deaths of 11 rhinos The two agencies want MPs to facilitate a workload analysis, saying the few available doctors at KWS are overworked. “The less than 10 veterinary doctors at KWS are supposed to care for more than one million wild animals in 54 national parks and game reserves,” Kibore said. They also want veterinary doctors to enjoy autonomy of decisions regarding translocation of animals and immediate revocation of the recently constituted KWS board of trustees. Also Read:KWS officers 'shocked, traumatised' by deaths of rhinos at Tsavo - Balala Click here for the latest political news