Activist Kevin Anyango has started an online platform Mtandao Versity to help bridge the gap of graduates, who when looking for jobs, don't know what employers want. The international development expert, who is a manager at Laureus Sport for Good Foundation based in London, said companies google the name and profile of job applicants. Anyango is also a contributor to the Huffington Post and LinkedIn notes. According to Monster, a global employment website, 77 per cent of employers google and research to learn about prospective employees. Anyango initiated Mtandao Versity to share their experiences and teach soft skills. They include communication skills, how to answer phone calls, dressing appropriately, networking and interacting as well as negotiating skills. Anyango and his friends created a Facebook page called Mtandao Manenos last year to help sensitise Kenyans on effects of cyber bullying. This after a tweet he posted sparked sharp reactions during a political debate in which he stepped on the toes of a politician who dismissed him as a "lobotomised cartel surrogate". Anyango said they are targeting youths in East Africa. He said 200 people have so far signed up for the online modules. “We are not only targeting the young people looking for jobs but also those who want to develop their careers,” he said. He told the youth to stop using social media to gain popularity and instead use it to build up their online presence. Anyango said they should stop tweeting and asking leaders for work. They should instead engage them with meaningful solutions, he said. “You won’t get a job because you tweeted Bob Collymore. Don’t tweet him because you want a job, instead give him solutions you are ready to offer,” he said. Anyango said bloggers like Robert Alai, Cyprian Nyakundi and activist Boniface Mwangi created their brand using their heavy online presence. He said former US President Barack Obama used to respond to the tweets of least five people daily during his tenure. “Executives I have worked with say millennials don’t have character, they just follow the textbook of what they were taught but they don’t work on their character. “What you were taught in school is not the reality." He said soft skills were previously taught by their parents, but the modern society does not. Anyango, who studied International Community Development at Westminister University, said jobs are available in Kenya, but the youth limit themselves. He said people are not employed because of their skills, but their personality. Though he advocates for entrepreneurship,Anyango advised young people to value work ethics. “Entrepreneurship is a lifestyle.” Read: Kenyan activist takes on cyber bullying as threat grows