The Embu government has dismissed a report that says 13 ambulances and another 60 cars have been detained in private garages over unpaid Sh5 million repair and storage fees. The report tabled on Wednesday by the county assembly Health committee had blamed the executive. The report says patients in need of urgent care are suffering because the Health department has failed to pay the debt. Health chief officer Grace Muriithi yesterday dismissed the report. She said it is full of nothing but lies. Muriithi said all ambulances “are out in the field” and are used to provide services. “Go to Embu Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital and other health facilities and see the ambulances. In fact, come I take you to Kianjokoma and Ishiara. They are okay,” the official said. Tabling the report for debate, committee vice chairman Harrison Mwaluko on Wednesday said some ambulances have minor mechanical defects that could be easily fixed. “Embu residents suffer for lack of essential services, prompting MCAs, police and other well-wishers to help in ferrying the sick to hospital,” he said. Mwaluko said some charges have accumulated because the vehicles have been in the garages longer than was expected. Runyenjes Central MCA Steve Munene blamed Governor Martin Wambora for the lack of ambulance services. He said the buck stops with the governor and he must act swiftly to ensure residents get emergency services. no more cash for cars The people entrusted the governor with their lives because they knew health services had been devolved, Munene said. He said the county assembly always allocates the lion’s share of the budget to Health and expects that residents would get better services. Kyeni North MCA Patrick Makavi suggested that the assembly denies the executive more cash for buying new ambulances. He said efforts must be made to have the available vehicles released to avoid unnecessary expenditure. The ward representative said he read a sinister motive in the outstanding bills. Makavi said drivers and garage owners might be colluding to defraud the county of cash by inflating bills. He called for investigations. Nominated MCA Agnes Wanjiru said the Wambora administration should be compelled to clear the fees within the next 30 days. Unless that is done, patients will continue to suffer, she said.