The new policies are a mixture of gifts to and restrictions on the Police Service. Whilst the public will celebrate the new measures as designed to reduce police harassment and professionalise the service, the restrictions will force those who opt to join the career on the straight and narrow path. Many of those who depend on side hustles will find it hard to survive. Serving policemen and women will be prohibited from providing services to private security firms unless approved by the Inspector General. The new policies by the National Police Service Commission further demand that officers on duty or off duty should conduct themselves with integrity and decorum in accordance with the law and the Police Service Code of Conduct at all times. More on this: New rules bar Police from doing business Also read: How government abandoned ambitious police housing project They will not be allowed to participate in any other form of employment. Officers found using their position for personal gain will face tough disciplinary measures. The officers will not engage in political activities that may compromise or be seen to compromise the political neutrality of their office. “A member of the service shall not cause anything to be done for the member or in the interest of the member through another person that would constitute a contravention of this policy,” it reads. In a response to the upsurge in suicides and police turning on each other, the policy promises to provide a framework to prevent, identify and manage stress and trauma at the workplace. Deplorable living conditions and long work hours with low pay have been singled out as causes of police brutality. Now, new measures require the NPS to set aside staff and financial resources to counsel police, their families and the community. The policy also recognises education, health, marital and work among other factors to be the causes of stress and depression and calls for respect for those with problems. It also proposes to establish a counselling board, which will include representatives from the services and the directorate. Click here for the latest political news