Trucking of oil from Turkana will only resume if Tullow Oil is ready to involve locals in its operations, residents said on Saturday. A section of residents said this while receiving feedback from a joint committee set to resolve a standoff between Tullow and locals that saw the firm suspend operations in the area on July 26. The team composed of local leaders, Tullow Oil representatives and Ministry of Petroleum and Mining officials led by CS John Munyes asked locals to allow oil trucking under the Early Oil Pilot Scheme (EOPS) to resume. Even so, residents insisted that oil transportation to Mombasa will not resume if Tullow does not involve the community in its operations and more so prioritize them for tenders and job opportunities. Angry residents told Turkana South MP James Lomenen and his Turkana East counterpart Ali Lokiru that the oil firm has lost ties with the community, to an extent of denying them basic resources like water. They questioned Tullow’s decision to suspend operations in the area saying it was meant to punish locals who were benefiting from the oil project. David Eregae, a resident of Nakukulas village said the oil project was stopped that government could beef up security in the region. The government has deployed security officers in the region but the issue of community involvement is yet to be addressed since Tullow has halted social cooperation. “Tullow Oil took advantage of our protests to punish us. They closed down operations and left yet no one was touched nor injured during peaceful protests. How can you deny your client water even if in the time of war?” Eregae asked. Besides basic resources, jobs and tenders, locals want Tullow Oil to come up with manuals written in the local language to help residents easily understand oil activities in the region. ‘’Tullow Oil is taking advantage of the community’s ignorance to marginalise them by scripting information in English and not local dialect. Most people here don’t know the benefits of this project,’’ Emmanuel Edukon a resident of Lokichar said. They questioned government’s decison pushing the community to sign a memorandum of understanding with a company that has terminated contracts for local suppliers and workers. While addressing resident of Nakukulas village, Lomenen said the community requires adequate sensitization on the oil proceeds.