The Central Bank of Kenya sees the country’s economy growing at 6.2 per cent this year, slightly above Treasury’s estimate of 5.8 per cent on the back of stronger agricultural sector. CBK governor Patrick Njoroge told a news conference yesterday that the positive forecast was based on the economy’s performance in the first quarter which grew by almost 100 basis points to 5.7 per cent in the first quarter compared to 4.8 per cent over the same period last year. The growth he said was driven by recovery in agricultural activities due to improved weather conditions, recovery in manufacturing sector and resilient performance of trade, real estate and tourism. ‘’The growth in 2018 is expected to be strong, supported by continued recovery in agriculture, a resilient service sector, spending on Big Four and stable microeconomic environment,’’ Njoroge said. CBK further expects credit to the private sector to grow as the economy continues to recover. Loans to the sector grew by 4.3 per cent in the 12 months to June compared to 2.4 per cent over the same period last year. Credit to manufacturing, building and construction and trade grew by 12.3 per cent, 13.5 per cent and 8.6 per cent respectively. Even so, many might not feel the impact of economic growth considering that though inflation is still within CBK’s margin of 7.5 per cent, it is expected to rise slightly due to high energy prices and impact of recent tax measures. Month-on-month inflation grew from four per cent in May to 4.3 per cent in June. This is however much lower compared to the same period last year when it hit 11.7 per cent to be ranked 27th highest globally. ‘’High domestic fuel prices due to increase in international market, impact of the excise tax on consumer price index items are expected to exert pressure on inflation in the near term,’’ Njoroge said. Borrowers are however expected to access credit at a lower interest rate of 13 per cent, after the Monetary Policy Committee lowered the Central Bank Rate to nine per cent from 9.5 per cent set in March. The governor said the country has enough foreign exchange reserves equivalent of 5.9 months of import cover to provide adequate buffer against short term shocks in foreign exchange market. ‘’The country has $8.83 billion (Sh883 billion) in its reserves. The precautionary arrangements with the International Monetary Fund equivalent of $987.7 million (Sh98.7 billion) provides an additional buffer against exogenous shocks,’’ Njoroge said. The IMF facility expires in September and already lender’s representatives are in the country to review whether or not to extend it.