Beleaguered DCJ Philomena Mwilu was at the centre of the unprecedented nullification of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election last year, a decision that Uhuru vowed would be revisited. Mwilu, admitted to the bar 32 years ago, teamed up with three colleagues, including Chief Justice David Maraga, to overturn the poll, a Kenyan and continental first. Justices Smokin Wanjala and Isaac Lenaola were the other two judges who ordered a rematch between Uhuru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The court split 4-3. Mwilu, whose driver was attacked, would later say there had been efforts to intimidate the justices. Even before that judgment, the soft-spoke Mwilu, who is about 64 years old, kept asking questions that often caught lawyers flatfooted. For instance, she was curious why the presidential votes could total more than those for other elective seats if all  voters got six ballot papers. "After you have been given six ballot papers and you want to vote for only one candidate, where do the other five ballot papers go?" she asked, throwing lawyer Tom Macharia off balance. On Judgment Day, Mwilu said elections are not events but processes, interpreting Section 82 of the Elections Act that bitterly split the Supreme Court. Related: Raila wins as Supreme Court nullifies Uhuru re-election "Elections are not only about numbers as many, surprisingly even prominent lawyers, would like the country to believe," Mwilu said in her detailed ruling. "Even in numbers, we used to be told in school that to arrive at a mathematical solution, there is always a computational path one has to take, as proof that the process indeed gives rise to the stated solution." Justices Njoki Ndungu and Jackton Ojwang took the view that numbers are paramount. Njoki said the interpretation of Mwilu and team would unleash “jurisprudential confusion never before witnessed”. Mwilu’s judgment — process over numbers — was one aspect that rattled Jubilee, which immediately started to amend the law. The day after nullification, a furious Uhuru said the country has “a problem” with its judiciary that must be fixed. “We shall revisit this thing. We clearly have a problem,” he said. He also called the judges wakora, meaning bandits. "Who even elected you? Were you? We have a problem and we must fix it," he said, speaking on live television at the State House in Nairobi on September 2, 2017. Two days before the October 26 repeat polls, Mwilu’s driver was shot in what many said called an intimidation tactic. The attack occurred  just a day before the Supreme Court was to hear a case that could have scuttled the rerun. Mwilu was not present. Activists had filed a petition asking the apex court to postpone the polls. In March this year, Mwilu said the justices were indeed threatened over the presidential petition challenging Uhuru’s reelection. "We were threatened, that is for sure. I must confess because I don’t know how to clothe a lie," she said. "I am not sure whether the threats cowed the judges as to affect our subsequent decisions. But the threats never entered my soul and I thank God it never did," she said. Click here for the latest political news  