A Senate panel has summoned four senators over allegations they tried to extort Sh100 million to influence the final report on the Ruaraka land probe. The Powers and Privileges Committee chaired by Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has written to the four lawmakers who allegedly demanded the money from Afrison director Francis Mburu to face the panel this Thursday. Mburu wrote a statement and submitted an audio recording to the DCI, implicating Public Accounts and Investments Committee chairman Moses Kajwang’ (Homa Bay), and members Mithika Linturi (Meru), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu) and nominated senator Millicent Omanga. All have denied wrongdoing. The Senate PAIC was investigating the circumstances under which Mburu was allegedly paid Sh1.5 billion as part of the deal for the compulsory acquisition of 13.5 acres also claimed by Ruaraka High and Drive- Inn Primary schools. The four have denied soliciting bribes from Mburu. They are expected to shed light on the businessman’s claims that they met him at a Nairobi hotel and demanded Sh100 million to influence the outcome of the report. “We still treat the matter as mere allegations. The committee will probe the same to establish the truth,” Lusaka said. step out Members of the Powers and Privileges Committee include senators Wamatangi, Omanga, Irungu Kang’ata (Murang’a), Rose Nyamunga (nominated), Sylvia Kasanga (nominated) and Falhada Iman (nominated). However, Wamatangi and Omanga will have to withdraw from the proceedings to avoid conflict of interest because they are the subject of the session. Senate Minority whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) yesterday said the two members implicated must rexcuse themselves from the sittings, as required under House Standing Orders. “They cannot participate in the deliberations. The speaker must be told in the first instance of the meeting that they should step out.” The senators last week came out guns blazing, dismissing Mburu’s claims and accused him of trying to divert attention. Linturi told Mburu to release the audio to the public. “I don’t want to wrestle down with a thief...A pig thrives best in mud, so if I take that option, I will get dirty. If he has any evidence that I asked for money from him, let him take it to the DCI,” he said. Read: Team in Ruaraka land saga exposed to unsolicited advances – Kajwang Kajwang’ accused Mburu of trying to arm-twist the committee and influence the authoring of the report that recommended that he be investigated over the Sh3.2 million saga. “We have caught their hands in the cookie jar. We shall not be intimidated or silenced by suspected thieves. Corruption fights back, but we are ready to fight to the end. Parliament shall not be cowed into silence by lords of graft who think Kenya is theirs to loot,” he said. In the final report before the Senate, the committee established that the land belongs to the government and should not have been paid for. Also Read: Matiang’i, Belio ‘abetted’ Ruaraka land cash saga - Senators Click here for the latest political news