Politicians from the Maa community drawn from Kajiado and Narok counties have insisted that the Gema community, and particularly President Uhuru Kenyatta, owe DP William Ruto political support in 2022 elections. The leaders said Kenyans are watching keenly and will make their own judgement come 2022. “The Kikuyu people cannot purport to claim they do not owe ‘Samoei’ anything," former assistant minister David Sankori said. He added: “We are telling them to swallow their pride because those supporting Ruto for presidency are unstoppable.” DP William Ruto, has however, been categorical that no one owes him any political debt in his quest to clinch the presidency in 2022. On Sunday July 8, while speaking at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi, Ruto said the only debt owed to anyone id the debt of leaders delivering to Kenyans what they promised during campaigns. "No person or community in Kenya owes anybody anything including myself, the only thing we owe ourselves is the debt of love," he said. See: [VIDEO] 'Nobody owes me anything' DP Ruto says on 2022 bid But Sankori insisted that Ruto is owed by Mt Kenya owing to his unfledging support he has accorded President Uhuru Kenyatta before and during his presidency. Sankori served as an assistant minister in retired President Daniel arap Moi's government. He castigated a section of Mt Kenya leaders who have openly said that support for Ruto 2022 is not a guarantee. “When their own was seeking the presidency, they praised Ruto for uniting his people and other Kenyans to vote for Kenyatta. What has now changed," Sankori posed. Sankori spoke in Kenyewa/Poka Ward in Kajiado East constituency during the homecoming ceremony for ward rep Henry Kimiti. The event was attended by governor Joseph ole Lenku and his Narok counterpart Samuel Tunai. Narok East MP Ken Amarat and his Kajiado West counterpart George Sunkuyia also attended. The two MPs supported Sankori’s sentiments and told the Maasai to unite ahead of 2022 elections and ensure their son (Ruto) from ascends to the presidency. Read: Will they or will they not support Ruto? Five debate in church Governor Tunai, who did not directly indicate his support for DP Ruto, said he has forged a ‘working’ relation with governor Lenku ahead of 2022 general election. He said the working relationship was aimed at uniting communities in Narok and Kajiado in shaping their political and development route. “Before we turn five years in our political offices, my brother Lenku and I will ensure that those seeking elective seats in 2022 will be vetted by elders. We will start from MCA positions in Kajiado and Narok and thereafter we shall unite as Kajiado and Narok to campaign for them," Tunai said. Tunai, a strong ally of Ruto in the South Rift, said he will personally ensure that those who will be elected in 2022 are ‘clean and spotless’ individuals. All leaders who spoke supported the Big 4 Agenda and said it means well for the country. They told the president they will support him to the end of his term because of his good leadership. Lenku, who spoke last, reiterated his support for the President and told the Kajiado's Maa community to unite with the people of Narok in defining their destiny. “I am supporting this unity of purpose with my brother Tunai, and I am saying this is the way to go. Unity of our people is important, and we have no choice but to stand together and make our own destiny.” The governor said he will fight to wrestle Nol-Turesh Water Services for Kajiado residents saying water from Kilimanjaro is their resource. Water from the water tower is supplied to Makueni and Machakos counties apart from Kajiado and has often times been a bone of contention during electioneering periods. Lenku said; “If it becomes hard for me to secure that water, I will use all the available and reachable means to get it.” He did not elaborate what he meant by ‘available and reachable means’. Also see: I will not vote for Ruto in 2022 just because I am a Kikuyu Click here for the latest political news