ODM leaders who ditched the party during the 2017 primaries are welcome for peace talks, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has said. Wandayi said Raila Odinga's party is ready to reconcile with those who were "bruised" during preparations for the August 8, 2017 general election and are "still nursing wounds". While addressing residents in Bar Okwiri in Bondo on Saturday, the ODM secretary told disgruntled members to "come and make peace". "In the spirit of the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila, charity must begin at home and bring all ODM leaders together," he said. "ODM has enough space for everyone including those in other parties who wish to join us. As the ODM secretary for political affairs, it's my duty to ensure cohesion for the party to expand." Wandayi said he will start reconciliation talks, as part of preparations for the 2022 poll, and ensure Jakoyo Midiwo, Nicholas Gumbo and others return to the fold. Midiwo and Gumbo are among key politicians who decamped from the orange party at that time. Gumbo contested for the Siaya Governor seat on an Independent candidate but was defeated by Cornel Rasanga (ODM). During the primaries, Rasanga trounced him but the latter claimed he was rigged out. He and Midiwo then opted to vie independently, with Midiwo taking a shot in Gem constituency. Midiwo, a close ally of Raila, lost his parliamentary seat to ODM candidate Elisha Odhiambo, the vote tally being 33,520 - 28,245. In his response to Wandayi's call, Midiwo accused the party of not embracing internal democracy. "The problem is the party, not those who were left out. Some of us are better off outside the party," he said. "You can see the type of MPs and Governors they got out of the mediocrity during the nominations and the general election." He said he was surprised by the "mediocrity" but glad that the party had learned from its mistakes. Wandayi said the talks will be extended to counties including Migori, Homa Bay and Kisumu. He praised the party for resolving to back Ochillo Atacko in the October 8 Senator by-election. Read: Amid opposition, Raila endorses Ayacko for Migori Senator race Also read: I'm ready for lifestyle audit, no crisis in ODM - Raila Click here for the latest political news