President Donald Trump has
threatened to withdraw the US from the World Trade Organization (WTO) if
the body fails to change the way it treats America. "If they don't shape up, I would withdraw from the WTO," Mr Trump said in an interview with Bloomberg News. The WTO was established to provide rules for global trade and resolve disputes between countries. But Trump, who has been pushing protectionist policies, says the US is treated unfairly by the body. He
said on Thursday that the 1994 agreement to establish the WTO "was the
single worst trade deal ever made", though he acknowledged that the US
had won some judgments in the past year. His warning about a
possible US pull-out from the organisation highlights the conflict
between the president's trade policies and the open trade system that
the WTO oversees. Meanwhile, Washington has recently been blocking
the election of new judges to the WTO's dispute settlement system,
which could potentially paralyse its ability to issue judgments. US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has also accused the WTO of interfering with US sovereignty. What's Trump's issue with the WTO? The US president has been sounding off about unfair trade since even before he became president. Last
year, Trump told Fox News: "The WTO was set up to benefit everybody
but us… We lose the lawsuits, almost all of the lawsuits in the WTO." The US has been embroiled in a tit-for-tat trade battle on several fronts in recent months. The one creating the most interest is the one with China, as the world's two largest economies wrangle for global influence. Trump has introduced tariffs on a number of goods imported into the US. A
third round of tariffs on $200bn (£154bn) of Chinese goods could come
as soon as a public-comment period concludes next week, according to a
Bloomberg report citing various sources. Asked to confirm this during the Bloomberg interview, President Trump said that it was "not totally wrong". China
has responded to US tariffs by imposing retaliatory taxes on the same
value of US products and has filed complaints against the tariffs at the
WTO. China's commerce ministry has said it "clearly suspects" the US of violating WTO rules. An initial complaint at the WTO was filed by China in July after Trump imposed his first round of tariffs. The WTO is at the heart of the system of rules for international trade. It
is the forum for sorting disputes between countries about breaches of
global trade rules and it is the forum for negotiating new trade
liberalisation. Threats about other agreements? On
Monday, Trump announced that the US and Mexico had agreed to revamp
the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta), calling it a "really
good deal" that was "much more fair" for both countries. He had
previously threatened to pull out of the deal, triggering a year of
talks, and demanded a renegotiation of the 1994 agreement - which he
blames for a decline in US manufacturing jobs, especially in the car
industry. Canada, the third member of Nafta, is yet to agree to the new terms. On
Thursday, Lighthizer held talks in Washington with Canadian Foreign
Minister Chrystia Freeland aimed at reaching a new deal. Following
four separate meetings, which continued late into the night, Freeland told reporters that a deal could not be reached, adding that
talks would resume on Friday. Trump has set Friday as the
deadline for Canada to sign an agreement, and has threatened to tax the
country's automotive sector or cut it out entirely. Click here for the latest political news 