Mombasa governor Hassan Joho has said none of his relatives linked to the Kibarani dumpsite land grab will be spared. He said those implicated in the case must relinquish the titles. "It does not matter even if you are my brother," Joho said. On Thursday, General Tyres, one of the developers accused of grabbing 0.4991 ha of the land, surrendered its title deed. The document was deposited with the National Land Commission vice chairperson Abigael Mukolwe. Records show Halid Ahmed is listed as the owner. Appearing on behalf of the company, Akra Mohamed handed back the title. "The government wanted its land back and we are returning it," he said. Joho received the title deed on Friday at Kenya School of Government where the NLC has been holding a three-day public inquiry from Wednesday. On July 30, President Uhuru Kenyatta told the NLC to revoke the Kibarani titles. The commission is expected to give its verdict on September 14. See: Uhuru asks Swazuri to revoke Kibarani titles, backs Joho's recreation centre project Read: Mombasa risks losing island status, says Joho Also read: [VIDEO] Developer surrenders Kibarani title to NLC Joho said the war against impunity in Mombasa will not stop. "Just like Uhuru, I am ready to lose friends". Mombasa residents have accused the county government of doing nothing as private developers put up structures on the disputed land. Garbage dumping at Kibarani and encroachment on part of ocean land puts Mombasa at risk of losing island status. The National Assembly's Environment committee visited Kibarani to probe claims of land grabbing. Committee members stopped reclamation of the Indian Ocean at areas bordering the dumpsite following the claims. Joho was summoned to explain the reclamation and why solid waste was being used. Mombasa Cement, which was doing the reclamation, was also summoned to appear before the committee. The MPs said only 100m of water is remaining before Mombasa's island status is lost. Click here for the latest political news 