Reuben Langat of Kericho has intensified his training ahead of the forthcoming Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup Grand Finale at the Mediterranean city of Antalya, Turkey in late October. Langat, who emerged the winner during the event’s Nairobi qualifiers at Windsor on July 27, is at the moment putting final touches to his preps ahead of the Grand Finale which returns to Belek for the umpteenth time. He is leaving nothing to chance as he prepares to fly country’s flag against several other qualifiers from various Turkish Airlines destinations. “The essence for now is to improve some facets of my long and short game,” said Langat. “Over the past few days since I qualified, I have been working hard to perfect my swing and I’m glad it’s closer to where I want it to be. I’m putting well at the moment which is good for my short game. The game plan for Turkey will be to keep the ball on the fairways and putt well on the greens.” Mustafa Ozkahraman, the general manger of Turkish Airlines Nairobi said: “We would like to offer our congratulations to everyone who made the Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup qualifier in Nairobi such a special occasion. It was a fantastic tournament and well done to our winner Reuben Langat. They still have so much to play for in Antalya but everyone else will be looking forward to see him come back with the coveted trophy. As Turkish Airlines, we are committed towards golf tourism promotion which is a major global industry. We are proud to be associated with the Turkish Airlines Open which is a round of the European Tour and the Turkish Airlines Challenge which is a challenge tour event.” This year’s event in Antalya, is the sixth edition of Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup Amateur series. Langat fired 40 stableford points to beat home golfer Ravi Gandhi and Zamin Nasser to second and third respectively on count-back at the Windsor course on July 27 to qualify. Last year, Moses Kiragu won the Kenyan qualifiers at Muthaiga and represented Kenya in the Turkish Airlines show in Antalya.