Fund managers
will shun away from investing in corporate bonds in relation to suspensions by
the Capital market authority on trading of failing banks. The market regulator
suspended Sh10 billion worth of corporate bonds in 2016 on National Stock Exchange
after the bank had listed the bonds to raise cash. Zamara
Fanaka Retirement Fund Chair Lucy Kambuni has said the trend would make
investors become cautious of buying corporate bonds especially from banking
institutions. Kambuni has
also disclosed that the pension scheme had taken a write off on its bond with
the Chase Bank. “Trustees
need to be engaged better and strict regulations by the Central Bank of Kenya to reimburse returns
to investors in the event of defaults or bank closure,” Kambuni said. Chase bank
has since been acquired by SBM Group Bank in August 20 after the state-owned Mauritius
bank reached a deal with CBK and the Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC)
last April to formally take over assets and liabilities of Chase Bank that are
in the good books. The troubled
lender had been placed under from receivership by the CBK after it had collapsed
in April 7 2016 due to failure to pay customers deposits. SBM acquired
75 per cent of the value of deposits, with a recapitalization of Sh6.05 billion
moving the bank from Tier 3 to Tier 2 bank in with Chase bank retaining the
remaining 25 per cent. “It is
really unfair for the bank to buy goods assets and leave off the bad assets,” Kambuni
said. The Capital Markets Authority says some of the key investment managers
lost Sh4.8 billion and accrued interest last year alone over the suspension of
Chase Bank. Kambuni has
said Fund Management Association has sued SBM to recover their expenses now that
the Mauritius bank has taken over the troubled bank. Imperial bank had also offered Sh2 billion but was also suspended after
the bank ws put under receivership. “How the two banks were handled will have impact henceforth on the how
other institutions and individuals invest with the banking institutions,” CEO
James Olubayi said.