Two Homa Bay county assembly officers accused of embezzling Sh27.8 million were each freed on Sh2 million bail on Monday. Bob Kephas (Clerk) and Maurice Amek (Principal Accountant) were also granted a Sh3 million bond or a surety of a similar amount. Homa Bay senior principal magistrate Thomas Obuttu directed the two to swear an affidavit indicating their residences and also deposit their travel documents. "The court grants these terms with condition that the accused would comply with them and failure of which they will be withdrawn," Obuttu said. During the proceedings, the magistrate also withdrew warrants of arrest he had issued when the two skipped court. DPP Noordin Haji directed EACC officials to arrest the Amek and Kephas alongside five other individuals for allegedly colluding to misuse public funds in the assembly. They are assembly chief finance officer Caroline Sang, cashier Edwin Okello, nominated MCA Judith Omogi, former majority leader Michael Ooro, and his minority counterpart Isaac Nyandege. They are accused of embezzling the amount during financial years 2014/2015 and 2016/2017. Defence lawyer Samuel Nyauke pleaded with the court to review the bonds on grounds that the two officials are unable to raise the money. He argued that the officers also complied with the warrant of arrest against them and presented themselves in court. Nyauke argued that the bond terms are excessive. "We appeal to the court to review the terms and reduce the cash bail to Sh500,000. The amount would not limit the rights of the accused and reduce them to beggars." But Prosecution lawyer Loice Osoro who said the bond terms should not be set on economic considerations of the accused but on the matter levelled against the accused. "The bond terms issued by the court are not excessive but sufficient. This is a matter of public interest and the court should be guided by the claims against the accused," Osoro said. Obuttu said he will make a ruling on the calls for review at 2pm. Click here for the latest political news