Homeboyz RFC maintained their perfect start in the National Sevens Circuit as they beat Nakuru RFC 19-7 to win the Kabeberi Sevens hosted in Machakos yesterday. The Deejays, who have already won Prinsloo and Sepetuka Sevens had a perfect start as Leonard Mugaisi gave them the lead through a converted try but Nelson Oyoo restored parity as both teams went to break tied seven-all. However, Homeboyz proved to be too good for Nakuru in the second half as they added two more tries through Calvin Otieno and Johnstone Olindi to extend their lead on the standings. Earlier, on Homeboyz had beaten Kenya Harlequins 29-12 in the Main Cup semis while Nakuru eased to the final after overcoming KCB 14-10.In the bronze medal match-up, KCB beat Kenya Harlequins 22-5 while hosts Mwamba were 26-19 winners over Kabras Sugar in the fifth place final.Menengai Oilers won the Challenge Trophy after beating Kisii 15-0. Top Guns Impala had a poor tournament as they dropped to 13th place final where they beat Masinde Muliro University 17-14.  The National Circuit heads to Mombasa next weekend for the Driftwoood Sevens. Meanwhile, Kenya will join Germany, Canada and Hong Kong at the 2019 Rugby World
Cup Repechage in Marseille, France after falling to a 53-28 defeat to
Namibia in the Rugby Africa Gold Cup decider at the Hage Geingob Stadium
in Windhoek on Saturday. Early pressure saw Namibia go for goal after Kenya were penalized,
Cliven Loubser sure with his penalty attempt for a 3-0 lead five minutes
into the game. The Simbas would patiently build up, Willy Ambaka touching down at the corner with Darwin Mukidza converting for a 7-3 lead. The Namibians would go in search of a response,attacking the Kenyans
who held firm on defense. Chrysander Botha eventually jotted down a five
pointer, Loubser converting this try and Louis van det Westhuizen’s
effort for a 17-7 lead with ten of the first half to play. Taking advantage of lost Kenyan possession on the attack, Namibian
set up a counter attacking move that saw Loubser go over the chalk to
put his side 22-7 up with precious little of the first half to play. The Simbas huffed and puffed but couldn’t blow the Namibian house
down, Center Referee Egon Seconds soon blowing his whistle for half
time. van der Westhuizen’s converted try after the restart took Namibian 29-7 up before Loubser’s penalty took the hosts 32-7 up. Kenya’s Ambaka and Namibia’s Mahepisa Tjeriko would trade converted
tries to bring up the score to 39-14 midway through the second half. Ambaka would soon be sin binned, Namibia awarded a penalty try to go
46-14 up, their ticket to the 2019 Rugby World Cup all but assured. Mukidza would beat the Namibian defence before offloading to
replacement lock Malcolm Mamboleo Onsando who went over for his maiden
test try, Mukidza adding the twos to make it 46-21. Once again the Namibians scored with counter attacking rugby,
pouncing on the loose ball as the Simbas chased the game, Botha landing
his brace, Loubser with the conversion to take them 53-21 up.