Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga has sent a stern warning
to mothers colluding with and defending suspects in child defilement
cases in the county. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, Wanga said some of the mothers always try to protect and side
with suspects making it difficult to produce evidence
when they are arraigned in court. Such cases end up stalling or
collapsing altogether. Wanga cited an incident where a girl was
defiled by a well-known teacher but the mother held that there in no
need of arresting the suspect "because she finds no problem with her
daughter getting married to a teacher". "Such issues become a challenge
when fighting for justice for our young girls," Wanga said. "Lack of rescue centres for the girls who have
been defiled is another challenge and I am  working on ensuring this is
effected as soon as possible. This situation makes it more difficult to
keep the victims safe from
the suspects whom may harm them or threaten them," she added. She said cases of child defilement in the county are very high and
the records indicate that over three cases of defilement are being
received at the police station every two days. Wanga said is planning a meeting with various stakeholders from the county including security officers and those from the children's department to come up with drastic measure to help fight the vice. There are concerns that many defilement victims don't get justice in the wake of such collusions or negotiations between parties at the village level. The rising cases at one time saw Chief Justice David Maraga warn parents against using the alternative dispute resolution mechanisms to solve defilement cases. "The judiciary is encouraging people to resolve minor
disputes at home, but defilement cases are not part of what should be
resolved at home," he said during a tour of Lamu last year. Maraga said all defilement suspects must be charged and jailed if and when found guilty. Read: Child defilers no longer fear being jailed, says magistrate Click here for the latest political news