Victor Okoth, 22, was shot dead on August 9 last year near the Moi Airbase on Juja Road, Nairobi, as he walked home from work. He was headed to Mathare. Okoth, a casual labourer at a construction site, found a crowd protesting the election results. As he moved towards the crowd, chaos erupted and police shot in the air. A bullet entered his head and exited in the back. Okoth is just one of many Kenyans who have disappeared without a trace or lost their lives through extrajudicial killing. Families yesterday told of the sorrow of losing their loved ones. They gathered in Ngara, Nairobi, to mark International Day of the Victims of Enforced Disappearances. The International Justice Mission (IJM) launched a website to document cases of extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances. Bena Buluma from Mathare lost her two children through extrajudicial killings on August 9 last year. She says they were gunned down by people believed to be police officers on suspicion of being criminals. "It is painful. We are crying. Not everyone who lives in the ghetto is a criminal. Not everyone who has red eyes smokes weed. This is a place just like any other and people living there have a life to live and children to take care of," Buluma said. "Whenever the grandchildren I was left with see a police vehicle they run away saying police are bad people. This has to stop because these young widows being left behind will become prostitutes with nobody to take care of them." On June 26, Peter Njogu arrived at his house in Kayole to find a group of people carrying stones and demanding the whereabouts of his son Njoro. He asked what Njoro had done but they told him he will only find out once he produces him. "I called the police and they chased them away. When we had settled [Njoro and his friend] came back with two officers. They claimed that the two had been drunk and fell on bananas [displayed for sale]. I asked how much they cost so I could pay them but they shut me down," Njogu said. Police uncuffed the two, who were then beaten with huge stones on their head. Njoro died on the spot while his head died in hospital. Loice Wanja from Mathare said her son Christopher Maina was picked from a construction site where he worked and shot by police in broad daylight. "We should be taken to the camps because we are living like refugees. We no longer feel safe. The people who are committing these offences are well known but we are wondering why nothing is being done about it. Even the children in the informal settlements know them by names," she said. The families urged the government to take care of the children orphaned as a result of extrajudicial killings and give them a decent life and education. Marcella Favretto from the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Kenya said the UN is in solidarity with the families of the victims and acknowledge the agony they are going through. She commended Interior CS Fred Matiang'i for agreeing to dialogue with civil society organisations and rights groups to ensure sanity in restored. "Human rights defenders should not be branded as troublemakers but should be protected. The UN is keen in 77 outstanding cases of people who disappeared, especially terror suspects or those who were killed by the police. These crimes should not continue but we want the government to prosecute those found culpable. We want accountability as the only measure of truth," Favretto said. She said the policy of shoot to kill should not be tolerated in a democratic country such as Kenya. Click here for the latest political news