Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men’s Super league leaders Chase Sailors captain Hesborn Galinga is confident of returning to the men’s Premier League at the end of the season. With two teams from the Super League and one from the National League set for promoted at the end of the season, Chase lead the 11-team Super league with 30 points—11 ahead of closest chasers, Technical University and Galinga. Chase, who finished 13th in the top flight league last year before being relegated to the newly inaugurated Super League alongside the then two bottom ranked teams Kenyatta University-Vultures and Technical University. Traditionally, the two bottom sides were automatically relegated to the Nationwide Leagues but the creation of the Super League saw the number increase by a team. It also affected the composition of the top flight league as teams were sliced from 15 to 12. Besides forfeiting their top flight status, Chase lost their talisman and Kenyan international George Mutira, who decamped to Butali Warriors while their experienced head coach William Oketch, relinquished his services with the club. However, in their debut season in the Super League, Chase have had almost a perfect record winning ten and losing one in the 11 matches played. Galinga believes maturity in the playing unit and the hunger to return to the premier league has been a motivating factor for their good run. “As players, we have been unified more and our common goal to return to the elite league has been pushing us to work more.” Meanwhile, national women’s league leaders, Telkom remain unrivaled in their bid to claim their 21st domestic title. Jos Openda’s charges have had a perfect record, winning all seven first leg matches although their target of winning the league without conceding a goal was soiled by Sliders. Telkom have amassed 21 points— six ahead of second-ranked Strathmore University Scorpions. USIU-A Spartans are third with ten points. In the men’s tie, 2013 champions Butali Warriors lead the pack with 30 points same as second placed and defending champions Kenya Police who have an inferior goal difference. Greensharks are third with 20 points. The second leg is set to start on August 25.