Little-known Edwin Lokuwaam was the hero as Gor Mahia took a giant step towards retaining their league title with a 1-o win over Chemelil Sugar 1-0 in a Sportpesa Premier League match yesterday. The tie had all indications of being another frustrating outing for the defending champions until Lokuwaam came up with the goods 15 minutes from time to give K’Ogalo the breakthrough their dominance deserved. The win saw Gor take their points haul to 65—a massive 17 points ahead of their closest chalengers Bandari, who have seven games to attempt the nearly impossible task of reeling in and overtaking the champions. With eight matches still to come, Dylan Kerrs side need a maximum of five points to reach unassailable 70. Chemelil meanwhile will need a quick upturn in fortune if they are to avoid the ignominy of relegation. Francis Baraza’s men have 27 points from 25 matches and are only four points above the automatic drop zone. K’Ogalo meanwhile turn their attention to their penultimate Group ‘A’ match of the Caf Confederation Cup, where avoiding defeat will assure them of a place in the last eight group stages of the competition. Meanwhile, Sofapaka head coach John Baraza said his charges have put behind them the disappointment of the ignominious loss and are hoping to reap maximum points Nzoia United match at a venue reputed as one of the most dreary in the SPL. “Honestly, the goal we conceded against Vihiga was gift of sorts after giving our all in the match. These things happen in football but common sense dictates that to make an error is humane but to repeat the same is unacceptable,” said Baraza on the club official portal. The tactician, who took over from Ugandan Sam Ssimbwa a couple of months ago, said since the fateful evening at Narok sub county stadium last Sunday, almost all the departments have improved ahead of the encounter against Nzoia. Perhaps in a bid to send his point home, Baraza presided over Sofapaka’s 4-0 win over Nairobi provincial league side Wajiji FC in a friendly match at the team’s training ground at Eastleigh High School yestrday with on-song Umaru Kasumba and his strike partner Pistone Mutamba among the scorers. Just like Baraza, Sofapaka players have expressed concern with the defeat by Vihiga and have declared that there is no room for more errors in the fixture in Bungoma.“It was disappointing but I must say we had a bad day in office. There was an element of lack of concentration on our side and that was when Vihiga notched the winning goal,” said the team’s skipper Matthew Kigonya. Sofapaka are placed fourth in the standings with 43 points from 26 matches.