Police have made little progress in the hunt of suspects who murdered Lukuyani MP Enock Kibunguchy's driver. The Lugari sub-county DCI Bakari Ndzovu said he could not reveal the details on the status of investigations since it might compromise the process. “My officers have just come from there today. We’re working on a 24-hour basis to unravel the killing. We will update you soon on the developments," Ndzovu said on phone. However speaking to The Star, Kibunguchy said detectives had told him they were waiting for fingerprint results. He also said the officers were tracking the driver's phone. "The officers have not given me any conclusive findings of the killers of my driver Douglas Wamakacha. We’re going on with preparations for burial,” he said. The late Wamakacha will be buried on Monday at his farm in Matunda, Trans-Nzoia county. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula demanded speedy investigations following the assassination. He told The Star on the phone that the shooting was an attempted assassination of the Likuyani Ford Kenya Member of parliament. “The cowardly attack left Kibunguchy's driver dead and the MP frightened and traumatized to the level where he cannot fathom the intentions of the attack and who could have done it,” Wetangula said. The Senator said many opposition politicians have died under unclear circumstances. He said the government has failed to answer questions raised by the public masses. “We also demand the beefing up of the honourable Kibunguchy's security,” he said. The Bungoma Senator added that the investigations should reveal the motive of the attack, which has left the MPs driver dead. “Kenyans want to know the suspects, the reasons behind the attack and the people who sent these cruel people. They also want the suspects arrested to face the law,” he said. The Ford Kenya MP was at Soy Highway Motel along Eldoret-Kitale Highway when armed gunmen opened fire on his vehicle immediately after his drive ignited the car. The MP was still inside the motel clearing bills at the time of the incident. Witnesses said the MP was heading to his rural home in Lukuyani, Kakamega County. He blamed his political opponents following the attack. “I condole with the family of the bereaved,” Wetangula said. Kibunguchy said that the assassin’s bullet was made for him and linked the attack on the political rivalry.  