President Uhuru Kenyatta is currently holding a meeting with US President Donald Trump at White House. President Uhuru and first lady Margret Kenyatta were welcomed at the White House by his host Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump.  U.S. President Trump waves as he welcomes Kenya's President Kenyatta at the White House in Washington. /REUTERS At 1:45pm (Washington time), Trump and his wife Melania received Uhuru and the First Lady Margaret at the South Portico. Uhuru and the first lady walked together with their hosts through the South Lawn to the Rose Garden before getting into the Oval Office. U.S. President Donald Trump speaks as he meets with Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta and Margaret Kenyatta as first lady Melania Trump looks on in the Oval Office at the White House in Washington, U.S., August 27, 2018. REUTERS While addressing a press conference before the meeting, President Trump said both the US and Kenya are committed to fighting regional terrorism. The US president said the two counties will also sign deals to open ways for business and infrastructure. “We are working on a major infrastructure project on a massive road in Kenya,” Trump said.  U.S. first lady Melania Trump walks with Kenya first lady Margaret Kenyatta upon the arrival of Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta to meet with President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, U.S., August 27, 2018. REUTERS. Kenya is considering a Sh300 billion loan from the US to finance the construction of a six-lane expressway to link Mombasa and Nairobi. The road is to be done by American construction giant Bechtel. President Uhuru Kenyatta lauded the mutual relationship the two states share citing that it has been since after colonial period. “We have a very good and excellent cooperation especially in the fight against terrorism in the neighbourhood we are in,” he said. Uhuru also said that he wants to strengthen the trade ties with the US considering the many American companies in Kenya. Click here for the latest political news 