The Kenya Sevens Rugby team head coach Innocent Simiyu says he will not be re-applying for the position after KRU advertised for the same on Wednesday. Simiyu’s contract expires in October and it was widely expected the Union would renew it after his exemplary display with the team last season. It was under Simiyu that the team managed to surpass the 100 points mark in IRB series. “I haven’t really thought about it but I have moved on. I will not apply for the job,” Simiyu Said. The head coach further added he had no issues with the KRU though he declined to comment on certain issues until he finalises his contract. “I believe they have made the right decision. There are many good coaches locally and international who can help the team achieve their targets,” he added. The two parties severed ties in June when Simiyu stormed into KRU’s meeting with players over the Paris Sevens scandal and insisted he is the one to blame. He was temporary sacked before he was reinstated for the Sevens World Cup as part of their agreement with Brand Kenya who were temporal sponsors. However, things were never the same between him and the union. A source close to the union, said the board didn’t like Simiyu’s arrogance as well as his financial demands considering the state of the union in terms of cash flow. “He is a good coach but he was too arrogant and had several demands which the union didn’t like. Currently, the union has no money and can’t afford a nine-man technical bench which Simiyu wanted,” the source claimed. The board is also reported not to be happy on how Simiyu treated some of them in Cape Town Sevens during the shirt representation. Simiyu is reported to have denied them access to players, a move which angered them. The same thing also happened in Kong Kong, this time round involving KRU chairman Richard Omwela. The two situations would further be fuelled by his stand on Paris Sevens even though it is believed the union had no issue with him over the same and they were willing to work out thing.