The pretrial hearing of National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri hit a snag yesterday at the Milimani Anti-Corruption Court. This is after Swazuri’s lawyers told chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi they had not been supplied with any witness evidence. Lawyer Tom Ojienda said all the accused persons had not been supplied with any documentary evidence in relation to their case. Some lawyers said even though they had received some documents, most were ineligible and could not be used in the trial. But the prosecution denied the allegations and presented evidence showing all the accused persons had been given statements, except Swazuri whose lawyers picked the statements late Tuesday evening. Mugambi ordered the DPP and the defence to agree on how the documents will be issued and appear in court next week on Friday for pretrial. The parties also agreed they will meet next Wednesday when the defence will be given the statements and other documentary evidence. On Tuesday, Mugambi ruled that Swazuri can only access his office if he gets authorisation from the commission’s CEO. The court ruled that Swazuri, being a state officer acting as the chairman of the commission, should seek clearance before he can enter his office. The magistrate said the EACC has to make appropriate arrangements to ensure contact with prosecution witnesses against Swazuri are minimised. The court said all the other public officers in the case are barred from accessing their offices unless there is prior authorisation by the respective heads of department. Swazuri and the officers are accused of conspiring to pay millions as compensation for public land that was irregularly acquired. Others charged are commission secretary Tom Chavangi and directors Salome Munubi, Francis Mugo, Gladys Muyanga (Ministry of Lands) and Obadiah Wainaina (surveyor). There is a pending application by the DPP in court to have Ojienda recuse himself from Swazuri’s case because of conflict of interest, since he also represents the NLC in several civil matters. Read:DPP wants Tom Ojienda to disqualify himself from representing Swazuri 