Some 200 fishermen, who
used to fish along Tudor-Shimanzi creek at Kibarani want government to force
the developers who reclaimed part of the India Ocean compensate them. According to the fishermen,
through their umbrella body, Wavuvi Association of Kenya, each of them used to
get between 50kg- 100kg of fish per day, but the reclamation of land at
Kibarani destroyed the mangroves which were the breeding ground for fish. The area was rich in prawns,
crabs and lobsters. They now get less than 2kg
of fish per day, after part of that channel was reclaimed by some transport and
logistics companies, which now claim ownership of the 80-acre Kibarani piece of
land. On Monday, President Uhuru
Kenyatta ordered National Land Commission chair, Professor Muhammad Swazuri to
revoke the titles of the said individuals and hand over the land back to the
county government of Mombasa to put up a green park. On Tuesday afternoon, Hamid
Omar, the chairperson of the Wavuvi Association of Kenya, said they are happy
with President Uhuru’s directive, but they now want the companies that reclaimed
part of the ocean to compensate the over 200 fishermen who lost their livelihood. Omar said they had four
fish landing sites around the Shimanzi area, but they lost the sites due to reclamation
of the creek. “We used to have about
four fish landing sites along this channel, which are over 100 years old, but
due to the reclamation and the dumping of garbage into the ocean, we lost them.
We also lost the mangroves which are good breeding grounds for fish,” said Omar. He said they had tried to
raise complaints with the Fisheries Department and National Environment Management
Authority, but the issued was never addressed. Hajj Ramadhan, a member of
the association and a fisherman with over 30 year of experience, said many of
fisherfolks have failed to take their children to school or fend their families
due to poverty. “We cannot take our children
to school, we cannot take care of our families because our places of work were
destroyed by these private developers. We now want the national government and
the county government to force these companies to compensate us for the loss,”
said Ramadhan. He said they are registered
fishermen with the Fisheries Department paying Sh200 annually for the renewal
of their licenses, therefore the government has their record. “We are genuine fishermen.
We pay taxes, we want to be compensated,” he said. However, they did not
specify the amount of compensation they want, saying that they should be called
on a negotiation table to deliberate of this. Makupa Sheds, Multiple
Hauliers and Mombasa Cement are three companies that the National Assembly Committee
of Environment said were doing reclamation at Kibarani. The Kareke Mbiuki- led committee summon the companies
to appear before the committee on August 9 over the reclamation of the Kibarani. However, Mombasa County government
on Tuesday said Mombasa Cement is not part of the companies that were reclaiming
the Kibarani site. The Lands County Executive
Edward Nyale said they are compiling the list of those who were irregularly
allocated land at Kibarani and they will soon make it public. End…………..