Has Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi decided to bite the finger that fed him in the last general election? Well, the politician, who despite hobnobbing with Jubilee was given the greenlight by ODM to be Governor James Ongwae’s running mate at the expense of loyal party members, is again in bed with Deputy President William Ruto. The calculative politician, who had Ong’wae leave it to the tail end of their first term before deciding to retain him, hosted the DP on Thursday in a fundraiser at his Bomachoge Chache backyard. His critics were overheard wondering whether Ongwae should worry whether the DP’s campaigns might now overshadow his own initiatives. ***** A former governor from Mt Kenya is putting up residential flats in an estate around Zimmerman, Nairobi, that have attracted the attention of keen observers. The man, whose administration was accused of looting the county, is said to be fronting a company owned by his nephew who lives in the US for various projects. Tellingly, his elder daughter, who also owns a retail chain and who was accused of being part of the cartel that froze the county, is also building some flats in neighbouring Githurai 44 estate. Those following keenly wonder whether the relevant agencies are tracing the investments said to run into millions of shillings with a view to auditing the sources of the wealth. ***** Has Deputy President William Ruto set up a team of social media warriors at his Harambee Annex office to take on his critics? Corridors is informed some bloggers will henceforth be dealing with his critics online in the wake of a negative publicity and onslaught by people opposed to his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. The team is said to have clear briefs to tackle Ruto’s critics as early campaigns set in. One of the social media hires used to work for the defunct Uhuru-Ruto campaign machinery but was dropped in a huff after falling out with some powerbrokers. His entry into Ruto’s camp after allegedly working successfully for Uhuru in the past could rattle some forces within the presidency. ***** A governor from Nyanza obsessed with bragging about his wealth is not keen on attending a peer learning conference to be hosted by Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana from tomorrow. The governor was overheard telling his handlers that he has no business driving all the way to Makueni to laud achievements of a colleague. “Siendi huko, niko na mambo mengine ya kufanya,” the county boss told his chief of staff while taking breakfast at a high-end hotel. Well, well. Click here for
the latest political news