Embu governor Martin Wambora and former Senator Lenny Kivuti's poll battle is headed to the Supreme Court. This was after Kivuti filed a notice of appeal at the Nyeri Court of Appeal on Thursday. The Appeals court had upheld Wambora's election as Embu governor. Kivuti, in his appeal notice, states that he is dissatisfied with the entire judgement delivered in Nairobi on August 17. "Take notice that the 1st respondent herein being dissatisfied with the entire decision of Honourable Court of Appeal at Nyeri delivered on 17th August 2018....intends to appeal to the Supreme Court of Kenya against the whole of the said decision," the notice states. The ruling was delivered by Justices William Ouko, Daniel Musinga, and Fatuma Sichale. The three judges said Kivuti, who challenged the governor’s victory in the August 2017 election, did not prove his case. "The first respondent did not discharge the legal burden of proof to the required standards to show these alleged irregularities." "From what we have said, that burden was not discharged and therefore the learned judge erred in invalidating the appellant’s election," they held. The court said Justice William Musyoka, who nullified the election in February, dealt with issues that were not raised in the petition. Musyoka had in his judgement said elections in Embu were marred with massive irregularities. The judge said the anomalies that occurred during the elections were too immense and it would be a travesty to wish them away. Read: Man with the nine lives: Wambora wins, again Kivuti has named the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), Embu returning officer, Governor Wambora, and David Kariuki as respondents. The former senator wants the Supreme Court to nullify Wambora's election and call for new poll. On Friday last week, the Court of Appeal declared Wambora was fairly elected during the August 2017 polls. Also read: Election victory for Wambora as High Court ruling set aside Click here for the latest political news