A Naivasha court will rule in two weeks on a petition in which Perry Mansukh accuses the state counsel of abusing her powers in the Patel Dam manslaughter case against him. Mansukh, through lawyer Boniface Masinde, is accusing Catherine Mwaniki of harassing and threatening his workers in the case. He has been charged with 48 counts of manslaughter stemming from the burst dam. Masinde told Naivasha principal magistrate Joseph Karanja that he planned to orally argue his application on September 10 during hearing. The lawyer told the court he was supposed to file a petition but decided to instead present the case on the date when all the accused will be present. Earlier, the lawyer told the court that three weeks ago officers from the DPP’s office visited the farm and arrested a guard whose whereabouts are still unknown. Masinde applied to the court to rein in the state officers, adding that they should get a court order before visiting the farm. He said an investigating officer slapped a guard in the farm for taking too long to open the gate. “We are seeking the court protection in this matter as the state counsel is abusing the powers of her office to antagonise and arbitrarily arrest workers from Patel farm,” he said. During the case, the lawyer asked to get a copy of the passport of Vinoj Kumar, an employee of Mansukh and also one of the accused. Masinde told the magistrate the accused is not a Kenyan and he needs a copy of the passport so that he can renew his work permit. The prosecution did not object. Other suspects in the case are Luka Kipyegen, Johnson Njuguna, Winnie Muthoni, Jacinta Were, Tomkin Odhiambo, Willice Omondi and Lynette Cheruiyot. They have been jointly charged with 48 counts of manslaughter, failing to prepare an environmental impact assessment report and neglect of duty. On July 18, Mansukh linked the bursting of the dam to deforestation in neighbouring farms. He said he was also a victim of the tragedy on May 9.  Also read:Patel dam owner, eight others released on Sh5m bond each Click here for the latest political news  