 Suspects in the Sh468
million National Youth Service scandal have been granted an option of returning the loot in exchange
for a lighter sentence. Anti-Corruption Court
chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti yesterday encouraged the over 50 suspects to negotiate with the Director of Public
Prosecutions Noordin Haji before their trial begins on October 29. The law allows crime
suspects to strike a deal to pay back their victims in a move that shields them from
harsh sentences. The court however retains the discretion to
determine the sentence or penalty on the accused after accepting a plea of agreement. “Parties are hereby
encouraged to enter a plea bargain agreement at any stage before judgment is delivered,”
Ogoti said. The court made the ruling following the completion of
pretrial conferencing which was aimed at resolving legal issues
ahead of the trial. Ogoti set
new rules which parties must comply with during trial. He also consolidated the
ten files and categorised them into three separate cases. “I have carefully studied the files and
decided to consolidate them in the manner in which the accused persons cut across some
files, the investigating officers are the same, subject matter and the law
applicable is same” Parties were told
that no delays in applications will be entertained “unless when it’s a matter of
life and death”. Ogoti also lifted an order that required all
suspects to appear before the DCI once every month.     Among those on trial are former
PS Lillian Omollo, Ex-NYS director general Richard Ndubai, Lucy Wambui Ngirita,
her children  Ann Wanjiku, Phyllis Njeri,
Jeremiah Gichini and his wife Catherine Wanjiku Others are businessman
Peter Kimani, Michael Ojiambo, a former director of Administration at Ministry
of Youth Affairs and  Rodgers Nzioka, a
former Head of procurement at Mechanical Transport Branch (MTB) at the agency. Also charged are former
acting director of finance at NYS Wellington Lubira, Sammy Mbugua, a former heads
of accounts at the Ministry of Youth and Gender Affairs, Kenneth Mburu and
Peter Muritu. Lucas Otieno, Josephat Njoroge,
Christopher Malala, Clara Mbao and Andrine Nyambura Welenalo Malupi, Ferdinand
Odoyo, Jackson Juma, Stella Biwott, Timothy Rotich, Isaiah Adalo, David Kirui, Jamal
Duba, Julius Airo and Keziah Mwangi are also charged.