The the Ministry of public service has partnered with the National
Industrial Training Institute (NITA) to train over 250,000 youths on ways of starting small
scale businesses. In the new format that seeks to address the rising number of unemployment among young people, NITA also plans to offer employability skills. Under the Kenya Youth Employment Opportunities Project
(KYEOP), young adults seeking to join the formal sector will be trained over a four
year period while those in the informal sector will have craftsmen enrolled for
the same. NITA board chair Kamau Gachigi said the
institution has already contracted 541 master craftsmen to train 2,117 trainees in five
counties including Kwale, Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru and Kisumu. He said as part of reforms to expand training to all
the counties, NITA has received a grant of Sh350 million from the government of Korea. “The Government of Kenya, through the budgeting process has
provided Sh34 million as counterpart funding for the project,” he said. “The Project’s objective is to contribute to economic
development of Kenya through the renovation of NITA and the enhancement of
training capacity and management skills of NITA.” Gachigi was speaking during the opening of a one day
workshop for NITA board members and management at Simba Lodge in Naivasha. On his part, NITA Director General Paul Kosgei said the
institution had ageing facilities that required a new facelift to cope with
emerging technologies. “The current industrial training facilities suffer from
aging and inadequate human resource capacity and limited exposure of training
staff to emerging technologies,” he said. He said in order to address these challenges, the Authority
intends to complete all the development projects, lobby for funds to recruit
additional staff and implement the NITA transformation document under its
strategic plan. Kosgei admitted that the institution faced various challenges
like funding and lack of enough personnel which was affecting its services. “Despite the emerging challenges, we are committed to
training more youths across the country and we have partnered with the counties
in this project,” he said.