Industrialisation CS Peter Munya has dismissed claims that he is planning to be Deputy President William Ruto's running mate in the 2022 election. Munya said on his Facebook wall his focus is on implementing the Big Four agenda to help President Uhuru Kenyatta leave a legacy. Earlier, some leaders from the Meru community said they will support the DP on condition that he picks the former Meru governor as his running mate. Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea said Munya is equal to the task. He said Munya has a proven track record as a governor and former Tigania East MP. Kabeabea said he is fit to hold a bigger political seat. But Munya said at no time has he shown interest in the running mate position. "The Constitution is clear on the appointing authority of the Cabinet. I'm grateful to the President for granting me the opportunity to serve Kenyans in the Cabinet," Munya said. Before the 2017 General Election, Munya had said time has come for a Meru to ascend to the Presidency. He also said he would defeat DP Ruto in the 2022 poll. Read:I have what it takes to beat Ruto, Munya tells Kiraitu on 2022 presidency He was adamant and flatly refused to join Jubilee when parties were folding up in the run-up to the last election. At some point, he appeared to be cosy with opposition politicians. The former Chairman of the Council of Governors said he is not a child who can be forced to join another party after being in politics for many years. “Come rain or shine, nobody, no matter their position, can force me, to join a party. In 2017 I will ask for votes under another party, not Jubilee," Munya said. He defended his governor position on a PNU ticket but lost to Jubilee's Kiraitu Murungi. However, he supported the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta for "good tidings" for the people of Meru. Read: Governor Munya storms out of Ruto's Meru meeting, says he will never join Jubilee Party Also Read: PNU will back Ruto in 2022, MP says after Munya nomination Click here for the latest political news