President Uhuru Kenyatta will today hold talks with US President Donald Trump as he kicks off tight, high-profile global engagements with super powers. According to his schedule, Uhuru will in a month hold high-level diplomatic meetings with the leaders of the US, Britain and China. Today, he will meet Trump, making him the second African leader after Nigeria’s Muhammadu Buhari to be invited to the White House. Kenya is a close ally of the US in the war against terrorism and security is expected to feature prominently in the two leaders engagements. However, coming at a time when Uhuru is grappling with the funding of his Big Four agenda, the President and his delegation are keen to tap from foreign investment. Uhuru’s Big Four, which he hopes to secure his legacy, are universal heathcare, affordable housing, food security and manufacturing. But while the National Hospital Insurance Fund has started implementing universal healthcare, the financing of the other three components remains a huge challenge. Before meeting Trump, Uhuru is set to meet executives of top US companies under the umbrella of the Business Council for International Understanding. “We do not want this to be just a symbolic visit. We want this visit to have a lot of deliverables. There are a number of projects that we are negotiating. We hope they will be signed on Monday in the presence of President Kenyatta,” Kenyan envoy to the US, Njeru Githae, said. Read: US Secretary of State slams China relations with Africa ahead of tour Githae pointed out that Kenya places a lot of emphasis on economic, rather than political diplomacy. “The two leaders will also discuss regional and global matters, in particular, regional peace and security, collaboration in the fight against terrorism as well as international cooperation,” State House spokesperson Kanze Dena initially said. The President, accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, touched down at Dulles International Airport at 4pm Washington DC time ( 11pm, Nairobi time on Saturday) and was received by a team of senior US and Kenya government officials led by Githae. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma led an advance team, and held a series of meetings, including one with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Robert Lighthizer, US Trade Representative. The team also held talks with Gil Kaplan, the Under Secretary of Commerce on participation of US companies in the Big Four agenda as outlined in the MoU signed in June this year. Read: Uhuru leaves for US ahead of meet with Trump At the heart of their discussions is the strengthening of trade relationship between the two nations. The meeting comes just two months before national carrier Kenya Airways begins direct flights to New York. KQ has started selling tickets for its maiden direct flight to New York, for which economy class fliers will pay Sh89,000 both ways. Juma said the President’s visit to the US is significant in many aspects. “It underscores the importance of Kenya-US relations, a relationship that is historical and that has been growing in both breath and depth over the years to cover a wide range of areas, from security and defence to governance, trade and investment,” she said. Juma said one of the items that will feature prominently during Uhuru’s historic meeting with Trump will be how to increase Kenya’s export volumes under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (Agoa). The Agoa treaty allows African goods to access the US market without tariffs. “You know, we are a key beneficiary of Agoa. But it is also true there are a number of lines within Agoa that we could enhance. And so, there will be discussions around this. And we hope we can also commence discussions on post-Agoa arrangements,” Juma said. Read: [VIDEO] Uhuru to discuss trade, security with Trump in Monday meeting Upon his return from the US, Uhuru will on Thursday host British Prime Minister Theresa May at State House, Nairobi. This would be May’s first visit to Africa since coming to power. It is expected Nairobi will be pushing for the establishment of a British visa processing centre in the country. But shortly thereafter, Uhuru will fly out to China for the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). In Beijing, Uhuru will sign a new Sh380 billion loan for construction of phase two of the SGR that will run from Naivasha to Kisumu. From China, Uhuru will leave for New York to attend the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). See: Uhuru-Trump meet: Kenya still chasing better trade with the US Click here for the latest political news