The purge against corruption must not spare anyone, the Catholic Church has said. Addressing the media on Friday after an extraordinary plenary at Clergy House, Queen of Apostles in Nairobi, the 24 bishops in a joint communique condemned corruption, saying “it has had disastrous effects on the nation and the people.” “We urge the Department of Public Pprosecution to widen the net and bring to book all those proven to have stolen and embezzled public funds,” Rev Philip Anyolo, the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops chairman, said. Noting that the purge was commendable following the rounding up of senior officials, the bishops were in agreement that more needs to be done. Anyolo said for the war to succeed, it must be approached in a strategic and organised manner. “We encourage the President and all agencies involved in the war against corruption not to relent in their efforts to eradicate corruption once and for all in Kenya,” he said. Anyolo said for the problem to be eliminated, it must be fought at all levels, starting from the ordinary citizen to top echelons. “They should not spare those found to be engaged in the vice,” he said. The bishops downplayed the Judiciary’s budget cut, saying they believe it was not meant to scuttle the corruption purge attributing it to shortage of resources. They said corruption has been pervasive, attracting international attention. In July 2015, former US President Barrack Obama spoke against corruption, saying it is tolerated because that’s how things have always been done. Obama urged the country to change habits and decisively break the corruption cycle, saying it holds back every aspect of economic and civil life. Pope Francis would later visit Kenya in November 2015. He, too, spoke strongly against corruption. Obama would later visit Kenya as a citizen this year and he again warned about the disastrous effects of corruption. Yesterday, the bishops said Kenya cannot afford to lose the war, urging all those involved to soldier on and commit themselves fully. They said reports that MPs were bribed to kill a report on poisonous sugar were grave. “We demand through investigations and those found to have accepted the bribe ought to resign and be prosecuted,”Anyolo said. KCCB vice chairman John Oballa expressed concern over the culture of nepotism, saying it undermines the principle of common good.