Wild elephants forced to live in captivity typically die seven years earlier than animals born into domestication, a new study has revealed. According to the latest findings, humans have been inadvertently shortening the life expectancy of wild elephants for thousands of years by capturing them in the wild and moving them into captivity. All elephant species faced the highest risk of death in the year immediately following capture and older elephants suffered the most, the study revealed. Long-term stress due to capture and taming could be one reason for the shorter lifespan, however more research is needed to determine the exact cause. Scientists looked at the records of more than 5,000 timber elephants dating back almost a century to find the link between captivity and life expectancy. Researchers believe wild-captured elephants may be exposed to harsher treatment depending on their age, sex and personality, compared to captive-born calves. Millions of wild animals are captured alive each year for a diverse range of purposes. While some species thrive in captivity and enjoy healthier lives, many perform much worse as soon as they are taken from the wild. Elephants, for example, are at a much higher risk of dying when captive in zoos, compared to living in the wild. According to researchers who analysed records of timber elephants in Myanmar,  wild-caught elephants are at a higher risk of death than those bred in captivity. This increased risk lasts years after their initial capture, scientists say. Read: Elephants killed as human conflicts with wildlife rises Also read: Kenya running out of space for wildlife - CS Wakhungu Researchers from the University of Turku in Finland and the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research in Berlin used detailed records kept by local governments on animal husbandry. "The long-term overall cost of capture and taming resulted in a median lifespan that is three to seven years shorter than that of captive-born elephants," said senior investigator of the study, Professor Virpi Lummaa of the University of Turku. "Capturing elephants to sustain captive populations is, consequently, detrimental, because it not just reduces wild populations of this endangered species, but it also cannot provide a viable solution to sustain captive populations." "These wild-caught animals live shorter lives and reproduce poorly in captivity," she said. Although the risk decreases in subsequent years spent in captivity, these negative effects still last for around a decade, according to the paper published in Nature Communications. "Our analysis reveals that wild-captured elephants had lower survival chances than captive-born elephants regardless of how they'd been captured, whether by stockade of whole groups, lassoing single elephants, or immobilisation by sedation," said Mirkka Lahdenpera, lead author of the study from the Univeristy of Turku. "This means that all these methods had an equally negative effect on the elephant's subsequent life. We also found that older elephants suffered the most from capture; they had increased mortality compared to elephants caught at younger ages," she said. Both captive-born and wild-captured timber elephants in Myanmar live together in semi-captive populations. The captive animals are also subjected to the same governmental regulations concerning data recording, workload, and rest periods (working elephants have holidays, maternity leave, and a mandatory retirement age). Both captive-born and wild-caught elephants are tamed and trained before entering the workforce. "We chose to rely on data from timber camps as, their capture aside, both wild-caught and captive-born elephants have very similar life styles," said Dr Alexandre Courtiol, the data scientist of the study from the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research. "This unique situation allows a comparison between these two groups unbiased by other factors such as diet or exercise," he said. According to the researchers, long-term stress due to capture and taming could be to blame for the shortened lifespan. Dramatic changes in the social environment when moving from the wild to captivity were also highlighted as potential reasons for the increased likeliness of death, the study claims. According to the researchers, more studies are needed to completely understand and assess how widespread the negative effects of capture are in other species. These additional studies are also needed to determine the reason for the drop in lifespan. Support and care for the animals is especially critical during the period immediately after capture, researchers said. Related: Elephants can communicate through the ground, new Samburu study confirms Click here for the latest political news