It’s hard not to feel sad for Thika United as their life in the topflight league remain very much in ICU after a couple of years scraping through relegation by the skin of their teeth. The once proud outfit that was considered the jewel of Central Kenya football are now rock bottom in the Sportpesa Premier League and face an uphill task to survive another year among the elite. Today, they face AFC Leopards in a run of eight matches that will make or break them. Many hoped that the side, who in their heydays had financial support from Brookside but now depend on handouts from well-wishers, would use home advantage to retain their topflight status. That has not been the case, however. And despite Leopards taking this ‘home’ match to Thika’s backyard at the Thika Municipal Stadium, it’s hard to see anything but a win for Radolfo Zapata’s charges. Inspirational forward, Whyvonne Isuza, big defender Abdalla Salim and Dennis Shikayi will all be missing but Ingwe will still possess enough firepower to push Thika deeper into the relegation mire. Mathare United ended their long-standing run with a victory last time out against Kariobangi Sharks and will be hoping that that win was just the tonic they needed to finish the season as they started it. Mid-morning today, they tackle a Nakumatt side that is playing with reckless abandon, confident that the threat of relegation that dogged them for most of the first leg is over completely. Tomorrow, Wazito boosted by getting into a partnership that will ease their financial burden, take on Chemelil Sugar in a match whose winner will undoubtedly have the momentum to eventually go on and retain their topflight status. The two sides are separated by four points with Wazito second from bottom and Chemelil two places above them. Zoo Kericho, who have enjoyed upward mobility in recent weeks, face another tough trip to the capital where they will visit Tusker tomorrow. Vihiga United, fresh from picking a vital win last weekend will be gunning for three points when they entertain neighbouring Kakamega Homeboyz.