Chaos broke out at Uiguano AIPCA Church in Rurii, Ol Kalou, yesterday. Preachers allied to Bishop Ayub Kigotho broke into the church at dawn and camped inside to block those allied to Bishops Suleiman Kimani and David Kiboi, and their followers. The 10 clergymen included Pastor Mwangi Wambugu. Rurii chief Charles Muita rushed to the scene after getting a tip about the impending disagreement. Uiguano church was opened two weeks ago. It had been closed following orders from Nyandarua Central deputy county commissioner Gideon Oyagi after violence broke out in January. Five worshippers were injured and eight people arrested. The church chairperson, Joyce Wanjiku, said they talked to Oyagi and he agreed to have the church reopened. He handed the keys to Bishop Kimani, who  opened the church last Sunday. “We worshipped well last Sunday but today we found our church broken into and people who do not belong to this church were inside. We had agreed with the DCC that only members of Uiguano will worship here until we reconcile,”  she said. Wanjiku added that it is shameful for clerics to perpetuate violence instead of setting an example to the followers. The chairperson said they normally worship from 9am -12.30pm. Wanjiku urged Oyagi to take action against Bishop Kigotho and Pastor David Mwangi. The warring factions stood on opposite sides of the gate yesterday morning, with police watching them closely. Pastor Wambugu’s group, accused of breaking into the church, was praying inside. Chief Muita said the members had to be kept away to stop them from fighting each other. Some had been mobilised from Ol Kalou and Kasuku by Kigotho’s faction. He arrived at the church moments after 11am.The members surrounded and roughed him up, barring him from entering the church. Follower James Mwangi said, “We have no faith in you as you don’t represent God. Why did you send your people to break into our church?” Another worshipper identified only as Charles said the chaos, if not stopped in time, could have ended in deaths. Kigotho was saved by Ol Kalou police chief Mark Masinde, who arrived at the scene with two vehicles full of armed police to help the chief and his men. Kigotho denied that his men broke into the church. “I didn’t know it was broken into since I have not accessed the compound.” Oyagi gave the key to the church chairperson Wanjiku. Kigotho said he has forgiven those who roughed him up. “All are my sheep and their behaviour confirms they have lost direction. It is my duty to turn them into Christians, as this is not the behaviour of a true Christian.” Church faction rivalry seems commonplace in Kenya, spread across the denominations. In February, the leadership wrangles between two factions fighting for control of the AIPCA Church began subsiding after a faction that filed a case against rival Archbishop Fredrick Wangombe withdrew the matter. The faction allied to Archbishop Amos Mathenge filed the case before the Employment and Labour Relations Court in March last year to stop Wangombe from taking over leadership of the church after disputed elections. Wangombe had already acquired the shepherds’ stick – the church’s symbol of authority before Justice Helen Wasilwa issued orders barring him from acting as the Archbishop of the church.