President Uhuru Kenyatta has joined other World leaders in congratulating the new Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mnangagwa was declared the winner last Friday by the country's electoral body Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC). According to ZEC, Mnangagwa won the hotly contested election after a declaration from all the 10 provinces with 50.8% of votes against 44.3% for opposition leader Nelson Chamisa. Read: Mnangagwa wins Zimbabwe poll, Chamisa rejects the results Uhuru said he will work closely with Mnangagwa to further deepen the two country's bilateral relations. He said this will be in areas of shared interests for socio-economic benefit of their populace. "The mandate bestowed on you by the citizens of the Republic of Zimbabwe is a clear affirmation of their high regard and confidence in your able leadership," Uhuru told Mnangagwa. "I look forward to continue working with you to further deepen our bilateral relations in areas of shared interests for socio-economic benefit of our respective countries and peoples," he said in a tweet. "As you embark on a new mandate in office, I wish you every success and reiterate Kenya’s commitment to close cooperation in pursuit of peace, economic development and stability on the continent to ensure that the aspirations of Africa’s Agenda 2063 are realised," he added. South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa also sent his congratulatory message urging the people of Zimbabwe to accept the outcome and shun violence. "We urge the people of Zimbabwe to accept the outcome of the election, or follow the legal route should they wish to challenge it. We look forward to great working relations with you," Ramaphosa said. But Chamisa has insisted he has won the presidential poll, telling reporters earlier that the ruling Zanu-PF party was "trying to bastardise the result", something that "we will not allow". Opposition supporters last week protested in Harare over alleged vote-rigging, which led to six deaths. The elections were the first since long-time ruler Robert Mugabe, 94, was ousted in November last year. The polls were intended to set Zimbabwe on a new path following Mugabe's repressive rule. Also Read: Zimbabwean President Mnangagwa survives Bulawayo explosion