 Over
the past few years, and more so at the beginning of this year, there have been numerous concerns about Kenya’s debt levels and government spending. This is especially
with regard to recurrent expenditure and mega projects. In
February the International Monetary Fund advised Kenya to formulate clear policies to address the “debt
vulnerability”, which could rise further if she continued her borrowing trends. The debt has skyrocketed due to the proliferation of development projects; runaway corruption that
decimates one third of the budget; last year’s two elections and recurrent
expenditures such as salaries for a bloated staff at the national and county
levels. As
such, there is a real need for the government to cut down on recurrent
expenditure; close all corruption loopholes and institute serious austerity measures. Austerity measures are attempts to
significantly curtail government spending in an effort to control public sector
debt, particularly when a nation is in jeopardy of defaulting on its bonds. This may require changes
in government programmes to limit the terms of unemployment benefits;
reduction in government wages and benefits; increase of retirement age; social
welfare programme cuts; tax reforms that increase income taxes, target tax
evasion; and perhaps privatisation of public businesses to raise money to pay
debts. We have seen a number of these
measures employed to try to curtail government spending. For instance, the
retirement age was raised from 55 to 60 in the Kibaki era; fuel
guzzlers for senior government officials were at one time removed from public service
when President Uhuru was Finance minister (it is unclear how they found
their way back); recently, taxes have been increased and a number of government
sectors have had their budgets cut. Last week, the Chief Justice held a
press conference and complained of severe budget cuts by government that would
literally halt all Judicial Service Commission (JSC) development projects. This would stop the implementation
of mobile courts; derail the case backlog programme and ICT improvement; as well as paralyse the running of the JSC itself. The National Assembly allocated the Senate and itself Sh46 billion; gave the National Intelligence Service Sh33 billion from the current
Sh22 billion; slashed the embattled National Youth Service's allocation by Sh8
billion; and gave the EACC and ODPP about Sh3.9 billion each. Which begs the question: What informed
the budget cuts to the Judiciary? The government, through the
National Assembly and the Executive, should inform Kenyans whether or not
Kenya is officially practising austerity. If so, what steps has the government taken to reduce the
useless “benchmarking trips” by government officials. Any country practising austerity can
never even consider using taxpayers' money to finance legislators to attend
the World Cup. We should also be privy to information
on the rationale of increasing allocations to some organisations while
slashing others. Austerity cannot be selective. It should be across the board. Otherwise, observers will be forced to come to other conclusions as to why
the Judiciary, which is literally a co-equal to the Legislative and Executive, has been singled out for drastic budget cuts. It is one of the few government institutions seen as
transformative and which still enjoy overwhelming public confidence. We should be told whether, in their
opinion, the fight against corruption can only be won by selectively increasing
intelligence gathering, prosecution and investigations capacity - while depriving the Judiciary. The building of law courts, improvement
of ICT connectivity, and elimination of case backlogs are important cogs in the
State’s constitutional duty to ensure access to justice for all Kenyans as per
Article 48. Furthermore, Article 159
provides, among other things that justice shall be done to all irrespective of
their status (such as those in marginalised or remote areas that can benefit
from mobile courts), it should not be delayed (thus the need to eliminate case
backlogs) and that procedural technicalities should not be used as a bar to
achieving substantive justice. Parliament and the Executive should
remember that they, just as the Judiciary, are only exercising powers delegated
to them by the sovereign people of Kenya. They are all mandated to perform
their co-equal duties and functions in accordance with the Constitution – for the good of the people of Kenya who are the
custodians of all sovereign power. Senior programmes officer, Article 19
Eastern Africa Email: demaslaw@gmail.com
Twitter: @kipdemas