Unbeaten Gor Mahia need to avoid defeat tomorrow to book their place in the last eight stage of the Caf Confederation Cup when they entertain Rwandan side Rayon Sport. K’Ogalo are the surprise leaders of Group ‘A’ ahead of Algerian side USM Alger, having managed eight points from their four matches do far. With Yanga already eliminated and tomorrow’s opponent on three points with two matches to play, the Kenyan champions will guarantee themselves a place in the money-spinning stage with a draw or win at the expense of Rayon. Coach Dylan Kerr, whose side are on the verge of retaining their domestic league title, ideally would have wished for his side to clinch their top two spot with a flourish. However, six matches in the last sixteen days may have taken a toll on some players. Ivorian Ephraim Guikan will certainly miss this clash after getting injured in the Narrow 1-0 win over Chemelil Sugar on Thursday. Top scorer, Jacques Tuyisenge has been inexplicably absent in their last two league matches despite being in the hunt for the topflight Golden Boot where with 13 strikes, he trails the leading marksman by two goals. In his absence, Burundian new signing Francis has got off the mark and is likely to start tomorrow. The goalkeeping conundrum continues to weigh heavily on Kerr with neither Boniface Oluoch nor Shaban Odhonji consistently providing a safe pair of hands. Having sat out of Thursday’s league match, Oluoch is likely to start with Kerr set to chop and change his first 11 yet again. Defender Haron Shskava irked by his exclusion from the Harambee Stars squad for the twin African Cup of Nations qualifying fixtures against Ethiopia and Ghana in a fortnight will once again lead K’Ogalo out. With Karim Nizigiyimana impressive in his last two outings since returning from a long injury layoff and leftback Godfrey Walusimbi going AWOl, the full back positions are in contention. Rayon’s slim hopes if usurping Gor for a place in the last eight were stifled further after Caf suspended three key players, Yannick Mukunzi, goalkeeper Kassim Nzayisenga and Christ Mbonzi for their role in the brawl against Usm Alger.