Mombasa MCAs have denied
sanctioning the demolition of stalls belonging to miraa traders at Tononoka and demanded an explanation from those who conducted the destruction. Assembly chief whip Charles Kitula on Wednesday said the demolition had pushed out of business hundreds of youth who depend on selling muguka for survival. He criticised the county
inspectorate officers for demolishing the kiosks, yet the
assembly was in the process of making laws to guide the trade. “We want to know who authorised the
demolition of those kiosks yet we have not even discussed the matter in the
house,” Kitula said. Kitula spoke during the afternoon session when the demolition was discussed. Session chair Rafael Bwire ordered the stop of the
demolition pending debate on the motion. The assembly is waiting for a report on a research being conducted by the health committee to be tabled before the motion is discussed. Bwire who is the Junda MCA said the assembly
will summon inspectorate department bosses to explain why they demolished the
kiosks. “The demolitions must be stopped,” Bwire
said. Inspectorate officers on Monday demolished muguka
and miraa selling kiosks at Tononoka saying the structures were illegal. "They are supposed to be selling at the Kongowea
market. Not here," an askari said as the demolitions went on. Several traders were also arrested. The traders claimed there was foul play in the demolitions, saying the pay daily rates of Sh30 to the county government. Nominated MCA Moses Aran said the proposed ban on muguka
and miraa sale should be handled with sobriety. “We have many youths who have created employment because
of muguka and miraa sale. We should weight the advantages against the disadvantages of any measures we plan to take,” Aran said. Yesterday, major miraa supplier John Mwenda said the demolition of the kiosk was
done in a hurried and mysterious manner. “They came with a letter on Friday and gave us two
non-working days to remove our stalls. The letter instructed us to relocate but
did not state where to,” Mwenda said on the phone. The trader was among many traders following proceedings at
the county assembly on Wednesday afternoon. They engaged nominated MCA Fatma
Kushe who has sponsored the motion seeking to ban the sale of miraa in
Mombasa. On Wednesday, Kushe alleged that powerful
individuals involved in the business unsuccessfully tried to compromise her to withdraw the motion which was introduced through the health
committee. “The same individuals compromised several MCAs to
shoot down the motion,” Kushe said. Mwenda said powerful forces involved in the illegal drugs trade are pushing for the ban of miraa. “Many of the drug addicts are no longer using drugs
and have turned to miraa and muguka which has less side effects. The trend is ruining their business,” Mwenda said.