A suspect in the attempted murder case of former Garissa Finance executive Idris Mukhtar is dead. David Mwai Wanjiku is said to have pulled the trigger on Mukhtar. Wanjiku, who died in a Parklands police cell, is said to have confessed to the police how he was contracted to kill Mukhtar as he left a mosque in Kileleshwa. A report by police chiefs said the man committed suicide, but the circumstances are unclear. A source said the suspect hanged himself with his pullover. The middle-aged man from Dandora reportedly confessed he was contracted by a relative of Garissa governor Ali Korane to kill Mukhtar. Wanjiku, whom police believe pulled the trigger, was reported dead on Thursday noon in the hands of the police. “The OCS was called by a man from the cells who banged the door and said the suspect committed suicide,” an officer said. Our source said the dead man was among three hired gunmen from Dandora. Read: Human rights activist asks police to hasten probe into Mukhtar shooting They were implicated in the attempted murder and were transferred from Kilimani to Parklands. Officers from the Homicide Unit are interrogating three suspects. Nairobi based lawyer Charles Kanjama has also recorded a statement with the police. The hired assassins are said to have been planning to eliminate him, too. Kanjama declined to divulge the contents of his statement. Mukhtar was shot on August 19. He was taken to Nairobi Hospital where he is currently in critical condition. A Nairobi court granted detectives 15 days to detain the three prime suspects. Milimani resident magistrate Sonia Nzibi allowed the application filed by sergeant Peter Kanagi from the Homicide Unit. The suspects will face attempted murder charges. Preliminary investigations show Sh600,000 changed hands from both the planners and the executors. “Evidence of a planned and well-networked endeavour to kill the victim was being hatched,” the affidavit says. Evidence in the case includes collecting and collating communication evidence from CCTV cameras, data analysis, mobile phones, M-Pesa and bank transactions, document examinations and other electronic evidence from October 2017, when Mukhtar received his initial threats. Also read: Plot to ‘kill ex-Garissa official started in May’ Click here for the latest political news