Police reforms received fresh impetus with promulgation of the 2010 Constitution. It supported good legislation and establishing institutions to spearhead reforms. The police budget has been increasing, enabling the service to employ more than 40,000 new officers, modernise training and acquire modern equipment. The service has embraced coordination within various agencies with capacity to detect, deter and respond to criminal activities. Indeed, the number and intensity of terrorist activities have decreased over three years. However, policing has a long way to go in fully embracing the foundational philosophy of policing in a democratic society, ie, being citizen-driven and service-focused. The majority of stations have neither embraced nor established community policing committees and forums required (Sections 96-100 NPS Act 2011). The Interior ministry has not established County Policing Authorities (Sections 41-44 NPS Act). Impunity continues with extra-judicial killings, misuse of firearms and excessive use of force still problems — with minimal accountability as required by law. Police welfare and capacity are still wanting. Many officers live in deplorable conditions, treated unfairly by supervisors in aligning duties to skills and knowledge, and in transfers and promotions. Public safety and security suffer from insufficient officers on the beat, partly due to excessive deployment of officers in non-core areas, such as VIP protection. While coordination and harmonisation of operations have improved, there continues to be great resistance from middle-level and senior cadres to align service operations to the ‘one-police-station’ principle. There is, however, light at the end of the tunnel and it seems not to be that of an oncoming train. The CS Interior and the IG in April embraced a new approach towards more stakeholder involvement in policing reforms. Some priorities are harmonisation of operations, enhancing police/public relations, capacity and accountability to deliver. This looks like a great opportunity to finally get it right in policing reforms. However, those leading the process must be ready to make the sacrifices needed to guarantee success, including institutional, budgetary and managerial realignments. The Executive Director of the Independent Medico-Legal Unit spoke to the Star Read: New rules bar Police from doing business Click here for the latest political news