EACC has this morning arrested Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe and NCPB finance manager Cornel Kiprotich Ng'elechey. The two were arrested on allegations of irregular purchase of maize, leading to the loss of Sh6 billion at the NCPB. "The
Principal Secretary irregularly authorised the
expenditure and failed to ensure that the purchase of maize was done
in accordance with the law," DPP Noordin Haji said in a statement. "The Managing Director NCPB wilfully
failed to ensure that the procurement of maize was done in
accordance with the law." He said the investigation revealed that the NCPB officials, Agriculture officers, chiefs and their assistants colluded with the traders to
facilitate the fraudulent payments. "This was done to the detriment of vetted
farmers," Haji said. At least 15 other senior officials and prominent traders being sought among them former NCPB managing director Newton
Terer. Accounts clerk Caroline
Cherono, Eldoret Silo manager Renson Kibet, and Eldoret Silo records
manager Eric Talam are also lined up for prosecution. Also roped in the case Uasin Gishu county director of Agriculture Joseph Cheboi. The suspects will be charged with the following offences; wilful failure to comply with law relating to management of public property, unauthorised spending of public funds, conspiracy to defraud, abuse of office, neglect of official duty, and fraudulent acquisition of public funds. Highly placed sources at the DPP and Directorate of Criminal Investigations told the Star that the probe is likely to extend to 42 other individuals both in and outside government. "After
carefully reviewing the file and the documentation in support
thereof , I am satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to charge
the following persons," Haji said. Lesiyampe and Ng'elechey's arrest came after North Rift leaders demanded an independent audit to establish all maize deliveries made to National Cereals and Produce Board depots countrywide. They also want the supply of fertiliser audited amid a Sh1.9 billion maize payment scandal. The DPP said an Ethics
and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) investigation following reports of irregular purchase of maize from traders instead of
bonafide farmers during the 2017/18 season. "This was contrary to the
policy guidelines issued by the ministry of agriculture," the DPP said. The
investigations reveal that the scandal emanates from the
Strategic Food Reserve Oversight Board (SFROB) agency agreement with NCPB for the purchase of maize for a period of
2 years. The NCPB commenced purchasing of maize for the 2017/18
season October 2017. "Upon
investigations, it was established that NCPB spent Sh11.4 billion thereby exceeding the Sh6 billion budgeted for," the DPP said. It also revealed that SFROB had budgeted to purchase 2 million bags of maize for
financial year 2017/18 at Sh6 billion. "This expenditure was not
budgeted for contrary to the law." More on this: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Click here for the latest political news 