The problem we have is lack of enforcement – that is the reason people build on riparian reserves and rivers. This has had disastrous effects seen in frequent flooding because people have obstructed waterways. That also explains the pollution we are witnessing. The environment is a constitutional issue domesticated under Chapter Five of the 2010 Constitution, which obligates the state to ensure sustainable exploitation, utilisation, management and conservation of natural resources. The chapter further requires the state to establish systems of environmental impact assessment, environmental audit and monitoring. To enforce the law, the state has created the National Environment and Management Authority. But it seems Nema has neglected its duties. In Nairobi alone we have buildings like Westgate, Tmall and the one opposite on Langata road. When you drive along Enterprise and Arboretum roads, there are many buildings standing on riparian reserves. Before such constructions are put up, there is an environmental impact assessment, which must be approved by Nema. You don't even need to be an environmentalist to tell a certain building is harmful to the environment. But strangely, all those buildings have approval from Nema. If there were strict enforcement of the law by Nema, those buildings they are now claiming to pull down would not have been constructed in the first place. Politics also plays a part in this destruction at a time Nema is under pressure to approve these buildings, depending on who owns them. They fear if they stand by their professional calling and the law they would contradict influential persons and that could cost them their job. Going forward, Nema officials need the spine and professional resolve to do what is right. If the ongoing demolitions are to be effective and fair, Nema should flatten all buildings on rivers in the city irrespective of the owners. Issues to do with environment are constitutional, therefore there is a need to make Nema an independent institution. This needs changes in the law to give the agency the independence needed to protect our environment without fear. Dr Musingi specializes in environmental planning and management. He spoke to the Star. Click here for the latest political news