Kenyan boy band Sauti Sol has released a new song that addresses the state of the nation and in which they feature rapper Nyashinski. It's the first time the band, best known for Afro Pop music, is releasing a song linked to the political state of the country. The song "Tujiangalie" reflects on the state of affairs in Kenya while contrasting this with the aspirations of key leaders of the past. The new song also heavily addresses the issue of corruption and urges young people to stop fighting on social media and seek solutions to the issues affecting the country. In the song, Sauti Sol and Nyashinski talk of the ballooning debts that continue to accumulate and which have been a key issue of discussion in Kenya. "For our latest release we thought about the world right now and the number of persistent issues plaguing it. These things are hardly ever solved and we are consistently shortchanged," the song's description reads. The artistes go on to explain that they considered how they would address these frustrations which include tribalism as addressed in their song. "Our first realization was to speak power to the reality that we are living in, hence the title “Tujiangalie.” Self-reflection. Recognizing that we have the capacity to change the world we live in by looking inward and holding ourselves accountable for the role we play in society. The truth is “when you make your bed, you lie in it!”," they explained. Very few Kenyan artistes have released songs addressing political affairs facing the country despite many producing campaign songs for politicians. Others who have released similar songs in the past include Eric Wainaina (Nchi Ya Kitu Kidogo), Mashifta (System Ya Majambazi), Jaguar (Kigeugeu) and Bonga (King Kaka). "None of us is perfect. None of us is exonerated. We have all contributed to and benefited from the flawed systems. But, change is a result of possibility. If we all decide to personally act towards building a world we are proud to live in, then it will become a reality," the musicians describe their song. Sauti Sol band comprises of  Bien Aime (vocals & guitar), Polycarp (guitar), Chimano (vocals & saxophone), Mudigi (vocals, percussion & drums) Click here for the latest political news