It is 8 am in Marsabit town and women and girls have flocked Marsabit Women Advocacy and Development Organisation (MWADO) offices for different reasons. Some want to report cases of domestic violence while others are looking for help related to female genital mutilation (FGM) cases. What they all have in common is that they are waiting to see Nuria Gollo. Gollo, 51, is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of MWADO, a community -based organisation, which is focused on the empowerment of women and girls in Marsabit county. “We have a legal aid desk where anyone with a problem can file a report. We handle some of the cases through councils of elders. We take the others to court. People come everyday and line up so that I help them with their cases,” she says. The mother of five children– two daughters and three sons— grew up at Shauri Yako village. She is one of the estimated 200 million women and girls who’ve undergone FGM in the world. But she refuses to keep silent and is helping eradicate the illegal rite of passage. The pain and suffering that she went through, largely because of the health complications that resulted from the cut, stirred up her zeal to fight for women and girls in Marsabit. Gollo was circumcised by her grandmother, who was a valued member of the community for her ‘surgical skills’ as well as a traditional birth attendant. “I was with other girls when she circumcised me. The parents of the other girls asked her to do the Sunni cut. But my step-mother insisted that l should undergo the Pharaonic cut. "After the cut, my grandmother tied me up from the toes to the waist, thinking it would stop me from moving around as this would tear my wound. "Three days after l but was unable to pass urine. My abdomen was swollen because l could not pass urine. My grandmother cut me gain,” sherecalls with a grimace as she remembers the pain. The Sunni cut or clitoridectomy is the partial or total removal of the clitoris.The Pharaonic cut entails removal of the inner and outer labia and suturing of the vulva, leaving a small hole for urine and menstrual flow. “When I got married, it took my husband two days to try and penetrate me. So I had to be cut again for the third time," she says. "When I gave birth, I was cut again. I went through cutting and more cutting. I got all my five children through cutting. I have scars all over. If you look at it now it’s like a cloth which has been sewn. You are left with a hole at the end, which you use for menstruation, urine and for giving birth [sic],” she says. More on this: Elgeyo Marakwet babies undergoing FGM in the name of culture Also see: [VIDEO] The uncut women of Marakwet: Married with children but still children  Nuria Gollo, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Marsabit Women Advocacy and Development Organisation (MWADO), in an undated photo. /DIANA KENDI PRESSURE FROM PEERS, MEN A BIG HELP Gollo says the pressure to get cut comes from peers and other community members who view FGM as a cultural and religious obligation. An uncut woman is considered unclean and risks not getting married. "We asked for it. There was peer pressure from the girls we were in school with. We were young at the time; I was only 10 years old and in class four. "Friends would discuss it openly, some saying they would be cut during holidays. It sounded like fun. You don’t know what it is but you want to taste it and know what this FGM is. Our mothers said that if you didn't cut your daughter, she would stink, not get married and become promiscuous,” Gollo adds. She endured the pain, and made sure not to drop a single tear, so as to prove to herself and her family that she was not a coward. She was lucky to be allowed to return to school, later underwent training as a primary school teacher and was posted to Marsabit Primary School. It was while she worked at the school that she realised the impact of FGM and early marriage on students, girls in particular. “They opened up to me and told me the kind of problems they were facing at home, their concerns about FGM, their possibilities of getting married off early and many other issues. At one point, more than half the students in my classroom were trying to cope with these problems." Gollo taught for 15 years before resigning to start MWADO - to provide girls and women with the information they need to deal with child marriage and FGM. She has added men to the group as "many are not aware of the problems women and girls face because of the cut". The decision to cut is made by womenfolk but they do this believing that they are protecting their girls and adhering to cultural or religious requirements. Gollo says the men are trained paralegals who serve the women who go to the office. The activist, who also trained as a paralegal, notes that women in Marsabit have been pushing for their daughters to be cut. She says the 'business' is for women and that men have little or no involvement. "Through my trainings men have understood that FGM is a bad practice," she says. Due to her efforts to champion th protection of women and girls' rights, Gollo has been recognised nationally. In 2017, she received the Head of State Commendation Award (HSC), Civilian Division. She was also recognised in 2014 by the Ministry of Devolution and given the Inspirational Women Award. “Sometimes we get discouraged when handling cases of domestic violence and harmful practices. At times, our witnesses withdraw from cases due to cultural demands. We are left helpless and become the laughing stock. I sometimes ask myself, 'should I really continue with this work?' but if I stop, who will do it? Nobody." Read more on on Born Perfect, "an anti-Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) project in Africa, which was created by a transnational team of designers, journalists and developers to document incidents". Also read: My sister saved me from the cut Click here for the latest political news