The government has set aside Sh1.5 billion for the construction of two bypasses to ease traffic congestion in Thika town. Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura) central regional manager Jacinta Mwangi on Friday said the construction of the two roads will take two years. The first phase will involve construction of the bypass linking Garissa road to Thika superhighway. The 10km bypass will pass through Kivulini, Athena and Witeithie before it links with the Thika highway. The second phase will involve the 15km stretch than links Kenyatta highway, Munene Industries, UTI, Pilot, Umoja, Kenyatta Leather and Garissa road. Mwangi said the project will also involve the construction of a 40-metre bridge at the Haile Selassie Road near Blue Post Hotel. Kura senior surveyor Victor Biko said the two by-passes will end the town’s perennial traffic congestions. “Traffic jams in Thika town and its environs will be a thing of the past once the project is complete. Motorists heading to Garissa from Nyeri, Embu or Meru will not need to pass through the town. Similarly those coming from Garissa road to Nairobi will no longer have to pass through Thika town,” Biko said. The two spoke during a forum on identification of the corridor. The project is expected to start by the end of the year. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina has commended the government for setting aside funds to construct the bypasses. He said the roads will open up Thika town which is Kiambu’s main industrial hub. Wainaina said the town deserves good infrastructure. “With great infrastructure, we expect more investments and development,” Wainaina said. He called on investors who had allegedly grabbed road reserves to remove any structures they may have constructed to pave way for the project. The MP said his office was planning to open up Kenyatta Highway from the UTI junction and link it up with the Thika-Garissa road at Leather Industries. Wainaina said the ongoing Garissa road expansion will be completed in two months. The expansion begins at the Thika flyover and ends at Makongeni estate. Matatu drivers have welcomed the news of the road project, saying it will make operations easier. “We have suffered in traffic jams for a long time. The roads will save us from incurring huge losses,” boda boda rider Martin Kigotho said.