Millions of patients cannot easily access drugs following a government directive for importers to use the standard gauge railway and the inland container depot in Nairobi. The patients are at the mercies of suppliers and manufacturers after the situation got complicated by delayed payments by health facilities under the NHIF. "The directive by the government to process imports at the inland container depot in Nairobi is causing pain for medical suppliers who are experiencing stock-outs due to delays in clearing consignments," Mission for Essential Drugs and Supplies (MEDS) managing director Jane Masiga said yesterday. In February, the government issued a directive compelling transporters to use the standard gauge railway to clear their imports at the inland container depot. Critics of the directive argued the government wanted importers to use the railway to accrue funds to pay the SGR debt. "Due to the congestion at the Nairobi inland depot, consignments are taking weeks to clear and that affects our stocking since we are not able to replenish in good time," Masiga said. Read: NHIF cards should be activated faster, Kariuki tells House team She spoke during the annual MEDS suppliers conference at its Nairobi office. "The organisation has experienced stock-outs affecting 201 items over the past seven months, costing it up to Sh114 million in lost sales," Masiga said. The MD said the challenges come up at a time when the demand for drugs and medical supplies is growing steadily. This follows the government’s universal healthcare coverage programme through the National Hospital Insurance Fund. "While NHIF, which is working to have all Kenyans covered, has become the biggest healthcare financing programme in the country, it has come with some challenges," Masiga said. She said NHIF is critical in promoting uptake of health services and realisation of the Big Four agenda of affordable healthcare. Masiga said NHIF enrolment has in the past five years increased and hence higher demand for health commodities. Also Read: How hospitals are fleecing insurers Click here for the latest political news