The Senate technical committee is camping at Uasin Gishu county assembly to prepare for the first sittings by the House outside Nairobi.  The Uasin Gishu assembly has been selected to host the sittings by the 67 senators from September 24 to 28.  Preparations for security, live broadcasting and catering are being carried out.  MCAs have gone on a one-month recess.  Speaker Kenneth Lusaka visited the region last week and said they will start holding sittings in counties as one way of assessing the successes and challenges of devolution.  He said they will start the sittings in Uasin Gishu before moving to the other counties.  Lusaka said the Senate will also have an opportunity to learn about operations of the assembly.  “We also want to have a closer understanding of the way devolution is working in all the counties,” he said.  The war on graft will also be aggressively taken to the counties to ensure devolved funds are well-utilised to benefit the public.  Lusaka said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s resolve to fight corruption will not spare anybody, whether at the national or county  government levels.  He said corruption has hurt development programmes.  Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye led a tour of the assembly and other facilities ahead of the sessions.  The team from the Senate that was hosted by county assembly speaker David Kiplagat and assembly clerk Shadrack Choge is made up of 20 officials.  Members followed proceedings in the public gallery and were recognised by the speaker.  “It will be a milestone for Uasin Gishu. The county will be a model story of the success of devolution in Kenya,” Kiplagat said. “We are ready to host the Senate.”  Nyegenye said they are pleased with the facilities at the assembly. “The reception was warm. We are hopeful that the sittings will go on smoothly,” he said.  Lusaka will lead the sessions during which MCAs will share their experiences at the grassroots.  Majority leader Josphat Lowoi, speaking on behalf of the MCAs, said they were pleased by the Senate’s choice of Uasin Gishu.