Governor Mike Sonko has spent Sh1.3 billion to
repair and build roads, bridges and install streetlights since he took over at
City Hall in August last year, a report has shown. An internal report by the Transport and Public Works
sector on the projects implemented by the sector over the last one year shows
that five roads measuring 6.3 km have been built in five sub-counties. "The roads have been done complete with pavements,
pedestrian walkways and drainages," reads the report. They are Lumumba Drive in Roysambu, Maji
Mzuri Access Road and Bishop Ireri Road in Kasarani, Kahuho Road in Dagoretti
South and Muthiora Road in Dagoretti North. Other drainage and road projects totaling 48.2 km
are being carried out in 14 constituencies. “The works are at various stages and of completion
and we expect all to be completed before June 2019,” Transport executive
Mohamed Dagane said. The pathways are Dandora II Estate Roads, Hacco
Industries Access Road, Gathuru Road, Sulton Cieko Road, Academy Road,
Kayole-DOD link Road, Matopeni Estate Road, Kirichwa Gardens, Lucky Summer Access Road and Memon Access Road. The reports also says that six bus termini, with a
capacity of 505 parking bays have been constructed outside the CBD. They are
all in Starehe constituency. They are Murang’a Road with 65 parking bays, Murang'a
Road B with 75 parking slots, Desai Road service lane with 70 parking spaces, Park
Road with 160 spaces, Railways Matatu terminus that has 70 parking bays and
Ngara Road terminus with 65. Also constructed according to the report are four
bridges connecting various areas within the city. They are Zimmerman- Githurai bridge, Footbridge in
South C, Nyayo High Rise- Kibera bridge and Shanzu Road- Grevillea Groove bridge
in Westlands. Five other bridges are being done in Mathare, Kasarani and
Embakasi Central. The county has also installed 839 streetlights using
contractors in Embakasi East (296), Starehe (24), Ruaraka (160), Kasarani (100),
Embakasi North (156), Dagioretti South (28) and Langata (70). City Hall’s in-house team has also installed 3761
public lighting poles across the county. The city county has also partnered with the Ministry
of Trasnsport and Infrastructure and the World Bank under the Nairobi
Metropolitan Service Imprvement Project in building 833 streetlights, constrcution
of two fire stations and three boreholes. The boreholes in Starehe and Dagoretti South while
fire stations are at Waithaka in Dagoretti South and Umoja KCC in Embakasi West. 