Just who is this powerful politician who has fenced off some part of a secondary school within Sunton area of Nairobi? Rumor has it that an influential politician from the area who owns some two skyscrapers around the school is behind the apparent attempt to grab the public land. The politician is also said to have played a key role in the establishment of the secondary school before as part of a wider scheme to legitimise the grabbing and protect his interests. The politician is also said to have pushed for the construction of the school ten meters from the river within the riparian corridor as he hived off the upper part which he sold out. Is Education CS Amina Mohammed aware of this clandestine move to defeat justice? ***** A prominent tycoon seems to be the beneficiary of the recent crackdown on contraband and unfit-for-human-consumption sugar in the country. The operation seems to favour the importer with connections to all senior politicians in the country. Corridors is informed that the mission is to allow him dispose of his huge consignment of contraband sugar at the expense of local millers. Immediately the stock is offloaded, the other dealers whose godowns have been sealed and are under 24-hour watch will be given a clean bill of health. So determined is the businessman and his cronies that the operation is bound to go on until end of the year. Meanwhile local millers and farmers continue to suffer as sugar cartels smile all the way to their banks. ***** Senior managers in one of the ministries are in shock. Reason? The Cabinet Secretary and one of the aides have gotten into the habit of taking interns for retreats. The last retreat was held in Mombasa, we are told. Questions are being raised where the money being spent is coming from since they were never budgeted for. Surprisingly, however, permanent staff do not have such privileges. Some insiders were heard whispering that the retreats are an avenue for stealing from the taxpayer. ***** Even as the government, through the Nairobi Regeneration Task Force, continues to demolish structures in riparian or grabbed land, a city tycoon remains defiant. The man with deep pockets had the gumption of demanding that the Nairobi county government relocates a sewerage line that serves an entire section of the city to allow him put up a mega structure that will encroach on the public utility. The tycoon is reported to have blocked the sewer line with brick and mortar to compel the county government to remove it. Scared county authorities only unblocked the line when waste water flooded the adjacent areas. Click here for
the latest political news 