President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said his newfound relationship with ODM leader Raila Odinga is solid and warned politicians against fighting their handshake deal. He said the handshake has a deeper understanding than some politicians think. The two leaders said the process leading to their Harambee House  meeting was carefully thought out and fashioned with the ultimate aim of building a stronger, united and cohesive nation. Read: Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila They had come up with the nine-point agenda that seeks to end ethnicism, corruption, exclusivity and divisive elections. Other concerns listed include security, devolution, national ethos, shared prosperity and responsibility. “There is a much deeper understanding between myself and Raila — an understanding that is driven by the desire to ensure we leave this country much stronger, more united and more focused than it has ever been,” the President said at the Holy Family Minor Basilica during the 40th death anniversary for founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. Raila said they opted to shelve their political rivalry to unite Kenyans and enhance prosperity. “Mzee Jomo Kenyatta sacrificed for the good of our country and that is what we are trying to achieve by uniting the people of Kenya. We decided with my brother Uhuru to try and recapture the dreams of the founding fathers of our nation by uniting our people,” he said. “That is the meaning of the handshake. It is meant to build bridges, cross River Jordan so we can enter Canaan all of us as a nation.” Uhuru and Raila’s decision to work together shocked many — both in Jubilee and Nasa, especially after last year’s bruising presidential election when Raila claimed his victory had been rigged out. The two have formed a committee to collect and collate views on how best to unite the country. Uhuru said the bigger agenda of the handshake will allow Kenyans to work together and compete without considerations of ethnicity or religion. “What we are aiming at is that politics will never again drive our country to bloodshed, destruction of property and animosity,” he said. In future, a Kenyan should be able to seek elective office in any part of the country, he added. See also: If the cost of victory is friendship, so be it Uhuru and Raila urged leaders to support their unity pact to promote development countrywide. “A time has comes when we must let go of the normal petty politics of the day and come together to deal with fundamental issues that make us who we are. I appeal to all politicians that they should not misinterpret politics with this deeper understanding,” Uhuru said. He appealed to Kenyans to support him in the fight against corruption. “We must come together to fight corruption. There should be no differences whether one is in government or not in government. Our people should get the services they deserve as taxpayers,” the President said. “We are not here to glorify him [Mzee Kenyatta]. He was human like everyone of us. There were the great things he managed to achieve and there were issues he was confronted with just like all of us.” Earlier, Uhuru was accompanied by his mother Mama Ngina Kenyatta in laying a wreath at the mausoleum of his late father at Parliament Buildings. Deputy President William Ruto described the late Mzee Kenyatta as a great leader who consolidated the country into a nation. “We’re not only here to celebrate and remember the founding father of our nation but also as a father of hard work and enterprise,” he said. Other leaders present included MPs, Cabinet secretaries and governors Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu) and Mike Sonko (Nairobi). More: Uhuru and Raila 'honeymoon' on Twitter but will unity deal last? Click here for the latest political news