The Competition Authority of Kenya has dismissed as punitive a study by the Communications Authority that recommends price capping. Director General Wang’ombe Kariuki yesterday told MPs that the proposal would hurt the dominant network. “It is important to highlight that dominance is not an illegality. What is an illegality is the abuse of dominance position. The intervention of a regulator should be informed by abuse of dominance position,” Kariuki said. He told the National Assembly committee on Communication, Information and Innovation chaired by Marakwet West MP William Kipsang that the regulator ought to have encouraged sharing of resources rather than price capping. “It is our considered advice that any regulatory intervention should be aimed at supporting and increasing consumer welfare and at no time should regulatory intervention have an object of deepening private shareholder’s profits in lieu of consumers’ benefits,” he said. Wang’ombe said CA should introduce initiatives that will reduce switching costs and ease entry especially through a clear spectrum policy. Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie asked whether the two Authorities were being intimidated by the dominant network. “Has one mighty telecommunication network intimidated the two authorities? We need to establish as a committee whether there is need for us to empower and shield you from any form of intimidation,” said Kiarie. Kariuki said there was need for all regulators to work together to improve the sector. “I request this committee to come up with a way of compelling the regulators to work together for the betterment of this sector. It might not be easy for only one regulator to regulate this sector. This issue is more of personal relationship,” he said. On Monday, Safaricom Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore told the committee that the study seeks to declare Safaricom dominant in the market and introduce interventions that will not only punish the company but millions of customers. Collymore said the report seeks to dictate retail price controls on Safaricom’s services which will make them expensive and would lead to migration by customers to its competitors. “The operators who are seeking these interventions today will have been taught not to invest but instead to rely upon the infrastructure that is built by others. They will have been taught not to innovate as innovations will be served to them on a silver platter,” he said. Collymore said this would create an artificial competitive landscape that overprice the services of one operator over others. 