Deputy President William Ruto and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Saturday pledged to work together to unite the country after the divisive 2017 elections. The two leaders urged Kenyans to embrace brotherhood, preach peace, love and unity and shun tribal politics. They spoke during the installation of Machakos Catholic Diocese’s Bishop, Reverend Norman King’oo Wambua at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County on Saturday. The event was also attended by Machakos governor Alfred Mutua. King’oo will serve in both Machakos and Makueni Catholic Diocese. Read: Norman King'oo installed as Machakos Diocese Bishop “We are all brothers, let’s embrace peace and unity for Kenya to prosper,” Ruto said. Ruto said political differences should no longer be used to divide the country along ethnic lines. “I agree that as Kenyans we do not want to be guided by negative ethnic politics any longer. We should all build bridges of friendship in order to foster development and happiness for our people,” added Ruto. He said national reconciliation and political healing are critical for building a new Kenya. On his part, Kalonzo said the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga has helped in building bridges among Kenyans. He said there is a need for a united country to help fight illiteracy, poverty, ignorance and diseases. “Thoe living below poverty line in this country are too many, 50 per cent of the Ukambani counties’ population lives below poverty line,” said Kalonzo. “The handshake is working, we are building bridges,” added he. Mutua said the need for national unity is more important and critical than anything else. “Kenyans should shun ethnic politics and come together as a nation. We should not be afraid of coming together and holding hands for the sake of unity and harmony for our people,” said Mutua. Others who attended the occasion are Devolution CS Eugine Wamalwa, Governors Charity Ngiu (Kitui) and her Makueni counterpart Kivutha Kibwana. MPS Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Stephen Mule (Matungulu), Fabian Kyule (Kangundo), Patrick Musimba (Kibwezi West), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka other leaders and thousands of Catholic faithful across the country. Bishop King’oo was installed by the Pope’s representative in Kenya, Charles Daniel. King’oo said the church is committed to partnering with the government in fighting poverty through empowering Kenyans. Since 2014, the Catholic Diocese of Machakos had been under the care of Nyeri Catholic Archbishop, His grace Anthony Muheria after then area bishop Kivuva was moved to head the Archdiocese of Mombasa. Born in 1952 in Makueni County, Bishop King’oo was ordained priest on May 22nd 1988 and later appointed a bishop of the Catholic diocese of Bungoma on June 1998. Ruto outlined several projects he said had been initiated by the National Government to accelerate development in a bid of transforming both Machakos and Makueni counties. Click here for the latest political news   