Annan was his polar opposite. In many ways, he seemed to embrace that
jaundiced view of Africa, seeing her bleak prospects through the same prism
that post-Imperialist Western powers have always used. But he was a good
Ghanaian. Earlier this year, he made a supportive phone call to the faceless Ghanaian
anti-corruption journalist Anas A Anas for exposing widespread corruption in
Ghana. Since he died last week, there has been a sharp focus on his career in
diplomatic circles, particularly on how it affected Africa.  ANNAN AND KENYA We will remember him for brokering a difficult truce in 2008,
bringing two leaders of the political divide to the negotiating table and
getting them to work together. But it was the aftermath of the ICC that we will
remember him the most. He was the brain behind the court. But he did more than that. When
it became apparent the Kenyan cases (which were developed from his insistence)
were not going to his liking, he openly expressed his dissatisfaction. He even advocated
the detention of William Ruto and Uhuru Kenyatta at The Hague for the duration
of their trial. And when the court allowed them to be free as they pursued,
Annan questioned the decision, further proving that the ICC was (is) nothing
but a political court. In fact, his sentiments monstrously betrayed his political
preferences in the Kenyan situation. The confessions of former prosecutor Luis Ocampo
that he was under pressure by some ‘diplomats’ to do more to prevent Uhuru and
Ruto from contesting in the 2013 elections exposed Annan.  The ICC profoundly changed Kenya. Very early in the cases, it was
quite apparent the indictees were selected politically – balancing from the
political divide. It was a woeful miscalculation that brought in the wrong
people to power and a mistake for which Annan could scarcely feign ignorance.
In the first place, the ICC was his baby, and the institution, which will never
touch any other conflict around the world, has become the shameful face of
Western imperialism with regard to Africa. And to imagine that an African had
supported its formulation only brings up memories of the brutal black slave
driver of the plantations of America’s deep south. And you will be certain
Uhuru and Ruto will not be missing Annan for what they went through under the
ICC.  ANNAN AND RWANDAN GENOCIDE If ever the sin of omission was imputable to one man over the Rwanda
genocide, that man would be Kofi Annan. I still remember my Rwandese university
roommate Murengezi, who arrived in campus in March 1994 only to lose his entire
family two weeks later. In those bleak April days, our room became a monitoring
centre, as we listened desperately to BBC broadcasts on Shortwave radio for
news about the genocide. There was no internet, no mobile telephony, and making
international calls was extremely difficult. Even then, all communication with
Rwanda was completely cut off. We were left with only radio and so we listened
breathlessly to grainy Shortwave broadcasts hoping his family was still alive. We
finally got the news much later, that only his father, who was out of the
country at that time, had survived. He, too, had survived because he came to
Kenya. The rest had perished and even their remains could not be traced. You
can imagine what a teenage freshman must have felt at this time. Then it came to light finally that Annan, then working as the head
of UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations, had refused to authorise a UN intervention in Rwanda, despite
being alerted that a massive spate of killings was in the offing and would come
any moment. The result of his decision was that Murengezi lost his family and a
million other Rwandese died. Although you cannot fully blame the genocide on
Annan, the worst part of it was that he consistently refused to acknowledge his
part in it, either directly or otherwise. He refused to take personal responsibility for whatever role he
played. It was only after we heard the story of Canada’s General Romeo Dallaire
that we knew what Annan had done, or better still, had refused to do. He was
specifically warned about detailed plans “to provoke a civil war” and even
lists of Tutsi’s had been drawn up, which according to Dallaire’s informants
suspected was “…for their extermination.” In fact, Dallaire’s informant had
already drawn up a detailed list of Tutsis and told him that his men had the ability
to kill up to 1,000 Tutsis in 20 minutes. Armed with such impeccable
information, Dallaire immediately asked for permission to act. His plan was to
start by seizing caches of illegal arms that had been prepared. In January 1994 Annan replied telling Dallaire not to act, but
rather to follow diplomatic protocol. He asked him to share his information
with Rwanda’s President Juvenal Habyarimana. Three months later, everything
Dallaire had predicted happened with the precision of an Old Testament prophet.
My friends and I were left with the uncomfortable task of consoling a broken
young man, who later quit university anyway.  AMERICA’S MAN IN THE UN Even for his incontrovertible failure at UN Peacekeeping, he was
rewarded with an unprecedented promotion to Secretary General, becoming the
first UN staffer to rise to the position. But really, he was America’s man for
the job and not Africa’s. You will remember clearly the humiliation served to
Africa’s Boutros Boutros-Ghali, when the US numerously vetoed his appointment
for a second term. This was largely because he had criticised America’s conflict-driven
foreign policy and smarting from empty victories in Kuwait and disaster in
Somali, the US had little appetite for criticism. With hindsight, it is now clear the US put in Annan to satiate its
desire for global dominance and much less to placate Africa for gutting the
more Afro-centric Ghali. As you will know, it was about this time that the
world was talking about globalization, they needed a friendly hand in the UN.
Annan was their man, and even Africa scarcely owned his tenure. America then
continued rumbling through the world and returned to finish a job it had
started in Iraq. Together with Britain, they plunged an otherwise peaceful region
into unending conflict and to this day, the ouster of Saddam Hussein still
hangs over every conflict in the Middle East – from the Arab Spring to the ISIL
conflict to the Taliban and others.  A LIFE OF PRIVILEGE Born in Kumasi, Ghana’s sprawling city and centre of the ancient
Ashanti Kingdom, he was a descendant of powerful chiefs on both sides of his
family. It is difficult to tell if his background prepared him or failed to
prepare him for the challenges of leading an organisation such as the UN. With
a relatively privileged upbringing, he went to good schools eventually studying
abroad and obtaining advanced credentials. He joined the UN system early in his
career and rose up the ranks to a position that made him one of the most
powerful men on earth. His tenure, however, was marred by controversies, from
corruption within the UN system and sometimes involving his own family to
failure to prevent or end some of the worst conflicts. He seemed impervious, even ill-disposed to Africa’s perennial
problems and to this day, the continent continues to deal with her problems — political
instability, coups, war, famine, hunger, poverty, disasters, economic and
political emigration, diseases, underdevelopment, emergent neo-colonialism, slavery,
human trafficking, the thousands of Africa’s immigrants in the
trans-Mediterranean route and the refugee crisis from intra-African conflicts.
Others include political and religion-motivated terrorism, border disputes, wars
of aggression, inter- and intra-tribal disputes, pre- and post-election
conflict, governance-related problems, including weak institutions and government
structures, failure to apply or implement the rule of law, ideological
disputations, illegal arms trade, skewed trade agreements, exploitation of
African resources, the debt burden among others. I have taken the trouble to list them so that in your own analysis,
you can see that few, if any, of these problems were associated with Africa
before 1886, and only came after Western powers came over. And the same powers continue
to sustain them to this day. What did Annan do about them? He did something. He
instituted the Millennium Development Goals. They began with noble ideals but
most countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa where they were meant to help,
only registered dismal progress in achieving them. Analysts have pondered into
why this happened. Having studied them myself, it is my considered opinion that
the MDGs were reductionist in nature, they failed to look at the
inter-dependence of the problems mentioned above. Exploitation of African
resources for instance, has a direct effect on infant mortality and maternal
deaths and others. It was necessary to solve the problem of resource
exploitation first before you tackle infant mortality, otherwise tackling
infant mortality without its antecedent cause, was an exercise in futility. He
knew it would not be easy and even predicted that by 2015, most of the MDGs
would not have been met. In 2016, the UN replaced the MDGs with sustainable development
goals, which were more inclusive.  SELF-EXILE Finally, it was his choice of Switzerland as a place of retirement that
only further betrayed his attitudes towards Africa. Unlike Shakespeare’s Bollingbroke,
who ate the bitter bread of banishment, Annan enjoyed the sweet bread of self-exile
– living in the comfort of Switzerland, obscured from Africa’s sufferings and
maintaining a bird’s eye view. Well, there you have it. There are many good
things that can be said about Annan. He has been feted variously as one of
Africa’s finest sons for which he was even awarded a Nobel prize. I think he
could have done more. 