Athletics Kenya (AK) have unreservedly nodded the decision by the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) to set up the first World’s Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) approved laboratory in Nairobi. The laboratory is set to carry out biological passport tests in the East African region. At least 800 to 1000 tests are set to be conducted annually as the fight to curb the reputation-denting vice intensifies. AK president, Jack Tuwei welcomed the inauguration of the laboratory, saying it will help seal any remaining doping loophole. “This is the best news the federation has received in a long time and we welcome the establishment of the laboratory. With the facility around, the process of catching cheats will be faster, easier and cheaper and I believe it will help us to effectively root out the menace. We will no longer have to rely on European-based laboratories and I hope it will be functional as soon as possible,” he said. The AK boss said they are working closely with Adak and AIU to combat doping and get out of IAAF’s Category ‘A’ list, which comprises countries heralded as chronic dopers. “I still call upon our athletes to run clean and avoid being enticed into drug cheating,” Tuwei noted. The laboratory is set to analyse samples from athletes in Kenya, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda and Eritrea among other countries. He said the fight against doping started way back in 2015  and there has been a lot of progress since. “AK have been in the forefront in fighting the menace and formation of Adak in 2016 is part of that fight. We also formed the Kenya Doctors Network, which was vetted and approved by IAAF to attend to all registered athletes and I can proudly say there has been progress,” he noted. Tuwei added: “Last week, AIU recommended the formation of a multi-agency committee which will be tasked to bring expert knowledge on board and consolidate the initial efforts put in place by the federation.” Meanwhile, Adak chief executive officer, Japhter Rugut, also welcomed the establishment of the laboratory. He said the move will make their operations easier and cost effective. He said: “Since our establishment in April 2016, we have continued to deal with the challenge of incurring enormous logistical and financial costs,  resulting from the technical process of transporting blood samples to a Wada accredited laboratory in Qatar for analysis. With the approval of the LANCET Group of Laboratories by Wada, the logistical nightmare that we have contended with in relation to blood samples has now been effectively addressed.” He added: “It has also eliminated the tangible risk of blood samples delaying to get to the laboratory for analysis. This means that the capacity and integrity of our blood testing process will be greatly enhanced. Internally, we are going to re-adjust our mechanisms to take full advantage of this opportunity to further strengthen our testing operations.” Click here for the latest political news