Industrialisation
faces various hurdles, one being the whims of the global markets
competitiveness, which require us to support local manufacturers by
creating a conducive economic environment to meet local, regional and
international demands. Nurturing tax policies, lowering cost of doing
business, and providing enabling environment will enable manufacturers
to compete with the ever-challenging regional and global markets
squarely. Further providing the opportunity for our goods to access
diverse markets. Enhanced local productivity will create added
employment, resulting in increased circulation of money in the economy
and thus a more equitable economy. Indeed,
many tax policies in the country are created with this premise, which
is understood and shared by all stakeholders. The challenge manifests in
their execution process. Take an example of the proposed Excise Goods
Management System (EGMS). The idea behind installing this system was to
aid in the fight against counterfeits and illicit trade, by putting a
stamp on genuine locally manufactured products thus making them
traceable and identifiable. This
need was highlighted by all stakeholders, jointly by the Industry and
Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), especially in light of the growing
complexity of illicit trade networks and their infiltration into diverse
markets. However, the challenges related to the physical
implementation, the exorbitant cost involved in the implementation and
various overhead requirements for effective operation of the system
emerged! It
is important to reiterate that local manufacturers appreciate that the
tax stamp is meant to track production, safeguard excise revenue and
authenticate excisable products being sold in the market. The current
impasse is as a result of the additional costs, which will impact on the
capital and operating expenditures for the manufacturers and will
inadvertently be passed on to the consumers. Needless to say that the
manufacturing sector's global competitiveness will be adversely
affected. Just
to highlight, some complications on cost were that, for instance, it
would be far too expensive to justify the cost of the ink and stamps
that were required as part of installing the system, and this additional
cost will have adverse effects on the local manufacturers’ sales
volumes leading to quantum losses for these companies. Subsequently, it
would become prohibitively expensive for citizens to afford basic goods
under this system, adding to the high inflationary cost of living in a
very price sensitive economy. Additionally,
a comparison with other countries such as Morocco who have implemented
the system shows that Kenyan manufacturers will be required to pay way
above what other countries pay for the stamp and ink. On compatibility,
some companies will have to bear huge constraints in terms of
reconfiguring their physical spaces by removing existing machines to
accommodate the EGMS equipment. Being
an integral component of doing business, taxation should not increase
the cost of doing business directly neither should it be embedded in
added excise tax! A
thorough feasibility study, incorporating all stakeholders, needs to be
undertaken prior to systems implementation in order to conclude whether
the proposed system is compatible, cost-effective and true to the set
objectives. The
pause in installing this system as directed by the Parliament gives all
stakeholders opportunity to reflect and collectively revert with
comprehensive solutions that will ensure achievement of the intended set
objectives as outlined above and that, all actions are in tandem with
growing the manufacturing sector to contribute 15 per cent to the GDP as per the
Big Four Agenda. Chairman, Beverage Subsector and Central Kenya Chapter at KAM. info@kam.co.ke.