A report from the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection has unearthed damning findings on the different working conditions of Chinese and local workers at the standard gauge railway. Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani yesterday highlighted to the Senate Labour Committee the preliminary findings that showed how local workers are discriminated against while performing their duties. Yatani told the committee chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja  the ministry constituted a committee of inquiry on July 12 to investigate the matter and author a report within seven days. “While the Chinese have eateries in every work station, the local staff do not have this provision,” reads part of the findings. The committee established there was inadequate supply of drinking water to local workers as well as inadequate provision of protective equipment especially in the track maintenance, gantry cranes and freight departments. “The local staff suffers elements of harassment by their supervisors in the form of insults and intimidation,” stated the report. “Key employment records were not availed to ascertain compliance with the law and to verify the claims of pay differences between the local and Chinese staff.” The inquiry team also observed that in work stations situated in wildlife prone areas, workers were at high risks of attacks from wild animals due to poorly lit pathways especially at the wee hours of the night. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura said, “How do you explain that Kenyans cannot eat with their Chinese counterparts? As Kenyans, we have a responsibility of protecting our fellow Kenyans.” “Otherwise we will experience a scotch-earth policy where China will just treat us worse than the way the British colonised us.” The report further showed the suggestion boxes were under CCTV surveillance which discouraged usage by the employees. The Sakaja-led committee was also informed work permits for migrant workers were not availed to the inquiry team for verification. “Instruction materials are in Chinese language and the Chinese instructors are deficient in English and Swahili. Kenyan workers are forced to observe and cram operations of the machines without understanding what they are doing,” reads the report. But Kenya Railways Corporation managing director Atanas Maina told the committee many labour workers’ unions have been confusing the staff working for SGR. “There are competing workers’ unions purposed to damage the reputation of others. The unions claim to articulate the issues of the workers and end up confusing the SGR staff,” Maina said. Local workers told the inquiry committee their employment contracts were not clear who their employer is.