 Political machinations can be vicious and outright misleading to the
public. Take for instance the Mau eviction. As it gains steam, some crafty
fellows have unsuccessfully tried to stop the exercise by trying to brand
Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko a beneficiary of the Mau
scheme. Records in our possession however confirm that the registered owner of
the Mau parcel of land that is said to belong to him is one Tobiko
Mbuyok Kirako with a distinct Identity Card number from the CS. The
two do not share any family relations and the CS Tobiko doesn’t own any land in
any part of Narok. Just what did South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro mean when he shouted on
Thursday that it was within MPs’ right to get their share of the sugar money that
was flying in Parliament? The youthful millionaire, not known to be concerned
with peanuts, surprised journalists and some MPs when he loudly claimed that
there was no problem with the MPs getting the money that was being distributed
allegedly to shoot down the sugar report.  “What is wrong with us getting
our share? I am going,” the MP retorted when asked by journalists if he was
going for the ‘facilitation’ fee. ******** What list was that Endebess MP Robert Pukose had when MPs scrambled for
money at the new Senators’ Wing Bar on Thursday? The MP was seen marking some
sheet of papers as lawmakers lined-up for some blue envelopes before retreating
to the chamber. MPs moved in his direction suspiciously in groups and were seen
being handed the envelope which they swiftly stashed into their pockets before
happily chatting their way back to the House. Could he have anything to do with
the alleged bribery claims that rocked the House before the sugar report was
rejected? Just asking. ******** A Jubilee MP from Central Kenya was overheard claiming that President Uhuru
Kenyatta's Big Four Agenda lacked a clear implementation roadmap, raising fears
that public resources could be embezzled in the process. A mole confided in Corridors
that the lawmaker said some officials in various State agencies were angling to
steal billions to be channeled to various Big Four projects due to inadequate accountability
structures. Cartels are also said to be re-strategising how to survive under
the new tendering procedures. ******** A wealthy businessman in Nairobi’s Eastlands is wanted. Reason? He grabbed public
land in Bahati estate meant for a public toilet. The businessman has already put
up a 6-storey flat on the public land which has commercial shops at the ground
floor. The man who boasts of being untouchable must be worried after officers
from the multi-agency team leading demolitions visited the site this week. 