Two siblings who died in the Mwingi school bus accident were buried in one grave in Kitui on Saturday. The two were among 10 students of St Gabriel Primary School who perished in an accident involving their school bus the previous weekend. The bodies of Andrea Kasyoka and James Muthui were interred at Kairingu village in Mwingi West constituency in a tearful ceremony attended by MP Charles Nguna and his predecessor Bernard Kitungi. The burial ceremony was presided over by two Catholic priest, Father Dominic Kitili and Father Julius Muthamba. Parents Joseph Munyithya and Margret Kavive said it was painful to lose their children but had accepted God’s wish. They described their daughter and son as brilliant youngsters who had a bright future. Kasyoka was the school's choir leader; a cheerful and outgoing girl, who aspired to be a doctor. The school’s board of management chairman Christopher Nzili said she was among top performers excepted to shine in this year's KCPE exam. Both Nguna and Kitungi blamed the poor state of the road for the accident. The students were travelling back to school from a trip to Mombasa when tragedy struck. The accidents happened at Kanginga bridge near Mwingi town. Nguna said a contractor rehabilitating the road had left a heap on murram which was hit by the school bus resulting into a fatal plunge. “Had the murram not been there, the could probably not have happened. After the bus was hit by the lorry, it hit the murram forcing it to fly over the bridge and plunged into the river bed,” Nguna said. Kitungi said the road was too narrow for bigger vehicles like lorries and buses moving in opposite directions. He accused the contractor of poor workmanship. He asked the government to ensure the road meets construction standards. Four other victims of the crash were were also buried in their respective villages across Mwingi. Winnie Mbete was buried in Kathita village while Joy Mutanu was laid to rest at her fathers home in Kalisasi village. Mutani is the daughter of a former Mwingi Town MCA. Another victim, Stephen Mwangangi was buried in Mboru village in Mwingi township while Kennedy Matei was laid to rest at Ikuuni village in Mwingi Central.