Former National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri is fighting to have full access to his office days after his replacement following corruption charges. He was arraigned a fortnight ago before an anti-corruption court where he, Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina and 10 others denied numerous counts relating to SGR land compensation. The prosecution said the accused conspired to pay for public land that was irregularly acquired and that led to the loss of Sh222,335,000 for three parcels belonging to the Kenya Railway Corporation. Swazuri was granted Sh6 million bond or Sh3.5 million bail and Maina Sh3 million bond or Sh1.5 million bail. Read: Swazuri narrates 50-hour ordeal in EACC police cell, cites rights violations Swazuri is aggrieved by the bond terms set by chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi,who barred him from going to the NLC offices unless accompanied by a police officer. Yesterday, he appeared before the magistrate accompanied by his lawyer Tom Ojienda. He sought a review of bond terms but was directed to go back today after the prosecution said it needed more time. State counsel Lilian Obuor said the accused filed their application late on Wednesday evening. She said this raised constitutional issues, which they intend to respond to formally. Swazuri had written to Head of Public Service Francis Kinyua demanding his job back. In a four-page letter dated August 14, he launched a scathing attack on acting chairperson Abigael Mbagaya, accusing her of misinterpreting the court order. “The magistrate ordered that I should not go to my office unless accompanied by a police officer and after consulting with the ‘new management’. That order has apparently been translated by the vice-chairperson to mean that I have been suspended or interdicted,” Swazuri wrote. Yesterday, Ojienda said the court orders are not clear. He wanted the court to interpret Article 257 of the Constitution, which provides for the removal of a constitutional office holder. Others charged include NLC CEO/secretary Tom Chavangi and directors Salome Munubi, Francis Mugo, Gladys Muyanga (Ministry of Lands) and Obadiah Wainaina (surveyor). Also read: NLC split as Swazuri fights back over job Click here for
the latest political news