The US government has pledged to continue standing with families whose loved ones died in the 1998 US embassy bomb blast. Ambassador Robert Godec said his country was grateful for the heroic acts by Kenyans "who, with compassion and selflessness, took great risks to save those who had been affected". "It was a busy Friday morning when the al Qaeda-linked terror group struck, killing over 250 people and leaving over 5,000 injured," Godec said. "My wife and I witnessed the trauma and tragedy of the day but the heroism, compassion and selflessness of Kenyan people was overwhelming. They took great risks to save lives and retrieve bodies. For this, America still assures us that it stands with all of us."  US Ambassador Robert Godec with his wife at a memorial service for victims of the 1998 bomb blast in Nairobi, August 7, 2018. /EZEKIEL AMING'A He spoke at August 7th Memorial Park in Nairobi during an event to mark the 20th anniversary of the blast. Godec said he was happy to report that the two nations have stood stronger for freedom, justice and peace despite terrorists' attempts to slow them down. "They have continued attacks on humanity across the world. Although we have suffered, we shall never let them defeat us," he said.  A woman prays during the service to mark the 20th anniversary of the 1998 terror attack on the US embassy in Nairobi, August 7, 2018. /EZEKIEL AMING'A "Let us reflect on what binds us together by remaining true to our shared values of humanity and build a better brighter future for our generations." Ambassador Martin Kimani, on behalf of the Kenyan government, said the attack revealed an enemy that demands consolidated efforts - terrorism.  A wreath is seen at the memorial site of the 1998 bomb blast, August 7, 2018. /EZEKIEL AMING'A "We have since partnered with allies and friends. The will of Kenyans has manifested in increased resources and training to counter terrorists. "It is evident that the robust mechanisms the government has put in place to detect such criminal activities have seen their number reduce."  A survivor of the 1998 bomb blast follows proceedings during a memorial service in Nairobi, August 7, 2018. /EZEKIEL AMING'A He said such initiatives have even seen Kenya emerge much stronger in democracy with its religions co-existing despite efforts by terror groups to set them apart. "However,  the risk remains," Kimani noted. Also read: How bomb blast awakened Kenya to global terror threat More on this: 1998 Bomb blast: Painful memories as families pursue compensation Click here for the latest political news