Rob’s bedroom has a red bulb. How many women are seduced in here, I wonder? I walk around in the crowded space – if taking a step or two counts as walking – and take it all in. Red makes sense. It’s the colour of sexual attraction – A symbol of power and virility. It’s silly really, to imagine that I’ll get into bed with this man, red bulb and all, and not go all the way with him. He’s like a magnetic force. And my vagina is the metallic object that doesn’t stand a chance. At this point, I should probably warn you ladies, about Scorpio men. To put it plainly, their genitals rule them. Everyone has erogenous zones in different parts of their bodies - nipples, the back, the neck, etc. For a Scorpio, it’s his genitalia. If you want to make a Scorpio happy, go down on him and blow his trumpet. Look into his eyes as you do it. (Now I have males of other star signs reading this and thinking, “Hey, that works for me, too!”). Let’s just say, Scorpios feel it way, way deeper.  They have the reputation of being the sexiest sign in the zodiac and boy, do they live up to it. You may want to fight it but don’t bother. If a Scorpio wants you, you will want them back. Sex with a Scorpio is the best you’ll ever have. They are masters at it and have a sixth sense about what you want or need in bed. Nothing shocks them. This guy will make any deep, dark fantasy you’ve ever had, possible. “Can I have a T-Shirt?” I ask. He passes one to me and turns around as I change. I take my bra off. I’m not wearing any panties. I wonder if he’ll think I tossed those, too. “Do you want the light on or off?” Robert asks. “Off,” I say. I figure if the lights are out and he has no visuals, he’ll probably not try anything. How wrong I am. Darkness is no match for this nocturnal sign. They love the night, many of them having trouble sleeping or just not being tired during traditional sleeping hours. He reaches for me immediately. I assume he wants to cuddle and I go willingly into his arms. Then he starts to kiss me. As far as first kisses go, this is not particularly good, nor bad. It’s nothing passionate, nothing to throw me off. He continues for a while, and then stops. It’s like I have to make the decision to continue or not. To hell with it. Why did I come here? Why am I half naked in his bed? Why am I lying to myself? “I want you,” I say. “You want me to what?” he asks. “I want you inside me,” I respond. “Then take my clothes off,” he teases. I do so, fumbling a little. He doesn’t help at all. I touch his penis. “Oh my gosh, you’re so big!” I say (standard Samantha line, but this time, it’s so true!). “Are you complaining?” he asks. Without waiting for an answer he gets on top of me and begins to make love to me. He’s slow, gentle and it’s quite extraordinary. I scream with abandon. Three orgasms later, we doze off. For all of 15 minutes. Then he wakes me up again. The kisses this time round are passionate. And he screws me. This is not lovemaking. He takes me in different positions, spanks me, and pulls my hair back. But it’s mild. Kind of like testing the waters of what I like.