We have a thoroughly rotten system. Everything happening is because of corruption. The big guys, senior officials, know the culprits. They know who imported the bad sugar and where it was packaged. They also know how it was distributed in the market. They are just picking up small importers. They know what is really happening and if they wanted to arrest them today, they would go after them. All they are doing in claiming to fight contraband and stop corruption is sanitisation. Politics is killing the economy and destroying people's health. If anyone invested in private investigations, they would be surprised at the people behind the evils killing our economy. No one is really interested in fighting corruption in this government. Don't lie to us that government is fighting corruption. The other day, there was a ship of 40,000 tonnes of sugar that had been held for 10 months in the country, then the sugar was released to the market. When you hear people talk about corruption it's pure nonsense. Media should not waste time telling us the government or Parliament is fighting corruption. The big guys know who does what and they can act fast by stopping the importation and arresting the suspects. Parliament is a rotten institution. MPs are trying to make money. Everyone wants to make bad money. The narrative of fighting corruption has been there for 10 years. Every new government covers up for predecessors because they are all involved. It is all hogwash. Parliament has failed. Fighting corruption is just another way of cheating a gullible society. And Kenyans are gullible despite their levels of education. Money is changing hands while the common mwananchi is suffering. Most of the items we consume locally are repackaged and fake. All the institutions in charge have failed. The lives of Kenyans are at risk. Who is clean in all this mess? All these big guys? We have had Anglo leasing, Goldenberg and Ken-Ren, among others. The former Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly spoke to the Star