Residents of Kajiado on Monday blocked the Athi River/ Namanga Highway to protest the alleged handing over of Kenyan suspects to Tanzanian authorities. Problems began on Saturday when a Kenyan from Bissil town who was transporting milk across Namanga border to a market in Longido, Tanzania, was arrested. Tanzanian police ordered the man to drive to a local police station under escort, but he sped back to Kenya and stopped nine miles from Maili Tisa town. Namanga resident Uhuru Sirote, who witnessed the drama, said a Tanzanian police officer, who had been pursuing the milk trader, was beaten up by three men at Maili Tisa. The suspects and the milk dealer were arrested and handed over to authorities in Tanzania. Sirote told the Star in Namanga, the Tanzanian officer was treated at Namanga Health Centre and discharged. He said the protests were sparked by claims that one of the suspects had died in custody in Tanzania on Sunday night. Residents demanded an explanation for the detention of Kenyans in a foreign country, yet the alleged crime occurred at Maili Tisa, Sirote said. Namanga County Commissioner David Kipkemei sent Kajiado Central Deputy County Commissioner Charles Wambogo to the border town to assess the situation. He arrived back in Kenya at about 3.30pm. Wambogo said none of the suspects had been beaten to death as alleged. He said they will be given bond on Tuesday. On hearing this, the morans agreed to open the road. The DCC said the suspects will be charged in Tanzania because the crime was allegedly committed there. “Kenya is not a department of Tanzania for offenders in that country to be charged here,” Wambogo said. Earlier, motorists were held up for hours at Bissil town as morans blocked the road with boulders. They warned journalists not to take photos. Most Matatus that were heading to Nairobi from Namanga were forced to go back after waiting for more than eight hours. Police officers watched as morans took control of the road .Click here for the latest political news      