ODM leader Raila Odinga has assured Kenyans that he and others in the party will stand with former minister Ochillo Ayacko in the Migori senator race. Raila's assurance came on Wednesday, amid strong opposition by some members of the orange party. Migori Governor Okoth Obado publicly announced his support for Dalmas Otieno, arguing that the National Election Board's choice was not representative of what residents wanted. Raila said the party does not intend to take any disciplinary action against the Governor for his opposition. Obado is a life ODM member, he told the media at Orange House in Nairobi county on Wednesday, adding the party believes in democracy. “We have been seeing him in the media talking about how he will not support the candidate but nothing formal or written has been received from him to that regard," he said. He added that the county boss is free to campaign for his choice politician as "we shall campaign for our candidate”. Read: Reject Ayacko and Nairobians out to control Migori, Obado tells voters Raila dismissed claims that they imposed Ayacko on Rongo residents for the role of Member of Parliament and that this is a repeat. ODM’s National Executive Council settled for the politician after consulting its top brass. "As a party, we have consulted, soul searched and did opinion polling. The board made a recommendation then advised the committee on the candidate," Raila explained after a meeting with politicians who wanted the ticket. "Proposals were made and the party came up with Ayacko as its candidate." He also noted that the option for direct nomination is provided for in the party's constitution and in election and nomination rules. “In fact, the media should be the ones educating people on this. There is a thin line between nomination and election," he said, and urged voters to stand with Ayacko. The ODM boss said that at the meeting, party members agreed to support the candidate in the by-election on October 8. "I came here for consultations. They have given me assurance that the candidate is Ochillo Ayacko," he said, adding that the formal presentation will take place in Migori on Thursday. Five aspirants, including former Senator Ben Oluoch's son and nephew, declared their unwavering support for Ayacko and promised to join him in campaigns that will begin tomorrow. They said they will not renege and will accompany Ayacko to every part of the county and drum up support for him. The politicians are former legislators John Pesa (Migori) and Omondi Anyanga (Nyatike), Mark Okundi, Willis Okello and Eddy Oketch, who came second after the late Oluoch in the August 8, 2017 poll. Last week, eight ODM legislators from the county backed the party's decision to hand Ayacko a direct ticket. The lot led by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed (ODM director of elections) said they were satisfied with the choice, in the bid to replace the late Oluoch. The legislators promised to fully support Ayacko. More on this: Eight Migori MPs back ODM's choice of Ochillo Ayacko Click here for the latest political news  