The Kenya National Union of Teachers might find itself in isolation after primary school heads distanced themselves from the much-publicised September 1 nationwide strike. Kenya Primary School Headteachers Association (Kepsha) chairperson Shem Ndolo said yesterday they will not join any bandwagons without clear explanation why they are going on strike. “When you are talking about issues of delocalisation and appraisal, things which have been in place for the past two years, are we really genuine in our calls for strike. These are things that can be discussed on the table and resolved,” he said. Ndolo spoke during a press conference to announce the start of this year’s 14th Kepsha conference at Sheikh Zayed Centre in Nyali constituency. He said strike is one way of fighting for teachers’ rights, but if the agenda is not set well, Kepsha will outrightly oppose it. “Let them sit on the table and try to resolve the matter, if talks fail, then we might rethink our stance and support the strike,” Ndolo said. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said teachers will go on strike if the mass transfers, performance appraisals and development and promotion of teachers complaints are not addressed. Read:Primary school heads oppose Knut strike plan The Teachers Service Commission and Knut are expected to meet on August 21 to iron out some of the issues raised by the union. But Sossion warned that if the talks fail, the September 1 strike is inevitable. “If they do not listen to our demands, we shall invoke the weapon, which we have restrained to use for a very long time, and that is strike action,” he said. But it seems teachers are not ready to heed to Knut’s call and are championing dialogue between TSC and the teachers’ unions – Knut and Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet). Last Wednesday, secondary school heads also opposed the idea of a strike in third term. They said it will hurt the smooth learning in schools, including the national exams. Kenya Secondary School Headteachers Association chair Indimuli Kahi called for a structured dialogue between TSC and the two teacher’s unions. Read:Principals differ with Sossion on strike plan, root for dialogue with TSC Click here for the latest political news