Paul Muchangi will be seeking to defend his Karen Challenge Trophy title as the 11th leg of the Kenya Amateur Golf Championships (KAGC) series gets underway this weekend. The Karen event will see golfers play three rounds of 54 holes in the two-day event that starts on Saturday morning to Sunday afternoon. The Limuru Club-based golfer trounced then defending champion and club-mate John Karichu to win the title after playing level par on round three with a total of seven over 223 gross. He played three over gross 75 in the opening round, four over in the second and level par in the third and final round to claim the title. Muchangi said he will be trying his best to repeat his last year’s performance but added that it will not be a walk in the park. “I am planning to defend my title after weeks of training. I have been practicing, at least six hours a day to enhance endurance,” said Muchangi. He added that he has been playing more than 100 balls daily—both chipping and on the range—to ensure he gets the right target. “I always chip more than 100 balls on the greens, with the same on the range to sharpen his skills. At the same time, I practice for six hours a day. I go to the field at 9 am and leave at 1Pm before going for lunch break. I then return at 2 pm and end the training at 5 pm daily,” said Muchangi. Muchangi will be up against overall title defending champion Edwin Mudanyi from Vet Lab and series leader Daniel Nduva from Nyali. Mudanyi, who missed the Nyanza Open after injuring his hand, will be seeking to bounce back as he seeks to defend his overall KAGC title. “I want to play well in these championships and defend my title. Apart from playing in the Kenyan series, I will be taking part in the Uganda Open in late September in Uganda before playing Tanzania Open,” said Mudanyi. “I have had a good break. I think I needed a good break after international events (Victoria Cup and KCB Karen Masters). I played though it wasn’t supposed to be due to an injury and am good to go for the remainder of the calendar,” added Mudanyi. Other notable golfers on the course will be Vet Lab’s trio of Limuru Open champion Robinson Owiti, Coronation Trophy winner Mike Kisia, the only deaf golfer Isaac Makokha, Nyanza Open champion Samuel Njoroge (Limuru), Royal’s Dennis Saikwa, Samuel Njogu (Great Rift), George Felix (Railways), hosts Michael Ngene an d Eldoret Club chairman Andrew Chelogoi among others.