As Kenya marks 20 years after the twin
bombing of US embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salam, to survivors and
victims of the attack, it rekindles memories of pain and dashed hopes. On August 7, 1998, Ali Mwadama was
depositing cheques as pay from voiceovers at National Bank of Kenya, which was
then housed at Development House on Moi Avenue Road, opposite the embassy
building. Mwadama was 49 then, and all he remembers
is waking up in hospital. “Since that time my life has changed for the
worse. What we saw and went through is painful. You can never wish it even to
your worst enemy. But 20 years later, all we can show for it is scars of
injuries, loss of livelihood, frustrations and a series of unfulfilled
promises,” he said. Mwadama, now 69, chairs the August 7 Bomb
Blast Victims Association Kenya. The association has over 350 members,
mainly based in Nairobi. “There are other splinter associations and
there are even some victims who are not affiliated to any of us because either
they gave up or they cannot fathom the memories or they reside outside Nairobi.
That's why we can't have the exact number of all survivors and victims,” he
said. The attack left 224 people dead and over
5,000 injured, and still stands as the deadliest terror attack in Kenyan
history. Among those who perished were Evanson
Gitu's wife, who had gone to pick her visa. They had planned to travel to the
US to attend a pastor's conference. “I was to accompany my wife that morning
to the embassy. I felt lazy and couldn't prepare on time to accompany her. I
told her to just go as I rolled on my bed because I had already received my
visa. That was the last time I saw her,” Gitu, 62, said. “Her death devastated us. To this date we
have not recovered. But the memorial gives a chance to remember and make a
prayer for those who perished. She was beautiful and had just completed her
computer course diploma.” The couple had been married for 18 years.
She left him with four children, who are now all grown up. Gitu said there
over are over 300 victims who lost their loved ones at the embassy. Mwadama said both the US and Kenya have
forgotten about them. “The only time we are remembered is when the
memorial is around the corner. Promises are given but they end with silence for
a whole year for another to be made. Now for 20 years, we have lived through
false promise and hope,” he said. SEARCH FOR CLOSURE Despite having many of their members with
shattered lives, blinded, crippled and some on constant medication and unable
to fend for themselves, Mwadama said the US government has ignored their cries
for restitution. The US Agency for International
Development provided about Sh4.5 billion (USD45 million) to families of about
200 Kenyans killed or injured in the attack. “This wasn’t compensation. It was money
they wired directly to organisations like Amref, Kenya Red Cross and others,
which in turn were paying medical bills for survivors and victims of the
attack. None went towards helping them rebuild their livelihood or compensate
loss of livelihood,” Mwadama said. Even though compensation will not bring
back the lives of those who were lost, Gitu said it will help bring closure to
victims and survivors. Mwadama said some his members have metal
implants. Others have been paralysed or are suffering various disabilities,
which have hindered them from performing even simple tasks. “Above all, many are in permanent
psychological trauma. And just ignoring them beats the doctrine of humanity,”
he said. “We filed cases on the same but because we can’t afford legal fees,
some of these cases have never began or even been followed through. “I wish this time round as we remember
this day, no one will come to give us empty promises again. I call on the
Kenyan government to engage their US counterparts to make sure we are
compensated to put this issue to rest. Let it be on humanitarian grounds.” James Kiragu, the August 7 Memorial Trust
chairman, said the event reminds Kenya about its painful past. The trust runs the August 7 memorial park
that sits where the embassy used to be. It works on voluntary basis and doesn't
receive support from either the Kenya or the US government. It sustains itself
through gate tokens and some corporate donations. “The idea to create the garden is to keep
those memories alive. As well create green space, where the victims and
survivors sometime can visit to remember their loved ones, and as well find
closure,” he said. He said the trust members are offering
their expertise on the board as part of giving back to society. “Our highest moment is when we host high-level
dignitaries, and our lowest moment is when survivors confront us with issues of
compensation, whereas we have no word to tell them,” he said.