 Governors, cited by auditor general for lavish benchmarking trips abroad,
yesterday lauded Makueni’s unique public participation model as they embarked
on a local learning conference. The county chiefs who converged in Wote, Makueni were moved by Governor
Kivutha Kibwana’s development design that thoroughly espouses public views at
the grassroots. The governors who trooped to Makueni for a peer learning mission, opened up
on how Kibwana’s model of public engagement had challenged them to do more in
their counties. “The exposure we have had here is more than spending millions of taxpayers’
money in benchmarking trips abroad. This is a chance we should not squander,” noted
Vihiga governor Wilber Ottichilo. The governor implored upon his colleagues to heavily borrow a leaf from Kibwana
on how he has successfully managed to craft a model that allows villagers to
have a say in the county government’s development plan. “Devolution is really working in Makueni. It is excellent,” said the first-time governor. Some governors looked evidently impressed by Kivutha’s strategy after spending
the whole of Sunday learning how public participation works, right from the villages
to the county level. “Bravo Kibwana. Devolution is really working in Makueni. We have a lot of challenges
in public participation in our counties. From here we will public participation
in our counties a notch higher,” said Baringo governor Stanley Kiptis. Kiptis could not hide what he termed as practical challenges impeding
success of devolution in his devolved unit. “We have challenges some of because the counties are expansive. Moving
across the whole county and given the strict timeliness we have to do public participation
is a big challenge,” he told his colleagues. Kitui governor Charity Ngilu poured out glowing praises for his neighboring county
boss saying being in Makueni "is the best thing that has happened to me.” “What is happening here is really a learning experience. I have looked at
Kivutha and said ‘this is really not a politician’ because this is not how
politicians do their work,” she said. “Politicians don’t like to empower their people, he wants to, they want to
them to remain poor so that they can continue to manage and rule them,” she said. Ngilu, a former MP and ex-cabinet minister, told governors that time had come
for county bosses to rise up and fight corruption and poverty “in a more serious
way.” “We are blessed with so much resources, it doesn’t matter how much resources
we have, a little we have must go down to the people,” she said. Siaya governor Cornel Rasanga, who is serving his second term, amused
colleagues when he reminded them that after listening to Makueni’s public participation
model he had concluded that “I have been doing nothing.” “It doesn’t matter how many access roads you do, if there is no public participation
you have done nothing. I have done all that yet when you ask a resident of
Siaya who to vote for he will point out the other person,” said Rasanga. He challenged governors to ignore members of county assemblies to try to
hold them hostage for fear of impeachment telling them to deal with residents. “If Kivutha had sought to appease MCAs we could not be seeing the devolution
successes we have witnessed here,” said Rasanga. The inaugural governors peer-to-peer learning conference was organised to
help counties benchmark from each other.