Senators have rubbished claims they demanded a Sh100 million bribe from a witness, even as Public Accounts chairman Moses Kajwang admitted there were overtures to influence their work.Businessman Francis Mburu, who is at the centre of the Sh3.2 billion Ruaraka land scandal, claims four senators who sit in the oversight committee asked for a Sh100 million bribe to write a favourable report.Mburu reportedly recorded a statement at the DCI and produced an audio recording of the lawmakers — three male and one female — allegedly soliciting money from him. Read: Senators want Matiang'i, Kipsang investigated for Ruaraka land scandalSpeaking to the media at Parliament Buildings yesterday, Kajwang said the committee was approached by various individuals who had vested interests.“In parliamentary work, there is what we call lobbying, where you find all sorts of characters coming before you to try and influence you to take a certain direction. There were a lot of unsolicited advances and threats as well,” he said.But the senator denied he was among the four MPs who met Mburu at a city hotel to demand kickbacks. “I don’t want to respond to things that have no basis. The report that my committee did should speak for itself. The report established the government bought land it owned, and the report recommended that Mburu and others be investigated and prosecuted for causing massive loss of public funds,” Kajwang told the Star.Kajwang, Kiambu senator Kimani Wamatangi and their Meru counterpart Mithika Linturi are alleged to have met Mburu at  at the Grand Regency Hotel. But Linturi said corruption was fighting back and challenged Mburu to release the alleged audio to the public.“I don’t want to wrestle down with a thief...A pig thrives best in mud, so if I take that option, I will get dirty. If he has any evidence that I asked for money from him, let him take it to the DCI,” he saidWamatangi said he was not aware that Mburu had made such allegations against him.“Let me find out if he made such an allegation,” Wamatangi said.Yesterday, Kajwang called on Speaker Kenneth Lusaka to convene the Powers and Privileges Committee and invite Mburu and any member of his committee to unearth the truth about the bribery claims.“What worries me is not the unsolicited advances that members of the committee were faced with, but the threats even on our lives. We chose to stand for the truth and I’m not aware of any audio released out there,” Kajwang said.He accused Mburu of trying to arm-twist his committee and influence the authoring of the report that recommended that he be investigated over the Sh3.2 million saga.“It is not surprising that Mburu has chosen to distract attention from his alleged criminal acts,” the senator said.“We have caught their hands in the cookie jar. We shall not be intimidated or silenced by suspected thieves. Corruption fights back, but we are ready to fight to the end. Parliament shall not be cowed into silence by lords of graft who think Kenya is theirs to loot.”In the report, the committee recommended that investigations be carried out so as to prosecute individuals responsible for Sh1.5 billion payment and intention to pay a further Sh1.7 billion to the land occupied by Ruaraka High School and Drive-In Primary School.The committee recommended that investigations focus on Mburu, former Education CS Fred Matiang’i, Education PS Belio Kipsang, NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri and NLC commissioner Salome Munubi. Read: Sh3bn Ruaraka land was acquired in haste, CS Amina tells MPs in probe Click here for
the latest political news