National Assembly minority leader John Mbadi now links the numerous censure threats against government officials to an extortion scheme by some MPs. In the new extortion ring, Mbadi claimed a section of MPs quickly draft censure motions against government officials so that they are approached to drop the bid at a fee. The plot targets Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries, heads of parastatals and other top government officials whose dockets are dogged by claims of corruption. Read: MP Barasa files censure motion against CS Rotich over interest rate caps, sugar Mbadi’s revelations come days after the embarrassing admission of bribery by MPs who shot down the sugar report. Mbadi said the censure motion against Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich could be part of the extortion plans. “I want to tell Rotich, let them not be extorted. These guys are extortionists,” he told the Star. “If they [Cabinet secretaries] know they have been working properly, let them not be extorted by these MPs pretending to be moving impeachment motions and sending people to pick money from them.” The impeachment of Rotich is being pushed by Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa. Mbadi, also the ODM chairman, claimed that as some MPs draft questionable censure motions, others go behind claiming to be helping the government officials and eventually extorting them. Barasa dismissed Mbadi’s claims as baseless and maintained he will soldier on with his push to have Rotich leave office. “It is very unfortunate that is coming from leader of minority. If he is used to extorting Cabinet secretaries then he thinks everyone who comes up with such a thing want to extort them (CS),” said Barasa on phone. “Tell him [Mbadi] to read the motion and the grounds. If it is flimsy, then let him dismiss it on those flimsy grounds and not on things that are not here or there.” Details: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report Majority whip Benjamin Washiali defended Barasa over the extortion claims, stating the Kimilili MP has laid convincing grounds to push Rotich out of office. “The issue of bribery is just a way of watering down the matter as it is and we cannot allow Didmus to be bribed when farmers are suffering,” said Washiali, who confessed signing the Rotich’s ouster motion. One of the grounds Barasa wants the CS pushed out of office over includes presiding over the country’s ballooning public debt and approving the controversial Sh1.5 billion Ruaraka land payment. “This appetite for commercial loans has created pressure on government’s liquidity and ability to repay rising liabilities,” he says in the motion. National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai on Friday told the Star that his office is yet to receive Barasa’s motion, adding that collecting signatures blindly without first getting approval of the Speaker is a waste of time. “There is a clear procedure that must be strictly followed. The law is clear that the person wishing to propose an impeachment motion should bring it to the relevant office for processing and the Speaker must approve it. So far no such thing has been presented to my office,” Sialai told the Star. See also: Residents defend MP in House sugar bribes saga Click here for
the latest political news