The bribery allegations rocking Parliament took a bizarre twist yesterday when an MP said the huge bundles of cash seen in the House last Thursday were "donations for an MP’s wedding". Endebess MP Robert Pukose denied he bribed MPs to reject the report on contaminated sugar, saying the legislators seen with wads of cash were contributing to Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng’eno’s wedding. “There have been misrepresentations about the Sh10,000 we were giving. MPs were contributing to MP Ng’eno’s wedding. It is unfortunate many people were going around saying that was bribery,” Pukose told the Star yesterday in a phone interview. He said he collected Sh10,000 from 29 MPs. Although Ng'eno confirmed he has a wedding this weekend in his rural home, the Kanu MP said he could not could not vouch for all activities that go on in Parliament, especially last Thursday. “I do not know which MP did what and for what purpose. What I know is that my friends in Parliament formed a WhatsApp group and have been fundraising to support me and this has been a private exercise.They are yet to hand over their contributions and some have even pledged support in kind. Pukose, Wajir woman representative Fatuma Gedi and Pokot South MP David Pkosin all denied bribing MPs to defeat the report. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa had named Gedi as one of the legislators bribing lawmakers. The Speaker has asked the Powers and Privileges Committee to investigate the bribery allegations. Yesterday Pukose told the Star that a number of MPs keen to help Ng’eno met briefly at the House dining hall on Thursday afternoon to make donations before the debate on the sugar report began. This was the time MPs trooped to the new wing of the Parliamentary Lounge where Pukose, Pkosing and Gedi allegedly 'coordinated' rejection of the report. Read:Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report MPs allegedly received Sh10,000-Sh30,000 to shoot down the report that indicted Treasury CS Henry Rotich, his EAC counterpart Adan Mohamed and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett for allowing sugar into the country. Yesterday the three denied they handled cash said to have influenced their colleagues to reject the report. Pukose said each lawmakers was giving Sh10,000 for Ng’eno’s wedding on Saturday at Emurua Dikirr Secondary School, Transmara. “Sincerely, I gave contributions to the honourable Hillary [Kipkelion West MP] at the dining hall. I did not receive bribes and I did not give bribes for the sugar report,” he said. Pukose, a physician, said Ng’eno’s friends formed a WhatsApp group largely driven by Kalenjin MPs to help fund the wedding. “We were contributing because for us from Rift Valley, Ng'eno is one of our own,” he said. The MP turned up the heat on the Trade and Agriculture committee members whom he accused of resorting to blackmail after the sugar report was rejected on the floor of the House. “MPs who were blackmailing colleagues to support the report are the ones who have come up with the bribery claims,” Pukose said. Pkosing declined to elaborate, saying that could jeopardise investigations ordered by the Speaker. “That's a lie. I didn’t lobby members,” he told the Star in a phone interview. He added, “The main reason the report failed is that it didn’t provide sufficient reasons for members to be convinced that you can indict somebody. If you look at the reasons, it was supposed to indict three people, but members were saying 'how do you indict somebody if you didn’t give that person an opportunity to defend himself?',” Pkosing said. The Sh10,000 Pukose claimed was being contributed tor Ng’eno’s wedding was mentioned by Kimilili MP Barasa. Barasa alleged that Gedi approached him with an envelope containing Sh10,000 and tried to give him the cash so he would reject the sugar report. “Go ask the Speaker and let him play back cameras. She (Gedi) can be zoomed, you will see just what she was doing. She can then tell whether the money she was giving was to pay debts or for harambee donation,” Barasa told the Star on phone yesterday. However, Gedi yesterday convened a press conference at Parliament Buildings where she denied carrying huge amounts of money in the House last Thursday to compromise MPs. “What is Sh10,000 that cannot even buy lunch for an honourable member? I want Barasa to provide evidence and say whom I was working for,” Gedi said, adding she had already written to the Speaker to have the Kimilili MP compelled to table evidence. The Wajir county lawmaker said she is unapologetic for leading the onslaught for rejection of the report, which she called shoddy and substandard. “As the people’s representative, I have a responsibility to oppose or support any report or motion before Parliament. I did mobilise members to oppose the report and that is all I did. I have no apology to make," Gedi said. But Kieni MP Kanini Kega, who co-chaired the panel, came out guns blazing, saying opponents of the report never read the document to understand it. “They can’t be cornered as MPs and drop the report because there were reports of being compromised, and then they want to push the ball to us. It is laughable. The committee did a perfect report, it was beyond reproach,” Kega said. He added, “We came up with all the 169 people who imported sugar, the companies and the directorship and that is where the waters started beating us.” Kega, who has come under fire since the report was tabled, said forces pursuing other interests had hijacked the House and were pushing for personal objectives at the expense of an honest report. “This 6was a complicated business web. They should tell Kenyans if the question was whether there was mercury in the sugar or it was about settling business scores. That is it. Let them come out clearly," he said. As the war of words continued over bribery allegations, questions emerged on whether Parliament can actually investigate itself and identify culprits — or whether independent investigative agencies should swing into action. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has asked the assembly clerk to write to write to all MPs who have alleged bribery to appear before the powerful Powers and Privileges Committee for evidence taking. “The committee, upon evaluation of testimonies, may consider inviting competent investigatory agencies, in particular the EACC, as provided in the Leadership and Integrity Act, to conclusively handle the investigations with the view to taking necessary action against any member found culpable of this grossly unethical conduct,” Muturi said in a statement. Yesterday Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka called the Speaker's action part of a cover-up, saying Parliament cannot investigate itself when faced with monumental corruption allegations. Onyonka urged Muturi to lead from the front by allowing investigating agencies to review CCTV footage on that day as part of the prosecuting evidence, instead of going round in circles. “How can Parliament investigate itself? What happened was criminal. Money exchanged hands and agencies need to move in and investigate. People who were peddling money in Parliament must be punished,” the Ford Kenya lawmaker said. Minority leader John Mbadi asked the DCI boss George Kinoti and the EACC to move swiftly and deal with the culprits without awaiting the Speaker's invitation. Read:Muturi to MPs: Produce dossier on sugar bribery claims “Nothing stops the DCI and EACC from being seized of the matter immediately because this has become a public embarrassment and sucked in some of us who just did our work by rejecting the report,” Mbadi said. He said the Powers and Privileges Committee should look at the conduct of some House members, with the aim of taking action against those who cannot substantiate their claims. “There are people who have made wild allegations, they are trying to cover up by scandalising others. Those who say MPs were compromised should tell us who are they sothey can be punished,” the Suba South MP said. Also Read:Muturi cracks whip to cleanse committees of bribery claims Click here for the latest political news