Legislators now want the DCI and the Government Chemist to conduct their own investigations into the sugar industry and curb malpractices. This comes a day after they rejected the sugar report in Parliament. Speaking in Mombasa, the MPs appeared to differ on why the report was rejected. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter defended himself against claims he was compromised. “I’m saying facts as they are. I was not compromised. They have no capacity to compromise Keter,” he said. The vocal MP was one of those who opposed the report, saying it was sacrificing innocent people, including EAC CS Adan Mohamed, Henry Rotich (Treasury) and former CS Willy Bett. He faulted members of the joint Trade and Agriculture committee, who tabled the report on the sugar investigation. “Most of the leaders who were in that committee were coronated into those positions. They were never elected. Most lack leadership skills,” Keter said. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said the rejection of the report is not the end of the matter. “The matter should now be under the ambit of the investigative bodies of the country. Parliamentary reports are only supposed to bring out issues so that other bodies can do investigations,” he said. The MP were attending a joint retreat of the Procedure and House Rules committee, the House Business Committee and the Liaison Committee at Serena Beach Hotel on Friday. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali said Parliament on Thursday missed an opportunity to revamp the sugar industry. He said the industry has been ailing lately because many other interests have come into play. “Those who represent farmers thought that MPs will restore sanity in the sugar sector. Unfortunately, it did not happen,” Washiali said. He warned that the rejection of the report will have political ramifications for certain politicians and urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to act fast and save the situation. “The President should use his executive power to rein in on these culprits,” Washiali said. He said Parliament should now have experts included in committees to enhance their investigative capacity. “MPs are not experts. We may be proposing very soon an investigative department be introduced in Parliament,” Washiali said. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale declined to comment on the matter, only saying “it is now over”. “We have finished that matter,” the Garissa Township MP said. On Thursday, Duale said the report did not answer specific questions in the minds of Kenyans, including whether the sugar in the market contains mercury, and the names of the companies that imported. He said there were attempts by some lawmakers to use the sugar report to settle political scores and fire Cabinet secretaries without going through the impeachment procedure provided in the Constitution. “Let us use our resources to bring a substantive motion to debate the CSs and not try to impeach them through the back door. The threshold for the impeachment of a CS is so high,” Duale said.