About 100 families living in Maranjau settlement scheme in Maragua subcounty, Murang’a, are living in fear after unknown people claimed the land. The families have been living in the scheme since the 1970s but say they were never issued with title deeds despite being settled thre by the government. Jane Wanjira, 65, said residents fear losing their land after some strangers went to the area with title deeds for the land. Wanjira said last week, individuals who claimed they had a title deed for her one-acre piece visited her and told her to vacate the land as they planned to fence it. She said in 2005 the government demarcated the land for them. The then provincial administration brought land officers who registered them and gave them receipts after they paid for beacon certificates. Wanjira said the process of acquiring title deeds became difficult several years later after they discovered that the land was registered undern several private companies owned by prominent politicians and senior government officials. “When we went to the then District Commissioner’s office at Kenol to ask why our titles were taking too long, we were told to conduct a search at the lands office. That was when we found out that some other people had been issued with the deeds,” she said. Wanjira said they made all the required payments and were only waiting for the title deeds. She blamed the lands officials for frustrating their efforts to acquire ownership documents. “I have lived in this land for decades. Where do I go when they evict me, yet they have a title deed and I
have nothing?” she wondered. Her sentiments were echoed by
James Karanja who said they are living
in suspense as there are people
moving around the area marking
their farms. Karanja said the land was public
when they were settled and wondered
when the companies obtained
title deeds. “Since 2005, we have been running
up and down trying to get titles but
it has become impossible,” Karanja
said. He appealed to the government
to intervene and save their land so
they can work on their farms and
support their families. He said the residents met the
county executive in charge of lands
Sarah Masaki last year hoping to get
help but to no avail. They do not have
money to seek justice in court.
Masaki confirmed meeting the
residents, saying she is still following
up on the matter. 