A slaughterhouse worker who allegedly battered his wife pregnant brutally over misuse of Sh500 was charged with assault in an Eldoret court. When he appeared before Chief Magistrate Charles Obulutsa on Monday, Nafatali Lusuli denied assaulting Veleri Masibo. She sustained facial injuries and one of her ears was almost chopped off. Lusuli allegedly committed the offence of August 10 at Kipkaren in Eldoret town. Police asked the court not to release the suspect on cash bail because the matter is serious and had attracted public interest. Obulutsa ordered that the suspect be released on a Sh300,000 bond with a similar surerity. The case will be heard on August 20. When the magistrate asked the suspect where the victim is, he responded in Kiswahili. “Mrembo yuko kwao hapa West Indies na hata alikuja kuniona huko kwa police ndio tuelewane." (The beautiful lady is at their home in West Indies. She came to see me at the police station so that we can agree). Related: Eldoret man arrested for battering pregnant wife Read: Makueni man jailed 12 years for beating his wife The magistrate caused laughter in court when he asked the suspect why he was referring to the victim as “mrembo” after such a beating. Velerie's cousin Meshack Masibo told the magistrate she did not go to see the suspect at the police to talk over the matter but to confirm that he had been arrested. The victim was not in court. She was at her aunt’s home in the town after treatment at the Moi Referral and Teaching Hospital. Police rescued her from a house in Kipkaren estate where the suspect had locked her up. A picture of her disfigured face went viral on social media. Neighbours reported to the police when they were unable to help because the door was locked. Officers to stormed the house on Friday night and found the badly injured Velerie who is four months pregnant. She has been married to the suspect for five months. “This is the fifth time the man has attacked me viciously. This time it was so serious that I could not even see after the beating. I felt like I was just dying, but I thank God that I am alive and free from his brutality," Velerie said. "He works at the slaughterhouse and since we met, he has been so brutal to me. In the latest incident, I thought he would slaughter me." Velerie said the man she started dating in March this year, arrived home last Friday at about 6 pm drunk. He accused her of misusing the Sh500 for rent. “I still had the money, and as I tried to show it to him he refused. He pushed me to the ground and beat me with his shoe and a cooking stick. He used a sharp object to cut my ear," she said. Velerie said she opted to stay with the man when she learned that she was pregnant. The suspect escaped from the scene before police arrived. He was later arrested in the same estate. Yesterday, Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago condemned the incident. He said violence against women is unacceptable. Click here for the latest political news