The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has moved in to reconcile Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and a musician over the controversial ‘Ikamba’ song. The Kikuyu song was produced after a truck ferrying charcoal via Kitui was burnt. The truck owner was from Kiambu. Ngilu had banned charcoal burning and trade. The commission said the DPP had intervened and called for an out-of-court settlement. NCIC chief executive offi cer Hassan Mohamed said the governor will be summoned and ordered to give a public apology regarding her statements while the musician will be forced to compose another song on peaceful coexistence. “If we fail to reach an agreement then we will go back to the DPP for directions, but I hope this initiative will bear fruit as we want to promote peaceful engagements between the communities targeted,” he said. The commission has also said it is not investigating two Kikuyu musicians who composed songs crticised for ethnic hatred. The two - Kimani wa Turaco and Muigai wa Njoroge - who sang ‘hakuna deni’ and ‘clans of corruption’ respectively will now walk scot free despite public outcry over the songs. According to Mohamed, the songs did not touch on ethnic hatred but expressed a view on social disorder. Mohammed said they had keenly reviewed the songs and wording and found nothing wrong despite raising diverse opinions among the public. He spoke yesterday during a forum for journalists on hate speech at a Nakuru hotel. Mohamed said the songs expressed creativity among Kenyans, but did not amount to hate speech just as is the case with the rest of musicians the commission was investigating. “One of the songs talks about repaying a debt, but does not touch on a specific community and the other expresses a political point that does not amount to hate speech,” Mohamed said. He said the commission is investigating individuals who had redone the songs to project a particular community as the target. He said the original songs were clear, citing the NCIC Act that does not have specifications on how to deal with such opinions. “We have a common bond that we do not stifle creativity in the name of fighting hate speech, but those who have changed the songs to stereotype a particular community will be brought to book,” Mohamed said. Martha Mathenge, from UNDP, said they were working closely with the government to promote the Building Bridges Initiative spearheaded by the President and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Click here for the latest political news  