National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has been lauded for
his lead role to change the status of Common Wealth Parliamentary Association. At the moment, CPA is registered as a charity organisation
in United Kingdom and Muturi has proposed major changes which if adopted in the
ongoing conference in Gaborone, Botswana, it was see the association become an international
organisation. Speaking during the official opening ceremony at Gaborone
International Convention Centre, outgoing chairperson of the Executive
committee, African region Lindiwe Michelle described Muturi as a committed and dedicated
leader who has stayed firm in championing the changes. “Muturi has done his part and as we come close to attaining
this goal, I urge us all not to relent on our efforts. Also the region must
initiate and lead discussions on transforming the structure, operations and
processes in anticipation of the new structure,” Lindiwe told the gathering
that has brought together delegates from 19 countries. Read: Muturi decries under-staffing, lack of resources at Kenyan embassies Speaking to the Star at the sidelines of the conference, Muturi
said CPA as it is today does not serve the interest of its members as it is
registered in UK as a charity organisation that is receiving annual mandatory contributions
from African member countries. “We looked at the Constitution establishing CPA and we
discovered loopholes and legal challenges for the member states that are only
appropriating funds from taxpayers to fund a foreign entity that may not
benefit them,” he said. He added: “The association at the moment is very inflexible
because it can only operate under the Charity laws of UK while the African
countries are contributing annual fees to run its secretariat in London”. Same attempt to change CPA’s Constitution had been made in
1992 at a General Assembly in Bahamas, Nassau however, the implantation of the proposed
changes was frustrated by UK’s internal bureaucracy   and the
trend continued until last year when Muturi threatened to marshal African
member state to pull out of the association. The African countries that are members of the association include:
Kenya,Botswana ,Cameroon, Ghana ,Lesotho , Malawi, Mauritius,
Namibia,Nigeria,Rwanda,Seychelles, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Swaziland,
Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. The association initially known as the Empire Parliamentary
Association only brought together UK and its five dominions in New Zealand,
Canada, Australia and the then apartheid South Africa but in 1948, it was
changed to CPA to accommodate more British colonies that got independence CPA was formed in 1911 as a platform for exchange of ideas between the
UK and its dominions and was registered as a Charity organisation by the UK
Charity Commission on October 22, 1971. More: Muturi cracks whip to cleanse committees of bribery claims Click here for
the latest political news