President Uhuru Kenyatta must be lauded for the way he has started off in his second term. The President took the oath of office to protect the Constitution, the Kenyan people and their properties as well as their rights. I wouldn’t expect anything different from what the head of state swore. His swift actions to protect Kenyans from corrupt elements who have for many years siphoned public resources must be supported by all citizens. The President has started very well in dealing with corruption and I would want him to maintain that momentum throughout his term. Those who have stolen public property including grabbing public land must feel the heat of the President’s actions. If his decisive actions are brutal to the corrupt and land grabbers, so be it. But I wouldn’t call it brutality when dealing with people who have stolen public property. Uhuru must deal with the corrupt mercilessly and act as firmly on public officers who have made the country a dumping ground for substandard goods. Plundering public resources has been the order of the day for many years and it is high time Uhuru used all that is within his powers to bring the country back to the ethos our forefathers envisaged at independence. The mess of pilfering public resources must be dealt with firmly and ruthlessly because that is the only way we can lay a firm foundation to bequeath the next generation a country of hope. But I think President Kenyatta has slowed down in his push for a lifestyle audit for all public officers. The momentum must not be allowed to fizzle. A lifestyle audit should be carried out without fear or favour. The President is now proactive and determined to push people to take personal responsibility. If it means turning out to be a dictator even for a day to make things happen right in this country, so be it. He must clean up all the sectors and restore public confidence among Kenyans that they have a government that cares for them. The former Bureti MP and ex-Cabinet minister spoke to the Star