The battle to succeed the outgoing Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung’u has began in earnest. Sources whispered to Corridors that two senior female officers at RPP are jostling for the top job. But some members of the Political Parties’ Liaison Committee want the job taken by an outsider. Corridors has learnt that the members believe that RPP needs a new broom to bring reform and become truly independent. Ndung’u, who was the first and long-serving registrar, is set to join the the Commission on Administrative Justice, otherwise known as the Ombudsman. ***** A Principal secretary is on the spot for covering up corruption in his previous ministry. Sources told Corridors that the man, known to be a smooth operator, has been going flat out to protect the head of accounting from facing the ongoing vetting of heads of procurement and accounting. Corridors is informed that the PS has frantically been trying to reach out to a senior National Intelligence Service official to evade the vetting. Corridors will soon expose what the man is protecting. ***** It seems the ‘Tanga tanga team’ has changed tack to avoid a repeat of last month’s incident where some of its members were involved in a scuffle, allegedly because one man pocketed all the, eer... appearance fee. The hangar at Wilson Airport is no longer being used to facilitate the tours, Corridors has learnt. Members are handed their “things” at functions they attend immediately they come off the podium. And you are facilitated according to your seniority. ***** One of the unsuccessful ODM candidates for the Migori senatorial race was heard at the weekend boasting how he will bulldoze his way and contest as an independent, despite the window for defection lapsing last week. The aspirant, who is not pleased with the criteria used in handpicking Ochillo Ayacko, laughed off claims he was time-barred for defection. “This is Kenya. I will be on the ballot,” he said. ***** Are MPs justified to summon journalists over a negative story? Well, immediately the Speaker of the National Assembly ruled that People Daily journalists whose bylines were on the article in question would appear before Parliament, social media was abuzz with all manner of condemnation. Parliament, many said, was engaging in sideshows at the expense of pressing issues of national interest. One infuriated social media user concluded it was “a classic demonstration of their hypocrisy by going after the messenger”. It will be interesting to see how the drama unfolds in the coming days. We will be in the corridors — watching. Click here for the latest political news