Many people don’t know that wines make good
accompaniments to hamburgers. Sierra Burger and Wine restaurant in Nairobi is
all about pairing fine wines with gourmet burgers. We started by ordered a selection of appetisers to share.
The Swahili Mignontte oysters served with a sauce of onion, garlic, coriander,
ginger and lime were fresh and tasty. The chicken wings were made extra crispy
and the braised beef spring rolls were delectable, filled with porcini
mushrooms and black truffle cream. Other starter options are a Zucchini and
Mint Soup and a Sun-dried Tomato Caesar salad with parmesan cheese. Their burger patties are made in-house and the burger
buns are also homemade. For the main course I chose the soy-glazed Kowloon beef
burger with caramelised onions, jalapeno mayonnaise. The light seasoning
complimented the natural flavours and I really enjoyed my meal. Others in our group ordered a tender Sirloin Steak and
burgers of grilled chicken breast with coriander mayonnaise. The bacon
cheeseburger and the Ribeye steak are also popular. For vegetarians there is a
Falafel Burger made from chickpeas. Sierra uses Angus Beef which is dry-aged at their
butchery. Other meat is sourced from a single farm and they have recently
started serving Wagyu steaks from Japanese beef. Main courses come with the
option of chips, onion rings, green salad, red cabbage and coleslaw. To wash down your charcoal grilled burger Sierra Burger
and Wine has gone African, serving only wines from the continent and mostly from
top wineries in South Africa. I started off with a dry white wine, the Louise
Nel Buckleberry Sauvignon Blanc from the Western Cape region. Beef items pair well with Pinot Noir or Stellenbosch
Cabernet Sauvignon red wines. For chicken dishes the waiter recommended a
Vergelegen white wine, also from the Western Cape. Champagne or sparkling wine is
a good beverage with oysters. For those who prefer a beer with their burger,
Sierra brews a selection of their own larger. For desert we had the Sticky Toffee Pudding with caramel
sauce, and the Chocolate and Coffee Stout Cake served with salted caramel and
Belgian chocolate. Both were delicious.  LOCATION: Rivaan Centre, Muguga Green Road, Nairobi CONTACTS: 0772 776308  Star
rating: 4.5/5