Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe was arrested yesterday and arraigned before the anti-corruption court to answer to a raft of corruption-related charges. Lesiyampe was charged alongside former National Cereals and Produce Board managing director Newton Terer and former general manager, Finance, Cornel Kiprotich over irregular purchase of maize amounting to Sh5.6 billion. The officials were ordered to pay Sh3 million bail each and deposit their passports in court to secure their release. Magistrate Felix Kombo ordered the three not to set foot in their offices unless authorised by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission through writing. “The accused are equally barred from contacting witnesses and this includes making any efforts to access their offices without authority,” he ruled. Investigators accuse Lesiyampe of irregularly authorising the NCPB to buy maize using an unauthorised budget. The prosecution has listed several counts against the PS and 15 others implicated in the multibillion-shilling scandal that rocked the purchase of maize from farmers last year. See: [VIDEO] EACC arrests PS Lesiyampe, NCPB finance boss over Sh6bn maize scandal Lesiyampe, Terer, Kiprotich and others who will be arraigned in court today face charges of abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an economic crime and fraudulent acquisition of public property. They also face counts of willful failure to comply with laws and applicable procedures and guidelines relating to the management of public funds, and neglect of official duty. The prosecution said they jointly conspired to commit a corruption offence by fraudulent acquisition of public property through irregular supply of and purchase of maize at the NCPB depot in Eldoret, which led to loss of public funds. They allegedly exceeded the money allocated for the purchase of maize meant for the strategic grain reserve. They money was for the purchase of two million bags of maize for the 2017-18. EACC deputy CEO Michael Mubea had earlier in a statement said they have a solid case against 16 people after a review by DPP Noordin Haji. Other suspects include Caroline Cherono, NCPB Eldoret silo manager Renson Korir, records officer, Eldoret depot, Erick Talam, county director in charge of agriculture Joseph Kipruto Cheboi, Virginia Wamaitha, Willie Kipkoech, Celestine Chepchirchir, Victoria Jebet, Paul Kipyego, Caroline Chepchumba, Peter Chirchir and David Barng’etuny. The prosecution did not oppose Lesiyampe’s release on bail. Kombo said he also considered the gravity of the offences, public interest and the amount involved, which he termed substantial. He said they had an option of executing a Sh6 million bond and a similar surety that shall be approved by the court, if they decide not to post bail. The matter will be mentioned on September 20 Also read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Click here for the latest political news