Political heavyweights from Western Kenya are scheming how to lock out Deputy President William Ruto and Raila Odinga from the region. The region's unity drive spearheaded by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula and Cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa also aim to erase the support enjoyed by the ruling Jubilee Party. Raila has commanded the region’s support in the past two elections, beating Mudavadi and Wetang'ula in their own backyards. Read: Why Luhya unity remains elusive President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee, on the other hand, weathered an Opposition onslaught to bag eight parliamentary seats in the last election. DP Ruto has been using this success to make forays into the populous region. "We have learnt our lessons. Now we are starting early to organise our people so that we go into the next election united," said Mudavadi, who hopes to run for President in 2022. During the 15th anniversary to mark the death of former Vice President Michael Wamalwa, Mudavadi led other Western Kenya leaders in signing a resolution binding them to speak in one voice. The statement read by Vihiga governor Wilbur Ottichilo announced the formation of a joint task force that will determine the shape and direction of the nation's politics. “We are here to announce that Western region is coming together under unity of purpose that will forever change the political and economic landscape of this region and country,” they said. Apart from Mudavadi, others who signing the resolution were Senate speaker Ken Lusaka, Devolution Cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula, Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Ottichilo. Apart from the unity, the resolution is calling for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into and revival of the sugar sector. Wamalwa will present the petition to President Uhuru Kenyatta. But as Mudavadi and his group were vouching for their unity in Kitale, other leaders headed by Senator Cleophas Malala and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna described the pronouncement as a fallacy. Read: Sifuna pours cold water on Luhya unity plan “We have always been one. Those calling for unity are seeking political relevance,” said Sifuna, who ran for  Nairobi Senator seat in the last election. He accused Luhya leaders of failing to articulate the issues affecting the region and cited the contraband sugar report that was shot down in Parliament where he said only a few MPs from the region were present. “Only a handful of MPs were present. If we are serious about unity, we should have shown it in the House. Leaders from Western, who are more than 40, should have made their voices heard,” he said. Malala challenged Mudavadi and Wetang'ula to dissolve their parties if they were serious about Luhya unity. “Let the leaders in Jubilee come out of Jubilee and those in other parties fold up their parties so that we form one party. Otherwise the rest is drama,” he said. “We want genuine unity. There is an urgent need for us to unite as a community. We must not indulge in a cause in futility,” said the first-term senator. ALL-INCLUSIVE Speaker Lusaka said the unity should not be for the Luhya community alone but all the communities of Western. “If we are going to talk of Luhya unity it will be misleading. We must bring all communities on board,” he said. Wetang'ula said the region was tired of being used by others. “As the leaders of Western Kenya, we are saying enough is enough. We cannot watch the livelihoods of more than six million people in Western, Nyanza and other parts of the country destroyed,” he said. Wetang'ula said the government should act on the turn-around strategy for Mumias Sugar Company which has collapsed. Mudavadi said the government should ensure adherence to policy guidelines on sugar importation. “The government must ensure there is strict issuance and management of import permits, collection and use of data to estimate sugar deficits that must be offset through imports,” he said. Details: Luhya unity to involve everyone – Mudavadi Others who attended the event included former National Assembly speaker Kenneth Marende, Budalang'i MP Raphael Wanjala, Sirisia MP John Waluke and Busia senator Amos Wako. Wetang'ula, Mudavadi and Wamalwa have previously been engaged in supremacy battles but of late they have been holding court to close ranks. They have held a series of meetings in Nairobi and in Bungoma to cement their unity push. On July 23, Wamalwa met Wetang'ula at a meeting organised by the Bukusu Council of Elders and a section of the clergy in Bungoma and buried the hatchet in a declaration. Wetang'ula and Wamalwa had not seen eye to eye since they fell out bitterly in 2003 in the elections to take over leadership of Ford Kenya after the death of former Vice President Kijana Wamalwa. The party split into two, giving birth to the splinter New Ford Kenya with Eugene Wamalwa, Soita Shitanda and other disenchanted leaders. New Ford Kenya later entered a coalition with UDF and supported Musalia Mudavadi for President in the 2013 General Elections, while Ford Kenya joined Cord to support Raila Odinga. New Ford Kenya merged with Jubilee in 2016 and was subsequently dissolved. On August 16, Musalia, Wetang’ula and Eugene met over breakfast at Nairobi’s Serena Hotel where they announced their resolve to continue working together for the Luhya community’s interests and unity. More: Weta, Mudavadi ‘unfit to spearhead Luhya unity’ See also: Luhya unity quest key for 2022 bid, Raila's time over - Wetang'ula Click here for the latest political news