City Hall on Wednesday demolished private clinics, chemists, and laboratories near Mama Lucy Kibaki hospital. This came just days after the management of the hospital complained about the mushrooming private facilities around its premises. The hospitals' administration on August 2 wrote to the county government to withdraw the facilities' licences. Governor Mike Sonko had promised to shut all chemists outside county hospitals after the government distributes medicine to the facilities. Read: Sonko to close chemists near county hospitals, set up breastfeeding stations The argument was that said businesses were tarnishing the name of the hospital and interfering with its operations. County bulldozers descended on the more than 30 medical premises situated opposite the hospital. The distraught owners claimed they lost items worth millions of shillings in the early morning ‘ambush’. The lot further accused the county government of not notifying them of the impending demolitions. They lamented the action saying their facilities were licensed by both the pharmacies and poisons board and the county government. "The board physically inspected our premises before giving us the documents legalising our operations. Why is the county unfair to us?" Carolione Omwaya, who owns a chemist, protested. Records show more than 1,200 patients seek medical services at Mama Lucy hospital in a day. However, the facility has been grappling with challenges including shortages of drugs and staff. On the shortage of drugs, there are claims that the sprawling private chemists are owned doctors working at the hospital. It is claimed that they channel the drugs to the pharmacies where they then refer the patients. It is also alleged that the doctors also refer the patients to their private clinics for laboratory tests. The owners of the razed entities refuted the claims, and instead blamed the management of the facility for not restocking the hospital. "If a patient goes to the hospital and does not get drugs, where else should he or she go if not in the private facility?" an affected proprietor asked. Click here for the latest political news  