Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa and Wajir woman representative Fatuma Gedi almost got physical in the precincts of Parliament over allegations of bribery in the unending sugar saga. Barasa had just finished addressing the media when he walked into an elaborate trap laid for him in the corridors of Parliament. Well, were it not for the security officials, the altercation between the two first-timers would have snowballed out of hand. Barasa has claimed Gedi was a conduit for the alleged Sh10,000-30,000 bribes for MPs that resulted in the rejection of the sugar report on the floor of the House last week. Will National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi’s decision to involve the Powers and Privileges committee to probe bribery claims yield any fruit? Well, the Speaker who is on a weeklong visit to Botswana on official duty had indicated the committee could start sittings today to take evidence from MPs alleging bribery. However, while the Muturi asked the clerk to write to all MPs who claimed there was bribery so they can appear before the committee, some of them were overheard saying how they would not attend the sittings. “That is just a waste of time,” said one of the MPs as he strutted along the corridors of Parliament. Is it time the CCTV cameras and the National Intelligence Service officers in Parliament helped to unravel the mystery? So, is the Speaker engaging in a futile exercise or is it part of a deliberate coverup? Only time will tell. The speaker of a county assembly has come under sharp criticism from a section of residents who claim he is often spotted in the media articulating issues instead of pushing their interests on the floor of the house. Well, a prolonged heated debate erupted in one of the social media forums where some locals castigated the speaker for attending numerous TV and radio interviews, instead of doing his work. “These leaders are always heard and seen on TV and radio shows, but you will never see them on the ground working for the people,” said one of the residents. Tongues in the police service have been left wagging. During a meeting of top security chiefs convened by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, a top Jubilee politician went around greeting everybody save for Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Word has it that the senior politician has a bone to pick with the vocal CS. Corridors has learnt that Matiang’i’s statement about contraband sugar laced with mercury made the politician furious and he swore that one day he would hit back. The rude treatment sent Matiang’i dashing to his godfathers to seek protection. Apparently having been assured of his security, the CS has been chest-thumping at every opportunity he gets that he won’t be intimidated. Click here for the latest political news