The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority has declared publicly for the first time that it owns the plot occupied by Deputy President William Ruto's Weston Hotel. This deepens the question of whether the hotel will survive the roaring excavators that have seen multi-million buildings get flattened in Nairobi. KCAA was responding to a campaign started on Monday by economist David Ndii who tweeted asking President Uhuru Kenyatta to demolish the hotel. He attached an exclusive story from the Star in June 2015 detailing how Ruto acquired the land. Career diplomats unhappy Disquiet has rocked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as political appointees take over as Kenyan envoys with career diplomats almost completely overlooked since Jubilee rode to power in 2013. The Star has established that only five career diplomats have been posted as Ambassadors in six years in what insiders now claim has sank Kenyan diplomatic influence. President Uhuru Kenyatta has been dishing out ambassadorial jobs to political losers, retired state officers and failed civil servants. Hospital seeks court's help The Nairobi West Hospital is embroiled in a legal tussle with a family that has refused to accept the discharge of a patient suffering from a neurological disease. Documents filed in court show that Grace Munyao continues to be hospitalized despite both her consultant Dr Amayo and Nairobi West doctors having recommended her discharge for home base care. Her husband, Joseph Kariha has refused to accept the said discharge and receive her for home base care. As a result, the medical bill continues to accrue exceeding Sh21 million. India-Kenya Relations As we celebrate the 72nd anniversary of India’s Independence today, we are also celebrating a bilateral landmark – the Indian Mission in Nairobi marks 70 years this month. It was in August 1948 that Apa Saheb Pant, appointed by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru as India’s Commissioner General to the then British East African Protectorate, arrived by ship in Kenya and opened a resident mission in Nairobi. Indian High Commissioner to Kenya Suchitra Durai looks at this history of trade, business and the colonial legacy have resulted in many Hindi words becoming part of the Swahili vocabulary: Duka, pesa, chapati, samosa, kachumbari. Small relief for motorists Kenyans will pay more for petrol and less for diesel and kerosene from midnight until mid next month. The Energy Regulatory Commission announced on Tuesday that the cost of a litre of petrol will go up by Sh1.53 to cost Sh113.73 in Nairobi. The price of diesel will reduce by Sh0.51 to Sh102.74 while that of kerosene will go down by Sh0.78 to Sh84.95 in the city. Your Weather NAIROBI: Morning clouds followed by afternoon sun. Low 10ºC. High 23ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning and night showers. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. KISUMU: Generally clear during the day. Partly cloudy at night. Low 18ºC. High 30ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for the latest political news