DP William Ruto has called on ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to support his 2022 presidential bid. Ruto said his friendship with Mudavadi dates back to their days in ODM, saying it was time they joined forces once again. The DP told Mudavadi to back him since he was just a step away from the top seat. “We agreed in 2007 that Raila Odinga would become President, my brother Mudavadi was to be the Vice President and I was to be of Prime Minister," Ruto said. “But because of what happened, we finally got the position of Prime Minister which was to be mine but went to Odinga while the slot of deputy Prime Minister went to Mudavadi. I got nothing but was taken to Hague,” he added. Read: DP Ruto intensifies 2022 campaign in drives disguised as official duties Ruto said Raila and Mudavadi abandoned him to fight for his survival at the ICC instead of standing with him as he faced charges at the court over the 2007/8 post election violence. “I prayed to God over the ICC issue and was finally vindicated and this is why we are where we are today. This is why I ask my brothers to support me now that I'm just one step away," Ruto said. He was spoke on Saturday at Mwangaza Secondary School in Kakamega during a thanksgiving ceremony for Lurambi MP Titus Khamala. "I ask you (wananchi) to beseech my two brothers (Raila and Mudavadi) that because I left [Prime Minister's] seat for them, there is no problem if they leave [the presidency] for me since I'm just a step away. And I'm not forcing but asking politely," Ruto said. He went on: “Even in the Book of Matthew 7:7, the Bible says ‘ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and the door will be opened." It, however, remains to be seen if Mudavadi will heed the call and abandon his ambition for the sake of his 'brother'. Mudavadi has already declared that he will be on the ballot in 2022 since he equally sacrificed his ambition and supported President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2002 and Raila in 2007 and 2017. Read: I'll be on the ballot in 2022, Mudavadi says Read also: I will not be party to unity government, Musalia says Those present during the event included Mudavadi, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Governor Wilber Otichilo (Vihiga), Senator Moses Wetangula (Bungoma), MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and former Senator Bonny Khalwale. At the same time, Ruto said the government was ready to work with Parliament to establish whether or not the sugar imported into the country was fit for human consumption. “We will work with Parliament to ensure sugar imported into the country is safe for Kenyans,” Ruto. He wondered why the Parliamentary joint Committee on Trade and Agriculture was quick to compile a report demanding action on two Cabinet Secretaries instead of calling for action against those who imported the sugar. MPs voted to reject the report last week saying it was shoddy and hellbent on witch hunting. Ruto said the government was committed to addressing the challenges facing the Mumias sugar factory with a view to transforming the lives of cane farmers in the sugabelt region. “We have asked the management of Mumias to come up with a turnaround plan for the factory. We have already injected Sh1.4 billion to facilitate operations but we are ready to do more to improve service delivery of cane farmers," Ruto said. More: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report See: Gedi admits lobbying MPs to reject sugar report, wants Barasa punished Click here for the latest political news