EACC detective Gideon Rukaria's testimony in the trial of the Anglo leasing suspects was on Monday cut short after he tabled evidence yet to be shared with the defence. Rukaria had presented documentary material - including two voluminous files, a flash disk, and two compact discs, as received from the Swiss authorities in February. Also read: Anglo Leasing case moved over evidence But defence lawyers led by senior counsel Ahmednasir Abdullahi said the prosecution was relying on documents that their team had not been furnished with. Rukaria had told the court that he had received two cartons containing 12 files for 18 cases under investigations. The items tabled by Gikaria had been sent to Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission deputy CEO Michael Mubea from the Attorney General's office. "It would only be proper if the documents were given to us in hard copy and this can happen before we come back for the next hearing," the senior counsel said. Gikaria was stood down to allow the prosecution to furnish the defence with the documentary material in question. Mubea, who was the other witness, told the court that his sole duty was to receive evidence on behalf of the commission and seek mutual legal assistance. He said he wasn't involved in the probe. "I did play a role in receiving international evidence procured through MLA," Mubea said in his brief testimony. Mubea said he received a flash-disk but he'd go into it to examine its contents. Also read: Audit showed Anglo Leasing tender was fraud, says Kinyua More on this: No cash lost in Anglo Leasing deal, Kinyua testifies in court Ahmednasir complained that the deputy DPP Nicholas Mutuku only availed one witness who received but never read the evidence, concerning Infotalent, but were never involved in analysing the same. Rukaria said he only sorted files according to their relevance to specific cases and sent them to officers investigating each case. "On perusal, I found documents relevant to particular cases - distinct to each other and forwarded the same to officers investigating in the cases," Rukaria said. Ahmednasir was of the opinion that Rukaria was not well placed to testify on such matter because he lacked the grasp of the evidence he was giving having not had familiarised himself with the documents. "We want the investigator who handled the Infotalent file to be brought to court so that we can cross-examine him," Ahmednasir said. Senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku directed that the defence be supplied with copies of the documents as marked and presented by Rukaria before the hearing resumes on Thursday. In the case, Rashmi Kamani, Deepak Kamani, Joseph Magari and David Onyonka among others are facing charges of abuse of office and conspiracy to defraud the government. Click here for the latest political news 