Labour CS Ukur Yattani has asked parents to take up their parenting role rather than relegating it to other people. The CS said it is worrying when children from well-off families become a problem in the country just because their parents don't take their parenting roles seriously. He was speaking on Wednesday during the official opening of the International Conference on Child Protection at Daystar University. The theme for this year's conference is "From vulnerability to resilience innovation and evidence". "It is okay to see orphans and other poor children on the streets but when we see those from rich homes, as a society we should become worried. It is a high time parents take up their roles rather than leaving it to other parties especially teachers in schools. As a government we are putting a lot of resources in place to ensure each child is well protected and brought up," the CS said. Yattani's call comes in the wake of school unrest and fires across the country. He promised to tackle the problem of child trafficking and violation of child rights in the country, saying that continued discrimination, stigma and degraded life chances faced by vulnerable children and consequent maltreatment leads to failure in guaranteeing that they are fully contributed to economic development to their full potential despite their resilience. According to WHO and ILO, around 500,000 million to 1.5 billion children are experiencing violence annually, 150 million girls and 73 million boys are raped or subjected to sexual violence. In addition, 115 million children are engaged in extremely harmful forms of work. The CS called on countries globally to respond with speed to mitigate the current complex circumstances that not only include climate change, unmitigated conflict-induced migration and uncontrolled urbanisation that expose children to vulnerability. He, however, called on the children to come out and articulate their own issues through the various channels available to them because it is only the 'wearer of the shoe that knows where it hurts'. Click here for the latest political news