North Rift maize farmers have snubbed the fresh vetting meant to establish those to get the Sh1.4 billion released by Treasury. Yesterday, they stormed out of the Eldoret NCPB depot after they were given forms to fill. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa had directed that the farmers be vetted afresh from yesterday. The exercise was to take place at 24 depots. Instead, the farmers demanded their payments. They threatened to hold demos if they are not paid by next week. Moiben MP Sila Tiren, Kenya Farmers’ Association director Kipkorior Menjo and other representatives were present. “The government has our details. What we want is the payment. Already, Sh7 Billion was paid by the NCPB. They should use the same details to pay what is remaining,” Joseph Ngetich said. Read: State to vet maize farmers afresh before paying Sh1.4bn Tiren said the farmers had been “frustrated enough” and urged the government to use the data it has to clear their dues. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the National Intelligence Service and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission have deployed officers to vet the farmers. CS Wamalwa made the request. The government said the move would help prevent corruption and ensure brokers and traders who delivered maize to the board do not get the cash. It targets more than 3,500 farmers. The farmers are required to identify themselves and prove they produced the maize delivered to the NCPB. The batch is part of the Sh3.5 billion owed to them since December last year. Governor Jackson Mandago yesterday said they are ready to identify genuine farmers so they are paid “as quickly as possible to further delays”. “The farmers are tired and frustrated. They should not be exposed to further frustrations through vetting. Let those known to be genuine be paid,” he said. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan said they will fully implement the government directive on vetting and payments. He warned against disruption of the process. Menjo said, “Farmers have been left in a state of surprise because they thought the payments would finally be made. It seems it will take more time.” Last week, Wamalwa said the Devolution ministry had taken over the management of the Strategic Food Reserve Fund. He said they consulted the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Treasury to establish the status of the payment to maize farmers. “Complaints were raised over payments made to maize farmers for the 2017-18 crop seas. There were allegations the payment may have disadvantaged genuine farmers,” Wamalwa said. He said the government was committed to clearing tge debt owed to vetted and verified maize farmers “as soon as possible to alleviate their suffering”. Eighteen traders were paid Sh1.9 billion at the expense of genuine farmers whose payments were delayed. The EACC is investigating. More: MPesa records, social media details ordered for procurement officers' vetting Click here for
the latest political news