Part of a flat at Caribbean Park apartments and several walls in Kileleshwa estate were yesterday demolished on the second day of the crackdown on structures close to the banks of Nairobi River. The entire apartment was to be pulled down but the authorities spared it following pleas by the management to give it three months to remove their belongings and bring it down itself. Two swimming pools were also destroyed in the apartment block. But even as the demolitions continued yesterday, the landlords of the apartments whose walls were knocked down on the first day on Monday, started erecting temporary walls to protect their houses. They were however unlucky as the iron-sheet walls were again pulled down. The walls of Taj apartment that was constructed right in the middle of the river was among those that were pulled down. Pleas by tenants and landlands to the Nema officials carrying out the demolitions to spare the structures fell on deaf ears. They watched from a distance as structures were reduced to rubble. The exercise was carried out under tight security by armed police officers. “This wall holds the stability of this estate, if you bring it down, the entire apartment will be unsustainable and it will be rendered useless,” said a caretaker who sought anonymity. Chief Julius Wanjau, who is in charge of the operations, said they would bring down more buildings located on the upper part of the estate. They will then move to Langata Road to pull down a five-storey building opposite T-Mall.  The demolitions to clear structures standing on wetlands in Nairobi are aimed at reclaiming the Nairobi River. The waterway has for years been polluted by dumping and encroachment by private developers. The demolition exercise is being carried out by the multi-agency Nairobi River regeneration task force appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta last December. According to Wanjau, about 4,000 buildings are targeted in the exercise that is expected to take two months. Both Nema and City Hall have however declined to release the list of the targeted buildings or the names of the owners. Yesterday, Lands executive Charles Kerich referred us to Nema, saying it is the lead agency in the operations. But Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu did not respond to our phone calls. County Environment director Njoki Muriuki said she was not authorised to speak as the exercise was being carried out by a multi-agency team. Environment executive Larry Wambua said that though the exercise was not entirely a county affair, the devolved unit was in its full support to protect the Nairobi River and its branches.  Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati visited the site yesterday and pledged support of the exercise. “I am here to give moral support to this team. In fact I will send my youth here to help the do this work. We have to conserve our water sources,” he said.