People who own televisions are six percent less likely to have sex in any given week, new research suggests. According to University of Delaware scientists, people around the world are showing 'willingness to substitute electronic companionship for human companionship'. The researchers, who add that the six percent reduction is likely a 'conservative estimate', claim 'television is associated with sex life morbidity' but add that smartphones may be 'the real sex-life killer'. The study, which analysed nearly four million people from 80 countries, follows research that found the average person had sex just three times a month in 2010, compared to five in 1990. This research's author, who singled out the popular HBO series Game of Thrones as a culprit, argued TV used to 'close down at 10.30pm' with couples have 'nothing else to do'. 'Smartphones might be the real sex-life killer' The University of Delaware researchers analysed millions of people across five continents. Speaking of the likely role of smartphones, they wrote: 'More recently, popular culture has claimed that smartphones are killing peoples sex lives. "Our study population resides in low- and middle-income countries and were surveyed largely around 2010, before the widespread availability of smartphones. "In countries with ubiquitous smartphones, the smartphone might be the real sex-life killer." The results further suggest income, age or level of education do not influence how much sex a TV owner has. The findings were published in the National Bureau of Economic Research. 'Even power cuts help' In the US, adults spend more than 11 hours a day interacting with media, whether that be via watching, reading or listening, according to the market-research group Nielsen. This is an increase of one hour and 32 minutes from 2014. In the UK, electricity and internet use peaks between 10 and 11pm, which could be when people are streaming their favourite box sets. David Spiegelhalter, from Cambridge University, told the Daily Telegraph: "The point is this massive connectivity, the constant checking of our phones compared to just a few years ago when TV closed down at 10:30pm and there was nothing else to do." "Even power cuts help. Now people are having less sex." What are the health benefits of sex? From burning calories to boosting the immune system and even fighting the signs of ageing, numerous studies suggest regular love making seriously boosts a person's well-being. According to the California-based obstetrician-gynaecologist Dr Sherry Ross, having sex for just under 25 minutes causes a woman to burn around 69 calories, particularly if they are on top, in a squat position or achieve orgasm. Having a healthy sex life also boosts a person's immune system due to them producing higher levels of antibodies, she adds. In addition, contracting genital muscles can reduce the discomfort of menstrual cramps, headaches and joint pain, Dr Ross claims, who even recommends women schedule an orgasm for when their periods are due. Click here for the latest political news