The renewed war on corruption yesterday received a major boost after the UK agreed to repatriate proceeds of crime stashed offshore within its jurisdiction. President Uhuru Kenyatta and the visiting UK Prime Minister Theresa May witnessed the signing of a deal on the framework for the return of assets from proceeds of corruption and crime. The two held a joint press conference at State House, Nairobi. The UK becomes the third international partner — after Switzerland and New Jersey — to support Kenya’s war on graft through asserts and cash repatriation. PM May said the UK will support the government’s anti-corruption efforts to promote socioeconomic development. She assured Kenya of continued access to the UK markets through the current duty-free arrangement even after it leaves the European Union on March 29 next year. “We welcome your commitment and drive to fight corruption. We stand with you. Whatever is held in the UK will be returned to build Kenya,” May said. She said Kenya and UK’s trade and investment partnership will improve in the post-Brexit era. Uhuru said there was no turning back on the crackdown. He reiterated that the sustained drive is part of his legacy — the others are the Big Four agenda on affordable housing, universal healthcare, manufacturing, and food security. He said corruption must be made painful and less rewarding as a deterrent measure. Uhuru said he is looking forward to more investment from traditional and new partners. “We are not going out there with a begging bowl, but to partner with those who are willing to come along with us,” he said. The Head of State said Kenya firmly believes in multilateral business dealings with all parties across the globe. “Kenya has an attractive business and trade environment for both local and foreign investments,” Uhuru said. He thanked the UK for accepting to participate in the Blue Economy Conference scheduled for November by committing to contribute about Sh35 million. The event will be in Nairobi. Read:Uhuru stumbles on Boris Johnson's name, calls him 'the Bicycle guy'  Click here for the latest political news