Deputy President William Ruto has asked leaders to engage in politics that is anchored on development. He said for a long time, "Kenya’s politics had been informed by hate and tribalism which impedes economic growth". Ruto spoke in Meru on Saturday during the tour of the county where he launched various development projects. "We must fine-tune our way of doing politics. No politics can succeed unless it is embedded with the empowerment of the people." He spoke during the commissioning of the 50,000-cubic metres Thangatha Dam in Tigania East constituency. The dam is expected to be completed after six months and will cost Sh39 million. Once done, the project is expected to serve over 150,000 people. "This is the kind of work Kenyans expect from their leaders. We are glad the foundation laid by Jubilee Party in 2013 to end the old-fashioned politics is gradually being embraced," he added. He lauded Kenyans for rallying behind the government, noting that by working together, the country stands to make strides economically. Ruto observed that another dam would be constructed in Ura "so as to bring the perpetual water shortage in Meru to a stop". "The provision of clean drinking water to all Kenyans has been the crux of the government. It is through having a healthy people that the attainment of the Big Four agenda is made easy," the Deputy President said. As part of the countywide tour, Ruto also launched a Sh1.2 billion Maua Water Supply Distribution and Sewerage plant in Maua town. He added that power connection in the region would be intensified this financial year with at least 130,000 households expected to benefit from the project. The DP observed that Kenya has moved from the old days when development projects would be launched in regions based on their political inclinations. Ruto said that the government would help miraa and tea farmers in Meru to add value to their produces so as to increase job opportunities and boost income. "We have also set aside Sh300 million for the construction of a modern stadium in Maua." Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui, his Public Service counterpart Margaret Kobia, Senate deputy speaker Kithure Kindiki accompanied the DP. MPs John Paul Mwirigi (Igembe South), Katherine Murungi (Imenti South), Rahim Dawood (North Imenti), Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East), John Mutunga (Tigania West), and Charity Kathambi Chepkwony (Njoro) were also present. Kithure, who is also the Tharaka Nithi Senator, said the Deputy President’s hunger for a more transformed Kenya was testimony enough that he is the best presidential choice in 2022. Also read: DP Ruto denies owning a chopper, says he borrows from Moses Kuria Click here for the latest political news  