The government has been urged to stop evictions especially in slums in Nairobi until proper measures to resettle those affected are put in place. Residents affected by the evictions and demolitions held a peaceful protest in Nairobi yesterday. They gathered at Freedom Corner in Uhuru Park before marching through Kenyatta Avenue to the Transport and Infrastructure ministry head offices in Community area. The protesters presented their petition, which outlined several proposals on how the government should go about the evictions. The petition was presented by Ezekiel Rema, the president of Muungano wa Wanavijiji. They urged the government to desist from criminalising informal settlements, saying they are an integral part of the city. Housing secretary Patrick Bucha said, “We have had talks with some of the leaders of the people affected and I have disclosed to them the steps the government will take to ensure that all the proposals contained in the petition will be addressed.” The petition states the government should fast-track plans to build 200,000 social housing units for the urban poor. The residents want those evicted to be the first beneficiaries of these houses. They said they are willing to provide the government with the names and other relevant information of those affected. The Judiciary has also been asked to fast-track cases involving relocation and compensation of informal settlement dwellers to stop suffering and loss of livelihoods. The residents said they are worried about the rapid pace at which eviction notices are being issued. According to the petition, the eviction notices largely target areas that have been scheduled for Urban Regeneration and the Big Four housing programme. It says recent evictions have been driven by state agencies, including the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, the Kenya National Highways Authority and Kenya Power. “This is in contravention with the Land Laws Amendment Act that gives the mandate of issuing notices of forced evictions to the National Land Commission, given most informal settlements are on public land,” the petition reads. Speaking to the Star, most residents said they are not against development or the Big Four agenda but they want the government to come up with a settlement plan. A big number of the protesters were from Kibera, where about 30,000 people were affected by the last month’s evictions. “Our children are out in the streets with no shelter,” Kibera resident Winnie Njeri said. The protesters said demolition of schools and other informal education centres has hurt children’s right to education.