 President Uhuru Kenyatta has lamented the Saturday night
Mwingi accident that killed 10 pupils from St Gabriel Boarding Primary School
was caused by human error. “It is sad and unfortunate that we lost such precious lives whose
dreams and vision were cut short by human error,” he said yesterday. Uhuru said the tragedy could have been avoided had had all parties adhered to traffic regulations and
laws. The remarks were contained in Uhuru’s message of condolence read out to mourners by the  Education CS Amina  Mohamed during a requiem mass for the 10 school children who died. The event was held at St Joseph’s Seminary in Kitui county.
The mass was presided over by Catholic Archbishop of Nyeri Antony Muheria who is the apostolic administrator of the Kitui diocese. “It is with a heavy heart and deep sense of loss that I send you this message of condolence and
encouragement following the loss of 
children in a road accident,” the President said. He urged teachers and guardians to be vigilant and ensure the safety of children. “It is better to be
safe than sorry. It is better to be late
by one day  than to lose  precious lives,”  noted the president Kenyatta wished quick recovery for  the h pupils who were still hospitalized following  the 
accident  so that  they could heal and continue  with 
their studies. Amina was accompanied by her 
foreign affairs  colleague Monicah
Juma and  he  Principal 
Secretary Belio Kipsang. She  announced 
that  her  ministry 
would  give each of  the 
families  that  lost a child in the accidents Sh. 100,000
towards burial expenses. Other who had
attended the  mass  were 
wiper leader  and former  VP Kalonzo Musyoka,  Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu former Kitui
Senator  David  Musila and his  successor Enoch Wambua  as well as  as   former presidential candidate Mr. Kaluyu and
a number od MPs. Kalonzo   whose sentiments
were  echoed  by Musila and a number of local MPs
lamented  the  deplorable state  of   roads 
in Kitui county  a factor he
said  contributed  the  
accident. He  called  for fast tracking  of  the
Kibwezi-Kitui-Mwingi road saying  had it  been completed the night accident could  not have happened  as the children who were returning to Mwingi
from and educational tour would have arrived before  sunset. Ngilu  said it
was  not time to apportion  blame but to moarn the departed souls.She
said  her administration would sponsor
the erection of a commemorative plague at 
the  kanginga bridge in memory
of  the 10 school children who died in
the accidents. The  for Mwingi  west  and central 
Mressrs  Charles Nguna and  Gedion Mulyungi  respectively where the accident took place  blamed the 
contactor  who is rehabilitating
the Thika-Mwingi road  for  having contributed  to the accident by leaving a heap of marram
of  the side of the road.  The  said  the 
school  bus rammed into the heap
before flying across the Kanginga bridge and landing into the  river bed. Ends…….