Kenya won five gold medals as the 2018 Africa Senior Championships ended in Asaba, Nigeria last evening. Samuel Gathimba retained his title in the 20km men’s walk with seven-time women’s champion Grace Wanjiru settling for silver. Next in line was world record holder Beatrice Chepkoech who brought home World u20 and Africa Olympic Games champion Fancy Cherono to a clean sweep in the 3,000m steeplechase final. Elijah Manangoi confirmed he is the true championship runner now and in the future as he led training mate Timothy Cheruiyot homein a 1-2 finish in the 1500m final. Zakayo Pingua added the senior men’s 5000m title to his world u18 and World U-18 titles. As the track hosted a packed up schedule, former world javelin champion Julius Yego delivered the gold medal in his specialty. The 4x400m women’s team settled for bronze behind the hosts with their male counterparts closing the day with another hoisting of the flag. In women’s 3,000m SC Chepkoech clocked 8:59.88 to win the race with Chespol ( 9:09.61 ) and Cherono third in 9:23.92. The trio observed that theirs was a perfectly executed game plan which work as per plan. “We had promised Kenyans that we would deliver and we are happy we did it,” said Chepkoech. “We had planned very well and my focus now shifts to the Continental Cup.” “It is my hope that the performances of this season will open the door for better things in the future with the World Championships and the Olympics Games just around the corner.” Cherono said her immediate target is confirming her supremacy to the world at the Olympic Youth Games in Argentina next month. “I am very happy with my bronze medal. I will now go to Argentina and fight to add the Olympic Games title in September,” she said. Gathimba clocked 1:25:14 hours to win the race ahead of South Africa’s Lebobgang Shange ( 1:25:25 ) and Tunisia’s Hassanina Sebei ( 1:25:25 ) “I am very happy with my performance today and more so to deliver a medal,” said the Commonwealth Games bronze medallist. “The race is not such a favourite but I have made it my task to ensure it is embraced just like the rest of the events. It is such a technical event with so many challenges but I have decided that I am not going to give up.” Wanjiru said she missed the company of teammate Emily Ngii who was admitted in hospital for two days with stomach problems and was only discharged hours after race. “If we were the two of us, we would have done better. I missed Ngii in the race,” said Wanjiru.  Ngii was gutted as she remarked: “I feel very bad for missing out on the race,” said Ngii.