The implementation of the emotive Truth, Justice and Reconciliation report yesterday threatened to worsen the infighting in Jubilee
after Leader of Majority Aden Duale called for its adoption. Duale, the leader of government business in
the National Assembly, asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader
Raila Odinga to ensure the report is implemented. “I saw Raila was trying to evade the TJRC issue, we must
deal with the TJRC issue now. The Yusufu Haji and Adams Oloo should not look
anywhere. Come and pick the TJRC report because you don’t need any scheme of
work other than the report. Pick the report and implement it,” Duale said. Read: Go after the big fish in Mau evictions, Duale tells government The Garissa Township MP, a key ally of the Deputy
president William Ruto, spoke on the Floor of Parliament during a stormy debate
on logging activities in Kenya. Haji and Oloo co-chair a 14-member taskforce on
Building Bridges, an initiative established to spearhead the nine-point
following the March 9 handshake. The panel is expected to receive proposals from Kenyans
on how to tackle the country’s historical challenges in a move to unify the
country. But Duale’s remarks in support of the report, which
was tabled in Parliament in 2013, could fuel further suspicion and mischief within the ruling
alliance. This is because, while President Uhuru and Deputy
President William Ruto’s last presidential campaigns were premised on
anti-TJRC rhetoric, Raila and his opposition brigade had been rooting for its
implementation. Duale’s sudden push for the implementation of the
controversial report lifted the lid on the ongoing silent war inside the
Jubilee administration that now stares at an implosion over extreme divergent
views on national issues. The U-turn by the top Jubilee leader to back the
adoption of the TJRC report could open a vicious warpath within government
given that Jubilee administration had warned last year it would not revisit the
emotive issue. The TJRC was established in the wake of the bloody
2007/2008 Post-Election Violence, as part of the Kenya National Dialogue and
Reconciliation (KNDR) process, under the stewardship of chief peace negotiator,
former Secretary General of the United Nations Kofi Annan. Details: Implement TJRC report, deliver Sh10b restorative fund pledge, KNHCR asks Uhuru During the 2013 and the 2017 presidential elections
opposition chief Raila Odinga had pledge to implement the report, a campaign
plunk that set him against Uhuru and Ruto who said doing that would open the
old wounds. On the campaign trail Raila has accused the Jubilee
administration of failing to act on those behind the Wagalla massacre of ethnic
Somalis by security agents in February 1984 as well as those affected by
historical injustices in marginalised communities in Turkana, Samburu,
Marsabit, Kajiado, Narok counties and the coastal region. Except for making a public apology to Kenyans on
behalf of his government and of previous administrations, as recommended by
TJRC, the President has apparently not honoured most recommendations. In March last year, however, he announced the
government would set aside Sh10 billion as reparations to victims That the TJRC question could return to shape the 2022
campaign agenda amid claims there is a faction with government working hard to
block Ruto from succeeding Uhuru. The report established how former powerful
government officials including former presidents acquired big chunks of prime
land across the country. There are fears of a widening rift between Uhuru and
Ruto camps over various issues including the controversial Mau evictions,
lifestyle audit and the Presidential directive freezing funding for new
projects. The DP has already summoned key political leaders
from Rift Valley for a meeting this month to bridge the rift in his backyard
sparked by the Mau evictions. Yesterday there was storm in the national assembly
as MPs debated the report by the committee on environment with regard to
logging activities in the country. Duale claimed that the Mau evictions were targeting the
poor despite the fact that influential politicians among them former and
current MPs own plots in the expansive forest. “You can’t evict thousands of poor people and leave
senators, former Mp, former commissioner of lands, former presidents, that it
is just ridiculous,” said the Garrissa Township MP. More: Raila wants TJRC report adopted Duale tore into his own government which he represents
in the legislature questing the appointment of people with conflict of interest
at the helm of the Kenya Forestry Service. “…..this committee has brought very important recommendations
but I see a contradiction in on how government runs…the taskforce report recommended
that the former KFS directors should not be re-appointed …we must be very honest…the
person running the biggest logging business sits at the KFS board,” said Duale. He claimed that Rai, who runs pan paper and director
of Teamsales, had conflict of interest sitting at the KFS board. But Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka,
questioned why Duale was questioning the mau evictions yet he was serving the
same government. “I am confused because this is the leader of
majority, the directive was given by the president of Jubilee, the person who
is working as the county commissioner in Narok is a Jubilee government
appointee. So is the majority leader contradicting the President,” asked
Onyonka. But Duale fired back: “I am the leader of government,
the eviction is a government programme, the DC is a government employee, but so
far we are chasing the poor, I am telling the government to go for the big fish
doing business with factories in Mau,” Duale said as debate degenerated on the floor
of the House. Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi asked
the government to step up efforts to conserve Mau but warned against approaching
the issue selectively. “Protect Mau against the individuals who thrived
with impunity over the years, any encroachment whether you are the poorest or
the richest it is a tragedy and you will have to be removed..,” he said. Minority leader John Mbadi warned against the politician
of the evictions. “I want to plead with those people who think that by
policising the Mau issue they can get bonga points, it is not the right thing
to do,” he said. Click here for the latest political news