Saudi Arabia ambassador nominee Peter Ogego has refuted claims that he is related to ODM leader Raila Odinga. Appearing before the Defence and Foreign Relations Committee, he said the claims were "mere social media rumours". The former US envoy said he is not related to any influential people, adding his Oginga name has nothing to do with the late Jaramogi Oginga. His full name is Peter Nicholas Rateng’ Oginga Ogego. "My name is Oginga, my father's name is Ogego. Catholics are given two names one is Peter and Nicholas is my confirmation name," he said. "I am not related to anybody of influence," he reiterated amid suggestions by Supkem that his post be reserved for a Muslim. Ogego, who was nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta in changes announced on July 13. He said the country has weak diplomatic institutions
because it bashes its former allies. On his achievements, Ogego said after his intervention as the Canadian High Commissioner,
Kenya was put back in Sida. Sida is a Swedish government agency aimed at reducing poverty
in the world. "Some of the profits were the free primary education support. I think something went wrong somewhere along the way but I did my job as
the ambassador." Without blowing his own trumpet, Ogego said he had close ties
with Kenyans living in Canada. "The Judicial support institute was heavily supported by
Canada," he added. Ogego further added he was the first African ambassador to
be feted with the Diplomatic Service Award. "I was given the
formal farewell at the foreign affairs ministry and given my award," he said. While at the US, Ogego said he did his work by restoring the
once good relations with Kenya adding he was one of the pioneers of
AGOA in Kenya. "I was the Chair of Africa Growth Opportunity Act, and I brought it here. Hillary
Clinton came with me," he said. Ogego said he had also negotiated for scholarships while in Cuba
and helped South Sudan gain its independence in 2011. He has served as Kenya’s Ambassador to the United States,
Kenyan High Commissioner for Canada and as ambassador to Cuba. Ogego held several postings in the Office of the President,
including Commissioner of Special Programs. He was at one time the Vice Chairman of National Disaster,
and a member of the Emergency Response Committee. Former SRC chair Sarah Serem, ex-DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro, and former State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu were vetted on Thursday. More on this: Esipisu denies soliciting funds for State House Also read: MPs settle scores with Serem for cutting pay Read: Muhoro defends DCI work, denies fraud claims Click here for the latest political news