The so-called government of Emmerson Mnangagwa is making a big mistake. The
mistake is for the independence party to assume it won the recent presidential
election and that its opponent, the Movement for Democratic Change led by
Nelson Chemisa, should comfortably sit in the opposition and wait for the next
election, whenever it will be held. It won't. I am saying this because I do not
believe in what passes in Africa as "democratic" elections as
reflective of the true meaning of democracy as "government by the people,
for the people and of the people." If we add to this Abraham Lincoln's
definition, George Bernard Shaw's insistence that in a democracy, we must not
only choose our governors but also be able to control our governors, then the
lie in Zimbabwe becomes obvious. The people as a whole have not chosen the
Mnangagwa-type government, nor are they likely to control it. The lie is
already out. Robert Mugabe had become a one-man band over the years, calling elections and
deciding who votes and who wins, when, how and whence! Through an internal
palace coup d'état, carefully orchestrated to avoid any resistance, there was a
true change of the guards, putting Mnangagwa in State House, and giving him the
opportunity to do exactly what his boss used to do before: Decide when, how and
whence the elections would be held which, no doubt, he had to win. As a friend
of mine put it, "The Crocodile would have to have been a herbivore to
organise a feast of fish for men to feed on!" A very unlikely event. Let's face it. There is a difference between competitive elections meant to
produce democratic results, and those held simply as a formality to legitimise
political tyranny already in existence by the very manner in which it assumed
state power in the first place. This is called legal tyranny notwithstanding
the numbers that are thrown around as a reflection of so-called majority votes.
So between Mnangagwa and the opposition candidates, who really won the recent
presidential elections in Zimbabwe? By dint of so-called majority votes, the
Zimbabwe Electoral Commission has decided that a difference of less than one
per cent, arrived at through an extremely opaque system, is enough for the
so-called majority party to form the government in Zimbabwe. I beg to differ. That kind of argument can only hold
where forming a government after an election makes very little difference in
the behaviour of the state regarding how resources are distributed and used.
For example in Britain. A version of Brexit which departs substantially from
the expectations of Britons, whether Conservative or Labour, will never see
daylight in the Commons. The differences between the Labour and Conservative parties
are marginal. In any case, the two parties are spread all over the country,
where even families differ on party lines. In Africa there is a big difference.
Fortunes of whole communities can rise or sink depending on which party ascends
to power. Politics is a zero-sum game. Take the example of Sierra Leone, where former President Siaka Stevens
once uprooted a whole railway line because he regarded it as "the axis of
power for the rival Sierra Leone Peoples Party", an opposition party. Stevens, originally elected by
so-called majoritarian principle, took the "winner take all"
principle a notch higher: The opposition was literally to be vanquished so as
not to be in any position to contest for power again.  Mugabe has been the
master of that art; and Mnangagwa has been his student. These obviously are
cases where the so-called loss of an election removes the identity of "the
people" from the opposition, as far as Lincoln was concerned. As old Jomo
Kenyatta used to say to the opposition:  "I will crash you like
locusts". In the real sense of the word, were the "government of the
people, for the people and by the people" be truly upheld, those who
triumph in elections in Africa under the simple majority principle would
neither regard the opposition as criminals nor disenfranchise them in so many
diverse ways. But they do. Hence the simple majority principle serves to
legitimize tyranny rather than democracy. What then is the solution? Very simple. In the case of Zimbabwe, the election has not really solved the legitimacy
issue; it has merely placed it wide open for contestation. Close to half the
population cannot be denied the legitimate right to debate and decide how
national resources are used simply because a tyrannical state crafted some
figures to determine who rules. The legitimate rule over the people,
and the manner in which the people control their rulers needs to be defined by
a more just and democratic method. And this method can be nothing less and
nothing more than providing the people as a whole with the widest latitude to
debate their destiny without the rather artificial boundary of political party
identity, as ephemeral as this is in highly multicultural and multiethnic
developing societies like ours. Here, the democratic political culture is still
in its infancy; so are democratic institutions, including political parties.
When individuals or groups of individuals are hell bent on using state power
purely for self aggrandizement then it is unlikely that they will tolerate the
nurturing of democratic institutions which presuppose a political culture of
self restrain, the promotion of "other regarding" acts, promotion of
the public good and respect for the rule of law. The first act that the Mnangagwa team engaged in was the violent and wanton
repression of the opposition. So much for self restrain and respect for the
rule of law. The other is to blindly accept that a so-called majority of less
than one percent provides sufficient power base to rule society and very easily
deprive the other 50 per cent the right to have a say in the use and distribution of
national values through the "winner take all mentality." This will
not wash. Zimbabwe finds itself actually at cross roads with itself where the
Zanu-PF brigade knows just too full well that it cannot govern society on its
own and the MDC knows just too well that sitting in the Opposition will just
give room for Zanu-PF to alienate them from being part of "the
people" through negative propaganda, false accusations of lacking
patriotism, deliberate marginalisation from politics through repression and
enforced economic deprivation. This state of affairs is good neither for Zanu-PF nor for MDC since it leads
Zimbabwe nowhere except to political and economic underdevelopment in a
globalized political economy. I therefore come back to my pet subject. That
under such circumstances, a country like Zimbabwe needs the services of an
intermediate regime to nurture national development while giving the people
"as a whole" an opportunity to deal with daily politics
democratically and to shape their future. What would such a regime look like? It would be crafted along the lines of
a broad coalition government given one specific mandate of crafting a new Constitution
based on consociational democracy. Such a constitution would make it possible to have a government where the
people are truly represented beyond the artificial division of political
parties. It would be a government constituted by all modern social forces in
society based on gender, social class, culture, region, faith, profession, and
ideology, and driven by the principle of democratic consultation. These
criteria, indeed, when put together, are identical to who "the
people" really are nationally.