The Ebola outbreak that has killed 75 people in the Democratic Republic of Congo since it began four weeks ago has the 'potential to be the worst ever seen'. An agency that responds to humanitarian crises fears it will trump the pandemic of 2014, which killed 11,000 and decimated West Africa. The International Rescue Committee said: 'Without a swift, concerted and efficient response, this outbreak has the potential to be the worst ever seen.' Aid workers are battling round-the-clock to contain the outbreak, feared to have struck 111 people in the east of the DRC, on the border with Uganda. Experimental drugs have been shipped into the area to control the virus, considered to be one of the most lethal pathogens in existence. Virologists have repeatedly warned the situation is ‘hard to control’ because cases are in a conflict zone, roamed by armed militias. Several areas close to the outbreak's epicentre in the town of Mangina are off-limits to health workers for security reasons. Dr Tedros Adhanom told news agency Reuters: 'If one case is hidden in the red zone or an inaccessible area, it's dangerous. It can just spark a fire, just one case.' He admitted there has been a steady decline in new cases but warned it was too soon to say the outbreak is stabilising. No new cases have been diagnosed since Sunday and two infected patients have recovered after being given an experimental drug. Health authorities are trialling five anti-Ebola medications to try and stop the highly contagious virus in its tracks. Ebola virus disease, caused by the virus with its namesake, kills around 50 per cent of people it strikes – but there is no proven treatment available. WHO figures released earlier this week show there has been 111 suspected cases of Ebola in the DRC region, of which 83 have been confirmed. Only 47 deaths have been confirmed, so far, but the remaining fatalities are being investigated in a laboratory, to see if Ebola was to blame. A total of 15 healthcare workers have been struck down by the outbreak in North Kivu province, of which 14 are confirmed and one has died. Most of the confirmed cases have been recorded in Mabalako, 18 miles (30km) west of the trading hub of Beni, where 230,000 people live. Click here for the latest political news