The Nairobi government yesterday received a team of 25 medical specialists from the US. The specialists who come from different cadres will offer their services in county hospitals for the next two weeks. Pumwani, Mama Lucy Kibaki, Mbagathi and Mutuini hospitals are the county referral hospitals set to benefit from the medical team who are from IHope international organisation based in New York. Acting Health executive Veska Kangogo said the county government is revamping the city hospitals to meet international health standards and to have state-of-the-art facilities. “The doctors have been facilitated to join us in order to help the county government continue provision of health services in our subcounty hospitals,” she said. The medical team of 25 consists of 10 specialists and the rest are nurses based in ICU and other areas. The specialists will offer medical care services in cancer treatment, pediatric services, especially for newborns, and cardiology services. The head of the delegation, Amy Korir, said the team was ready to work with the Nairobi county government to deliver medical services “Our efforts will be geared towards improving health service provision in the county, especially by helping those who cannot afford quality health care,” Korir said. Read:Outrage after Sonko invites Indian doctors for kidney transplant “We will work with the government, which gives priority to the health docket, which is critical, especially in helping those who cannot afford quality health care,” the docotor said. Ogoti Kalu, an oncologist, said they are ready to offer their skills and expertise in the medical field to aid in health service provision. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (Nairobi branch) secertary general Thuranira Kuagiria welcomed the doctors and said they are ready to work with them. “The doctors will also help in training the local medics for the short period they will be in the county.We can all learn something from each other ,” he said. Also Read:Nairobi county denies plan to import Indian doctors Click here for the latest political news