Over the last few months there have been concerted efforts to fight
corruption and economic crimes that deny basic necessities to citizens
and affect development ... the DCI forwarded to me an
investigation file relating to the Deputy CJ which I have perused and
given directions. I informed CJ David Maraga of my
decision to grant consent for the arrest and prosecution of the Deputy
Chief Justice, Lady Justice Philomena Mbete Mwilu, on criminal charges. This
decision has not been taken lightly, but it is the right decision under
the law. Most of us in the ODPP are officers
of the court and the dignity and independence of the Judiciary are dear
to us. Judges in a democracy must be totally free to exercise their
judgment. I believe the majority of court officials are honest. Investigating
and punishing wrongdoing is difficult and painful, but it must be
done. Adherence to rule of law binds and strengthens us as a nation.
Our country is being torn apart by people who have been placed in
positions of trust and who abuse this trust. At times Kenyans
have failed to get justice because their lawyer is dishonest or the
judge is unfair. Those in positions of service must submit to
the constitutional precepts of integrity and exercise wisdom,
demonstrate good judgement and lead by example. Law
enforcement decisions must be untainted by partisanship and under my
stewardship the ODPP will adhere fully to the Constitution,
not the fleeting interests of anyone. The constitutional checks and balances are meant to establish a healthy tension among the branches
of government. We will reinvigorate efforts to protect the public in food and consumer product safety. Over
the years, a system of chaos has taken root.
Millions of young people are unemployed partly because factories are
collapsing or stagnant, stifled by a hostile business environment
created by corruption. And when government puts money in the
National Youth Service to help these young people and give them hope, it must NOT be misappropriated.  Excerpts from the DPP's statement yesterday  