  Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has said he will not give in to intimidation and threats from individuals who are harassing him. The CS yesterday said tender cartels have been trying to harass him for doing what is right. Matiang’i called for the support of Kenyans, saying he will ensure security officers and the rule of law are protected at all times. “If you think you can harass me, that will never happen. I have an inflexible belief in doing what is right whatever happens,” Matiang’i said. He spoke at a farewell luncheon for National Commission for Integration and Cohesion commissioners in Nairobi. Mmatiang’i said he will not succumb to harassment from whatever quarters. “I was not given this position to be popular and that should be known. The position is meant to serve Kenyans,” the CS said. Matiang’i has lately been on the spot over the controversial Sh1.5 billion Ruaraka land payout to businessman Francis Mburu. On Wednesday, a Senate committee recommended that Matiang’i and Education PS Belio Kipsang be held responsible for the land saga. The County Public Accounts and Investments Committee asked the DPP to investigate the two officials. Matiang’i was in charge of the Education docket when the controversial payout was made. The CS has disagreed with the lawmakers. Matiang’i said ethnic conflict remain the biggest cause of insecurity in the country. “Up to 40 per cent of sleepless nights are because of ethnic conflicts majorly from boundary areas. I urge Kenyans to let the government deal with boundary issues,” he said. He said Kenya is a unique because of its ethnic diversity, a factor that requires peace and harmony for coexistence. “We must all come together for development to be achieved,” he said. Matiang’i urged Kenyans to respect the police, saying they play a critical role in maintaining peace and order. “Don’t form barazas to discuss the security officers. You must also know that peace is not built with bullets and guns but its based on brotherhood,” he said. Outgoing NCIC chairman Francis Kaparo said politicians hampered the commission’s efforts to promote cohesion among Kenyans. “Politics in a serious factor that derailed our work. We must follow the example of the Opposition leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta if the country has to move forward,” Kaparo said in reference of the March 9 handshake. The Kaparo team’s four years at the commission ended with the chairman decrying political meddling but promising to continue uniting Kenyans even from outside NCIC. “It gives me a headache that we have not achieved our mandate.  I will dedicate all of my life to uniting Kenyans,” Kaparo said. He said uniting the nation was a matter of urgency that requires every leader’s efforts. He accused politicians of taking adavantage of Kenyans’ diverse cultures and real or imagined fears to achieve their dreams. “Politicians see divisions among our people as opportunity for their expedient strategies,” he said. He asked Kenyans to shun ethnic politics and stop aligning themselves with ethnic chauvionists who see other tribes as  adversaries. “Kenyans like adversarial approaches, hence would exploit any available faults to factions for war,” Kaparo said. He warned that efforts to develop the country will be in vain if the trend is not ended. He commended Uhuru and Raila for the handshake, saying the two leaders demonstrated that Kenyans can come together and confront their challenges. “Though we are a quarrelsome society, it is possible to bring Kenyans together,” he said. Kaparo challenged the political class to sustain the prevailing peace, saying it has brought stabilisation. “Let the handshake not be a lull before a storm,” he said.