Student: “Where will you
go after 100 years?” Zen master: “I will
change into a horse or a donkey.” Student: “And then?” Zen master: “I’ll go to
Hell.” Student: “But you are a
man of great goodness and wisdom, why would you go to Hell?” Zen master: “If I don’t
go to Hell to teach you, who will?”  This week those we pay
to protect our wildlife sent us to Hell. And the reason was as bewildering as
the destination we were sent. Tourism CS Najib Balala had
earlier offered his Kenyan masters a one-way ticket to Hell for asking him to
resign following the death of 10 rhinos after their relocation to a newly
established sanctuary in Tsavo East Park. The last of the 11 black rhinos died
on Monday.The irony is that the translocation was to save the rhinos. But as
President Herbert Hoover would say, “This was a social and economic experiment
which was noble in motive but far-reaching in purpose”. As taxpayers, Kenyans
have demanded an explanation. But we are asking the wrong questions and that is
why the CS has all the right answers. This has enabled him to exonerate himself
and blame others, culminating in the suspension and demotion of some Kenya
Wildlife Service veterinarians involved in the translocation. The right question we
ought to be asking is why we continue to entrust the State to protect our wildlife,
a job they have been performing dismally. The Kenya Wildlife Service Strategic
Plan documents that in 1970, the rhino population was 20,000. Thanks to
poaching, this number has dwindled to only 540. This is despite protection
measures such as translocation, hunting bans, sanctuaries and prohibiting
illegal trade. However, this should
surprise no one. Because as surely as dawn follows night, where there is a
demand for any commodity, a market will rise to meet it. And no amount of prohibition,
however well meaning, can effectively prevent it without negative unintended
consequences. For instance, in Vietnam, rhino horns can fetch up to $100,000
per kilo. So with this kind of returns, what would be the incentive to protect
the rhinos in the wild? Do you know why nobody
worries about the extinction of chicken or cows? It is because they are not
managed by the State. The free market has the magic bullet to ensure rhinos and
other endangered wildlife species are as ubiquitous as the sand on the seashore.
And that magic bullet is called private property rights. Property rights refer to
the legal ownership of specific property and forms the basis for all market
exchange. They help to protect and conserve the value of resources, thereby
providing an incentive for owners to efficiently use and maintain them. When property
rights are well-defined, secure and transferable, they motivate the owners to
take into account the cost of their actions on future availability, typically
resulting in efficient allocation of resources. This is why cattle or poultry
keepers will invest in breeding, feeding, treating and protecting their
livestock. I, therefore, submit that
the government should permit the private ownership of rhinos. When ownership
and management of wildlife is exclusively vested in the State, it suppresses
innovation, competition, research and development, which greatly contribute to
positive outcomes of species and habitat conservation. One, when a rhino is
dehorned without killing it or cracking its skull, it only takes three years
for the horn to grow back to its full size. This means it is quite feasible to
harvest the rhino horns without decimating the wildlife. And the current economic
value of rhinos will incentivise the rhino farmer to nurture, protect and
conserve the rhino at his own, not the taxpayers’ cost. This will ultimately
increase the welfare of the rhino because they will treat it as a renewable
resource, while leaving the taxpayers with more disposable income in their
pockets. Two, private ownership
of rhinos will automatically see an end to poaching because the harvesting of
rhino horns will be conducted legally without killing the rhino. This will
enable the efficient reallocation expensive costs of protecting the rhino,
which include translocation that has yielded the opposite intended results. This
will also solve the problem of dwindling rhino populations because traders will
undertake a voluntary exchange with the rhino farmers, just like they would
when buying a camel. Farmers would also breed more animals, thus creating a
demand for the parent stock and sell the surpluses to other farmers leading to
the establishment of new colonies. This will also bring the rhino horn market
towards an equilibrium because the supply of horns will be sufficient to meet the
demand, thus lowering its price. Three, legal rhino horn
sales will boost the GDP of the country exponentially than any number of tourists
can. And this will be done without burdening the taxpayer with tourism
marketing campaigns costs. In the process, this will stimulate other economic
activities such as attracting more domestic and foreign tourists to the rhino
farms, employment of private vets to treat the animals, growing of fodder, packaging
and transportation for the horns and overall employment in the rhino farms. Unknowingly, Balala was
sending us to a realm he was already occupying. With the death of 11 rhinos
hanging over his head, there could possibly be no other habitation for him. And
like the Zen Master, we ought to oblige him. Because as his paymasters, if we
decline to join him, who will teach him that reckless words and actions have
consequences, and that the only way to save the rhino is to privatise it, if we
don’t? My unsolicited advice to
the Tourism CS is, an intelligent man should never miss an opportunity to keep
his mouth shut.  Man will always be in hell as long as he is in
charge - Anthony T. Hincks