President Uhuru Kenyatta has ended his tour of the Coast, despite wanting to say longer, to end speculation. For the past two weeks, Uhuru has operated from Mombasa and met Governor Hassan Joho three times. The President and Joho, who is ODM deputy leader, agreed to build each other's legacies. Read: Uhuru meets Joho thrice during Coast visit, they discuss legacy Uhuru ended the visit on Tuesday after opening the 10th African Confederation of Principals Conference at Pride Inn Paradise Hotel. "I would have loved to stay longer and listen to a few presentations but I have to go back to Nairobi," he said. "I have been in Mombasa for two weeks and there has been too much speculation on why I am here, so wacha nirudi Nairobi ndio wawache mambo ya (so let me go back to Nairobi so they can stop the) speculation." Besides conversations about Uhuru's meetings with Joho, there were claims that he would reshuffle his cabinet while in Mombasa but this was not the case. The speculation came after Uhuru quietly retreated to the coast and held meetings with opposition leader Raila Odinga, the team spearheading the Building Bridges Initiative, Joho and select members of the cabinet. The President only left Mombasa twice - on July 28 when he met retired President Daniel arap Moi in Nakuru and on July 29 when he attended the signing of peace pact between South Sudan's President Salva Kiir and his rival Riek Machar in Khartoum, Sudan. During an impromptu visit to Lamu county to inspect national government projects, he ordered contractors working on roads leading to the Lapsset site to complete them fast. At the principals' meeting, Uhuru noted the need to prevent school bus accidents . He said they should be driven to the nearest secondary schools after 6pm for trips to continue the next day. He added that the Education ministry's directive, for school activities involving travel to be limited to 6 am to 6 pm, must be enforced to the letter. More on this: Uhuru makes impromptu visit to Lamu, warns contractors over slow works Other details: Ban on 6pm - 6am school bus travel remains, Uhuru says Click here for the latest political news 