The beleaguered Independent Boundaries and Electoral Commission yesterday announced plans to vet all senior managers to improve its image — and invite the public to submit complaints. The electoral agency says vetting is part of its reform process and aims to help restore public confidence following its management of last year’s general election. A statement by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said, “Stakeholders will be accorded an opportunity to raise any concerns about our staff, within a defined structure.” “The exercise will address any integrity concerns posed, taking cognizance of the need to safeguard our employees’ lawful rights.” Read: Chebukati points finger at Chiloba as audit reveals Sh1 billion loss The plans by the commission follow speculation that the National Assembly’s Justice and Legal Affairs Committee is planning to overhaul it — in readiness for the next general election and the boundaries review. Last year, Nasa demanded that five top IEBC officials be excluded from conducting the October repeat presidential election over integrity issues. They included CEO Ezra Chiloba, his deputy in charge of operations Betty Nyabuto, ICT director James Muhati and Immaculate Kassait, the director of voter registration and election operations. Others were legal affairs director Praxedes Tororey and Moses Kipkogey, a manager in the legal affairs department and Chiloba’s assistant. Jubilee accused Marjan Hussein (project coordinator), Salome Oyugi (head of legal), Decimah Mmayi, Crispin Owiye and Joseph Ayatta of being partisan. They had been appointed with Joyce Ekuam, Tabitha Mutemi, Limus Onyango and Caroline Manyange as a special team to oversee the October 17 (later moved to 26 ) repeat polls. The statement did not cite the legal basis of vetting of its own senior staff. The commission also wants to change its organisation’s structure, which it said duplicates functions, creates overlaps and encourages a silo mentality between various functions. “This creates coordination and accountability challenges. The current structure further lacks clarity on the terms of service for staff and their career progression paths,” Chebukati said. See also: Probe 'corrupt' IEBC for cancelling poll equipment tender, says Mudavadi “There is need to restructure to enhance efficiency and coordinate delivery of the Commission’s mandate.” The agency has approved a report on restructuring and plans are underway to recruit a reputable human resources firm to guide the process. The commission has also proposed to relocate from its Anniversary Towers headquarters in the city centre. Chebukati said it costs  Sh100 million per year in rent, excluding costs incurred in hiring venues for meetings and training. He said if the commission acquires its premises it will save on the cost of hiring venues for training, nomination of candidates, storage and stakeholder engagement. “The relocation out of the CBD would further see minimal disruptions to other activities in the CBD in the event of any picketing and demonstrations,” the statement said. There have been proposals for restructuring the commission following the resignation of four members. Their absence  has cast doubt on its legal mandate to take key decisions and undertake activities. The commission has been in crisis since the last election. In April, a section of the commissioners suspended Chiloba to pave way for an internal audit of key procurement for the 2017 elections. Three commissioners subsequently disassociated themselves from the action and quit. They are yet to be replaced. In June, Chiloba was reinstated by the court, but was immediately suspended by Chebukati ,in apparent supremacy battles at the commission. More: Eseli Simiyu chides 'corrupt' Jubilee after IEBC approval, five others cleared Click here for
the latest political news 