Families of five men gunned down by police in Dandora on Sunday are demanding burial permits. They say police have refused to issue them with gathering permits to raise funeral funds. “We are walking with books, appealing to friends and well-wishers to help us raise money for burying my husband,” Nazareth Adhiambo said. She is the widow of Vincent Mandu, 29, a father of two. Burial arrangements are going on in Samia, Busia county, despite the family having been denied the burial permit, Adhiambo said. Mandu's body had three bullet wounds. The family of Alex Githuku, 34, said they too have been denied a burial permit. “I'm currently in Murang'a mobilising support from my relatives to help me bury my son,” Jane Wangui said. “They denied us a burial permit and threatened to mete out serious punishment on anyone gathering at my house in Dandora or showing sympathy to my family.” The 53-year-old said she has been forced to call relatives and well-wishers over the phone to ask for help. Wangui said City Mortuary declined to give them the postmortem report and instead referred them to Kinyago police station. Githuku's body had seven gunshot wounds. Wangui said she does not understand why police were refusing them burial permits yet they always demand that such bodies are buried as soon as possible. Dandora police boss Geoffrey Mayek said, however, "I'm not aware the families are encountering any difficulty in securing burial permits. In case of any challenge, let them come to my office, including tomorrow." Police say the five men were drug peddlers, claims disputed by Dandora Community Justice Centre and the families. The lobby, which is following up on the murders, say they are a clear case of daring extrajudicial killings. The centre's reports show police have refused to book the cases OB numbers, even though the families formally reported the killings at Kinyago police station upon learning of the news. It is alleged police burnt down the makeshift shelter where the young men were after killing them. Police said the suspects were armed and engaged them in a shootout. They said they recovered two homemade pistols, 14 bullets, three mobile phones, one sack of bhang, 184 rolls of bhang, one crow bar, 32 sachets of illicit liquor (Simba Waragi), one knife and four pairs of scissors. Witnesses told the lobby one particular officer called Ali was a regular at the shanty. They suspect he may have differed with the young men over cash. Ali and another officer are said to have pumped more bullets into the one of the victims' bodies, even though he was already lifeless. The family of David Tekei will transport the body to Kitale for burial. The family was forced to fundraise to collect Sh3,000 for a postmortem .    