Great achievements always come about because of great sacrifices, which President Uhuru Kenyatta is making. We salute the head of state for his firm stand against corruption and entrenched impunity. But he needs public support because the people he is facing, the challenges ahead are formidable. Uhuru has done a good job thus far. Impunity had threatened to bring down Kenya. The handshake is manifesting positively and deserves the support of every well-meaning Kenyan so we clean our country for posterity. It is manifesting itself in bits and pieces. It's important the handshake took place. I am very happy that even the Deputy President has started singing the President's tune. We hope he was sincere when he said we clean our country of corruption. Yes, he has been mentioned adversely on many issues, but if he is sincere, God is kind to this country and Kenya would be great soon. The country would have come so far by today, had we correctly used our resources. Of course, some people close to the President are tainted. But it's good the war has just began. The fight against corruption must begin somewhere. Of course, some of the high-flying casualties of the graft purge were close to Uhuru. Some would talk to him directly. Everybody else involved in corruption — including MPs who were bribed to kill the sugar report — must be held responsible. The MPs embarrassed everybody. Can you imagine even MPs from the Opposition being involved? If there is a Constitutional provision for Parliament to be reconstituted and for the people to elect lawmakers afresh, it should be done like yesterday. Nobody has confidence in the current Parliament because of what they did in broad daylight. They stooped degradingly low to accept mere Sh10,000 bribes. It's the most embarrassing thing that ever happened in the history of Parliament. For the Speaker to invite in the Director of Public Prosecutions, he must have been satisfied that indeed the smell of corruption was in the air. The ODM Treasurer spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news