President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday sent condolences to the families of the 10 students from St Gabriel Academy in Mwingi who died in a road crash. “It is indeed sad and unfortunate that we lost those we look forward to secure the future of our great nation,” he said. The crash happened on Saturday night at Kanginga area, five kilometres from Mwingi town. The bus was travelling from Mombasa to Mwingi when it collided with a lorry before the driver lost control and veered off into Kanginga River at 11pm. The bus was carrying 44 passengers — 40 students, three teachers and a matron. Six students had been dropped off at home before the accident. Two survivors are admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital, another two at Nairobi Hospital and 26 were checked and treated at Mwingi Level 4 Hospital. Mwingi medical superintendent Evans Mumo said the hospital morgue received eight bodies. School board member Christopher Nzili said 92 students travelled to Mombasa on Wednesday. county to meet burial costs They travelled in two school buses. “We had the St Gabriel bus and the Nguutani Secondary School one, which we had hired. The Nguutani bus was hit by the lorry ferrying gravel five kilometres from Mwingi,” Mumo said. “It’s such a shock to have travelled all the way from Mombasa only for our children to come and perish in their home area. Let’s continue praying for the affected.” Mwingi Central deputy county commissioner Omar Ntima condoled with the relatives and said investigations had been launched. He wished those recuperating quick recovery. Area MP Gideon Mulyungi sent condolences to the families. He urged drivers to be careful and obey traffic rules. Mwingi Central MCA Mary Kanini called for quick completion of the Thika-Garissa road expansion, adding there are many piles of soil on the roadside. Education CS Amina Mohamed also sent condolences. She said the ministry has dispatched senior officials under the leadership of the regional coordinator for education to Mwingi Level 4 Hospital to ensure the survivors are taken care of. Governor Charity Ngilu visited the school and said the county will help meet burial costs.