Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has warned that all properties on road reserves, waterways or riparian land will be demolished. The county boss said no one will be spared in the crackdown which will include his property in Buruburu. "It doesn't matter how well connected you are. If you have built on a road reserve or waterway, that structure has to go down, including my own parcel that I bought in Buruburu," he said. Sonko on Thursday said that about an acre of his land is part of an access road and that the county willl start by demolishing the wall. "Sonko has been entrusted with the lives of over six million Kenyans. Let them (tycoons) hate me and say that I will be a one-term Governor, I will not allow impunity to thrive under my watch," Sonko said. "I better be a one-term Governor and leave a legacy than entertaining grabbing of public land." Sonko asked Nairobi residents to remove all their valuables from public utilities with immediate effect. He said county and NEMA officers who conspired with grabbers to approve such buildings will also be prosecuted. The Governor listed over 15 utilities that will be repossessed by the county. "The law should not be applied selectively," Sonko said adding that he is aware the action "will make him an enemy of few rich Nairobians, who include politicians and tycoons who control politics." "I am prepared to deal with them. I have been entrusted with the lives of over six million Kenyans. Let them (tycoons) hate me and say that I will be a one-term Governor, I will not allow impunity to thrive under my watch," he said. The Governor said he was blamed for floods in Nairobi adding that he is vindicated with the demolitions targetting properties built on sewer lines, rivers, and riparian lands. He cited the case of flooding in Kariobangi where it was discovered that someone had put up three buildings on a sewer line. "For the traders in Nairobi who will be affected by the ongoing demolition, we will put up modern markets, stalls, and kiosks to accommodate them." "I have mobilised MCAs to take data of all affected traders and hawkers so that we clean Nairobi to make it the real City under the sun." The following are the public properties from where Sonko wants valuables removed, the risk being demolitions: The government has earmarked 4,000 buildings for demolition because they sit on riparian land. In a report by the National Environmental Management Authority dated June 26, and based on inspection visits to riparian areas within Nairobi county, nine buildings and structures were found to be on riparian land. Read: Over 4,000 buildings to go in operation to secure Nairobi River Also read: Ukay could be next in demolition wave Click here for the latest political news