Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has hit out at politicians who say he is not ready to become president. At a meeting with Coast MCAs in the county on Wednesday, he claimed the politicians are being used to advance others' political ambitions. Joho did not name anyone but it is expected that Deputy President William Ruto will take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. On July 23, Joho dismissed Ruto's forays in the Coast saying his 2022 run is "doomed". He said he will work with Ruto's opponent as a strategy to ward the DP off coast votes and consequently scuttle his plans. This followed concerns that Joho was losing the region's hold in the wake of Ruto's attempt to woo the region's leaders to back his presidential bid. Details: Joho shrugs off Ruto's Coast forays, says his 2022 bid 'doomed' Also read: I’ll work with Ruto foes to ruin his bid for President, says Joho Joho, who has been seen as stamping his authority in the region, likened the Coast region to food, saying everybody on the table wants to eat it. "Those on the throne have continuously and successfully used their votes to keep power. This has to stop," he said. "We can't be followers forever. Who told you we can't be heard in Kisii, Murang'a and Western? I can single-handedly organise a rally in Kisii and it will be full. "Why are we demeaning ourselves yet we have the capacity? You've been clapping for them ... [things] can't continue this way. You must stand up and be counted." Analysts advised Joho to work with MCAs after MPs followed Ruto as they believe they will help him reach the masses. "You have the final say," he told the close to 200 ward representatives who attended the meeting. "I thank you for making it [to the meeting]. They said you wouldn't come." Two MPs had been accused of asking Kwale MCAs to boycott Joho's meeting. Conspicuously absent were five governors from the region who had been invited - Saalim Mvurya (Kwale), Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta) and Kingi (Kilifi) have openly rooted for Ruto's candidacy. Only Kilifi's Amason Kingi attended the meeting. Joho said his agenda is to unite leaders. "We shall listen to every county. Such meetings can be held twice or three times every year, " he said. Click here for the latest political news