On July 18, 2018, businessman Chris Kirubi scolded a university graduate for using inappropriate language on Twitter while seeking an appointment. This elicited varied reactions among the netizens, with most people advising the youth to use proper language on social media. Although Alex Musau, founder CEO and principal consultant at Esquire Consultants, differs with the tycoon's approach, he cautions young people to watch what they post since they could cost them their jobs. Musau said Kirubi should have sent the individual an inbox message, and later send a general tweet warning the youth on language use instead of going public. He said this can hamper the graduate's chances of getting a job. In another case that happened recently, an internship hopeful at US space agency NASA has lost the position before she even started after swearing at a member of the council on Twitter. Musau warned that such glaring mistakes lock out youths from job opportunities. He said employers are checking personal social media accounts to find out the personality of the people they are going to employ. "When we conduct interviews, we ask for Facebook accounts and Twitter handles. We use that for character assessment," Musau said. He said people rehearse behaviour before interviews, unlike on social media where people speak their minds. Musau said many organisations are using social media accounts to analyse character. Related: Think before you put up that social media post He said he knows more than 500 recruits who have been affected by their social media posts. "Some of them might have posted messages out of ignorance, lack of exposure or peer pressure," Musau said. He said social media user Naomi, who had landed the interview at NASA, could have done that out of ignorance. Her predicament should serve as a caution to other young people. Her tweet, that has since been deleted, caused thousands of people to react on the social media platform, eventually bringing the thread to the attention of the US space agency. "Everyone shut the f*** up I got accepted for a NASA internship," the Twitter user, who goes by the name Naomi H, wrote on Tuesday. When another user replied, "Language", she responded: "Suck my d*** and balls I'm working at NASA." Unfortunately for her, the person who responded was Homer Hickam, a former NASA engineer and author who now serves on the organisation that oversees the space agency. His response to her profanity-filled tweet simply stated: "And I am on the National Space Council that oversees NASA." Naomi H has since made her tweets protected and changed her bio to: "Taking a break from Twitter for a while." Hickam also deleted his tweets when the thread began to attract attention, as he claims to have not wanted to get her in trouble with NASA. He explained his motivations in a blog post, saying that he had no role in her losing the offer of an internship at the space agency. "I do not hire and fire at the agency or have any say on employment whatsoever," Hickam wrote. "As it turned out, it was due to the NASA hashtag her friends used that called the agency's attention to it long after my comments were gone." The engineer said the woman reached out to him with an apology, which he "heartily accepted". Despite losing the internship, there may still be a happy ending for the NASA hopeful. "After talking to her and looking at her resume, I am certain she deserves a position in the aerispace industry and I'm doing all I can to secure her one," Hickam added. "I have also talked to the folks that had to do with her internship and made absolutely certain that there will be no black mark on her record. They have told me she may reapply." When looking for an appointment, especially with someone like business tycoon Kirubi, you should learn how to make an appropriate approach as stated earlier. Click here for the latest political news    