IEBC bosses revoke resignations Two of the three IEBC commissioners who walked out of their high-profile well-paying jobs, citing irredeemable differences with the chairman, now want their positions back. On April 16, the three denounced chairman Wafula Chebukati as incompetent with zero ability to lead. They resigned in a huff at a well-attended press conference. But yesterday, in contrast to their noisy and well-publicised exit, vice chairperson Connie Maina and commissioner Margaret Mwachanya slipped back to Anniversary Towers that houses the IEBC headquarters — to the consternation of the staff and Chebukati.  Kenyans domestic violence in US rise A Kenyan woman is admitted in a hospital in Minnesota, USA, with serious injuries after she was allegedly assaulted by her Kenyan husband. Police in New Brighton City were called to a petrol station in the city to find a woman identified as Emily Kwamboka unconscious. Emergency medical personnel rushed her to Norton Hospital, where she was admitted with multiple facial and neck injuries. The assault outraged Kenyans on social media across the US with many calling for tough measures against domestic violence among African immigrants.  Annan's Shilly-Shally Diplomacy Kwame Nkrumah was often described as a good African but a bad Ghanaian. Well, Kofi Annan could easily be described as a good Ghanaian but a bad African. Nkrumah was so described because of his ideological leanings and its disastrous implications for Ghana, but was lauded for ardently embracing Pan-Africanism, envisioning a glorious future for a liberated and united Africa.  No sacred cows Mombasa governor Hassan Joho has said none of his relatives linked to the Kibarani dumpsite land grab will be spared. He said those implicated in the case must relinquish the titles. On Thursday, General Tyres, one of the developers accused of grabbing 0.4991 ha of the land, surrendered its title deed.  Two mothers experience. “Why would you want to buy a baby?” That was Jane’s (not her real name) aunt’s response when she first shared her desire to adopt. In Kenya, one has the option of adopting using a private agency or using the government one — Child Welfare Society of Kenya. The state doesn’t charge, but private agencies do.  Click here for the latest political news