 Safaricom will not reduce its call charges to ward off competition from other players, the firms chief executive said on Friday.  Addressing journalists, Bob Collymore said low charges holds back infrastructural investment in the telecommunication industry.  On Wednesday, Airtel cut its call rates to all other networks to two shillings a minute. Safaricom currently charges four shillings per minute while Telkom charges between two shillings and three shillings per minute depending on the tariffs  “We are not going to move our prices, we will continue charging what we charge, if we lose market share then its fine but we have to run a sustainable business,” Collymore said.  He said that other players would cut prices, make losses and not invest in proper infrastructure then accuse Safaricom of being a dominant player or for losing market share.  Speaking to the Star on the sideline of the meeting, Safaricom director of corporate affairs Stephen Chege said they can not be changing their strategy because a competitor has done so.  “They have sat down and done their math, power to them, but the market will tell us what the customer will pay for the service,” Chege said.  Currently, Safaricom leads the market with 29.54 million subscribers, Airtel follows with 8.68 million while Telkom comes in third with 3.79 million subscribers.  Commenting on the drop of customer numbers by 2.12 million subscribers, Chege said Safaricom is not immune to changes in its market share.  He said plans by CA to level the market through policy interventions need a critical analysis. It wants Safaricom declared a dominant player.  The CA in a study proposes retail price interventions, mobile termination rates, tower sharing and national roaming among telecommunication service providers to avoid dominance.  Chege said Safaricom plans to to introduce biometric registration for SIM cards to curb SIM swap fraud.  Subscribers finger prints will be required when registering SIM cards. The same will be required before any SIM swap is done.  “ Once we are ready, we will come up with a process where customers will have to give more information. The day when someone else comes to swap your line, the information will pop up when only your fingerprint is used,” Chege said.        