World 5,000 metres champion Helen Obiri will be seeking for revenge when she lines up against Genzebe Dibaba in the 12-lap race in Zurich on Thursday Dibaba, who is the world record holder in the 1,500m, beat Obiri at the Prefontaine Classic in May in the same race with the Ethiopian clocking 14:26.89. Obiri was relegated to third place in 14:35.03. Obiri has been in fine form, bagging the Commonwealth Games title in Gold Coast, Australia as well as adding the Africa Senior Championship title in the distance recently in Asaba, Nigeria and will fancy her chances of beating the celebrated Ethiopian athlete this time round. The 12-lap race will be a competitive event with Obiri set to have fellow Kenyans—Agnes Tirop, Lilian Kasait, Eva Cherono , Caroline Chepkoech and Gloria Kite— for company. Others to watch out for include Hassan Sifan of Netherlands, Meraf Bahta (Sweden) Gidey Letesnebet, Terefi Senbere(Ethioipa) and Eilish Mcolgan of Great Britain The men’s 3000m steeplechase event will see World and Olympic champion Consenlus Kipruto facing off with Morocco Soufiane El Bakkali. The duo met in at the recent Africa Championships in Asaba, Nigeria, where Kipruto carried the day in 8:26.37 with Bakkali second in 8:28.01. Kipruto will have a rich array of Kenyans with him in the water and jump event including— Leonard Bett, Nicholas Kiptanui, Abraham Kibiwott, Ben Kigen, Lawrence Kemboi, Amos Kirui and Kennedy Njiru. World 3,000 metres steeplechase bronze medallist, Evan Jager, will also be in contention alongside Ethiopia risking star Beyo Chala and Matthew Hughes of Canada. World and Commonwealth Games 1,500m champion Elijah Manangoi will renew their rivalry with silver medallist Timothy Cheruiyot in the event. The Kenyan duo have been head and shoulders above everyone else on the circuit and it promises to be full of fireworks. Cheruiyot has had the upper hand in the circuit, winning in Monaco last month where he posted a world leading time of 3:28.41 with Manangoi second in 3:29.64. In Rome, Cheruiyot showed his class, clocking 3:31.20 with Manangoi second in 3:33.79. Cheruiyot has had further victories winning in Paris in 3:29.71 and in Shanghai, where he registered 3:31.48. Others to look for in the event include Jackson Kivuva, Vincent Kibet, with Djibouti’s Ayanleh Souleiman, Ethiopia’s Tefera Samuel, Tolosa Taresa and Norwegian star Filip Ingrebrigsten.