President Uhuru Kenyatta's failure to declare vacancies at IEBC could have caused the current circus that has seen two ex-Commissioners shameless attempt to reclaim back their jobs, four months after their dramatic exit. The details emerged amid speculations that a powerful government official was behind the audacious attempts by the ex-IEBC Commissioners Connie Maina and Margret Mwachanya to return. The two appeared at Anniversary Towers, IEBC Headquarters for the second time with armed bodyguards raising the question who authorise the administration police to guard them. Former IEBC Commissioner Roselyne Akombe resigned and fled the country 10 months ago but her replacement is yet to begin. Three others, Maina, Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat followed suit on April 16, and have been away for a record four months. According to the law, the President should declare such vacancies within seven days. Think the cost of living is high? Wait till new taxes take effect Life is about to get a lot harder for Kenyans following the introduction of 16 per cent VAT on fuel and food items, such as wheat flour, maize flour and bread, from Saturday. PSVs and businesses have shifted the entire tax burden to consumers. Manufacturers announced more than Sh10 increase in product prices, while matatus will raise fares by between Sh10 and Sh50. The tax charge, tabled in the Finance Bill 2018, is estimated to earn Treasury an additional Sh71 billion per year, in line with a deal by the government and the International Monetary Fund two years ago. Karume family runs out of cash, wants to sell 17% stake The family of former Minister Njenga Karume will sell 17 per cent of its Sh17.5 billion estate, in a decision to accept mediation and end court battles. His children want to raise Sh2.975 billion to pay debts after the Karume estate ran out of liquid cash. "The estate is rich in properties, but it does not have the liquid money," spokesperson Stephen Karau said on Monday. The estate owes the Kenya Revenue Authority Sh350 million and other creditors Sh2.62 billion. Demolitions moves to Embakasi, Kileleshwa next week Air Gate Mall, formerly Taj Mall, in Embakasi could be demolished next week, the multi-agency team carrying out demolitions of structures on riparian and road reserves has hinted. The task force said that the demolition team will move to Embakasi and Kileleshwa areas next week after flattening the twin Southend mall buildings on Langata Road. The buildings were partially knocked down on August 8 and have been hanging dangerously. The team resumed the demolitions last Thursday after a week's break to allow for the repair of the bulldozers that had broken down. Your Weather: Nairobi residents were caught unawares on Monday afternoon when heavy rains suddenly pounded the city. The Meteorological department has predicted afternoon and evening showers in Central Highlands including Nairobi for the next one week. The weatherman, in a statement on Monday, said the areas are likely to experience cool and cloudy early mornings with the possibility of rains giving way to sunny intervals. The Coastal strip will experience sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy skies in the evening. TODAY NAIROBI: Thunderstorms. Low 13ºC. High 22ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 100%. MOMBASA: Partly cloudy. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Low 18ºC. High 27ºC. Winds WSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 80%. 