Kakamega, Bungoma and Siaya counties
have initiated a two day youth conference aimed at encouraging young people to
engage in agriculture. The
conference will bring together some 800 rural youth from Western region, sector
players from both levels of government, Universities, agricultural
practitioners, development partners financial institutions focusing on
agriculture. It
is supported by the German Development Corporation (GIZ). It started yesterday at
Bukura Agricultural College in Kakamega. It aims at spur the
youth to engage in agribusiness and contribute towards food security in line
with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. The conference, the
first of its nature in the region since inception of devolution seeks to
sensitise rural youth on employment in agriculture and promote agripreneurship. Kakamega deputy
governor Philip Kutima said the event was organised in recognition of the
sector’s potential to create diverse rural livelihood opportunities in line
with the Big Four agenda. The four are food
security, manufacturing, affordable housing and universal healthcare coverage. “Working towards
validating the national youth strategy, the symposium will assess agricultural
challenges and opportunities through youth participation and ultimately address
their untapped potential to play a key role in transforming agriculture in the
region,” Kutima said. Kutima said that the two levels of
government were working in collaboration to ensure the Big Four agenda is
achieved. Bukura Agricultural
College Principal Richard Wekesa said that the average age of a farmer in
Western region is 60 years as youths have shunned agriculture. “It is unfortunate that
counties in Western region depend on foodstuffs imported from the neighbouring
counties despite having adequate rainfall with fertile soils capable to support
horticulture and healthy young men but you find them in Boda boda and not
farms,” he said. He said that statistics
indicate that over 75 percent of students who train at the college comes from
outside western region despite it being one of the oldest in the country. We want to shift the
mindset of youth on agriculture as a source of employment and not just for food
to eat at home. Siaya ECE for Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries Charles Ogada said that over 65percent of Siaya population were youth
but less than 35 percent of them engage in agriculture. He said that the county faces challenges
in empowering the youth because of their large numbers and taking up
agriculture will go a long way in address unemployment. 