President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked Kenyans take after the late Henry Obwocha as he was committed to serving them all. The former West Mugirango MP was an inspirational leader, Uhuru said on Wednesday when he joined family and friends for a funeral service at Holy Family Basilica in Nairobi. He further described the former minister as a true son of Kenya and a nationalist who was dedicated to servant leadership. “Henry was committed to serving this country and was also a man of honour. If he promised you anything, you didn’t have to think twice; he would deliver it and he would keep his word. These are attributes that are very rare in the political world," he said. Obwocha held various senior government positions. He once served as Planning minister and was chairman of the Kenya Privatization Commission at the time of his death. Uhuru noted that the spirit of dedication in leadership will transform Kenyan into a greater, better and happier nation. “We shall all miss [Henry]. We should all emulate him because of that true spirit of dedicated service," he said. The President assured the family of the government's support. He said he will also ensure that a health project Obwocha initiated is completed. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka described Obwocha as a man who cared more about the interests of the country than his own. He said the former MP stood for national cohesion and played a key role in the Inter-Party Parliamentary Group (IPPG) which crusaded for reforms in Kenya’s electoral laws in the early 1990s. This led to the restoration of the full multiparty democracy that the country enjoys today. “As a minister, he could have planned not to live on a one acre piece of land which we saw in Karen. He could have planned to live on thousands of acres but instead chose to plan Vision 2030 and therefore stood out as an icon of integrity,” he added. Father Simon Ng’ang’a, who conducted the service, told Uhuru that all Kenyans support his war on corruption. “We need a new Kenya guided by values and integrity,” he said. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, Water's Eugene Wamalwa, several senators and Members of Parliament also attended the service. Read: Ex-West Mugirango MP Henry Obwocha is dead Also read: UhuRuto, Raila lead Kenyans in mourning Henry Obwocha Click here for the latest political news