Who is fronting Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki to deputize Deputy President William Ruto in 2022 General Elections? Well, several MPs from Mt Kenya East region including Tharaka Nithi Woman representative Beatrice Nkatha have publicly pushed his Kindiki’s candidature as Ruto’s running mate in the next polls. Now there are whispers that some powerful power brokers and tycoons from Central Kenya could be the ones behind the Tharaka Nithi Senator? Only time will tell whether Ruto will settle on him when 2022 succession politics gains momentum as there are many others who are prospecting. Some MPs have now started defending themselves in the media claiming they did not pocket cash ranging from Sh10,000 to Sh30,000 to shoot down the contaminated sugar report. Some who are not members of the joint committee on Trade and Agriculture that authored the report have distanced themselves from the bribery claims even before Powers and Privileges committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi commences investigations into the matter. Is something amiss? A Permanent Secretary within the Office of the President has shocked staff by changing four secretaries within two months. It is not clear what qualification the accounting officer has been looking for. However, some officials in the department are questioning the leadership brand of their boss. The PS has also made changes in key directorates and reportedly declared he will not deal with some people from some communities. The official is whispered to be strategizing to change offices to be closer to the mother department at the cost of the taxpayer. It is not clear if the Cabinet Secretary in charge of the ministry is aware of the discreet goings-on. However, those suffering are praying for his intervention. Still in the OP, why have some civil servants and pensioners not received their salaries for the month of July? Some people were heard asking if the office is broke. A little bird whispered to Corridors that some of the accounting officers are said to be sitting on the payroll of the affected civil servants which has caused the delay. Some banks are said to have refused to pay the salaries in advance as has always been the case until the government releases money. May be Treasury top dogs have an explanation? Who will rescue Kasarani residents in Nairobi from open extortion by police officers on night patrol? A mole tells Corridors that the officers, both Administration and Kenya Police, have reportedly made it a daily routine to pop into one bar after another collecting money from patrons over this and that, and intimidate the owners. The bars are allegedly stocking outlawed liquor. Click here for the latest political news