National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale yesterday warned MPs to desist from initiating impeachment motions to intimidate Cabinet secretaries. Speaking during the graduation ceremony of 387 personal assistants and researchers attached to MPs, Duale said some of the motions being floated in Parliament have no substantial grounds and are only meant to intimidate government officials. “I have nothing personal against any leader in this Parliament, neither am I protecting anyone, but an MP is out of order when he or she moots and impeachment motion without stating clear instructions,” he said. “Grounds must be stated as specified in the Constitution and presented to the Office of the Clerk for consideration and approval”. Read: MPs shoot down sugar probe report for second time, defend CSs The three time Garissa Township legislator said most impeachment motions by MPs are “only meant to excite the public and will always flop when proposers fail to prosecute the matter up to the end”. Among the Cabinet secretaries who have been threatened with impeachment motions include Charles Keter (Energy), Rashid Echesa (Sports), Keriako Tobiko (Environment), Henry Rotich (National Treasury )and Sicily Kariuki (Health). Duale said proposers of motions should not hawk the list for MPs to sign but present to the Clerk for approval and leave it at the entrance of the chambers for signing. “Impeachment motions are not being prosecuted in the corridors of Parliament through press conferences. There is a process in law which must be followed,” he said dismissing the impeachment motion against Rotich being championed by Kimilili MP Didimus Barasa. The first term MP wants Rotich impeached over the gazette notice that allowed open importation of sugar, some of which is alleged to be contaminated. He has also cited his role in authorization of the payment of Sh1.5billion as compensation for the controversial Ruaraka land. But speaking to the Star at Parliament Buildings yesterday, Barasa told off Duale saying he will proceed to ask the House to impeach Rotich. “I want to make it clear to Duale and any other person that I will proceed with what I started, Duale should not tell me what to do,” he said. He claimed that 102 MPs had signed up to support the motion but refused to disclose their names, saying they may be coerced to recall their signatures. Related: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report Also read: Expert comment: Government knows people behind sugar scandal Click here for the latest political news