The National Assembly Sports committee has given Mombasa five months to finish upgrading the county stadium. The facility's initial improvement, valued at  Sh50 million, stalled in 2016. Another Sh1.2 billion has been budgeted for this purpose. The stadium's playing ground is infested with weeds and some parts of the terrace have collapsed. The fence is torn apart while changing rooms have broken doors, hanging ceilings, and unkempt floors. The toilets are dirty and the floodlights do not work. A match was last played at the stadium two years ago. The committee, which toured the facility on Saturday, termed its state "shocking". Chairman Victory Munyaka said it a continental event cannot take place there, let alone a global one. "Sports Kenya fulfilled its part of the agreement by preparing the running surface and buying a tartan track, " he said. "We recommend the grass be done before the track. Within five months, the arena should be ready." The county and national government had partnered to turn the stadium into a complex. A total revamp was to be done to lift the facility an international standard. The sitting capacity was to be increased to 15,000 and a swimming pool and basketball court built. The county's Sports chief officer, Babu Rajab, said the contractor lacked the ability to do the job so he abandoned it midway. "Funds were scarce," he added, but said the Sh1.2 billion was an indication of commitment to the project by Governor Hassan Joho's administration commitment. "Once procurement is done, you'll start seeing changes," he promised. Heritage PS Josephta Mukobe said Mombasa Stadium is part of the government's plan to improve sports infrastructure. "Some are to be rebuilt and others upgraded. Mombasa is supposed to aid sports tourism," she said. Among the campaign promises Jubilee Party leaders made before taking office in 2013 was the construction of 47 new stadiums. Years later, none is up. Read: City, Kihumbuini stadia among four to be upgraded at Sh350 million Click here for the latest political news