Parliament will write to Brazilian authorities to know whether a company awarded Sh17.7 billion e-tax job by KRA has been involved in corruption. National Assembly’s Public Investment Committee chairman Abdulswamad Nassir yesterday said the House will seek information from the Brazilian government after KRA commissioner general John Njiraini said he was not aware if the Swiss firm SICPA Security Solutions SA Limited was involved in corruption. “There are a lot of information on the internet, some have been reported locally by our media and it is unfortunate that you are telling this committee that you were not aware of such information. We have resolved to write to Brazilian authorities to get the actual facts,” Nassir said. Brazilian authorities have accused the Swiss firm of dishing out bribes to win contracts. But Njiraini said the agency conducted due diligence before awarding the contract. The committee asked Njiraini to explain why KRA only benchmarked in Brazil and not other countries that had implemented the same system. Njiraini said the KRA was referred to benchmark in the South American country by a Centro Interamericano de Administraciones Tributaries (CIAT), a body he said Kenya is a member. “CIAT aims at improving tax administration through exchange of information, technical assistance and sharing of best practices. The organisation obligates members to provide technical assistance to other member organisations when called upon to do so. The visit to Brazil was therefore informed by the learning opportunities provided under CIAT,” Njiraini said. He said Brazil was the best choice for benchmarking because it is still a developing country like Kenya. As such, they have similar experiences and challenges in the administration of taxes. Njiraini said the visit was not a fact finding mission on SICPA. He said KRA did not have prior knowledge that the company had integrity issues. The KRA boss said those against the Excisable Goods Management System are involved in illegal manufacturing of water, juices ,cosmetics and other beverages and fear being netted.