Former Kenya Wildlife Service board chairman Richard Leakey wanted to destroy the agency, Tourism and Wildlife CS Najib Balala has said. Appearing before the Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural Resources yesterday, Balala was accompanied by senior ministry staff. He narrated how Leakey single-handedly chased away and frustrated other board members to exit, leaving him to unilaterally run the organisation. Read: Leakey, vets fault CS Balala for Tsavo rhino death suspensions Committee chairman Kareke Mbiuki said Leakey will be summoned to shed more light. Balala accused Leakey of changing the KWS organisational and operational structure. He was accused of branding staff at the service “irremediably corrupt”, aimed at weakening the service. “Leakey created fear that no staff could voice their professional concern. They would centralise all per diems and operations where everything would be sorted from the headquarters with the board’s approval,” Balala said. “They revoked electronic park entry payment and reverted to the manual system, which was part of a system to weaken the KWS.” Wildlife PS Margaret Mwakima, who was a member of the board, told the committee she was among members Leakey chased away. Outside the KWS organisational structure, Balala said Leakey created the chief operating officer position. Nehemiah Rotich cited an advisor position was held by Mark Jenkins. “Even though these positions were under KWS director general, they were not answerable to him. They reported directly to the board chair. Even the COO sat in board meetings, whereas the DG was left to deal with security issues.” Balala added, “There was clear interference and intimidation of the board of trustees by Leakey. He forcefully threatened and personally intervened in staff issues.” The constant interference with  management of the service and branding of staff as thieves demoralised them. Balala said three years ago Leakey advised all donor and development community to pull back their funding, which saw donors withdraw from providing support. “During the handover of 26 new vehicles donated by USAid in February Leakey stood in public and  told the US ambassador not to fund KWS as all people were corrupt.” Related: I'm sorry, Balala says on his 'go to hell' outburst Also see: ODM slams 'arrogant' CS Balala over 'go to hell' remark on rhino deaths probe Click here for the latest political news