Enough is enough and you should prepare to leave. That is Baringo South MP-elect Charles Kamuren’s message to outsiders grazing livestock in the constituency. Kamuren said top on his priority list is the resettlement of thousands of Tugen and Ilchamus pastoral communities displaced by bandits since 2005 in parts of Makutani, Arabal, Mukutani, Ruggus and Noosukro. “The listed areas fall under Baringo South and I being their father have now taken over the seat so before I am sworn in, they should prepare to assemble their livestock and leave,” he said. Kamuren addressed thousands of residents who gathered to celebrate his landslide win in the by-election in Marigat town on Saturday. Read: Jubilee's Charles Kamuren wins Baringo South by-election Landslide votes He filled the vacancy left by the Grace Kipchoim, who succumbed to colon cancer and was laid to rest at her Kimoriot home in Mochongoi on May 5. The 49-year-old had suffered from acute colon cancer for close to two years. She did not campaign due to the illness but won the tough race for reasons such as her development track record and security initiatives. Kamuren garnered 12,277 votes against Cynthia Kipchilat of Maendeleo Chap Chap who scooped 8,968. He cited Sirata, Kiserian, Ramacha, Kapndasum, Embossos, Ngelecha and Lokumkum among villages invaded by bandits. “It rained recently and the entire land in Tiaty is currently green so they should prepare to move back immediately because my people are displaced and they also need pasture to gaze their livestock,” he said. His speech was disrupted by Tiaty MP William Kamket who said his leadership agenda also revolves around preaching peace and unity. “I take this opportunity to most sincerely congratulate my brother Kamuren for winning the election and to welcome him to Parliament” Kamket said. three’s the charm Kamuren finally won the seat in his third attempt after he lost two consecutive chances to Kipchoim in 2013 and 2017. Present during Kamuren’s celebrations were Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Governor Stanley Kiptis, Marigat-based human rights activist Amos Mpaka, Irrigation Principal Secretary Fred Segor, East African Legislative Assembly’s Florence Sergon and former deputy governor Mathew Tutoek. Click here for
the latest political news