Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo has told DP William Ruto and Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru not to be offended by the Ipsos survey ranking if they are not corrupt. He said the survey reflected Kenyans’ perception of the two leaders on how they present themselves in the line of duty, not a political witch-hunt as they claim. Odhiambo on Monday reminded Ruto of how they celebrated the same pollster’s survey during the election and ODM they didn’t condemn it. "Before the elections when Ipsos said Jubilee was leading, Ruto and Waiguru celebrated. Why is it now they are saying it was sponsored by their opponent?" the MP asked. He spoke to journalists in Gem. The MP said if Ruto is free from corruption, then he should request a lifestyle audit to clear the air. The MP said the notion of Ruto being corrupt might not go away if he does not demonstrate good statesmanship through action. "Everyone knows the DP is filthy rich and no one knows how he accumulated his wealth in the short time he has been in the government," Odhiambo said. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga yesterday said those named in the Ipsos survey should clear their names instead of feeling offended. The governor said the survey should be conducted quarterly, now that the President has declared war on graft. "All corrupt individuals should be shortlisted," Rasanga said. Ruto has dismissed the poll as sponsored by political failures. Waiguru has rubbished it as political propaganda. The DP said the firm has been wrong on previous surveys. He said the ‘so-called’ survey used data that is "too politically correlated to be meaningful". He said the survey was concocted to suit the schemes of people who are desperate and want to amend the Constitution to bar him from running in 2022. The report indicates that 33 per cent of those surveyed believe Ruto is the most corrupt politician, followed by 31 per cent who say Waiguru is the most corrupt. Waiguru accused Ipsos of pushing a smear campaign against her. "I will say this to Ipsos. Shame on you for pushing an agenda that you know very well is political. I have never been taken to court because of any matter regarding corruption. So you cannot come and say that I’m the most corrupt," she said.   