Mombasa governor Hassan Joho on Saturday met retired president Daniel Moi at his Kabaraka home. In pictures widely shared on social media, Joho was seen chatting with Moi and his son Gideon who is also the Baringo senator. It was not clear what they were discussing since it was a closed-door meeting. "In the spirit of Building bridges and fostering unity, I was honored to sit down with former President ... I was fortunate to hear his wisdom on some national issues and thanked him for his time at the helm of this country,"Joho tweeted.  Retired president Daniel Moi with Mombasa governor Hassan Joho in Eldoret./COURTESY Joho said through the grace of God and wisdom of ODM party leader Raila Odinga and president Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya has a unique opportunity to change the future of the country. "A chance to nurture a more fair, just and caring society for our children. Let’s all embrace this second chance of building a new Kenya," he added. In March, Gideon who is the Kanu leader and Joho - both with presidential ambitions - had a closed-door meeting at Joho’s office in Mombasa. This move ignited speculations of a possible political partnership between the two. But Joho downplayed the meeting claiming it was a continuation of the "Building Bridges" initiative by Uhuru and Raila. More on this: Speculation rife as Gideon Moi, Joho hold talks in Mombasa  Mombasa governor Hassan Joho was accompanied by some coast MPs./COURTESY. After the meeting, Joho headed to Rift Valley for a series of events scheduled for this weekend. The ODM deputy leader is expected to lead a number of fundraising activities in the region. Rift Valley is considered Deputy President William Ruto's backyard and voted overwhelmingly for Jubilee party last year. Joho's visit comes at a time a section of the area MPs have openly expressed discomfort with President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga's handshake. More on this: Joho heads to Rift Valley for a series of weekend events Click here for the latest political news