Even for a team like Gor Mahia, who have a deep and talented squad, fatigue does creep in, at least when you play five games in 12 days. For the sixth time this month, the runaway league leaders take to the pitch in a SportPesa Premier League match against Chemelil Sugar in another of their catch-up matches. Coach Dylan Kerr has voiced his concerns over the well-being of his players as the matches continue to come thick and fast. With the league set to conclude in two months, there is little chance for the matches to be rescheduled again. Winning, though, does sometime alleviate any feeling of tiredness and knowing that they need three more wins to retain their SportPesa Premier League title, Gor will not be short of motivation at Afraha Stadium today. The return from injury of a couple of key players will add to the depth in the squad for Kerr to tinker with while keeping his side competitive. After starting in the victory over Kakamega Homeboyz, Karim Nizigiyimana and Wellingtone Ochieng might be rested for this clash with Wesley Onguso and Philemon Otieno set to occupy the fullback positions. Leading goal-scorer, Jacques Tuyisenge, will be itching to return to the starting 11 after missing out on the Homeboyz clash on Monday. Him and Guikan are likely to start up-front with Kerr keeping one eye on the crucial Caf Confederation Cup clash against Rayon Sports on Sunday where victory will guarantee them a place in the last eight group stage of the competition and a guaranteed Sh38m purse. Chemelil, with the threat of relegation hanging over their head like the sword of Damocles, will be out to avoid defeat at all costs. With just 27 points, the sugar millers are fourth from bottom only four points above the automatic relegation zone albeit with a pair of games to make up on their rivals. With an experienced striker like Collins Neto, Edwin Omondi and Kelvin Oluoch in their ranks, counterattacking football might be Chemelil’s best bet of getting anything from this encounter. But it is in defence where they will need to bring their ‘A’ game against a side that has averaged more than two goals a game. Yusuf Juma, Kevin Wesonga and Co. will be tasked with the unenviable task of keeping the rampant Gor attackers at bay. A win for Gor will set them up for a tantalising prospect of winning the league in a clash against their arch-rivals AFC Leopards in nine days while for Chemelil, a surprise victory will ease their fears of relegation.