ODM leader Raila Odinga has decried difficulties in getting former MPs on board to help in critical decisions on matters affecting the government. He on Wednesday asked the former legislators to use their skills and help Kenya get out of its 'disturbing' situation. The NASA chief hailed the lot's experience, saying the country requires their advice in dealing with its ups and downs. "I have been in government and I get resistance from opponents when I seek opinion from former members of Parliament." "They used to ask me; 'you want to bring trouble here, that MP is finished'. How does a human being get finished?" "You cannot finish a human being until his day has come," he said in his address to former MPs during a meeting in Nairobi. This was during the National Integration Conference that was organised by the Former Parliamentarians Association. Raila said it is unfortunate that the incumbents try so hard to ensure that those who have left office have no space in the government. "I know this because whenever I wanted to appoint former officials to positions, they could complain that their opponents are being 'resurrected'," he said. "Every person has a role to play in our society. This country has had ups and downs since 1963. We have forces pulling in all directions." He said former MPs are in a good position to create the unity that is necessary for Kenya. "You are in a good place to make Kenyans understand that no class or status quo can make progress by ignoring the interest of the country," he said. Raila said Kenya has forces who want to use ethnic differences for their own selfish ends. "Having the courage and strength to sit together is not an easy thing. Some people will accuse you of betrayal. But if you think of Kenyans interests then we will go a long way," he said. Among the disturbing issues Raila was speaking about is corruption. The same has seen DPP Noordin Haji to order the arrest of many state officers. Last week, Raila said corruption must be made unprofitable to end theft of public resources. The Opposition leader said Kenyans must tackle corruption which has become acceptable as a way of life. More on this: Slay dragon of corruption or it will ruin Kenya, Raila says Click here for the latest political news