Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is a waste of taxpayers' resources. I have drafted a motion to have the body disbanded, I have forwarded it to the Speaker Justin Muturi and I am just waiting for communication. I am sure it will be taken to the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee and I will gladly go there to defend my case. Almost 90 percent of cases submitted by the EACC were actually thrown out of the court because of insufficient evidence, that means they are incompetent. Once you lose a case that means you have lost the money. We are spending Sh3 billion every year on the Commission, what we got last year is that they only recovered Sh256 million out of a possible Sh57.1 billion stolen cash. It does not make sense. We have institutions in place to do the job; we have DPP and DCI so we do not we require EACC, as the same can be done competently by the DCI. It took the courage of DCI to tackle these cases, where were these guys all these period. Where were they when we were losing Sh7 billion at NYS, where were they? We are discussing about graft at Kenya Power, Kenya Pipeline Company all these institutions where funds disappeared. Where were they? The Finance Cabinet secretary confirmed that about 30 percent of the entire budget disappears through corruption. If you look at the issue of NYS, there were footages how these guys took money. Josephine Kafura confessed that she was collecting money every Saturday from the bank. Has she been prosecuted? No. I was in PIC in the last parliament, how many files did we recommended for prosecution? They are lying in parliament. EACC was just crafted haphazardly. The institution mandated to do investigations in this country is DCI. They [EACC] don't have any training, they lack capacity to do any investigations. Without everybody mentioning, there is quite in-fight between the DCI and EACC. We are talking about corruption and yet we have a whole body fully funded and doing nothing. We are losing so much as a country, we are losing our image as a country yet we have institutions which would have preserved our image. Cornelly Serem, MP Aldai spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news