The County of Garissa will soon embark on demolishing the sprawling Orahey market and relocate the traders to a near by county staff houses that will be conversed to stalls. Currently, the close to 500 traders are congested along the road making it difficult for free flow of traffic in the market. Area governor Ali Korane while addressing the traders on Wednesday morning after touring the market and the proposed new site said time has come for traders to be relocated to a new saying that move was for their own safety. He however said that the sensitive exercise will be done in a procedural manner where the traders themselves will be asked on which best way to go about carrying out the exercise. "I want to assure the traders that we shall consult them in identifying viable and consult them in identifying viable and convenient option.in the meantime I have instructed the relevant departments to compile a list of all traders doing business in the open air market,”Korane said. We want traders to form committee so that we involve them before removing them from Orahey, many traders have been hit by speeding vehicles because the market is so congested. we are appealing for your cooperation in this noble exercise,”Korane told the traders. According to lands and urban planning CS Mohamed Shale, the traders who are selling at the open air market will have to be registered first to know their exact number before moving to alternative area. “We want to dispel the rumors that are being by a few individuals that the county is hell bent on removing them at the market without giving them an alternative place. enumeration of vendors will be done transparently and only vendors at the market will benefit from the process,” said Shale. The traders are however opposed the move to relocate them to alternative area accusing the county leadership of having ill motive in the new plan. Mrs Sahan Adhan Ali said the county government's plan to move them to alternative place is to kick them out of the market and render them as destitutes. "The place you see me here I took it over from my mum some 10 years ago. i used the profit I get to feed my family as well as pay their school,” she said. She said if the county government is honest they should take them to a place near the town with adequate security adding that most of traders in the market are people from humble background. Traders mostly women sell their goods that includes vegetables, grass, cloths amongst other merchandise at an open air market hence the name 'Orahey', while many of them sit with their products without anything to shield them from the scorching sun others have erected stalls on the roadside.     