MPs have decried the deplorable conditions of Kenya’s embassies in 10 missions, with revelations that some envoys have to contend with leaking offices.  An inspection report following visits to Kenya’s diplomatic missions, the National Assembly’s Defence and Foreign Relations paints a grim picture of working conditions for the country’s envoys. The derelict stations include New York (UN), Canada, Washington, Russia, Australia, Geneva, Japan, China, South Korea and the Los Angeles consulate.  Leaking office roofs, peeling off walls, lack of substantive ambassadors, lack of budget and inadequate staff are some of the problems country’s ambassadors face in their foreign stations, the committee notes.  During the visits, the committee, chaired by Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito, came face to face with a leaking roof of the chancery building in Washington, DC, where the country’s embassy is housed.  “The iron sheet roof and supporting structure had deteriorated extensively and there was evidence of general leakages. Gutters and down water pipes were extensively corroded,” the report on the Kenya’s embassy in Washington, DC, said.  “The building has greatly deteriorated with passage of time and in comparison with neighbouring structures, it stands out as neglected.”  In UN-New York, the committee found official residence of the of the Kenya’s representative deserted as the permanent representative was forced to move out due to its dilapidated conditions.  Budget challenges emerged as cross-cutting problem to all the 10 missions the committee visited.  The 105-page report noted inadequate staff was evident in Kenya’s missions in UN-Geneva, Vienna-Australia, Russia and Japan.  In Russia, Kenya has had no substantive ambassador for years, something the committee observed has undermined bilateral relations between the two countries in marketing Kenyan products.  “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should deploy a substantive ambassador to the Russian Federation,” the MPs recommended.  Last week, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi decried the understaffing of Kenyan embassies.  Muturi last week, on his tour to the Kenyan High Commission in Botswana, said some stations have been neglected, while others have been given more attention.  “The committee should visit these stations to see for itself some of these challenges, then sit with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see how they can be addressed. Where budgetary allocations are needed, the committee will make recommendations to the Budget and Appropriations committee,” Muturi said.  