Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe, former NCPB Managing Director Newton Terer and Former General Manager of Finance Cornel Kiprotich were on Thursday released on Sh3 million cash bail each on seven counts relating to loss of millions of shillings at the cereals board. The court also granted them the alternative to pay a personal bond of Sh6 million and avail surety of similar amount. The accused have also been ordered to surrender their passports and not to contact witnesses. The three were arraigned before the Anti Corruption Court magistrate Francis Kombo and denied the charges. They have been accused alongside 13 other people who include chiefs and traders who colluded to buy thousands of bags of maize fraudulently. Read: Lesiyampe, NCPB finance boss expected in court at 2pm - EACC Other suspects who are yet to be presented before the court are Caroline Kipchoge Cherono, NCPB Eldoret Silo Manager Renson Kibet Korir, Records Officer Eldoret depot Erick Kipketer Talam and County Director in charge of Agriculture Joseph Kipruto Cheboi. Also to face charges are Virginia Wamaitha, Willie Kipkoech, Celestine Chepchirchir, Victoria Jebet, Paul Kipyego, Caroline Chepchumba, Peter Chirchir and David Barangetuny. They face charges of conspiracy to commit an offence of economic crime, willful failure to comply with the law relating to the management of public property, unauthorised spending of public funds, conspiracy to defraud, abuse of office and neglect of duty. They are also accused of fraudulent acquisition of public property through the irregular supply of and purchase of maize to the NCPB in Eldoret which led to the loss of public funds. The accused persons allegedly exceeded the Sh6 billion budgetary allocation to purchase two million bags of maize in the 2017/18 financial year. According to the DPP Noordin Haji, the officials approved the purchase of maize worth Sh11.4 billion which was mostly delivered by traders thereby denying genuine farmers access to the funds. Also read: [VIDEO] EACC arrests PS Lesiyampe, NCPB finance boss over Sh6bn maize scandal Click here for the latest political news 