NASA leader Raila Odinga has said he has no hand in President Uhuru Kenyatta's Cabinet formation. Raila termed reports of a pending reshuffle in which his party members would be included in the Cabinet 'laughable'. “The other day I read about an impending Cabinet reshuffle, that Raila and Uhuru want to make changes. I just laughed,” Raila said on Wednesday. Addressing the media at Orange House, Raila urged the media to avoid sensationalising the handshake between him and Uhuru. “The same media has been talking of a visit to some parts of Nyanza by the President and hosted by me, which is just imaginary,” he added. It was alleged that Uhuru would launch universal health coverage for Kisumu residents today, a claim Governor Anyang' Nyong'o dismissed. He told residents to treat the reports as false. This is not the first time Raila has denied reports of his involvement a looming Cabinet changes. On June 3, he said the allegations are "meant to undermine the war on graft while failing to take cognisance of the interests of the nation." Read; Raila denies link to looming Cabinet changes, say claims malicious Also read: Nyong'o dismisses 'rumour' of Uhuru's Kisumu visit Raila said the media was causing unnecessary anxiety to the public when reporting on issues they have no concrete information about. He said ever since the handshake, the public has been fed with speculations by the media on issues that are far from the truth. The former Prime Minister said if the President were to visit any part of the country, he has a press team that will inform the public. “President Uhuru has a press team that will inform the public about his itinerary and likewise with me, the ODM communications team will inform the public if there is any scheduled event that I'm involved in,” Raila said. Uhuru last visited Kisumu on July 12 last year when he presided over the launch of the construction of Kenya Breweries’ Sh15 billion plant. Meanwhile, Raila endorsed former minister Ochillo Ayacko as the Migori Senate candidate amid opposition by some members of the party. Read: Amid opposition, Raila endorses Ayacko for Migori Senator race Click here for the latest political news