The Finance Bill 2018 proposes to introduce a new excise tax on sugar confectioneries and chocolate (including white chocolate) of Sh20 per kilogramme. The rationale appears to be a general statement in the budget speech: “Confectionery and chocolate are rich in sugar content and expose consumers to adverse effects on their health due to sugar related diseases.” This is too simplistic and scientifically inaccurate. Sugar (sucrose) is composed of one molecule of fructose and one molecule of glucose, and is vital to life. The body converts all carbohydrates into glucose for its energy needs. It doesn’t discriminate in the source of sugar — fruits, carbohydrates, soft drinks, confectionery, chocolates, etc. These foods are all broken down to glucose because that’s what the body uses. In fact, sugar is the only source of energy for the brain, while our bodies need sugar, proteins, minerals, vitamins and fats. All foods have some harmful qualities, especially when consumed in large quantities. The body requires a balanced diet, not just one single food, or category of food. For those with medical conditions such as diabetes, a balanced diet becomes even more critical. We do not consume nutrients, we consume foods and beverages and these must be a balanced, sensible diet. There are no good or bad foods; only good and poor diets. Scientifically, obesity and certain lifestyle diseases are caused, not by a single food item, sugar, but a combination of poor diets, lifestyle choices, genes, and access to medical care. There is a debate in Europe and America about sugar intake and obesity, especially in children. The villain however is not sugar (sucrose) but its constituent fructose, which does not occur alone in nature. It was ‘discovered’ by a Japanese scientist in the late sixties and is now manufactured from corn as High Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS). The metabolic outcomes of fructose make it a poison. Fructose can only be metabolised in the liver — that’s the scientific definition of poison. HFCS is sweet and dirt cheap compared to sucrose sugar. It is the ingredient of choice in all processed food! If we were raising excise duty on all products made with HFCS, I would support it with great enthusiasm. The debate on sugar consumption and its impact on health raises the question, how much can be consumed safely? This is essentially a First World problem! In our circumstances, less than one per cent of our population have enough wherewithal to want to join in that debate. Over 56 per cent of Kenyans live on less than a dollar a day. Far from obesity, our real challenge and priority, for the vast majority, is malnutrition! Our policy decisions must be guided by the needs of the majority. Nonetheless, the Non-Communicable Diseases Division at the Health ministry should create awareness of the importance of balanced nutrition. The Treasury is always under pressure to raise as much revenue as possible but that cannot explain why one particular item is singled out for a tax increase without valid scientific explanation and rationale. To raise excise duty on sugar confectionery and chocolate, most of which are locally manufactured, is to contradict the government’s aim to support manufacturing in the Big Four. Kenya signed the Africa Free Trade Agreement. It should make even more sense to encourage, not discourage, investors to choose Kenya. Moreover, items of confectionery are unique in that their unit prices are low; Sh5 will get you four pieces of chewing gum! Hence, they are extremely price sensitive, even a slight increase, as now threatened by the new excise tax, will seriously disrupt turnover volumes. Their sale and distribution involves every level of society, including persons living with disability, who sell confectionery in the streets. GDP growth is important but distribution of that growth is more important. The Treasury should not be insensitive to those at the economic low end and, if for no other reason, the proposed new excise duty on sugar confectionery should be dropped forthwith. Consultant in public affairs and policy 