Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Achesa has accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of plotting to have him sacked from the post.  Rashid, who was at one time the ODM national youth leader before defecting to Jubilee, claims Raila was unhappy with his appointment. He said in a video, which was widely shared online on Saturday, that the suspected plot to remove him defeats the spirit of the handshake. The CS said they were urged by President Uhuru Kenyatta to embrace the unity pact but "it is unfortunate someone has taken advantage of it to have us sacked." "The President appointed me because I am a child of the poor. He knew that by appointing me, I would uplift another poor kid," Achesa said. He further claimed that Raila is using his position to intimidate those in the government. "With all due respect, I am not your (Raila's) equal. The President was not stupid to appoint me. He knew the country had professors but I was still appointed." "Raila, give me a break," he said adding that the ODM leader should know that "Luhyas are tired of him and he should stay away from their politics." Also read: Raila an enemy of Luhyas, Weta divorce warning serious - Didimus Barasa Achesa further claims the Opposition leader has been holding meetings with western leaders and has been telling them that Uhuru wants him out of Cabinet. The CS said that he will not pledge loyalty to the former premier or even call him "baba". "I will never call him baba since my father died a poor man and I even struggled to bury him." He alleged that Raila has been accusing him of being a close ally of William Ruto hence the President was unhappy with him. Achesa added that if the community will not come together they will never lead the country. Related: Referendum risks dividing Kenyans further, Western Jubilee leaders caution Raila The claims emerged amid speculation of looming Cabinet changes which the ODM leader, in a recent interview with Citizen TV, denied having a hand. Question on his influence in government emerged after reports of a secret meeting with Uhuru in Mombasa, which he also dismissed as 'a creation of the media'. In the interview, Raila said he is not in government and only gets to learn of ongoings in the corridors of power just like any other Kenyan. "I’m not in government, if I was in government I would have a specific title. I’m outside government as a member of the ODM and NASA," Raila said at that time. More on this: Raila: I’m not in government, didn't betray NASA principals Click here for the latest political news   