Nairobi County defeated Uasin Gishu 43-21 to lift the women’s basketball title for the sixth consecutive year as the Kenya Inter County Cultural and Sports Association games entered the fourth day in Kisii County. Mike Sonko’s Nairobi started the game strongly, winning the first quarter 11-2 but lost 8-6 in the second quarter. In the third, Nairobi, inspired by the tournament’s most valuable player, Phelister Nanzala won the third quarter 16-5 before finishing off the encounter with a 10-6 fourth quarter win. Nanzala scored a game-high of 18 points at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. Nairobi fielded former internationals Caroline Achieng and Eunice Ouma. Nairobi coach Phillip Osore said: “Eunice and Caroline were very key for us in this tournament. They have been outstanding and they have helped the younger players in the team.” In the play off, Machakos beat Bungoma 24-10 to finish third. In the men’s category, Kiambu dethroned Nakuru, winning 40-29 in a tough final. Duncan Ojijo scored game-high 22 points as Kiambu regained the title they last won in 2016. “We lost to Nakuru last year and we came here for revenge. In the final, we locked out their two dependable players, which helped us win the encounter. We trained well in the build up to this tournament and the players were focused on the ultimate prize,” said Kiambu coach Peter Kimani. In football, Kisii County upset favourites Nairobi 1-0 to qualify for the semis. Peter Omanwa scored the lone goal for the 2016 champions at a packed Gusii Stadium. In another quarterfinal match, Eric Mureka and Dennis Munyasi were on target as Bungoma County beat Meru 2-0 while Machakos beat Kiambu 1-0 in extra time. Nakuru also narrowly edged out Trans Nzoia 1-0 at Kisii School. In the semis, Kisii will tackle Bungoma while defending champions Machakos will square it out with Nakuru. In netball, defending champions Nairobi defeated Ministry of Devolution 37-14 while Bungoma overcame Kiambu 42-11 to book a final date with Nairobi. Title holders Uasin Gishu play Kiambu in the men’s volleyball semifinal while Nakuru will tackle Bungoma County. Track and field events will be held today and tomorrow at the newly upgraded Gusii Stadium. The six day games, which brought together 32 counties, the Ministry of Devolution and Senate will conclude on Saturday.