NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang’ula yesterday held talks to salvage the coalition from imminent collapse. Speaking on the phone after the meeting, Wetang’ula said Nasa was still going strong. He dismissed reports of formation of a unity government with Jubilee. The Bungoma senator said all democratic states must have an opposition to keep the government in check. “The opposition is instrumental in any functioning democracy and if you allow yourself to be caged by the government, then you are subjecting ordinary citizens to oppression,” Wetang’ula said. Read: Kalonzo offers to mediate in Raila-Wetang’ula feud The two leaders met at the Wiper party headquarters in Nairobi. The meeting came just two days after Kalonzo offered to mediate in the standoff between Ford Kenya and ODM. Last week ODM said Wetang’ula wanted party leader Raila Odinga arrested and charged with treason following his January 31 swearing-in as People’s President. Wetang’ula previously said Nasa was dead and pledged to campaign against Raila to wreste the Western vote bloc from the former Prime Minister. He has also blamed Raila for his removal as Senate Minority leader in April. The disagreements worsened last week when ODM threatened to kick out Ford Kenya MPs from National Assembly positions. “I will continue to be the glue holding together the coalition and we’ll spare no effort to keep my brothers in good talking terms for the prosperity and peace of the nation,” Kalonzo said in a press statement last week. Speculation over a unity government emerged after Wiper promised to back the government at the weekend. Yesterday, Wetang’ula said a national unity government will not address the challenges facing Kenyans unless the leaders were committed to serve diligently. “The handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila will not address challenges facing the nation but hold the country calm for the time being,” Wetang’ula said. “An all-inclusive government is necessary only to the extent that it lowers the political temperatures.” Wetang’ula said he was sceptical about working with Raila. Read:Wetang’ula wanted Raila arrested and charged with treason, ODM claims Click here for the latest political news