BUSES with school children leaving the venue of Kenya National Music Festival for performance late have been receiving police escort to their respective villages. The same applies to school buses that delay in town after being held up in traffic snarl up in Nyeri town streets. There have been traffic jams in the town during morning and evening hours when participants are making their way to and from Dedan Kimathi University. “The primary mandate of ensuring security of Kenyans is bestowed on the national security agencies and they have taken it up. We handed it over to them and they have been able to manage it,” said the KMF chairman Peter Wanjohi. “We thank God because we have not heard an incident that is worth mentioning and we play to God that we clear the festival without any incident being reported.” According to Nyeri County Commissioner Fredrick Shisia, small issues arising at the festival have been handled professionally. He said principals at the villages where participants are residing have lived up to the promise to partner with and ensure safety of students. Shisia said drivers should ensure they adhere to regulations of movement of buses. See:Music festival starts with unity as theme The drivers, he said, have been briefed by traffic and NTSA officials on what do after 630pm in the evening. Wanjohi said every day officials of the festivals have tried to end the festival by 6pm and the latest the festival has been ended is 630 pm. “This is to ensure that by 6pm all students are out of this compound and we will try as much as possible,” said Wanjohi. “What we have requested is that if there is an instance where we go slightly beyond 6pm and with the government rule of 6 am to 6 pm travel, then we have requested the national police services and they have been very kind to escort the students to the villages,” he said. The villages are with 20 km radius from the venue, a distance that can be covered within 30 minutes, he said. More traffic officers have also been dispatched in the streets in the evening and morning hours to control traffic. They were briefing the media on the progress of the ongoing event. Click here for the latest political news  