Professional Athletes Association of Kenya (PAAK) has been de-registered. Sports Registrar Rose Wasike cancelled the association’s interim certificate on grounds that its objectives are similar to those of Athletics Kenya. In a letter to PAAK and copied to Sports CS Rashid Echesa, the registrar said organisation was issued with two letters in August and September 2016, asking them to review its objectives. Wasike, in the letter, asked PAAK to review its constitution to be in line with constitution of Kenya 2010 and Sports Act 2013, but the association failed to comply. "Since your functions and objectives are similar to those of AK and you have refused to review your objectives to remove those similar to AK and pick the licensing form, I hereby cancel your interim certificate from today henceforth and deny you the Registration Certificate," the letter read in part. The Sports Registrar also noted that PAAK constitution had failed to encapsulate ways of dealing with the two thirds gender rule in elective and appointive positions as well as how to account for funds advanced by the state and sponsors. But a defiant PAAK said the association will continue with its activities despite the de-registration. PAAK President Wilson Kipsang on Saturday said the association has not received official letter cancelling the interim certificate from the registrar. "I am the President of PAAK and I have not received a letter detailing the grounds of cancellation of our interim certificates. I am only reading things in the media," the former world marathon record holder said. "The cancellation will not affect our normal operations. I am telling our members not to panic," Kipsang said. Kipsang, who is preparing to compete in the Berlin marathon defended PAAK, saying it has impacted lives of Kenyan athletes positively since 2014. He said the association has trained athletes on sports management, their rights on price money as well as leading anti-doping campaigns. "Many athletes have benefited from PAAK activities. The association helps athletes even when they have personal problems," he said.