Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru has given EACC seven days to make public findings on the investigation of NYS suspect Josephine Kabura's affidavit. On February 16th, 2016, Kabura, one of the key suspects in the Sh791 million theft at the NYS placed Waiguru at the centre of the scandal. In a 16-page affidavit filed in court, Kabura, whose account received the money, described her alleged relationship with Waiguru. But Waiguru dismissed her as a “crazy woman” whom she has never met and came to know about only after the scandal broke. Read: Waiguru was behind NYS deals - Josephine Kabura "EACC should release forthwith the outcome of the investigations on the affidavit by and forward the file to the DPP without further delay as required by law," Waiguru said. Through her lawyer on Sunday, Waiguru said the delay on the part of the commission has caused her irreparable damage. "EACC has a duty to our client and the public to expeditiously bring to a close this long outstanding matter. We look forward to receiving a copy of the reports by early return and in any event within the next seven days," a letter to EACC her lawyer read. Waiguru said the EACC summoned a number of people mentioned in the affidavit to record their statements but there was no outcome. "Regretable, two and half years later the commission is yet to communicate to our client the outcome of the investigations nor inform the public on the veracity of the allegations made by Kabura," the letter said. "As a result of the inordinate delay, our client has continued to receive negative publicity stemming from the allegations in Kabura affidavit culminating in a sponsored and a doctored survey released by IPSOS." According to the poll, of all political leaders in Kenya — current and past but still living — 33 per cent of Kenyans said they perceive the DP as the most corrupt. Waiguru came in second with 33 per cent. Last week, Waiguru called on the DCI and EACC to make public names of those behind Josephine Kabura's affidavit in the first NYS corruption scandal. The governor, who was Devolution Cabinet secretary when the Sh791 million scandal was unearthed in 2015, maintained that she did not touch a single cent of the loot. She threatened to name the authors of the said affidavit if the EACC fails to do so. More on this: Waiguru threatens to expose authors of Kabura's NYS1 affidavit