Tourism CS Najib Balala yesterday said he will lead the Kenyan Muslim community in establishing a mufti national office. A mufti is a Muslim scholar who interprets Islamic law (Shariah and Fiqh). They are also qualified to give authoritative legal opinions known as fatwas. Balala said Muslims have failed to unite and speak in one voice on issues such as the dates of Ramadhan and Eid, family planning and interest on bank loans. Kenya’s chief Kadhi Sheikh Ahmed Muhdhar said the national government’s choice of Tuesday [yesterday] as the national holiday for Eid Ul-Adha violated Koranic teachings. He said the event should have been held today. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale dismissed the position. Read: Duale wants chief Kadhi punished for Eid-Ul-Adha confusion Balala said a national office would end the split. He spoke during Eid prayers at Sheikh Zayed Centre in Mombasa. “I’ll lead the Muslim faithful to organise a forum where we can discuss this matter so we have an office of a mufti. We want to do this for the unity of the faithful,” he said. Balala said the Chief Kadhi cannot decide because his office is judicial and only deals with marriage, inheritance and divorce. “He can’t make decisions on other matters outside his jurisdiction. We need an office of the mufti to make decisions on our behalf,” he said. Balala said he will lobby the government to have the office anchored in law. “We necessarily don’t need legislation to have this office in place because a mufti is not a choice of the government, but the Muslim. If the government, however, sees it fit to have the office anchored in law, it will be much better and we shall lobby for that,”he said. Kenya National Muslim Advisory Council chairperson Sheikh Juma Ngao said Muslims should be united and a mufti will be the only link to achieving that. “We read the same Quran, pray to the same Allah [God], are the same ummah [faithful], but we are always disagreeing on simple things like dates of Ramadhan and Eid. We need someone to guide us,” he said. Ngao said Rwanda, Burundi, Egypt, Uganda and Tanzania have created a mufti office and urged Kenya to follow suit. Read: Kwale Muslims want Chief Kadhi removed for misconduct Click here for the latest political news