Debate on the controversial motion against the sale of muguka in Mombasa has been pushed to September after the Health Committee failed to table a report. The Wednesday session in the assembly was uncharacteristically heated, with the public gallery filled to capacity as muguka traders jammed the assembly. The Health Committee chair Swaleh Kibwana was expected to table a report on the effects of muguka on the health of the users. However, Kibwana said the report cannot be rushed as it entails different national and county government departments whose coordination is difficult and time-consuming. “We want to table a thoroughly researched report and this has financial and time implications. The House has to be patient,” the Miritini MCA told the assembly. This comes as county inspectorate officer on Monday demolished some of the stalls used by muguka traders at Tononoka. Read: Kilifi, Mombasa women say muguka to blame for bad sex County assembly chief whip Charles Kitula sought to know who authorized the demolition of the kiosks yet the matter had not been authorized by the assembly. “We have to know who gave those directives,” said Kitula. However, accusations and counter-accusations of bribery were traded during and after the session with a section of the MCAs accusing the health committee of incompetence and trying to buy time in order to ‘negotiate’ with the muguka traders. “They want us to give them more time to negotiate with the traders,” Tudor MCA Tobias Samba said. This elicited an angry reaction from Kibwana who said Samba is using unparliamentary language. “Saying that we are making deals or negotiating is unparliamentary words. This is a serious matter that should not be taken lightly,” said Kibwana. Port Reitz MCA Fadhili Mwalimu, who first chaired the session before leaving the session midway, accused the committee of incompetence saying they were given ample time. “The committee has not given the House sufficient reason for the delay. The chair of the committee is not serious,” said Mwalimu. After the session, nominated MCA Fatma Kushe, the brainchild of the motion to ban the importation of the herb into Mombasa, said some of the MCAs had been compromised to shoot down the motion. She said she rebuffed attempts by some of the rich muguka traders to compromise her. “They followed me with money but I refused. They have compromised some of the MCAs you saw who wanted the report to be tabled today,” she said. Click here for the latest political news   