The Nairobi West Hospital is embroiled in a legal tussle with a family that has refused to accept the discharge of a patient suffering from a neurological disease. Documents filed in court show that Grace Munyao continues to be hospitalized despite both her consultant Dr Amayo and Nairobi West doctors having recommended her discharge for home base care. Her husband, Joseph Kariha has refused to accept the said discharge and receive her for home base care. As a result, the medical bill continues to accrue exceeding shs 21 million. The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) where the patient works is also unwilling to commit itself towards the full payment of the accruing bill. Grace was admitted at Nairobi west on or about August 2017 for treatment on the reference of TSC. She suffers from Ametrophyic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). ‘It is a rare neuron-generative disease that deteriorates a patient’s muscles at an alarming rate’ reads part of the documents. The hospital claims that she is at the risk of being exposed to secondary infections and other possible complications due to her prolonged hospitalization. “The continued hospitalization of the patient is not only slowing any possible recovery but also unnecessarily exposing her to the risk of secondary infections as well as other possible complications related to prolonged hospitalization,” it says. The hospital which has sued Kariha and TSC now wants the court to issue an order directing them to accept the discharge of Grace from their hospital for home based care within 14 days. Alternatively, the court to authorize and accordingly order and direct that Grace be transferred from Nairobi west for referral purposes to Kenyatta National Hospital or any other public hospital. Read:Woman sues Nairobi West hospital for detaining her over Sh850,000 bill Prior to the suit being filed in court, Grace’s husband wrote a letter to the hospital last month urging them not to discharge his wife as it will be equivalent to condemning her to a lifeless state as she cannot survive without the care she gets at the hospital. “She needs various complicated and costly equipment just to survive. If she is moved from the hospital’s care, she will not be able to even single handedly guarantee her health for one night,” read part of the letter. Kariha in the letter says since the hospitalization of his wife, he has done everything to cater for the medical bills. “I have raised funds, sold my goods and even placed my title deed as security with the hospital just to try and save my wife. If the hospital were to discharge her and she is taken home for based care, we would need an average of shs 300,000 a month just to take care of her which can be reduced if equipment is acquired at shs 1.5 million,” This he says will pose a challenge as they have exhausted all avenues of raising funds. “This journey has been difficult and relentlessly hopeless,” Kariha says he is pursuing any and all means to help the situation including initiating correspondences with the Deputy President William Ruto, the Nairobi Women Rep Esther Passaris. “Grace is in a very serious and fully dependent state of health. At the rate of progression of her condition, ALS , she cannot stay in an environment outside the hospital. We are ready to sit down and chart a way forward on how best we can reduce the medical expenses accruing at the hospital and provide for proper care for my wife,” reads the letter. But in a sworn document, Nairobi West's in-house counsel Michelle Mahaga says Grace was treated with her consultant doctor Professor Amayo who eventually recommended for her discharge from Nairobi west hospital for home based care on April 2018. The hospital says it is clear from the conduct of Grace’s husband and TSC that they desire that the patient remains hospitalized indefinitely even as the accruing hospitalization bill continues to escalate yet they neither willing to settle the same nor provide adequate security for its payment. Though Kahira has provided some security for the payment of the accruing hospitalization bill, the hospital says it ss inadequate. In addition, TSC is unwilling to commit itself towards the full payment of the accruing hospitalization bill. Also Read:Doctor defends licence in death of mother and twins “They have abandoned their responsibility of caring for the patient thereby leaving the hospital to solely bear the substantial burden of the unnecessary hospitalization of the patient,” “The husband agreed to the discharge of the patient from the said hospital for home based care. He has alleged that he and his family members are working towards the said goal but they have abandoned responsibility of caring for the patient. The hospital has also offered to provide Kariha with free transportation for purposes of the said discharge of the patient for home based care," says Mahaga. Click here for the latest political news