The Big Tree Restaurant in Mombasa has been shut down for encroaching on the Indian Ocean. Part of the building collapsed and Lands executive Edward Nyale said a 14-day notice for the rubble to be removed elapsed on Friday. "People have been injured by the rocks," he said at the site on Saturday, adding the hotel's bar area is at risk of total collapse. "Big Tree will remain closed until public safety standards are adhered to." Nyale noted that the high watermark has moved closer to permanent structures and that beach access has been blocked. "This is an issue of public safety. There is another hotel in Nyali that is posing a threat to the public. It must be closed," he added, without giving the name to prevent interference with operations. He also said that because of the change in the sea line, some hotels unwillingly invade the water and that erosion means some structures cannot be occupied. The executive noted that the county has issued numerous improvement orders and notices so the enforcement stage is next. Culpable managers will be prosecuted, he warned. "Our resolve as a county is to protect the interests of our citizens. When we feel their safety is threatened, we act accordingly," he said. Big Tree's case came after that of Dolphin Hotel, which is linked to Deputy President William Ruto's Weston Hotel in Nairobi. A search on the NEMA web portal revealed that the agency allowed Weston to extend Dolphin's construction into the Indian Ocean. The extension of the hotel in Shanzu, Mombasa, was approved under reference NEMA/EIA/PSR/6347. Weston, which made the said application, is owned by Ruto, who has been on the spot for building it on land belonging to the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority. What remains to be seen is whether the county will stop Dolphin's construction. More on this: NEMA allowed Weston to extend Dolphin Hotel into Indian Ocean Also see: [VIDEO] Joho orders beach encroachment probe after journalists' arrests Click here for the latest political news