Former Cabinet minister Dalmas Otieno has bowed out of the Migori Senator by-election to concentrate on his nomination as a member of Salaries and Remuneration Commission. By phone on Thursday, Dalmas (National Liberal Party) said: “I am not in the race for the Migori Senator job. I have bowed out to concentrate on my vetting for the appointment." He said the appointment was delayed by the need to find a replacement for former chair Sarah Serem, who is now ambassador to China. Rules bar those seeking civil service jobs from engaging in elective politics. Dalmas was nominated for the SRC post by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He and seven others will be evaluated by the Finance and National Planning Committee on August 15. According to the IEBC schedule, he was to be cleared by the IEBC at IFad Hall within Migori town on Friday. He is the second politician to quit the race amid the clearance process that will end on Friday. Businessman Eddy Oketch, who was to vie on a Federal Party of Kenya ticket, also pulled out of the race that will see the late Senator Ben Oluoch replaced. Oketch gave up his bid on Wednesday during a meeting with ODM leader Raila Odinga with five other aspirants. More on this: Amid opposition, Raila endorses Ayacko for Migori Senator race The moves by Dalmas and Oketch give Ochillo Ayacko, ODM's choice candidate who was cleared by the electoral agency today, a boost. The county's IEBC returning officer Ruth Kulundu has cleared Ayacko and independent candidate Dickson Ogolla. Ayacko went for the clearance with Uriri MP Mark Nyamita, Suna East MP Junet Mohammed, Awendo MP Walter Owino, County MP Pamela Odhiambo and Nyatike MP Tom Odege who led ODM officials in the exercise. The team addressed party supporters at Posta Grounds in Migori town where they promised to ensure Ayacko wins the seat. It is expected that Solomon Hodo (People Democratic Party), Paul Odhiambo (Kenya National Congress) and Samuel Otieno (Independent) will be given the go-ahead on Friday. “We will have a meeting next week, with those who turn up for clearance, to discuss election schedules,” Kulundu said. She asked them to campaign peacefully and follow all election rules and regulations. Click here for the latest political news