Former MP Bifwoli Wakoli is among politicians who were given new jobs by Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati on Wednesday. Wakoli was made the governor’s adviser on land and emerging issues. Pamela Serut, the wife of former Mt Elgon MP John Serut, was also given a job as adviser on service delivery. Governor Wangamati made the appointments to fill various positions that have remained vacant since the August 8 election. Joseph Wakoli from Bumula constituency was appointed the county secretary to replace Chiuli Murumba, who came from Webuye East. He will be deputised by Isaack Mukenya from Webuye West. Denson Barasa, a headteacher in Nandi county, was nominated chief officer in the office of Deputy Governor Charles Ngome. Chrispinus Nyongesa from Tuti/ Marakaru Ward in Kanduyi was nominated chief officer and head of public service. Maurice Marango from Kimaeti ward in Bumula was nominated the chief officer in the ministry of Roads. John Wekesa from Bokoli ward in Webuye West constituency will serve as the chief officer for agriculture. The governor nominated Aruput Juma as the chief officer for livestock and fisheries. He is the only chief officer the governor has retained from the previous regime. Moses Sichei from Elgon ward in was been nominated chief officer for environment and tourism. Saphia Awili from Township ward in Kanduyi constituency will serve as chief officer for gender and culture Caroline Nekesa from Tongaren ward will serve as chief officer for youths and sports department. Former Kimilili Boys School Principal Patrick Wandili, who was moved to Mukumu Boys in the recent school heads transfers, will be chief officer for health and sanitation. Rose Nafula from Soysambu Mitwa ward in Tongren will serve as chief officer for education and vocational training. Phoebe Bunchunju from Mihuu ward in Webuye East was appointed chief officer in the ministry of ICT and records. Aggrey Fungututi from Bumula ward in Bumula constituency will serve as chief officer for trade, energy and industrialisation. The governor also nominated Christine Wanjala from Musikoma ward in Kanduyi and Bonnie Simiyu from Mihuu ward in Webuye East to the county public service board. Job Chelongo, from Webuye East, will serve as deputy chief of staff. Pamela Mactolo from Township ward in Kanduyi will serve as the county liaison officer in Nairobi. The position was previously held by the late Grace Namuleyi, who died two months ago. Journalist Boniface Nyongesa from Bukembe East ward, who unseccessuly vied for the Senate seat last year, was picked as a public relations officer. Kenneth Nganga, the Bungoma Knut secretary general, was picked as a political advisor to the governor. Nancy Kibaba, a former MCA and Bungoma Woman Rep contestant in last years polls, will advise the governor on gender, youths, sports and boda boda. Chrisantus Wamalwa from South Bukusu ward in Bumula will be an adviser on inter-governmental relations. The advisor on special programmes is Caroline Buyela from Webuye East. Martin Wafula from Maraca ward in Webuye East will be the adiviser on economics and procurement affairs. Cyril Simiyu from Nalondo in Kabuchai will advise the governor on legal affairs. Members of the governors service delivery unit will be Rosmeary Wanaswa, Humphrey Khisa and Vitalis Shikukuku. The governor also appointed the members of the Bungoma Municiupla Board. The appointees are Dougla Wekesa, Edith Shitanda, Jeremia Kuloba, John Munyasia, Walinywa Mukhamule, Jacline Maloba, Justus Barasa, and Jamaal Mohamed. He also appointed the Kimilili Municipal Board members, who include Martin Wanyonyi, Makhapila Mwangale, Cathrine Namalwa, Salome Nanjala, Joseph Mulama, Joseph Masangek, Peter Marango and Lilian Nanjala. The appointees now await approval by the county assembly, which is led by speaker Emmanuel Situma. The governor said chief officers in the remainning five ministries will be named later. Click here for the latest political news