A certain 'file' that nails senior government officials including Cabinet Secretaries is said to have been forwarded to State House for ‘directions’. Corridors is informed that the 'file' recommends prosecution of the officials,a move that has been deferred for two weeks awaiting the green light to proceed. The delay is said to slowing down other cases as detectives concerned cannot proceed without being accused of double standards. Corridors of Power joins the investigators in waiting to see what action is taken on the “file” which will signal the seriousness of the fight against corruption. **** An Asian engineering company subcontracted to install 350 milk cooling tanks might be headed to turbulent clouds. Corridors is informed that investigative agencies including Immigration, KRA, EACC and DCI could be looking into the conduct of the businessmen who were mysteriously awarded the Polish-government sponsored contract, knocking out another company associated with an influential but down to earth and God fearing lady in Kenya's political families. Only time will tell. ***** Is it a show of power? The chairman of an institution under the Ministry of Interior was last Saturday spotted shopping for tiles at a well known stockist on Mombasa Road, Nairobi. What caught the attention of the other shoppers, a source tells Corridors, was the number of bodyguards who accompanied him straight into the shop. One was carrying the chairman’s briefcase while four others tagged along wielding walkie-talkies and clearing the way from one corner of the shop to the other to the amusement to the shoppers. **** The war on counterfeits may be far from over. Reason? A source tells Corridors that a senior officer in one of the agencies tasked with dealing with illicit good is involved in the trade. Not just that, the middle-man with a legal background has been using his position to aid counterfeiters and he is also said to have represented several companies implicated in importation of illegal goods in court despite working for the agency. The man is reportedly building apartments at his rural home town and in Kajiado county. Click here for
the latest political news 