Despite his repeated denials that he is not corrupt, a new survey shows that Kenyans still perceive Deputy President William Ruto as the most corrupt politician. According to a new poll of all the political leaders in Kenya –– current and past but still alive –– 33% of Kenyans still perceive the DP as the most corrupt. The poll interviewed 2,016 respondents across the country with a 95 per cent confidence level. Stop politicising the Handshake President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga said yesterday that their newfound relationship was solid and warned politicians against fighting the handshake. Uhuru said his famous handshake with Raila on the steps of Harambee House on March has a deeper understanding than some politicians think. The two leaders the process leading to their meeting was carefully thought out and fashioned with the ultimate aim of building a stronger, united and cohesive nation. Raila said he opted to shelve his political rivalry between him and Uhuru so as to unite Kenyans and enhance prosperity. Bushmeat business rattles nature lovers Players in the conservation sector say government plans to reintroduce game meat business in restaurants and hotels is a ploy to bring back sport hunting. This comes as the Task Force on Wildlife Utilisation wound up its public hearings on Friday. The task force, gazetted by Tourism and Wildlife CS Najib Balala on March 29, was mandated to propose modalities of reintroducing game meat, culling, game capture and sale as well cropping, among others. Game meat, the ministry said, will boost tourism by making hotels and restaurants competitive in culinary business.  Firm at centre of Kibarani alleged land grab speaks Multiple ICD Kenya Limited on Wednesday dismissed claims it grabbed six parcels in Kibarani and said it bought the land from Umer Sulieman Kara. The company added that it reclaimed part of the Indian Ocean at Kibarani section because there were beacons. The company and 12 others 13 are on the spot for allegedly grabbing the once holding ground for the Livestock and Veterinary Services ministry that partly hosts Kibarani dumpsite. Records from the National Land Commission shows six parcels are registered under Multiple ICD Kenya’s name. Suspended NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri had said all the companies and an individual, Halid Ahmed, illegally and irregularly acquired the land. Banks lending to individuals drops Sh42 billion Households and personal account borrowing dropped by Sh42.43 billion last year from Sh584.55 billion in 2016, according to latest Central Bank of Kenya data. This shows a shift and tightening of lending conditions by banks to borrowers viewed as high risk - mainly individuals and small enterprises -  following the introduction of the rate cap law. The National Treasury plans to amend the law which currently caps the interest charged by banks a four per cent above the prevailing CBK rate which currently stands at 10 per cent. This is expected to bring fairness in the market by providing credit access to risky borrowers. Click here for the latest political news