Parliamentary Trade Committee chairman Kanini Kega has said the sugar report prepared by two committees was not doctored as claimed.Kanini said members of the two committees agreed on everything in the report and appended their signatures. The probe was conducted by the Trade and Agriculture teams.According to the report, sugar tested by Kebs is safe for consumption. Kega said Kebs went to supermarkets in 45 counties and shops in rural areas, except in Mandera and Tana River counties due to logistical issues. Read: Kega, MPs claim final sugar report was doctored He said samples from the two counties have been taken for testing.Kega added that nowhere in the country was presence of heavy metals such as mercury, lead and copper detected. Only the moisture content of the sugar was high.“I want to make it clear because I heard allegations that the report was doctored. I want to tell you as the chairman that the report was not doctored,” he said at a hotel in Nyeri town yesterday.The MP said the contentious issues might have arised from the way lawyers drafted the report in a hurry due to time constraints, saying the disparity was between what members said and what the lawyers wrote. More: Divisions rock MPs probe into unfit sugarHowever, he added that the issue was raised by fellow colleagues and he gave them the go-ahead to rephrase it. Kega said he will factor in the amendments when debating on the report.He said claims that the report was watered down are meant to scuttle the team’s efforts. “This report mentions  the high and mighty; the who is who in the business community,” Kega added. The lawmaker said those mentioned may be behind efforts to scuttle the report.The MP said it is necessary to focus more on the contents of the report, not the sideshows. Information that there was metal in the sugar came from the government chemist who refused to appear before the committees.Kega said the multi-agency team did not cooperate with the committee or officers dispatched to ascertain the claims. He said the committees were shocked that the government chemist was later transfered from the Health to the Interior ministry.He said the committees want to know why the transfer happened at the given time. The committee has recommended that the sugar that was found to be unfit for consumption be destroyed. Also see: Fireworks over sugar as MPs reject report Click here for
the latest political news