The 42-page book is intended to be
the guide for journalists, helping them to understand the issues they will have
to report on. But in practice, it will be of considerable value to all those
who are interested in devolution — among which are state institutions concerned
with the development of the Constitution, and to members of the public, whom
devolution is supposed to benefit, and who may wish to make their own
assessments of how it is working. Listening to the interesting, indeed
passionate, discussions of the role of journalists, Yash realised how so many
of us overlook the importance of journalists — and media in general — in the
development of our perceptions of the state and society, and politics in
particular.  The association is playing a
key role in sensitising its members to economic and social realities — and
their responsibilities. Reading this book, which he was honoured to launch, he realised
how seriously its leaders take their professional responsibilities — and how
critical that is to our understanding of our state and society. The association’s book is of
considerable value to the understanding of devolution as it has developed. As
co-editor of a major, comparative, book on devolution in South Africa and
Kenya, Yash  can vouch for the
professionalism of the association’s study (guided by Gichira Kibara). The type of devolution we have is quite
different from what the Constitution of Kenya Review
Commission and Bomas had proposed: much weaker,
more ethnically biased, and more beholden to the centre.  BOMAS DRAFT The Bomas draft constitution, in 2004,
would have had a rather different system, as Raila Odinga has recently reminded
us. It proposed a four – tier system. Below the national government would have
been 14 regions with their own governments (one was Nairobi in a rather special
position). Below them would have been the districts (74 of them, though those
in Nairobi would be called boroughs). Below them would have been locations –
with their elected councils. The districts would have had less power to make
laws, and would have been more concerned with administering laws made by other
levels. A good deal of detail was left to be worked out, but it is reasonable
to assume that 14 regions would have been more powerful in relation to the
national government than our counties now. And the districts and their
governments would almost certainly have been less puffed-up and self-important,
and perhaps less extravagant. In a curious way, however, it is
harder for the centre to deal with 47 small entities dependent on the centre
than dealing with about 14 entities with considerably greater resources and
power would have been.  IDENTIFYING PROBLEMS The KCA was mostly concerned to help
journalists to understand the system, and to evaluate it for themselves and
their readers and listeners. But to show the sorts of issues that
may arise, and merit reporting and analysis, the book identifies a number of
controversies that have risen, which readers themselves will probably have
noticed hitting the headlines. They characterise these as “supremacy wars”. For
example, the Senate (responsible for protecting the interests of the county
system) and the National Assembly have been at loggerheads (to the extent of
going to court) over how far the Senate is supposed to be involved in lawmaking.
The Nation described this as the
National Assembly’s “never ending war with the
Senate”. The Council of Governors has objected that the
Senate should not be summoning its members to respond to questions about county
finances. County Assemblies have tried to impeach and remove governors. And there are complaints from counties that the
national government has dragged its feet in facilitating counties, fully taking
over some functions assigned to them under the Constitution. And they accuse
the national government of trespassing on devolved functions by passing laws
that should be done by counties, or creating bodies to do things that counties
ought to do, including parastatals.  WHERE DOES THE FAULT LIE? The KCA does not try to assign
blame. But some fingers can be pointed. Occasionally, the Constitution is
less clear that it could be. We saw that with the assignment to counties of “County
health services, including, in particular county health facilities”. What does
this mean: Services in the county, for the county or belonging
to the county? The responsibility for the Level 5 (formerly provincial)
hospitals had to be decided by the courts. And many are not satisfied with the
outcome. The Constitution’s provisions about
the Senate exercising “oversight over national revenue allocated to the county
governments” is also problematic. It came into the constitution making process
in the parliamentary select committee’s hacking at the draft in Naivasha that
year. (The same meeting as gave us the presidential system.) It seems designed
to weaken devolution. Maybe it was some compensation for trying to demote the
Senate to the “lower house”! The problem is that it seems to give to the Senate
a function properly belonging to the county assemblies. But does it mean only “oversight over
how, and how much is allocated to the counties” or “how the money
allocated is spent by the counties”? The courts have decided it means the
latter, but the High Court added, “We therefore urge both
the Senate and County Governments through the Governors, to foster dialogue and
co-operate in the interest of the counties they represent and swore to protect
while taking their oath of office. ….” The courts gave short shrift also to
the scheme to give Senators a hand in planning county policies when it held
unconstitutional an amendment to the County Governments Act, which created the County
Development Board. The High Court said that amendment was “patently
antithetical to the spirit of devolution, the principles of separation of
powers and good governance, as well as the rule of law”. This cannot be laid at
the door of the constitution makers. In the case about what oversight of “national revenue
allocated to the counties” means, the court said, “Superiority contests will
only kill rather than promote devolution”. This, it is suggested (not by the
KCA) is a clue to a major problem: that out politicians somehow think things
are all about them. Their status, power and remuneration (or less legally
acquired resources) seem to take precedence over other considerations like good
governance, and integrity of the constitutional design.  BACK TO THE KCA For journalists and citizens anxious
to understand and either report on or try to enforce the constitution, the
little book launched this week has some useful tips, apart from explaining
clearly how the system is supposed to work. It sensibly proposes more use of the
Access to Information Act (so far largely, and disappointingly, neglected by
the Kenyan media). It suggests what can be considered
when trying to assess how devolution is working. It proposes that it is more
likely to be successful if creating capacity in county governments, sound
planning, and focussing on the quality of services delivered rather than just
the money spent (among other factors) are taken account of. The book outlines the budget
processes (very fully spelled out in the constitution and the law). And it
suggests some approaches for journalists (equally relevant for civil society)
when analysing this often puzzling area. For example, comparing allocations to
different government sectors, understanding where public revenue comes from as
well as where it goes, trying to understand whether spending is guided by
government policy, and using reports of the Auditor General and the Controller
of Budget (one might add of NGOs like the International Budget Partnership).  IMPORTANCE OF MEDIA Only a minority of the public will
personally try to evaluate devolution. We depend on the media. It is
commendable that the KCA are. Under the guidance of William Janaka and his team
are trying to help the profession to inform us more fully and more accurately.  The authors of this article are
Directors of Katiba  Institute 