Knut on Friday warned the teachers' employer TSC against engage primary and secondary school heads associations in matters regarding the 2017-21 CBA. Secretary Wilson Sossion said the Kenya Primary School Heads Association and Kessha are 'non-parties' in labour and industrial action matters. Kepsha chairperson Shem Ndolo and Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association's Indimuli Kahi have distanced themselves from Knut's call for a strike next month. Sossion had threatened to stage the strike if talks between TSC and the union fail. Read: Primary school heads oppose Knut strike plan In a statement on Friday, Sossion said they held a consultative meeting with TSC on Thursday and mutually agreed to form a Monitoring and Evaluation Committee on the nitty-gritty issues facing the union. They include withdrawal of all circulars crafted without the involvement of KNUT, withdrawal of teacher delocalisation policy, appraisals, performance contracts, and promotions. Sossion on Thursday said the policies are causing agony to teachers, citing as an example, the many hours teachers have to spend filling appraisal forms every now and then. He wants teachers to be promoted on the basis of their academic qualifications and not on the basis of their performance after appraisals. Sossion also argued that the delocalisation programme is causing disharmony in families and leading to an upsurge in HIV infections amongst teachers who are separated from their spouses. Also read: Knut, TSC plan five-day retreat to avert September strike On August 15, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the Education Ministry to review the controversial teacher transfers saying they were ruining family relations through unforeseen challenges. The Secretary general reiterated its call for a nation wide strike beginning September 1. "KNUT would like to categorically state that the Union has not vacated its position on the proposed strike as the power of calling off the strike rests with the National Executive Council (NEC)," he said. "And by extension, the strike will only be called off after TSC successfully addresses the fore-mentioned issues," he added. Sossion called on all the teachers not to engage in TPAD and PC saying it undermines the teaching profession. Read: Keep off labour issues, Sossion tells principals for opposing strike plan Click here for the latest political news   