Kabras centre Nick Barasa has been recalled to the Kenya Simbas squad for the final Africa Gold Cup-cum-World Cup qualifier against Namibia this weekend. Barasa has been on the sidelines due to nagging knee and ankle injuries but has been training with the wider squad. He also played for Kabras at the Prinsloo and Sepetuka legs of the Sevens circuit to get himself fit for national team duty. Team manager, Simiyu Wangila, said Barasa’s return gives the team options ahead of the crucial Namibia clash. “It’s good he is back in the squad. We know what he brings since he has been a key player for us but he will have to compete with everyone else to get into the 23-man squad,” said Simiyu. Meanwhile, Simiyu has lauded Willy Ambaka, who put up a commendable display in his Simbas’ debut, scoring two tries in their 67-0 win over Tunisia over the weekend. “He had good game and a high work-rate, linking up play very well between him and the rest of the backs,” observed Simiyu. Simiyu said they will have to cut down on their errors ahead of the match against Namibia. Kenya are second on the log, three points behind holders Namibia. “We had too many ball handling errors which prevented us from scoring more tries and this is one facet of play we have to improve on because, if we don’t, Namibia will exploit that weakness,” added Simiyu. He said past results against Namibia will count for nothing. Kenya have failed to beat the holders at their backyard in the past three encounters, losing 46-12 in 2015 , 56-21 (2016) and 45-7 last year. Simiyu attributed last year’s defeat to poor defence. “We gave away four very soft tries last year and this is something we are rectifying and hopefully, we will not see a repeat,” he added. The Simbas need to beat Namibia by a bonus point to secure direct World Cup qualification. Failure to do so will see Kenya head to the repecharge in Marseille in November, where they will face Canada, Germany and Hong Kong. The team depart tomorrow morning for Windhoek.