Nasa co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to set up a judicial commission of inquiry into the sugar saga. The leaders who held a breakfast meeting yesterday with the Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said parliament could not be trusted following bribery claims to reject the industry joint report. “The solution for this big problem now lies outside Parliament. We have today recorded our disgust and disapproval of how Parliament acted and we want an independent commission of inquiry to look into the matter,” Mudavadi said. “The solution to this now lies outside the House and is squarely in the hands of the President,” Musalia said. They said it is only the commission that will establish the effects of the contraband sugar to Kenyans and the sugar industry at large. They were speaking at a Nairobi hotel. “We have to sort out issues affecting the sugar sector by putting in place long-term solutions. We also have to sort out issues affecting tea, maize and coffee sector since Agriculture is the backbone of our economy,” Wetngula said. Read: Wetangula lauds MPs for rejecting sugar report, asks state to deal firmly with barons They said the rejection by a joint parliamentary committee report on imported sugar indicated that the house was not ready to serve wananchi. The ANC leader said the parliament had an opportunity to look at what ails the sugar sector but has failed. They said public inquiries will name and shame cartels in the sugar sector. The principals’ remarks follow a public outrage following bribery claims in parliament to shoot down the sugar report. “How will Kenyans believe that the MPs who took blue envelopes last week will not take them again this week when the report is tabled again or the process jumpstarts again in the national assembly! It is a case of once beaten twice shy,” Wetangula said. The leaders said Kenya lost SH 10 billion after importers were exempted from tax. They also said the imported sugar exposed Kenyans to health hazards. “Before we met here we had visited the sugar growing zones and all the public sugar companies are on their knees,” Wamalwa said. “The inquiry will provide an avenue for all stakeholders to air their views in public and the public to listen,” Musalia said. Also Read: Kalonzo, Wetangula and Mudavadi want to meet Uhuru for 'dialogue' Click here for the latest political news