Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana has hinted on the possibility of Wiper working with DP William Ruto ahead of 2022. He termed Ruto “a kingmaker” in the Kenyan politics. Kibwana spoke in Makueni on Monday when the DP presided over the launch of the National Youth Week. He said Ruto supported former President Daniel Moi when a majority of the people were against him. The DP, Kibwana said, supported ODM chief Raila Odinga and he became prime minister and in 2013 and 2017, he backed President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We know you are hunting and we are also hunting, but at one time we will have to sit and see how we will go about this game of hunting,” the governor said. In what appeared like a dismissal of the handshake between Raila and Uhuru, Kibwana said “some handshakes are political”. “We know there are two handshakes – one political and the other for development. I’m sure on our part we had a development-oriented handshake,” he said. Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said Ruto is among few leaders who have set a good example in promoting youth leadership. “Ruto has given young leaders an opportunity to go for political positions. That is why we have the youngest governor in Kenya from the region – Governor Stephen Sang of Nandi county,” Mutula said. But the senator said Wiper has a presidential candidate. He said the party candidate will compete against Ruto and there will be a handshake between the winner and the loser. Ruto said such issues and discussions will be sorted out when the right time for politics comes. “I have heard what the leaders here have said. All I can say is that we don’t mind. Politics is not a game for every day. What is important is ensuring our youths get jobs. When that time of politics comes we will deal with this issue because this is our game and we are the best architects,” he said. He said it is a good thing that leaders have chosen to work together for reconciliation and brotherhood. “What we don’t want to see again in this country is politics of hate and ethnicity. That’s why as a government we are supposed to serve all – those who voted us in and those who didn’t,” Ruto said.