The much-hyped merger between ANC and Ford Kenya may have been shelved after all. It has emerged that the leaders could use either of the parties with roots in Western region for the 2022 race. “We’re not dissolving our parties. We shall retain all the parties but work together for a common purpose,” Lugari MP Ayub Savula told the Star on the phone yesterday. “Then we will decide which of the existing parties all those seeking elective positions will join for the polls,” He said they have decided to set “petty interests” aside and work as one unit for the community. “This way, one of those who have declared interest in the presidency will emerge much stronger without being endorsed,” Savula said. Political parties with roots in Western are ANC, Cyrus Jirongo’s United Democratic Party (UDP) and Ford Kenya, which was founded by Jaramogi Oginga Odinga before being taken over by Kijana Wamalwa. But a member of the merger technical team and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale dismissed Savula’s statements as untrue. “I take instructions from Musalia Mudavadi [ANC] and Moses Wetang’ula [Ford Kenya]. If Mudavadi wants to talk to the committee, he does so directly or through Barrack Muluka and if Wetang’ula wants to talks to the committee he does so through me or in person,” he told the Star yesterday. “Treat Savula’s remarks as rumours because they are outside the established channels of communication.” Khalwale said the merger committee is still working and has not received any contrary communication from the two bosses. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula formed a merger technical committee comprising members from their two parties on January 29. The team was tasked to work out structures for a new outfit to replace the parties. On June 23, ANC secretary general, also a member of the technical committee, said the team had finalised the “organic structures”. Mudavadi, Wetang’ula, Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Jirongo have declared they will run for President in 2022. Oparanya, who is one of the two ODM deputy leaders with Mombasa governor Hassan Joho, on Tuesday announced he was ready to ditch ODM for Luhya unity.