Murang’a county government has officially taken over the manage water services and absorbed all water companies’ staff into its payroll. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said he has officially written to the management of water companies informing them of the changes. Staff members, he said, will be required to sign a letter agreeing or declining to be part of the county public service board. "The entire human resource departments of water companies have been handed over to the board and staff members have two days to sign the letter." Wa Iria said the process, however, will not result in any loss of jobs for the staff members. The governor also directed heads of departments at the Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company to relocate to the county headquarters. Also read: Murang'a water companies to be merged into one He said the move is part of the process to consolidate all water companies under one umbrella in order to harmonise water services in the county. "This process will ensure all parts of the county have access to clean and affordable water," Wa Iria said. All liabilities owed by the companies will also be consolidated and a way found to clear the same. Wa Iria said the national government has so far pumped billions of shillings into water projects yet only 40 per cent of the locals have access to water. According to Wa Iria, top managers in the companies have been receiving loans and grants and misappropriating the funds. "All that money would have been enough to provide to connect everyone with tap water," the governor said. He spoke after meeting with MUWASCO’s managing director and heads of departments in his office. Wa Iria also dismissed plans by the firm to establish a Sh4 billion water institute saying it is illogical yet people do not have water. Last month, Water PS Joseph Wairagu confirmed that Muwasco’s proposal to establish the institute had been approved by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation. The PS said ministry had already written to the chairperson of the Kenya Water Institute to open a campus at the county. More on this: Murang'a to build Sh300 million water 'college' to train workers Professor Joseph Kimuri was recently appointed to replace former Equity Bank chairman Peter Munga as Muwasco chairman. Wa Iria said Munga had offered good leadership to the company for the last 16 years but that "it is time for new blood to take over". Click here for the latest political news 