Kenya’s soccer champions Kakamega High has been handed a tough draw for the 17th edition of the Federation of East Africa Secondary Schools Sports Association championships to be held in Musanze, Rwanda as from August 10 to 20. Kakamega will seek to regain the title which was last won by Barding in Eldoret in the year 2016. The Green Commandos have been paired in Pool ‘B’ against B.S Kimanya of Uganda, Nyerere Memorial of Tanzania, CIP Mshanga and College Karambi of Rwanda. Kenya’s other representatives Olbolsat have an herculean task against Alliance from Tanzania, Rwanda’s LDK, defending champions St Mary’s Kitende and Buddo from Uganda in Pool ‘A’. “It is a good draw and we hope to do well. Our team is very good but we are wary of defending champions St Mary’s Kitende,” said Kakamega High School principal Gerald Orina. In the girls’ category, Kenya’s champions Kwale and Archbishop Njenga will seek to return the title which was last year won by Wiyeta. Kwale have been paired with Tanzania’s Makongo, St Noah of Uganda and GS Nyange from Rwanda in Pool ‘A’ while in Pool ‘B’ GS Ramera (Rwanda), Mukono High (Uganda), AB Njenga (Kenya) and Tanzania’s Alliance will face off. In boys’ basketball, Kenya’s Sigalame have been drawn in Pool ‘A’ together with APE Rugunda from Rwanda, Sseta Main (Uganda), Lord Baden Powell (Tanzania) and Buddo (Uganda). Kenya’s champions Laiser Hill face Kibulu (Uganda), LDK (Rwanda), Galanos (Tanzania) and College Marie (Rwanda) in Pool ‘B’ Girls’ basketball defending champions Buddo from Uganda will start their campaign in Pool ‘B’ against Kenya queens Kaya Tiwi, LDK  (Rwanda) and Luyanzi (Uganda). Kenya’s other representatives Burete Girls are in Pool ‘B’ and will play the preliminary round with St Mary’s Kitende (Uganda), Kizuka (Tanzania), St Bernadette and Adegi (Rwanda). The draws were done at the National Sports Council offices in Kampala on Wednesday under the chairmanship of Feasssa president Justus Mugisha. Kenya will be seeking to win the fourth straight title. In Gulu, Uganda last year, Kenya emerged winners with 11 gold, seven silver and 10 bronze medals beating the hosts to second place.