Every criticism against Nairobi governor Mike Sonko is met by an outburst or a standard response that the matter has either been forwarded to DCI or relevant agencies for investigation. Critics are branded as thieves with the slogan, mwizi ni mwizi. Is this the governor’s way of silencing critics and avoiding to be held to account? Well, Corridors has learnt most of the cases the governor purports to have referred to relevant agencies don’t actually go beyond his social media accounts. Is the governor dropping the names of DCI, EACC to intimidate critics? ***** Staying with Nairobi, what happened to Sonko’s campaign pledge that he will reform the askaris so they can enforce county laws in a humane manner? According to victims of their excesses, the rogue askaris have become more lethal and bold. Some run extortion rings and others rob passersby during raids. Victims want the askaris to wear uniform with clearly marked badges for identification. ***** A flamboyant and loud-mouthed politician notorious for his sexual escapades with women in his rather large family is a deeply disappointed father. He drove to his Nairobi home without notice last week only to stumble upon his teenage daughter cavorting with a boyfriend she had invited, confident her father would not be back that afternoon. The politician reprimanded the mischievous pair but on second thought decided to teach the young man, in his 20s, a lesson. He called the police who quickly bundled the college student into a vehicle and locked him at a city station. The poor youth’s desperate pleas to be forgiven fell on deaf ears. It was not lost on observers that the politician has himself been the architect of marital strife in his family. ***** Those who created the illegal ‘directorate’ that neutered the KWS director general’s executive authority leading to one member being paid Sh25,000 per day should be prosecuted together with the recipient of the money. This is the prayer of officers at KWS. They say the money was more than a ranger’s basic pay for the month. Given the occupant didn’t deliver any results, therefore no value for taxpayers’ money, and that the position was not filled competitively, shouldn’t an investigation be commenced? ***** The campaign against corruption is causing sleepless nights to those who have irregularly acquired wealth. Corridors is informed that some are selling off their ill-gotten property while those being seized will either be auctioned or handed over to government institutions. One such property in Nairobi will be given to a tourism parastatal. Click here for
the latest political news