Meru MCAs are unhappy about a shortlist for 260 jobs in the county. The vacancies are for nurses, ward and subcounty administrators. Abogeta West MCA Dennis Kiogora on Tuesday said the qualifications of the shortlisted candidates is not indicated, nor is the criteria used to pick them. “The County Public Service Board should borrow a leaf from Nyeri county who revealled at least 10 details of those shortlisted. In our county, we are only given identification cards numbers and some are even missing,” he said at Gatimene gardens after holding a meeting with youths. Kiogora said the CPSB has only five members after others were ejected through a court process. “We are wondering how five people can shortlist 12,000 applications in 10 days unless they are performing miracles. We would like to see these miracles they are performing,” he said. “In one category - road mentainance technicians - there were 10 vacancies and only 10 were shortlisted. Instead of a public relations gimmick, give them appointment letters.” Kiogora said the the public service board has already predetermined those who will be employed. A case challenging the shorlist has been filed before the High Court in Embu. Seven job applicants are petitioners in the case before Justice Francis Gikonyo. They filed a suit on Tuesday to stop Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s administration from interviewing the shortlisted candidates. Gikonyo certified the matter as urgent and directed an inter partes hearing next Wednesday. The seven petitioners are Wilfred Murithi, Douglas Mbae, Christopher Mwiti, Patrick Kirigia, Martin Mwenda, Francis Curukia and Adam Yassin. Kiogora said the CPSB should revise the list and “make room for deserving candidates”. He said the ward and human resource audits should be made public so residents know how the county is fairing on in terms of regional balance and access to opportunities. The CPSB members have been summoned to appear before the Meru assembly on Monday to explain the shortlisting. Kiegoi MCA Kimathi Ithibua said it is not a given that shortlisted candidates should get the jobs. “We want the committe on Labour in the assembly to investigate the claims of unfairness,” he said. Ithibua said all wards should be represented when hiring. Nominated MCA Mary Kanana said the shortlisting is not fair to residents because “many people do not come from the county”. She said medics who have worked at county hospitals for a while and were sent abroad for further studies have not made it to the shortlist. Kanana said the CPSB should be disbanded. Muthara MCA Kinyua Nturibu said the CPSB should explain the criteria used to shortlist the candidates. “I know of a person who has a PhD and applied for ward admnistrator position and he was not shortlisted,” he said. The MCAs said their wards were left and few youths made it to the shortlist.