A meeting between Nyamira governor John Nyagarama and the executive last Friday rescued him from an impending impeachment motion by some MCAs. Health workers have been on strike over unpaid salaries and there is a general go-slow in all county facilities. Speaker Moffat Teya on Wednesday last week distanced himself and the entire assembly from the crisis, saying the executive is to blame. “The assembly did its part and passed the budget in June in line with the law. How the salaries are unpaid remains a matter the executive should handle and explain,” Teya said in a statement. incompetent A group of MCAs had said they would draft an impeachment motion to send the entire executive home, citing incompetence. Operations in health centres and the county referral hospital have been at a standstill after medics went on strike over nonpayment for two months. Bogichora MCA George Abuga said the executive should be sacked because “they have shown their incompetence”. “It is a big shame for the county to experience unnecessary deaths of innocent residents because our health facilities are not working. “The executive should be sacked with immediate effect as we cannot watch as our people die over something that can be avoided,” Abuga said. However, a meeting at the governor’s residence that lasted three hours resolved that Nyagarama assent to the Sh6.5 billion budget. A committee of 10 was formed to look into controversial issues in the county government. “The county assembly speaker, MCAs and the governor held a meeting and resolved that the budget will be signed by the governor,” a source said. go-slow The executive was reluctant to assent to the budget due to the increased budget of the assembly by five percent contrary to the Finance Act, 2012, which might have prompted the call for the meeting between the executive and the assembly on Friday. The meeting is where the crisis was discussed broadly, especially the go-slow in the the health department which has led to a strike of over two months.