A man has left Kenyans on Twitter pleading on his behalf after he asked the Kenya police to give him a woman to marry. “Hey @PoliceKE najua mwenye hii handle ni dem I am single..nataka dem askari,” User @OsamaOtero tweeted on Saturday. (I know the owner of this handle, it’s a woman, and I am single. I want a police woman for a girlfriend) But the handler tweeting for the police told off the man saying that he was wrong about the person who was in charge. “Kulingana na matokeo ya #TwitterVAR umeng’oa,kwa hivyo jaribu kwingine,” @PoliceKE said. (Depending on #TwitterVAR, you are wrong, try somewhere else) This post which attracted mixed reactions from Kenyans left others pleading on the man's behalf. "Katika hiyo hali ya utumishi kwa wote, peana number atumikie Boychild." @ThisIsKayeli said. (Since you are in the mood for service, give the man a phone number) "Connect him with one," @enokkipruu said. @ef570647492a416 said "Apewe ata kama ni mpishi asirudi bure."(Please give him even a cook so that he doesn't leave here empty handed) "Mtafutieni hata kama ni NYS ..ninja amefungua roho...na pia anarepresent wengi sana," @msaniibutu said. (You can give him somebody from NYS, he has opened his heart and is representing most of us) @EKmwanzo said "Pea boy child afande mmoja mwenye ametoka Kiganjo jameni." (Give the boy child a police woman from Kiganjo) But the police said "Ona huyu...Hapati...(Look at this person, he is not getting any)" Others asked the police to give the man a job in the Industrial area since he looked idle. "Mpatieni job ya Kuosha hata choo Industrial area. (let him wash toilets in Industrial area)," @Kathansojah said. @indegwa said "Huyu apewe tuu P3 kwasababu ameumia roho sasa.(This man should just be given a P3 form since his heart is broken)" "I think through this handle you can redeem your relationship with the public.... its working. Kudos afande," @EdgarSirEddie said. @kiraitheamos1 said "Enyewe ni dame askari but ni wa mtaa.(The truth is, this handler is a woman but from the slums)" "leave the boy child to prosper, if you're here not to have fun just log off, sometimes things are not serious," @kangethe67 said. Click here for the latest political news