Panic swept the Judiciary yesterday after Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu was arrested and charged with corruption. The DCJ in the Judiciary is the equivalent of the Deputy President in the Executive. Police sources said a number of judges and magistrates, together with judiciary officials, are under investigation for suspected corruption. Police were gathering evidence about judges who had taken bribes to influence rulings, including in poll petitions. Garbage business in Nairobi chokes under extortion, unfair competition Garbage collection in Nairobi’s 85 wards remains one of the biggest problems any leader at City Hall has to contend with. Unknown to many Nairobi residents is that the garbage menace has
created a multimillion-shilling industry over the years, one that is
firmly in the hands of cartels that seem to operate above the law. The Star has established that unfair competition, extortion and
intimidation are among the strategies used to lock out new companies
trying to venture into the business. Many of these have ended up closing
shop, losing millions of shillings in investments. Why heroin’s popularity is increasing in city slums A gram of heroin is cheaper than a beer and it’s getting very popular in informal settlements with many jobless youth. Githurai,
Mathare, Dandora and Kibera are among areas with the highest number of
users. A gram of heroin on average sells for Sh100 and Sh150. Vincent
Mutua, a Nacada board member, told the Star the primary reason for
escalation in heroin use is the high rate of unemployment. Bad blood between Wa Iria, Munga that caused Murang’a water crisis The fight between Governor Mwangi Wa Iria and former Equity Bank
chairman Peter Munga, which has disrupted Murang’a town water supply,
dates back long before the governor was elected in 2013. Early
this month, Wa Iria chose a business expert and environmentalist to
replace Munga as the chairman of Muwasco. "Effective immediately, Munga
ceases to be the chairman of Muwasco," the notice published on August 15
reads. Wa Iria said there were suspicious activities in the company under Munga. Grabbers must fund Kibarani park, says lobby Private developers who were illegally allocated land at the Kibarani dumpsite should be compelled to fund a recreational park, a lobbygroup has said. Big Ship, an environmental lobby based in Mombasa, said that although some developers have surrendered land, their activities had already done significant damage. The Mombasa county government has ordered the Kibarani dumpsite shut down and the area turned into a recreational park. Your Weather NAIROBI: Cloudy. Low 12ºC. High 21ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Partly cloudy. Showers late at night. Low 21ºC.High 28ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. KISUMU: Thunderstorms. Low 18ºC. High 27ºC. Winds SW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 90%. Click here for the latest political news