The remaining stalls at Mutindwa market were on Tuesday demolished as City Hall continues its operation to bring down illegal structures on road reserves. The first structures demolished last month were erected along the wall of Bidii Primary School, which is located on Sonko Road in Buruburu Estate. The structures were declared illegal by the City Hall Inspectorate department because they were built on road reserves and were less than four metres from the railway line. City Hall director of operations Peter Mbaya yesterday said besides the structures being illegal, the traders were risking their lives by conducting business near the railway line. “In case of any accident, the traders can be victims. Like the maize sellers who usually operate on the railway line and when they hear the train hooting, they move to the side then come back once it has gone. That is risky,” he said. Mbaya said the remaining traders were given notice to vacate on August 1 when the askaris demolished the structures last month. “We couldn’t demolish the whole market at once so we gave them a notice of eviction,” he said. Yesterday morning, traders gathered pieces of wood which were once used as roofs for their structures. Some traders said they received the notice on the planned demolition. “We had known the askaris were coming last week, but we decided to carry on with our businesses until yesterday,” Kenneth Ngugi said. Miriam Busolo said, “It is painful to see what you once called a business place become pieces of wood. Where will I start from?” Kenya Urban Roads Authority is building a footbridge close to where the structures had been built . Last November, Kura ordered traders at Mutindwa market who were along Outering Road to move to create room for expansion of the service lane. illegal structures Some structures were pulled down, but traders crept back and set up their structures close to the railway line. About 4,000 buildings are earmarked for demolition in an operation to clear illegal structures in Nairobi. In Kileleshwa, a Java coffee house within Shell petrol station and perimeter walls of several residential apartments were pulled down. Some of the apartments were discharging effluent into the river. Several kiosks, billboards and a swimming pool were also cleared. Yesterday morning, bulldozers descended on the Sh1 billion Southend mall owned by former Bobasi MP Stephen Manoti. The demolition operation is being conducted by a multi-agency task force comprising Nema, Kura and the Nairobi government. The operation is being led by the Nairobi Regeneration team appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta last December to clean and reclaim Nairobi River and grabbed land. The scenic river’s path has been invaded by dumping and unscrupulous developers. In May, the team identified over 600 pollution points along the stream and acknowledged the urgency of the clean-up. Nairobi Central Business District chief Julius Wanjau, who is in charge of the operation, said the owners of the buildings had been issued with three months and extra seven days notices to vacate. 