MPs have dealt a blow to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ambitious housing plan contained in the Big Four agenda. On Wednesday, MPs unanimously rejected government’s proposal to raid taxpayers’ pocket to finance the 500,000 housing units by the government. The units were to be realised in five years had lawmakers approved the proposal. The housing project was to be fully financed by Kenyans with every employee contributing 0.5 per cent of his or her gross salary. Employers – according to the budget proposal – were to match by a similar contribution up to a maximum of Sh5,000. Read:Uhuru discusses affordable housing plan with lawmakers, Cotu  Earlier, the Ministry of Housing wanted Kenyans to pay five per cent of their gross salaries, but Treasury slashed it to 0.5 percent in the June budget. In the Finance Bill, 2018 the government proposed establishment of the National Housing Development Fund to manage the project. This, according to Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, would lead to the construction of up to 2,000 modern housing units in each of the 47 counties and were to be allocated under a lottery scheme. But MPs viewed such a move as an unnecessary burden on the taxpayers. With the MPs move, the project, seen to be the cure for the housing shortage, seems to have faced a windfall and might not be realised during Uhuru’s second and last term. Read:Kenyans fund housing plan  VAT But the President still can return the Finance Bill to the House with a memorandum making further suggestions. “Parliament has been accused of not being sensitive to the needs of the people and it is today that we need to a rise to the occasion,”  National Assembly Minority leader Junet Mohammed said. He had also successfully moved an amendment to postpone the 16 per cent VAT on fuel by two years. Workers and employers had also warned against the housing tax claiming it was unnecessary. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union, Institute of Economic Affairs all voiced reservations against the housing proposal. World Bank in its latest edition of the Kenya economic Update puts the country’s cumulative housing gap at two million units. Click here for the latest
political news