National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale yesterday took a swipe at the Chief Kadhi, saying he divided the  Muslim community over the  Idd ul-Adha celebration date. Chief Kadhi Ahmed Muhdhar had announced that Idd-Ul-Adha will be celebrated today, but Interior CS Fred Matiang’i announced it to be yesterday. On Saturday, Sheikh Muhdhar faulted Matiang’i for declaring Tuesday the public holiday to mark Eid-Ul-Adha. Muhdhar said the announcement violated his advice that the celebrations be marked on Wednesday, August 22, in line with the Muslim calendar. “I wrote to him before the announcement, indicating that Muslims would celebrate Idd on Wednesday but he went ahead to declare Tuesday a public holiday,” Muhdhar told the Star on the phone. But yesterday Duale said, “Muslims in Kenya will be part of the Muslims everywhere else in the world.” He said Idd ul-Adha is anchored in the Hajj pilgrimage. “The five days of Hajj are one of the most important days when the pilgrims are on Mount Arafat. And the second day after Mount Arafat is when Idd ul-Adha is. The Chief Kadhi should tell us where his Mount Arafat is other than the one outside the holy city of Mecca,” Duale said. “The chief Kadhi is out of order and cannot divide the Muslim Umma in Kenya. We will not allow you to do that.” Duale spoke to the press in General Mohamud Idd grounds, when he joined thousands of Muslims for the Idd ul-Adha celebrations. He said under Article 170 of the Constitution, the Kadhi’s court has three function — marriage, divorce and inheritance. Duale said the Chief Kadhi should concentrate on these three core functions. “He has no business guiding Muslims on the day they should perform their Idd ul-Adha or Eid Al-Fitr,” the Garissa Township MP said. Duale said they are going to write to the Judicial Service Commission, “where we have a Muslim member”. “He should take me very seriously because this time we will deal with him. We will not allow the Chief Kadhi to divide the Muslim community and Umma on ethnic and regional basis,” he said. Duale urged all the Muslims, the national Muslim forums, the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims and Imams to tell the Chief Kadhi ‘he is out of order.’ “We don’t hear or see him in the development of Islam in Kenya, Islamic functions. We only see him when he wants to divide the Muslim community in Kenya,” he said. Duale told the Chief Kadhi he is paid his salary by the taxpayer,  adding , “The office of the Chief Kadhi belongs to the Muslim community and you will not use that office to divide us.”