Besieged National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri will access his former office only if the commission’s CEO authorises him to go back. In a ruling delivered yesterday, Anti-corruption chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi said the former NLC chairman could only go back after writing a letter to the CEO. The court ruled that Swazuri, being a state officer acting as the chairman of the commission, should seek clearance before he can enter his former office. The magistrate further said the EACC has to make appropriate arrangements to ensure contacts with prosecution witnesses against Swazuri are minimised. Further, the court said all the other public officers in the case are barred from accessing their offices unless there is prior authorisation by the respective heads of department. The court declined to vary the orders on accessing bail but further clarified it had not barred Swazuri from going to his office. It had only put measures to safeguard witnesses who are employees at the commission. Through his lawyer Tom Ojienda, Swazuri said he is a state officer and his tenure at NLC is secured by law. Ojienda asked the court to review its earlier orders and interpret the orders given that he could go to the office while accompanied by a police officer. The court had been told there is confusion on its order since the EACC understood that to mean the investigation officer should accompany him to office. Swazuri says he has a police officer attached to him, which means he can go to the office with the said officer. Ojienda also said the commission is in crisis because Swazuri is not in office. The prosecution alleges that Swazuri and his co-accused conspired to pay more millions as compensation for public land that was irregularly acquired. The prosecution said they all conspired to commit crimes which led to the loss of Sh222,375,000 of public funds, in payments for three pieces of land belonging to the KRC. Others charged are commission secretary Tom Chavangi and directors Salome Munubi, Francis Mugo, Gladys Muyanga (Ministry of Lands) and Obadiah Wainaina (surveyor). Also read:NLC split as Swazuri fights back over job  