Makueni county today hosts governors for a benchmarking exhibition. Governor Kivutha Kibwana has welcomed his colleagues for the peer-to-peer learning conference in Wote town. Public participation and universal healthcare are some of the facets of devolution the county chiefs are expected to deliberate. They will also share their devolution experience. "We’re happy to be the first county to host this event. This initiative allows the counties to share devolution experience and learn from one another," Kibwana said. He said a participatory approach to devolution would ensure only the projects that make sense to the people are prioritised. The county governments will compare notes on governance strategies, successes and challenges. The World Bank and other development partners have funded the event. "Each county has a story to tell. This kind of conference allows us to listen to our stories and borrow ideas," Kibwana said. The Council of Governors has also come up with Maarifa Centre to share major development successes. Its secretariat compiles county-specific case studies. Kibwana said residents have become accustomed to public participation. "After the county adopted the approach, even MPs have emulated it in the implementation of their constituency development plans, making it easy for various agencies to avoid duplicating what other partners have already taken up,” he said. Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau said public participation has made it easy for Makueni to prioritise residents’ needs. "Every financial year, we reach out to the people. Each time the county government plans to carry out some projects, the public is consulted," she said. "They also have the mandate to manage their projects through project management committees. Through that cases of corruption or mismanagement are minimised." County secretary Paul Wasanga said the World Bank has recognised Makueni because of its people-driven approach to leadership. “Nothing happens before it is endorsed by the people. This idea allows the people to have a conversation and agree on what projects they want. We come in as the government to implement what the people want,” he said. Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said the Senate is working on a bill to promote proper public participation to eliminate the problems faced by other counties. "The Senate will ensure counties do not face obstacles when legalising public participation," he said.