The 'Mighty Kogallo' on Saturday in a spirited show humiliated their bitter rivals AFC Leopards to a 2-0 win to lift their 17th unprecedented SportPesa Premier League title. Boniface Omondi and Bernard Ondiek's first half goals is all that Gor side needed to complete a double over their eternal rivals in a clash marred by acts of hooliganism. Following the victory, Gor was crowned champions in front of their fierce rivals with six game to spare after opening unassailable 23-point gap at the summit. Earlier on, AFC fans had protested accusing referee Felix Ekai over poor officiating but could not limit Gor Mahia from dominating the show during the chaotic 'Mashemeji derby' at Kasarani Stadium. AFC's Wvyonne Isuza wasted a chance to bring Ingwe back into the game on the stroke of halftime after he missed his penalty kick. Leopards earned a penalty after Charles Momanyi handled the ball in the box, but Isuza missed it to the disappointed of Ingwe fans. This was just a few moments after the game had been interrupted for ten minutes due to the crowd trouble. Fans started uprooting seats and throwing them onto the pitch after the referee failed to make a call on dangerous tackle by Samuel Onyango on Baker Lukooya in the build up to the second goal. After the final whistle, jubilant Gor fans stormed into the pitch to celebrate their title triumph with the players It was a perfect morale booster for Dylan Kerr's men ahead of Wednesday's CAF Confederations Cup crunch tie against USM Alger in Algeria. He added, "I think we dominated the game. I have faith in all my players and I am happy they have won us a title. It is an amazing to have lifted the trophy against our rivals. Save for the disappointment scene after the second goal, it is an amazing feeling to have lifted the trophy against our rivals". Ingwe's coach Rodolfo Zapata conceded defeat and congratulated Gor for retaining the title. "The boys played their hearts out. This is work in progress. But congratulation to Gor for winning the League title," he said.