Was former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka’s decision to
appear in court as part of Deputy Chief Justice Phillomena Mwilu’s counsel political?
The Wiper Leader and the political kingpin of Ukambani politics addressed the
court briefly in about ten minutes in a rare move. Kalozo, a lawyer myself,
who has every right to represent a client in court, lifted the lid on what appears
to be the political undertones surrounding Mwilu’s prosecution.  Many lawyers who addressed the court maintained
that Mwilu’s prosecution was political and ill-timed to end her flourishing legal
career.  In matters Devolution, one of the governors under the radar
of Ethics and Anti-Corruption has apparently panicked and is tampering with evidence
at the county offices. The evidence is crucial for the anti-graft agency to tie
a watertight case against the county chief known for living large. A mole working
in the county has intimated to Corridors of Power about a well-orchestrated plot
involving theft of sensitive computers from key offices. Hired goons have been
working in cahoots with some county staff to smuggle out the all-important evidence
needed to nail the governor. While the governor is determined to defeat
justice, it is also worth noting that a mysterious fire gutted specific offices
last year destroying crucial county's documents.  A governor from one of the
Western region counties has reportedly transferred all staff from one of the
regions sub-tribe claiming they have been spying on him.  The governor who was recently indicted by
EACC claims his tribulations were caused by the actions of the junior staff who
secretly recorded his activities and submitted the same to the anti-graft agency.
Unhappy with the leaks, the governor has shuffled most of the staff he believes
were behind the information that led to his prosecution. While the governor is
well known for plundering of public resources and living a very extravagant
lifestyle, it would be immoral and against the rule of natural justice to
condemn officers unheard. Most of the transferred staff were sent to interior
areas as form of punishment.