EACC detectives on Wednesday interrogated 19 Nairobi MCAs over bribery allegations. The Labour committee members were questioned after an audio recording with claims they were bribed to alter a report emerged. Utalii MCA Wilson Ochola, a member of the panel, claims in the recording that the MCAs were bribed with Sh1 million. It is alleged that the money was for them to doctor a report on the controversial award of Sh1.3 billion medical cover to an insurance firm. The committee was probing the controversial award of the lucrative tender. Ochola claimed in the audio that the money was given out by the director of the insurance firm. He alleged the director gave out Sh5 million for the members but Public Service executive Vesca Kangogo, who was to deliver the cash, only paid out Sh1 million. The incident allegedly took place in Mombasa in May. Ochola was the first member to record the statement with the detectives. He disowned the audio. Kangogo also denied bribing the MCAs. The grilled MCAs are Peter Wanyoike (Dandora 1 and chairman of the committee), Geoffrey Mbuthia (Mwiki), Peter Kimuhu (Ngando), Antony Kimemia (Harambee), Susan Kavaya (nominated), Chrisphine Mbugua (nominated), Beatrice Gakuru (nominated), and Habiba Hussein (nominated). Others are Eve Malenya (nominated), Laura Mwololo (nominated), Jared Akama (Mugumoini), Eunice Wanjiku (nominated), Evans Otiso (Kwa Reuben), Esther Nyangweso (nominated), Fuad Mohamed (Airbase), Margaret Wanjiru (nominated), Role Ogonda (Kware), John Ngaga (Mutuini), and Utalii’s Ochola. EACC communications officer Yassin Amaru did not respond to phone calls and text messages on the investigation. MCA Akama told the Star that they recorded statement in batches at the Integrity Centre. On Tuesday, the MCAs were up arms in the chamber over the summons. They claimed that they were being intimidated and wondered how their names reached the EACC without passing through the Powers and Privileges Committee. "For this issue to reach this far, it means that someone is pushing and make sure the members are taken to EACC. It is not happening for the first time," Warutere said. "As a House, we must stand for our rights and we can clearly see that what is happening is pure malice," the Roysambu MCA said. His Waithaka counterpart Antony Kiragu claimed that there was someone working tirelessly to intimidate, frustrate and instill fear in the assembly. Click here for the latest political news 