Communities living in Trans Nzoia that do not practice circumcision have asked the national government to protect them from being forced to take part in the ongoing Bukusu circumcision. The uncircumcised men from Turkana, Teso, and Luo communities have lamented that hundreds of youths from among them are forced to undergo the cut every season it is conducted. Without giving specific cases, the lot told journalists that this has been happening against their cultural beliefs and stance on the practice. Peter Etyang, 33, said that he is relocating from Kipsongo slum together with his two sons after a group of Bukusu youth threatened to circumcise men in his family before the month ends. "At my age, I don’t see the meaning of getting circumcised as I have been living like this for many years and my wife has not complained. I am fleeing to Busia because I know that these boys are capable of anything," he said. Etyang revealed that since he moved to Trans Nzoia in the early 90s, he has been changing residences during the circumcision period after witnessing some of his close friends being forced to face the knife. He asked the security agents to increase surveillance in the region adding that his main fear is the hygienic conditions of the tools used in the circumcision, especially in the wake of increased cases of HIV infections. "It is not that we fear to face the knife but have to cautions of our health. These people can use one knife on many people. It is a matter of safety not even traditions as some may think." For Maxwell Lokori,18, he plans to travel to Lodwar until December saying he’s not ready to be circumcised since his traditions do not permit the same. He said his fellow boda boda riders have sent him away from the waiting bay where he has been working from for the past one year. "I survive through the boda boda business and I think these threats from my colleagues are real because I have witnessed several cases where young men like me have been undressed in front of children and women before being forced to face the knife." In 2016, more than 12 men from the Turkana community were forcefully circumcised, prompting human right organisations in the county to intervene. This year, human rights group Peace and Justice Center (JPC) programme officer Boniface Wanyoike has asked the government to protect Kenyans against this practice. He accused the security organs of laxity when it comes to the matter of forced circumcision adding that the practice has been ongoing for decades and yet no person has ever been apprehended to face charges of inflicting body injuries on underage boys who cannot make decisions on their own. He said some circumcisers have even gone to the extent of circumcising street children without offering additional help to them like money to purchase drugs. The activist warned that if the authorities will not intervene, the lives of many street children will be immensely affected. However, Bukusu elders are now calling upon the region's rights groups and NGOs to stop interfering with their culture. Peter Masinde of the Bukusu council of elders Trans Nzoia chapter asked religious bodies and NGOs to allow Bukusus practice their culture that they have been observing for centuries. Masinde said that some churches and NGOs are planning to lure parents and the initiates with gifts and free circumcision services to evade the traditional process. Read: Circumcisers sanctify knives as Bukusu boys prepare for the cut Click here for the latest political news 