The rains that pounded Nairobi on Monday are expected to continue until Saturday, the weatherman has said. A similar situation is expected over the Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley and the central and south Rift Valley during the first half of the forecast period. Central and its environs are expected to experience wet conditions during the same period, with cool and cloudy early mornings. “Strong winds are expected over the western, eastern and coastal region for much of the forecast period,” the weatherman said. Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia are likely to experience morning rains over few places, giving way to sunny intervals for most days during the forecast period. Afternoon and evening showers and thunderstorms are expected over several places. “Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will experience sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy skies in the evening with a possibility of morning rains and afternoon or evening showers and thunderstorms.” Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta counties are likely to experience mainly sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy skies in the evening. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale are likely to experience sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy skies in the evening for much of the forecast period. However, there is a possibility of morning showers in a few places between Friday and Monday. Heavy rainfall is expected over the Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley and the central and south Rift Valley during the first half of the forecast period. Parts of the central highlands, including Nairobi, are likely to experience wet conditions during the same period. Cool and cloudy early mornings are likely to continue over the central highlands, including Nairobi, and parts of the southeast lowlands. Strong winds are expected over the northwestern, eastern side and the coastal region for much of the forecast period.