Multiple ICD Kenya Limited yesterday dismissed claims it grabbed six parcels in Kibarani. It said it bought the land from Umer Sulieman Kara. It added that it reclaimed part of the Indian Ocean at Kibarani section because there were beacons. The company and 12 others 13 are on the spot for allegedly grabbing the once holding ground for the Livestock and Veterinary Services ministry that partly hosts Kibarani dumpsite. Records from the National Land Commission shows six parcels are registered under Multiple ICD Kenya’s name. NLC suspended chairman Muhammad Swazuri had said all the companies and an individual, Halid Ahmed, illegally and irregularly acquired the land. Swazuri said the land remains a holding ground because it has not been degazetted. President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the NLC to revoke the title deeds and revert the land to the county government to be used for recreation purposes. Yesterday, Multiple ICD Kenya Limited lawyer John Diro appeared before the NLC at the Kenya School of Government for public inquiries and investigations on Kibarani property. NLC vice chairman Abigael Mbagaya said an ICD and eight-storey building developed by Multiple could be brought down. "The Constitution and the Land Act say the water cannot be allocated to a private individual," she said. The law says "the territorial sea, the exclusive economic zone and the sea bed" are public land. "Public land shall not be disposed or used except in terms of an Act of Parliament specifying the nature and terms of that disposal or use," it adds. The NLC will issue a verdict on September 14. "Even if developers chose not to appear, we shall still release our report," Mbagaya said. Diro said the company consolidated four parcels to get loans from the Kenya Commercial Bank and the National Industrial Credit Bank. He did not specify the amount and how long the charge would run. "After completing the formalities, the four titles were surrendered and a new one issued on September 2009," he told the commission. He said the firm has requisite documents to prove ownership. "We’ll submit copies of title deeds, registered transfer of land with receipts of payment and stamp duties, copies of land rates and receipts paid for fiscal year 2017-18 will be produced," he said. Ancient Inland Seas Limited owns three parcels and Makupa Transit own one. They promised to appear before the commission tomorrow. By press-time, M.Tech Building Works, Wedam Limited, Garissa Holdings Limited and Roosevelt Limited had not appeared before the commission. There are fears Mombasa is losing its island status because of sea reclamation. National Assembly Environment committee said only 100 metres separate Mombasa and the mainland. Mbagaya said Unesco will de-list Mombasa if no intervention is taken. She said this will strike a blow to the tourism industry that employs thousands.