Two Nation Media Group journalists were arrested on Wednesday for recording construction that blocks a beach in Mombasa. Cameraman Karim Rajan and photojournalist Laban Walloga were arrested at around 2.30 pm, said their colleague Mohammed Ahmed, who is a Daily Nation scribe. They were taken Bamburi police station for taking photos and recordings of the construction of Dolphin Hotel. NTV said on Twitter that the two were earlier roughed up by workers at the site of the multi-billion shilling establishment in Shanzu. The station said the hotel is reportedly owned by a top government official and blocks the beach. The site borders Flamingo By PrideInn Hotel. It was said that Rajan and Wallogo had been with two of their colleagues who escaped arrest by hiding. "They are still in custody. I don't understand why they have to be punished for doing their jobs," Ahmed said. Human rights groups have called for the unconditional release of the two. “Haki Africa wishes to categorically state that there is no private beach in Kenya. We demand the immediate, unconditional release of the two and subsequent arrest of those behind the journalists’ ordeal,” executive director Hussein Khalid said in a statement to newsrooms. Mombasa county commissioner Evans Achoki directed the Star's reporters to the area OCPD for comment. Kisauni OCPD Sangura Musee said he was not aware but that he would follow up. By SMS, Mombasa police commander Johnstone Ipara said he would call back. He did not answer calls that were made later. Malemba Mkongo, the chairman of the Mombasa chapter of the Kenya Union of Journalists, noted the need to work without harassment. “These are very experienced journalists. We need an explanation from police on whether the two violated any laws,” Mkongo said. The hotel has been under construction for about a year. Rajan and Walloa were released later in the day. The encroachment comes in the wake of another intrusion at Kibarani dumpsite. The ocean has been reclaimed and only 100 meters is left before Mombasa loses its island status. Read: Inconsistent laws to blame for encroachment of riparian land Also read: Mombasa’s dilemma of moving Kibarani dumpsite where 200 earn their livelihood Click here for the latest political news