Fifteen residents of the Mau Narok forest have filed a petition in the National Assembly opposing plans by the government to cancel all title deeds and instead issue a block title to Narok county. In the petition, presented in the House on Thursday by Soin /Sigowert MP Koros Kipsengeret, the residents said the land issue is emotive and should be handled with care so as to promote cohesion and principles of good governance. “The decision will aggravate the already volatile situation,” they said. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has asked the committee on national security to scrutinise the petition. They also want ongoing evictions stopped,  arguing that 40,000 people and 5,000 school going children –some candidates in the upcoming national examinations - will be adversely affected. “If the Mau evictions are allowed to continue, it will lead to massive intrusion of social and economic rights as critical services such as health care, social security, access to adequate housing and reasonable sanitation,” the petition says. “Food security will be severely interfered with, particularly given that fact that the government does not have a plan to resettle the current occupants of Mau thus creating unwarranted social discrepancy,” it adds. The petitioners dismissed government’s position that the title deeds they hold were acquired fraudulently, insisting they are genuine and for the same government that issued with them to revoke them, violates their rights and freedoms. “The government legitimately issued title deeds to the residents having met the due process of the law, however it is in bad faith and distasteful for the same government to allege that the title deeds were fraudulently obtained,” they said. They also said should eviction continue, the government should provide alternative land for resettlement. They said the government has so far “plainly demonstrated its lack of commitment to resettling the affected people”. The petitioners include Paul Keter, Julius Lang’at,Weldon Kipkoech, Evance Too, Joel Sigei, Florence Chebet, Sara Nge’tich, Irene Koech, Festus Chepkwony, and Petro Ngetich. Others are Rael Cheptoo, Benson Keter, Robert Mutai, Joseph Koech and Rebecca Korir. According to the Standing Orders, the committee which is chaired by Kiambaa MP  Paul Koinange has sixty days to investigate the matter and report to the House. In July, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party said the Mau Forest encroachers would not be compensated. The party dismissed some of its MPs from Rift Valley opposed to the eviction, saying they are expressing their personal opinion. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju said the eviction is coordinated by a multi-sectoral agency that includes Kenya Forest Services, Kenya Water Tower Authority and the Office of the President. The eviction has so far pushed out more than 7,000 families.