Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba on Friday slammed health workers for always to be the first people to cry like babies when the county experiences salary payment delays. Khaemba told the health workers to keep work as a priority and stop crying because he has also not received his last month’s pay. “We have more than ten departments in the county but other workers have always been patient because they understand what causes delays, why then our health workers feel they are special to others, they are always first to participate in go slow,this should immediately stop” Khaemba said. Workers at the county are yet to be paid their July salaries due to delays in the passing of the new financial year budget. Khaemba spoke on Friday at the Kitale National Polytechnic after officially opening East African Grain Council Agribusiness show. Khaemba also lashed at some MCAs who have been fighting his new health CEC Christine Tanguli over the changes she is delivering at the department. Some MCAs led by Sitatunga’s David Kaburu, who is a former health worker at the Kitale District Hospital are alleged to have been fighting the CEC who has always ensured drugs have been equally distributed at all hospitals and health centers. The governor said the same people who have been fighting the CEC have been spreading a rumour that the recent drug consignment is worth sh.29.9M while the county government stated it is cost sh.102M. “It is true the county government bought drugs worth sh.29.9M but when we add the supply by the national government, it sums up to sh.102M,was the CEC wrong to say the drugs were worth this amount?” Khaemba posed. Khaemba told Trans Nzoia to expect drastic changes in health sector in a bid to clean up what he referred to as rotten system. The changes include the hiring of the new Kitale district hospital medical superintendent who reported to work recently and the governor says more changes are on the way. “I will hire a consultant and will also write to Auditor General so that we can evaluate what revenue comes from the hospital, I know it is below average but after that we will implement the consultant’s recommendations “said Khaemba. “You know some hospital officers tell patients to purchase drugs from outside, workers at this department have no discipline at all, when I do changes some go on to criticize my move, this time expect extreme changes, it is possible those opposing could be beneficiaries the old system”.