Kenya’s economy is on the right path, International Monetary Fund team said yesterday. This is after the team from the international lender held discussions with the government on the second review of $1.5 billion (Sh150 billion) precautionary facility that expires on September 14. IMF executive board on March 12 approved, with conditions, Kenya’s request to extend the stand by facility by six months. The fund, approved by the IMF in March 2016, is accessible to Kenya if it faces “exogenous shocks” that can lead to a balance-of-payments crisis. IMF withdrew access to the standby facility in June last year after the government failed to meet budget-deficit targets, due to higher than planned expenditure caused by a drought and protracted elections. Kenya was forced to commit to doing away with interest rate controls and significantly reduce its spending and debt appetite in order to access the loan. The IMF team led by Benedict Clements said that Kenya had met its fiscal targets 2017/18 fiscal year with the budget deficit falling to 7.0 per cent of GDP from 9.0 per cent the previous year. “Fiscal targets for FY2017/18 under the program were met. The budget deficit for the fiscal year ending in June 2018 Sh614.6 billion (equivalent to 7.0 percent of GDP), within the target under the program,’’ IMF team said. This it said, represents a significant tightening from the previous year’s deficit of 9.0 per cent of GDP. It praised the country’s economic growth, saying it had achieved ‘significant progresses with real GDP growth accelerating to 5.7 per cent in the first quarter of 2018, from 4.9 percent in 2017. It attributed the country’s economic growth to regained investors following the conclusion of the prolonged election period, favorable weather conditions, and a continued recovery in tourism. However, revenues significantly underperformed, coming in 2.2 percent of GDP lower than program targets. Revenue collection also failed to meet the set target during the financial year. 