Legitimate shareholders of the Embakasi Ranching Company will soon get title deeds after the Lands ministry said it was finalising the verification. Getting deeds will end decades of misery for most of the 3,500 shareholders who have been fighting for a piece of the 24,000 acres. About 35,000 plots are at the centre of the ownership controversy. About 15,000 plots still have issues as there have been multiple registrations of same piece of land. In a public notice, CS Faridah Karoney urged landowners to visit their mobile offices for final verification. They have until Monday. Survey maps have been provided. Karoney said those in Manyatta should visit Manyatta Primary School mobile office. It has Map C. “Map 4 [Kamunya] and Map 4B within Sewerage area should visit Gatia Embakasi Ranching Company office,” she said. Gatia plot owners are to present their documents on site. This falls within survey maps 3K and 1K. Those falling within maps 1C and 4C in Gatia are to seek verification at Josna Secondary School. Shareholders within maps 2C, 3C and 5C within Gatia are required to go to the Gatia Embakasi ranching office. Those on maps 100B and 9 within Gatia will do so on site. After the verification, titles will be printed in readiness for issuance by President Uhuru Kenyatta next month. Shareholders should present original share certificates, original national identity cards, copies of the share certificates (front and back), copies of national ID card. The CS urged land or plot owners not listed in the areas mentioned to visit the Embakasi Ranching Company offices. Those whose property ownership documents have been submitted and verified should visit the office of the deputy county commissioner (Embakasi-Ruai) to confirm if their names appear in the Ministry’s titling register. They can also do so by visiting its website — www.lands.go.ke. Karoney warned those presenting fake or forged documents that they would be arrested and prosecuted. A source familiar with the process last week told the Star that 18,000 ownership documents were found to be clean. The source said the ministry has been under great pressure to hit a target of 24,000 titles. Some shareholders have been anxious, claiming they have been left out. The source said land experts have suggested a ceiling of five plots per member so all can benefit. On May 30, President Kenyatta ordered Karoney and the Nairobi government to ensure the shareholders and those who bought land through the firm get title deeds. The Embakasi Ranching Company has been held hostage by cartels, which include influential and wealthy politicians who have been evicting genuine landowners and allocating the parcels to developers. People have been killed and others injured because of multiple allocations. The ranch was established in 1975 with shareholders mainly from Kiambu and Murang’a counties. Many of them have died. The company was to wind up in February, but this was delayed to allow implementation of the President’s directive. At the verification last Monday, most shareholders who turned up were in their 80s. Worn out and tired, shareholders armed with fading documents, braved the scorching sun to seek authentication. Njiru deputy county commissioner Joseph Mwangi had told the Star on the phone that the processing was going on as planned. He said 15,000 plots still had issues. Some had double registrations while others had not been surveyed. “The public should be patient. They have suffered for too long,” Mwangi said. Land Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro had warned that all individuals who swindled the ranching Company shareholders would be prosecuted. It is said surveyors and some directors colluded and some plots were allocated to more than three different people. Company chairman Sammy Kungu said he had reservations on how the exercise was being conducted. He said, however, that did not want to discuss the matter on the phone.