The commissioners’ resuming duty is singularly inappropriate.
Once as a commissioner you state publicly in a press conference and in a written
letter that you have resigned, then you proceed to abandon office on a account
of that resignation it is inappropriate for you to come back in office merely
on account that the court found out that your resignation was technically
invalid. What you must do is to do a letter to the President. When I resigned
as Ombudsman, in 2016, I did a letter to the President, in fact well in
advance, of my resignation date. I indicated that as of November that year, I
would cease to hold office.On that due date I ceased to go that office and the
government discontinued any payments and everything that would otherwise have
been accorded to me. While it is technically true that they should have done a
letter to the President, what is important is that they themselves believed they
had resigned. Once you believe that you have resigned and proceed to
discontinue coming to the office and you give up everything that belongs to
that office, as I expect that they did, even if the court ruled that their
resignation was invalid because they didn’t do was to regularise it. It is inappropriate
to then purport to come back to office because you have lost the honour to
serve which is required of you in the constitution. In any event public service is public trust
that is bestowed upon you to serve. By that act you have betrayed that trust and
you can no longer purport to continue to serve as a commissioner. In my view
their coming back is illegitimate and anybody can petition for their removal because
it also amounts to gross misconduct. It also raises technical legal issues because before
you assume office you swear an oath, the moment you take a letter and sign it
that you have resigned, essentially it means you have relieved yourself of that
oath. So when you purport to come back does it mean you take a fresh oath?  Once you have resigned you cannot un-resign. The writer is MP for Rarienda Click here for
the latest political news