Polls are an inseparable part of news and will always remain so. For the reason that well-done polls are reliable sources of information about the public, journalists have little choice but to pay attention. This does not mean that all polls are executed well. It is our duty as the watchdogs to smell the coffee and interrogate everything. Polling, and in particular the insight from it, is an interesting combination of data, model and insight. It is more scientific than reading runes. When covering polls it is necessary for journalists to ensure the quality is not only up to standard but also reflects the data collected. The recent IPSOS polls in my view have nothing to write home about. This explains the he said/she said approach to reporting on the story. TRUTH At a time when telling the truth is a revolutionary act, journalism has a greater responsibility in ensuring that the credibility, data and facts released by pollsters are a reflection or near of the actual situation on the ground due to marginal errors. The inconsistencies and sharing of what polling firms consider ‘half-truths or their findings’ without us as journalists interrogating the press releases as received from the sender or quoting Tom Wolf verbatim and highlighting the conflict minus all the facts is increasingly nauseating. Is it our rush to break the story that overwhelms us? Or perhaps the readership/viewership supremacy battles within the ‘ugly’sisterhood? If I may ask for example, has IPSOS ever been put to task to reveal who exactly sponsors each of the political surveys it carries out? Reputable polling firms will provide you with the information you need to evaluate the survey. Because reputation is important to a quality firm, a professionally conducted poll will avoid many errors. While addressing students recently, my favourite African writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie said that the act of lying has such political potency that it feels more apt in the world today. It is our job as media to source for truths and make the public understand better. POLITICAL CONTEST With the advent of social media platforms which camouflages to fake news, such big stories that influence political contests dictates that journalism cuts through the noise with nothing but facts . Even if the facts are stubborn, we have to try. Polls are not conducted for the good of the world. They are conducted for a reason — either to gain helpful information or to advance a particular cause. The important issue as media is whether the motive for doing the poll creates serious doubts about the validity of the results that the findings should not be publicized. Opinion polls generate data, not necessarily the truth . The notion that numbers don’t lie should not be entertained by any serious journalist otherwise that would also be known as laziness. All datasets in existence reflect the bias of their human creators. Even scientific data sets reflect the biases of experimental design and the limitations of the equipment and sensors used and these biases can change over time . Journalists are ordained by God to speak for the bush and keep all abreast with information. Nothing is more beautiful than waking up everyday holding the full measure of your integrity because you did the right thing .  Leon Lidigu is a student of Journalism at Pacific University, India