Former Nairobi government chief finance officer Jimmy Kiamba spent last night at Industrial Area Remand pending a bail ruling today. Kiamba, who faces corruption-related harges, was in court yesterday alongside former officers Lilian Ndegwa (county secretary), Stephen Osiro (head of county Treasury), Luke Gatimu (acting Finance chief officer) and Gregory Mwakanongo (Finance executive). They denied counts of abuse of office, fraudulently acquiring public property and unlawful failure to pay tax. They will remain in custody until today when the court will deliver its decision. Their lawyers Ochieng’ Oduol and Cliff Ombeta failed to persuade the court that their clients have a right to bail and they should not be discriminated. They urged the court to set the same bail as that granted to former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero. But prosecutor Alexander Muteti told Anti-corruption magistrate Lawrence Mugambi the accused persons “cannot be trusted to come back to court for hearing as they failed to present themselves before the EACC on Friday. They should not be treated as Kidero on grounds that their conduct is different,” he said. Mugambi said he will not give them special treatment after they failed to present themselves to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission as directed. Kiamba and the rest were supposed to be charged alongside Kidero on Thursday last week. Read:Kidero to spend night in police cell as detectives hunt for his co-accused The former governor alongside former treasury head Morris Okere denied charges on economic crimes and were granted Sh2 million bail each. Kidero and Okere were charged with conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption leading to the loss of Sh213 million from the NCC. Kiamba, Ndegwa and Mwakanongo yesterday denied using their offices to improperly confer a benefit of Sh26 million to Ngurumani Traders Ltd by authorising payment for services not rendered. Kiamba and Mwakanongo faced another count of receiving a Sh20 million bribe from Ngurumani Traders, which they denied. Osiro faced the same charge. Gatimu and Okere further denied using their offices to improperly confer a benefit of Sh6.4 million to Lodwar Wholesalers Ltd by authorising payment for services not rendered. Also Read:Kidero released on Sh2 million cash bail in graft case Click here for the latest political news