The appointment of Kenya Wildlife Services’ new board of trustees by Tourism and Wildlife Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala on Tuesday has raised eyebrows. It has been equated to removing KWS from a frying pan and throwing it into the fire. Some skeptics tell Corridors that no meaningful change should be expected at the service that is on the verge of collapse. Why? Three of the five new board members run private conservancies or own ranches that offer services that are directly in competition with KWS. This, critics were heard saying, leaves KWS at the mercy of vested interests. ***** Corruption allegations continue to swirl around Parliament despite tough talk by the National Assembly. Just a day after Parliament summoned some two journalists to appear before its Privileges committee, more details have emerged of improprieties that should force the two speakers of Parliament to open their eyes and ears wider. Sources whispered to Corridors that just recently, members of a committee were sufficiently enticed to spearhead some amendments to a law relating to a minority of society. Its not clear why the changes are desired but some three senators are on the spot. Corridors is authoritatively informed that they met a suspect under probe in a city hotel and demanded a whopping — hear this — Sh100 million to be shared among them. The targets declined but the chair of the committee is said to have pursued the witness pleading for his own loot. Only time will tell how the matter will end. ***** That Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo does not know her colleagues in Parliament is not surprising. In any case, there are 349 lawmakers in the National Assembly. But what has shocked her colleagues is that Millie kept on referring to human rights activist Bonface Mwangi as an MP right on the floor of the House. But Gesa Gesa as she is popularly known was not just confusing names. She was also puling punches. She claimed that Nyali MP Mohamed Ali who was a champion of accountability has now joined the bandwagon of those... Its not clear what exactly Gesa Gesa meant but she was clearly throwing barbs at Jicho Pevu. **** The chairman of a powerful House committee that has been hit by scandals in an ongoing probe is contemplating quitting. A close ally of the MP confided to Corridors of Power that the lawmaker is overwhelmed by pressure by influential people keen to direct investigations in a certain manner likely to absolve certain suspects. Recently, the chairman is said to have been summoned by a senior operative at the House on the Hill for a briefing on the direction the committee’s report should take. The chairman was so infuriated we hear. But will he quit? Click here for latest political news