An outspoken MP was recently spotted on the corridors of Parliament talking of how some of his counterparts from Senate allegedly received Sh100 million bribe from businessman Francis Mburu to water down the Ruaraka land report. But upon drawing closer to the lawmaker, he appeared drunk and one could smell the liquor stench coming from his mouth. Though well dressed in a suit, the legislator appeared incoherent. It is unclear whether honourable members are authorised to attend morning sessions while tipsy. ***** Did a governor from Nyanza region compromise a powerful Senate watchdog committee to get off the hook on audit queries raised by Auditor General Edward Ouko? Well, we are informed that the governor forked out up to Sh4 million to a senior member of the committee to facilitate his clearance by the committee. One of the governor's top aides was overheard bragging how they killed an audit issue against the county boss that was under inquiry by the Senate. Corridors have been informed that the governor paid the money to one of the top ranking senators in the County Public Accounts and Investment Committee to kill the inquiry. The lawmaker was over the weekend exhibiting unusual generosity in his constituency when he donated not less than Sh100,000 in every fundraiser he attended. ***** Just what is going on at Multi Media University? Well, some students at the institution now claim they have been barred from sitting examinations despite the fact that they have paid their school fees in full. A mole confided to corridors that a good number of them have become victims of arbitrary decisions and unnecessary bureaucracy in the administration. In the latest case, the students claimed the institution decided to lock out some of them for late payment of school fees, yet it has not happened in previous years, and there is no policy to that effect. The students claim their efforts to address the issue with the management have fell on deaf ears. ***** A CS who has recently been in the news for the wrong reasons is at it again. The CS, known for fighting leaders who cross his line, is now on the receiving end from a section of his community. He is said to have send a circular to teachers to give a list of needy students to benefit from goodies from him. But by the time the schools were closing, the CS was not picking calls from the teachers. Parents of the poor primary school students have been left wondering the motive behind the list. ***** Click here for the latest political news