National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has invited MPs who have information on bribery allegations to bring it forth. Bribery claims rocked Parliament last week as MPs ganged up to trash a committee report on sugar that had implicated Cabinet secretaries Henry Rotich [Treasury] and Adan Mohamed [EAC]. More on this: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report In a statement on Sunday, Muturi instructed the Clerk to immediately write to the members who have been quoted in the media citing incidences of bribery. "They should share their testimonies or any information that they may have with the Powers and Privileges Committee which will review the information in the shortest time possible," he said. Muturi said this will help the committee to ascertain the possibilities of breach of privilege by the way of unethical conduct on the part of specific members of the National Assembly. "We will not sit pretty as monumental allegations of corruption within Parliament garner credence. We will act and act decisively," he said. He said the committee will upon evaluation of the testimonies consider inviting the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission as provided for in the Leadership and Integrity Act. This, he said, will help to conclusively handle the investigations so action can be taken against MPs culpable of unethical conduct. "We are not going to abet corruption in the precincts of Parliament," he said. Earlier, Siaya senator James Orengo asked Muturu to suspend audit committee meetings in Parliament until claims of bribery in the sugar report are addressed. He asked Muturi to put the meetings on hold for two weeks until members come clean on the allegations. More on this: Come clean on sugar bribery claims, Orengo tells MPs On Saturday, Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi refuted claims by a section of the media that MPs were compromised to reject the sugar probe report. Gedi, while describing herself as a woman of “impeccable character”, said she and “other right-thinking MPs” only mobilised their colleagues to reject the report. Read: MPs weren't bribed on 'shoddy' sugar report -Woman Rep Gedi Click here for the latest political news