One of former NCIC chairman Francis Kaparo’s regrets is not working harder to end tribalism, he has said. Addressing former MPs during the National Cohesion and Integration Conference, he blamed politicians for frustrating and impeding his bid to end tribalism and hate. “I have not succeeded in slaying the dragon of tribalism and I’m ashamed of it. I can say the political class is to blame,” he told the conference. Last week, Kaparo handed over the commission’s report after the end of their four-year tenure. The commission in its final report  singled out county border wars and the fight for resources as some of the biggest impediments to cohesion. Read: Kembi Gitura says NCIC not doing enough to curb hate speech Yesterday, Kaparo said Kenya has lost two “euphoric” opportunities to realise long-lasting national cohesion and integration. He cited the 1963 post-independence period and the 2002 NARC revolutionary era that ended the Kanu regime. “We have been losing good opportunities for bad ones. In 2007-08, we chose the bad and lost more than 1,000 lives,” Kaparo said. “There is now an opportunity at hand. God has given us the third opportunity; the opportunity of the handshake.” Kaparo, a former National Assembly speaker, warned against personalising the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “The question should not be about who shook the hand, but whose hand has not been shaken and bring that hand forward,” he said. INTEGRATION Kaparo urged former MPs to capitalise on their political influence to champion the Building Bridges Initiative to achieve national integration, a peaceful and cohesive country. “It’s a difficult job, but it’s doable. I’m looking for a time when a Luo will be elected in Nyeri because of his agenda or a Kikuyu elected in Kisumu as governor because of his agenda,” he said. Kaparo said honesty, especially among politicians, will help realise national unity.  Nominated MP Maina Kamanda warned politicians  criticising the handshake to stop. Kamanda, who is the chairman of the parliamentary committee on National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity, told Jubilee and opposition MPs that Raila and Uhuru are “not your equals” to be castigated for the handshake. “Raila has eight million people behind him and also Uhuru. They cannot be equals to those young MPs castigating them,” he said. Kamanda said the country has lost a lot through corruption and the guilty should carry their own cross without bringing in communities. More: NCIC probes Ikamba song for insults against Kambas Click here for
the latest political news