Embattled National Land Commission chairman Muhammad
Swazuri has written to Head of Public Service Francis Kinyua demanding his job
back. His
petition comes even as a coalition of civil society organizations demands
dissolution of the commission within 30 days. Swazuri who was charged in court last week with
numerous corruption charges relating to compensation for the standard gauge
railway claims that he was unfairly removed from office. Read: Swazuri, Kenya Railways boss arrested over SGR land compensation payouts In a four-page letter dated August 14, Swazuri also
launched a scathing attack on acting chairperson Abigael Mbagaya, accusing her
of misinterpreting the court order. "The magistrate ordered that I should not go
to my office unless accompanied by a police officer and after consulting with
the "new management". That order has apparently been translated by
the vice-chairperson to mean that I have been suspended or interdicted," Swazuri
writes. "All these are indications that the main aim
of the pending court case was to replace me through the backdoor outside
constitutional and statutory provisions," said Swazuri, adding that a
commissioner he did not name was partly behind his woes. "My request is that you urgently intervene in
this matter by seeking answers to the reasons why EACC violated my
constitutional rights and assist in addressing the issue of my ostensible
removal from the office," added Swazuri. Swazuri has also complained of the manner in
which he was arrested, insisting that he was innocent and the charges were made
up. Mbagaya refused to comment on Swazuri’s letter
saying she was not sure it was from him. But as Swazuri was fighting for his job, a group
of civil society organisations working in the land sector called a press
conference in Nairobi to demand the dissolution of the commission with 30 days. The Commission's term is set to end on February 19
next year. Read: NLC paid Sh1.5bn for Ruaraka land, nobody conned - Swazuri The Kenya Land Alliance, Kenya Human Rights Commission,
Pamoja Trust, HakiJamii, Reconcile, Kituo Cha Sheria and Coast Land Non State
Actors said the commission is characterized by "corruption allegations,
toxic internal factions and outright incompetence". "These public officers and a section of staff
members have continued to breach their mandate and caused a mockery of the very
constitution that breathes life to the existence of an institution," said
the group. Ten days ago, top leaders of the commission
including Swazuri were dramatically rounded up over graft
allegations alongside Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina. Others charged included the commission CEO/ secretary
Tom Aziz Chavangi and directors Salome Munubi, Francis Mugo, Gladys
Muyanga (Ministry of Lands) and Obadiah Wainaina (surveyor). Responding to public fear of a vacuum, the commission
last Wednesday denied there was a crisis and that those charged had been
replaced. More: NLC calls crisis meeting as chair Swazuri charged DAMAGED Yesterday KHRC program adviser Faith Alubbe said
NLC was so badly damaged that it would not able to discharge its mandate in the
current state. "The commission is sinking and with it, the
hopes of Kenyans. The feel-good moment is over. The current turn of events is
likely to be very problematic for the commission and the public is likely to
have difficulty seeing sincerity in the members there," she said. Pamoja Trust director Steve Ouma asked Director of
Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji to order investigations into a number of
transactions undertaken by some commissioners and senior staff. "We do think strongly that all commissioners
who dealt with the matter of renewal of lease from Mombasa cement and the
Kakuzi matter, should be investigated. We have enormous complaints from members
of the public about how conversations, deliberations and conclusions were made
on that matter," said Ouma The coalition also asked the DPP to probe commissioners
who were allocated houses under the National Housing Corporation scheme in Embakasi. Some
commissioners allegedly got more than two houses. "We have written to two commissioners asking
them to resign within a month. If they don’t then we will launch a campaign to
remove all of them from office before their term ends," added Ouma. The coalition said the independence of NLC had
been sold “to the private merchants" and that secure land tenure had been
offered for sale by the commissioners. "They have taken 90 percent of the time in
support of what they are calling mega state projects; be it SGR or Lapsset.
They have not done this for the benefit of Kenyans,” Ouma claimed. “They have done most of them to enrich
themselves," said Ouma. NLC director of communication Khalid
Salim said NLC was committed to supporting the Big Four agenda as all of them
needed land. He dismissed the coalition
saying "sideshows will not help.” “Telling someone to resign without
reason is wrong, we need specifics,” he said. Kenya Land Alliance chairman Odenda Lumumba said they
had put all commissioners on notice and and if they don’t quit, the coalition
will institute a public inquiry that will name and shame them. "We want NLC to immediately
release and disclose all public inquiry reports they have done since
2013," said Lumumba, adding that all NLC commissioners should undergo
lifestyle audits. Shamsan Najib from the Coast Land Non State Actors
accused NLC of failing to protect the rights of the vulnerable. The Commission derives its mandate from the
Constitution of Kenya 2010, the National Land Policy (2009) and acts of
Parliament — the National Land Commission (NLC) Act, the Land Act and the Land
Registration Act, all of 2012. Details: How Swazuri authorised suspicious payout for SGR land Click here for the latest political news