How ironical and
embarrassing that such an infamy can be executed at a time the country was
priding itself in renewed efforts to purge corruption and impunity, which have
frustrated growth, development, the rule of law and national unity for years? From the
shocking misconduct by members of the National Assembly amidst flying
accusations of real time bribery in the chamber and in the corridors of
Parliament, it is now obvious that a sizeable number of MPs are incorrigible
Lords of Impunity. To them, even the ongoing widely popular anti-corruption
purge means nothing! It is now
instructive that the country will only reclaim its heart and soul by rising to
the occasion and reining in on this Parliament, and the main culprits in the
latest shame, in the most ruthless and effective manner. This scandal confirms
our worst fears that the root cause of most of the problems chocking this
country can be found in leadership. Our leadership
needs a major overhaul. A rejigging of Parliament offers the ideal starting
point. I am talking from a point of knowledge, having been a member of the 11th
Parliament and one fully engaged with matters Parliament most of the time.
Desperate times call for desperate measures. In the
refreshing spirit of national reconciliation and reconstruction powered by the
handshake, the country urgently needs to radically reform political leadership
to boost this infant transformation effort. National rescue
and regeneration are top priorities for all patriotic Kenyans at this crucial
time in our country’s History. It is obvious that all our efforts to reform
won’t yield if we fail to tackle the pillars and enablers of the undesired
past. Corrupt, non-responsive, partisan parliaments and legislators have been
regular hurdles in the pursuit of the national good. To be able to
realistically install progressive leadership and constitutionalism, Kenya
should get ruthless and urgently crash pockets within national political
leadership that stand in the way of reforms. The current embattled Parliament
is one such. The Constitution
may be seemingly silent on any provisions for summary recall of Parliament
midstream for gross transgressions, but its spirit is for vacation from office
all state officers who bring shame and 
disrepute to public office. So is the 12th Parliament, almost
collectively, when Kenyans review the conduct of committees, various levels of
leadership therein and scandalous handling of various tasks taken on the floor. None other than
National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi himself recently was forced to openly
castigate members of committees of getting too cozy with scandalous persons of
interest summoned for questioning over various offences of great pain to
citizens. This was witnessed during the grilling of suspects in the Solai Dam
tragedy, sugar imports saga and several others. Allegations
about some legislators taking bribes to make crucial decisions on important
bills and motions in the House are sickening. The country has been betrayed! The illicit
developments during the sensitive and controversial contraband-cum-poisonous
sugar imports have powerfully vindicated the press as true whistle-blowers of
the rot in the House. Instructively this happened against a backdrop of attempts
to punish and cow a section of parliamentary journalists who blew the lid off
the rot. The allegations,
which have been corroborated variously by several legislators, some who
resisted crude attempts to ensnare them last Thursday, shockingly come hot on
the heels of earlier media reports indicting Parliament as a house of
corruption and bribe taking. It has caused pandemonium across the country, with
many cursing. The bribery
incident is just the latest in a litany of other regrettable conduct of MPs.
The Holy book says that if it be your eye that makes you sin, then get rid of
it. Likewise, if it is our Parliament that will stand in the way of the war to
eradicate corruption, impunity and lawlessness in Kenya, then we are duty bound
to get rid of it. There has been
precedent. In 1983, former President Daniel Moi when faced with challenges to
his hold onto power with talk of camps within Parliament fomenting factional
frictions, he dissolved Parliament and called for a snap general election. It
worked for him to achieve the goal he had of having a user-friendly Parliament
to suit him in those circumstances. Today, our goals
as a country together with this “handshake regime” are more compelling. The
country badly needs a user-friendly Parliament to boost and oil the war on
corruption, the fight against impunity, against negative ethnicity and to
entrench reforms for political and economic transformation. There is need for a
Parliament of credible, focused patriots, who will help the Executive and national
institutions in mobilising the country in the ongoing battles, while churning
out progressive, ideal legislations to anchor the new trajectory. Therefore, we
should urgently pick out any opening allowing for the disbandment of this 12th
Parliament to call for fresh national parliamentary elections to weed out the
chuff and bring in new, more reliable minds for fresh ideas and sanity.  The writer is ODM national treasurer and former
MP for Kitutu-Masaba  