What is happening in the sugar industry are turf
wars among the mafia. All sugar in the country comes from one source, but the market
is flooded. The traders were granted licenses at a time when a few individuals
had already been allowed to import massive sugar in order to cover up.
There were people in high places who opened up the market to more importers.
They knew the sugar they had imported could not find a market. The importers are now blaming each other for bringing
in contaminated sugar. They want to find a market for themselves. This is just mafia
fighting it out. When two crooked wild elephants fight the ordinary Kenyan
suffers. Just as they are doing with riparian
land, the government should arrest all the importers. We see a massive
conspiracy that involves the National Treasury. Kenyans want good, competent
and proper investigations done. The cartels are fighting among themselves to
create a market. They want to recover what they have spent to import
sugar.  We don’t have political goodwill to fight the cartels. The importers are the same people who enjoy
special favours in government. They are powerful and sit within the government
in policy making organs. The joint parliamentary committee was hoping
to expose the cartels but a number of the MPs were compromised. It is a clear
case of corruption fighting back. Right now the top suspects are following the
sugar discussions scot-free. They might be playing golf or hiding somewhere on
a holiday trip. We have sufficient laws to tame sugar
cartels. All the laws are in place. We don’t need a new Act. For now, we lack
goodwill in high places to enforce the laws. The upper echelons are involved in
all these corrupt malpractices. President Uhuru Kenyatta needs to have one
agenda instead of the Big Four and Kenyans will remember him forever. He has to
stop corruption. He also must ensure the law is enforced. The government knows
all these criminals. Human rights lawyer Gitobu spoke to the Star Read: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report Click here for the latest political news