A former senior police officer in Nakuru has been named as the man behind a string of forced disappearances and extra-judicial killings of 14 people between December 2016 and February last year. The man retired from the Kenya Police Service last month after close to 40 years. The most recent disappearance he is suspected to be responsible for are those of two brothers from Nakuru and their cousin whose bodies were discovered at Kamae Forest in Thika on February 8 last year. The bodies of Daniel Ikenye, 22, Mwai Ndirangu, 31, and Paul Ndirangu, 26, were discovered by Thika police. The three had been missing from their homes since January 18 last year. Sources said the former officer was a senior director of investigations and headed a police hit squad that is suspected to be responsible for the execution of about 20 people. He has been linked to the murder of 14 people. Nearly all the victims were either directly linked to a land row pitying a group of squatters and faceless investors claiming ownership of the land in Pipeline estate in Nakuru. Police sources said the former cop personally arrested and strangled his victims. In other cases, a junior officer attached to the dreaded flying squad unit in Nakuru executed the victims with instructions from his boss. Police have since put a boda boda operator on witness protection after he gave testimony of how he was hired by the police officers to take them to a house in Pipeline. The boda boda operator said the ex-cop shot dead a man. The witness whose identity the police have concealed for security claimed he used to transport the killer cops during their mission. He was paid Sh1,000 per trip. Yesterday, DCI director George Kinoti told the Star police were hunting for the officer who will face murder charges. “We have completed the investigations and I can tell you for sure that he will have his day in court," Kinoti said. Detectives from the homicide unit at the DCI have been conducting investigations since December last year when Nakuru town was hit by cases of forced disappearances and mysterious murders. Kinoti said they intend to charge the former crime buster with the 14 counts of murder including that of the two brothers and their cousin. Ikenye, Mwai and Paul went missing after leaving their home in Njoro for a polling station where they were to register as voters. The three, are said to have been kidnapped and forced into a car. Manase Ng’ang’a said his sons' mobile phones were switched off after they were kidnapped. The family visited a voter registration centre in Nakuru where the two planned to register and found that none had checked in. Ng'ang'a said the family later received a call from a man who identified himself as a member of Mungiki and demanded a Sh500,000 ransom. The father did not attribute the killing of his sons to the land dispute in Pipeline until police investigations pointed to the tussle. “In 2014, I had a dispute with a stranger who invaded my 50m by 100m plot in Njoro. I reported the matter to the Nakuru CID office after my plot was sold without my knowledge,” Ng'ang'a said. A postmortem showed the three were repeatedly beaten with blunt objects before they were strangled to death. Acid was poured on their bodies in an attempt to obliterate them. “They were not shot as there was no bullet in their bodies. They were asphyxiated with a plastic bag. Their hands and legs were tied. Their heads were bludgeoned and their eyes were gouged out,” Ng’ang’a said. The head, neck, and facial skin of one of the victims was "heavily corroded” from acid burns. Click here for the latest political news   