President Uhuru Kenyatta has agreed to a proposal by Nasa leader Raila Odinga for the country to open an institution that helps people write memoirs to keep history alive. Uhuru directed Education CS Amina Mohammed to work towards encouraging more Kenyans to write their memoirs. "Amina you need to work and see how we can help those who wish to write their memoir and assist them so that this history can be told," he said. Uhuru was speaking during the launch of Phoebe Asiyo's memoir 'It is Possible: An African Woman Speaks' at State House, Nairobi on Thursday. Raila Odinga, who spoke earlier, proposed to the government to establish a writers' institution as is the case in South Africa. "I want to propose the issue of chronicling is so important. But I know it is a challenge to many people." "In South Africa, there is an institution that has people writing their autobiographies," he said. Raila added: "You find that many people who participated in the world liberation in South Africa have written books and I think we need to go that direction; Mr President." He said there were many people who were dying with a lot of history in their heads and that is not useful to the coming generations. "This will help us to train our people to know where we are coming from so that they know where they should be heading to," Raila added. Uhuru, for his part, said: "I share sentiments that we need to do more to encourage people who have tremendous things for Kenya." The President said Kenyans celebrate Asiyo's achievements and milestones in her epic individual and collective journeys. "It is also a time to reflect on the important lessons and values that all your lives teach us as your sons and daughters," he said. "Kenya is a nation of strong women and we salute you all. We owe women of zeal and courage for the freedom and human rights we enjoy today." Uhuru further directed the Ministry of Public Service to make the Women Trailblazers Award an annual event. Read: Zipporah Kittony calls it a day in politics, to write her memoirs Also read: Retired Nigerian President Obasanjo launches memoirs in Nairobi Click here for the latest political news