The silent war between the Judiciary and the other two arms of government - Legislature and the Executive - may not be ending anytime soon. Chief Justice David Maraga yesterday hit out at MPs for slashing the Judiciary’s budgetary allocation. Judiciary funding capped at Sh17.3 billion in the 2018-19 national budgetary policy statement was revised to Sh14.5 billion in the Appropriation Act, leaving the institution with only Sh50 million in development budget. “Apart from recurrent expenditure and of course paying our salaries, we are left with very little to use for our operations,” Maraga said. “We wonder whether some people in this country realise the importance of the Judiciary.” He spoke in Mombasa during the opening of the annual Judges’ Colloquium. Even as the Judiciary criticised the other arms of government, it still depends on them for its independence. The Judiciary Fund regulations have been gazetted and tabled in Parliament awaiting approval of the House. The regulations establish a the Judiciary Fund, whose operationalisation will give it more autonomy. “That is the only way we can be able to have the budget allocated to the Judiciary deposited in that fund so that we are not at the mercy of Treasury all the time,” Maraga said. He said the Judiciary has to be funded to perform its core functions.Maraga is rooting for a percentage of the national budget. “The recommended percentage is 2.5 per cent. Let us start even with 1.5 per cent. That is all we are asking for,” Maraga said. He noted the Judiciary has been getting an allocation of about Sh2.5 billion for development. “Instead of increasing, it is coming down to Sh50 million. Somebody somewhere is not serious about what we are doing,” Maraga said. The Judiciary has found itself in trouble with the Executive before, especially after the nullification of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory during the August 8 General Election last year. It is then that an angry Uhuru made the infamous ‘We shall revisit’ remark alluding to getting back at the Judiciary which he accused of activism instead of dispensing justice. After the hue and cry from the Judiciary over the huge budget cut  from MPs, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale told off Maraga saying he should use the right channels to raise his concerns and not public forums. On Monday, Maraga said in any democracy, the Judiciary plays a key role in its security and economic prosperity. “We are not asking for a budget equal, for example, to the Ministry of Education or Ministry of Health. We are not naive to do that,” said Maraga. He notes that those ministries need a lot of resources. “But surely, the country should know the importance of the Judiciary and allocate us the resources we require,” Maraga said. He noted they are still following up on the matter and are confident it will be resolved amicably. Judges have complained they are forced to use old cars which frequently break down, making their operations difficult. Some of the judges who have been posted to new stations have not been provided with cars and are forcedto use their own or public means of transportation. Maraga urged judges to be patient as a solution is sought. “I’m convinced the authorities concerned will see the importance of funding us so that we are able to move on,” he said. 