Capital Markets Authority has expressed
concern about the poor saving culture that Kenyans have developed over the last
decade. Chairman James Ndegwa said the poor
saving culture has led to fewer companies being listed in the Nairobi Stock Exchange. A study conducted by the regulator in June indicates Kenya’s gross savings rate has dropped by almost half in 10 years. In 2007, the savings rate was 11.7 per cent
but this has dropped to 6.2 per cent at the end of 2017. CEO Paul Muthaura and his NSE counterpart
Geoffrey Odundo on Friday said there is need to demystify the concept of using
capital markets to raise capital. “It is relatively cheaper to raise capital
through capital markets than through loans,” they said. “Through capital markets, businesses have
better opportunities to grow and this in turn will help improve the saving
culture among Kenyans,” Odundo said. They spoke during the potential issuers forum
in Mombasa. Small and Medium Enterprises should also be listed to be more visible and improve
their credibility in the business sector. Ndegwa said although there are more than 60
companies on the NSE, which has a total market capitalisation of Sh2.8
trillion, not many listings have been done recently partly due to unfavourable
political environment. “75 per cent of the total capitalisation at the NSE is accounted for by
just six firms,” the CMA chair said. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Mombasa county chair Rukia Rashid said family-owned businesses fear being
listed in the NSE due to uncertainties. CMA will put in place initiatives
to enhance the experience of those interested in growing their
companies through the capital markets. “To stimulate the market, we are reviewing
eligibility requirements for firms that wish to list on the bourse with a view
to removing unnecessary barriers and attract new listings,” Ndegwa said. NSE business development and commercial
director Bahati Morara said they are also working towards making listing
attractive. “We have to make simple, possible and
inclusive. Brand visibility is important as a business,” said Morara.