There seems to be a growing unease among Cabinet secretaries over the much rumored Cabinet reshuffle. Yesterday, when word went out that President Uhuru Kenyatta was to address a press conference from Mombasa, two CSs went into panic mode. They kept calling Star journalists to find out if they knew what the press conference was about. The question is who really knows about the planned changes, if any at all? Not even your trusted Star, it seems. ***** So why should a press invite to be addressed by State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena be disguised as one that would feature President Uhuru Kenyatta himself? Journalists expressed their fury on various whatsApp groups yesterday. The general view was that if Dena plans to address the press, she should be honest enough and clearly state that its her media briefing rather than hoodwink the public that the President would address the nation. It is not only deceptive but undignifying to the high office. It is credible to admit change of plan too. Meanwhile, Corridors is not convinced that the red carpet was rolled out for Dena's press conference. ***** A former MP from the northern Kenya who recently missed a top government job is now viciously lobbying to be appointed as the Registrar of Political parties. The MP is said to have reached out to Majority leader Aden Duale among those perceived to be close to the President to consider him for the strategic post vacated by Lucy Ndungu who was last week approved by Parliament to join the Commission for Administration Justice (CAJ). ***** Two wives of a former minister said to be competing to sell his assets are unable to dispose of a number of petrol stations because most of them are on grabbed land. The man acquired a lot of wealth but the family seems unprepared to keep it to the surprise of close relatives and friends. Corridors heard that the spouses have failed to dispose the multi-million properties to a record ten willing buyers. ***** Are claims of rent-seeking in Parliament real? Well, our mole over the weekend eavesdropped on a conversation between three MPs accusing one of their colleagues of allegedly shortchanging them in a deal which they did not disclose. The irate MPs said he was notorious for receiving in their names but not sharing. The lawmakers have now hatched a plot to expose the ‘hyena without manners’. Corridors is informed that the MP recently went to a state corporation with the concurrence of some members and demanded Sh200 million to influence a report in a particular manner. Click here for
the latest political news 