Fresh from bagging the African title a fortnight ago, World and Olympic 3000m steeplechase champion Consenslus Kipruto has been enlisted to lead the Kenyan battalion in his speciality in Birmingham this Saturday. Kipruto, who was a cut above the rest in Asaba, Nigeria, is expected to renew his rivalry with Moroccan Soufiane el Bakkali in the water jump event in England’s second largest city. Bakkali edged him in the Monaco Diamond League last month, clocking a world leading time of 7:58.15 with Kipruto a distant third in 8:09.78. Kipruto, however, turned the tables on the Moroccan in Nigeria, relegating him to silver. Kipruto clocked a sluggish 8:26.37 with Bakkali second in 8:28.01. Kipruto will have a clutch of Kenyans for company including Raymond Kigen, Abraham Kibiwott, former world junior champion Amos Kirui, Nicholas Bett and Leonard Kipkemoi. Beyo Chala of Ethiopia and Canada’s Matthew Hughes are also expected to provide stern test. World and Commonwealth Games 1500m champion Elijah Manangoi switches to the 800m race at the meeting. Manangoi bagged gold at the Africa Championship earlier in the month and will fancy his chances in the two lap race. Manangoi will be up against Africa 800 silver medallist and Emmanuel Korir, who has the world leading time this year of 1:42.05 set in London last month, Ferguson Rotich and Jonathan Kitilit. The Kenyan quartet will be up against Dutch Bram Som, USA’s Clayton Murphy, Pioland’s Adam Kszczot and Brandon MacBride of Canada World and Commonwealth Games 5,000m champion Helen Obiri, who added the African title to her resume, has been entered for the 3000m. Obiri has been in fine form on the circuit and will spearhead the Kenyan challenge alongside world U-20 5,000m champion Beatrice Chebet, Lilian Kasait, world 10,000m bronze medallist Agnes Tirop, Eva Cherono and Caroline Chepkoech with Ethiopia Taye Ejagayehu and Katia Mackay of USA also in the line-up. Africa 1,500m champion Winny Chebet face stern test in her speciality from compatriot Nelly Jepkosgei. Olympic and world 800m champion Caster Semenya, Hassan Sifan of Netherlands, Ethiopia Tsegay Gudaf and home favourite Laura Weightman of Great Britain will also be seeking glory over the same distance.