Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are "not going to engage" with the Duchess of Sussex's father despite his outbursts claiming he has been "cut off" by the couple. In recent weeks, Thomas Markle has compared the royals to Scientologists and even gone as far as to claim Meghan would be better off "if I was dead". The newlyweds, who are said to be waiting for the 74-year-old to approach them in a "respectful manner", will not try to "set the record straight", reports the Sunday Times. Meghan has not spoken to the former lighting director since shortly after her wedding in May when Prince Harry, 33, allegedly berated the retiree for staging a series of fake photos with a Los Angeles-based paparazzi photographer. The duchess is believed to be reluctant to talk to her father in case he leaks anything to the press. Earlier this month he gave his 'final interview' with the Mail On Sunday - before talking to the Sun a day later. A source told the Sunday Times: "Meghan doesn't think it's a fair game between her father and the media so she's not going to engage in it or instruct anyone on her behalf to set the record straight. "There have always been fears over his vulnerability. Now he's got himself into a cycle of talking publicly. It's very sad." Prince Charles is said to be sympathetic towards Meghan's difficult situation, but a source has claimed the Queen will be "rolling her eyes" over the state of affairs. Thomas Markle's repeated interviews with the press - including a number of statements to gossip websites in the run up to the wedding in Windsor - have been a sore spot for the couple. "The only reason Meghan hasn't spoken to her father yet is because she's yet to hear from him in a respectful manner," a source told DailyMail.com earlier this week. "Thomas is speaking to the press more than he's reached out and spoken to his own daughter." In his interview with the Mail On Sunday, Markle claimed Meghan told him there would be "no room" for him to give a speech at the weeding, and that he "doesn't care" about the Royals and wants his old life back. He said: "I’m not mad at Harry. I’m not mad at Meghan. I love them. I wish them well. But as for the rest of it, f*** it. I’m done." In the same interview, which lasted nine hours, Markle said he had given just three interviews but felt the need to speak out again to combat the "lies" about him. Markle said: "Thousands of stories have been written about me, most of them bull***t. I’ve given two interviews. This is my third. Things have been made up, spun around and others are outright lie." But within 24 hours he was talking to the Sun on Sunday, describing the Royal Family as "cult-like". He said: "They are either like Scientologists or the Stepford family. If they hear anybody say anything they just lock the doors. They need to speak up! "They are cult-like — like Scientology — because they are secretive. They close the door, pull the shades down and put their fingers in their ears so they don't have to hear." He also denied reports he had not attended Meghan's first wedding in 2011. Published photographs from the four-day celebration in the luxury resort of Ocho Rios, Jamaica, show the couple exchanging vows on the beach and Meghan’s mother, Doria Ragland, paddling in the sea. But none shows Markle, who was divorced from Doria by then. "There are no images of me frolicking on the beach because, at the time, I was well into my 60s and not much into frolicking," he said. "But I was very much there and there were more than 100 people there to witness it. Doria and I walked Meghan down the beach together." Click here for the latest political news