  Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari has asked the Coast Development Authority to give lovcals the priority for jobs at the Mwache Dam project. Tayari said it was unethical to sidelined locals in the construction of the dam. The Sh30 million dam construction is managed by the CDA with funding from the World Bank. The agency's director Mshenga Ruga told the Star on a phone that the project was still at its initial stages and that they will prioritise locals for jobs. Tayari however said most workers on site were people hired from elsewhere. "We will gang up and oppose the project if our people are not employed," Tayari said. "What the MP is stressed on is that the ministry in charge should give CDA the sole mandate to run the project as its understand the dynamics of locals. If it's about jobs, we are still doing mapping and soon we will do tree planting which will be tasked to locals, " he said.   Tayari noted that he is angered that the project was started by Coast Development Authority yet project management team are from Nairobi. "I want to be open, if we will go in that line, in the coming future, we will stand by our people and oppose the project," he said. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua asked Tayari to propagate for local jobs in any project done at his constituency but not chase investors. "Many youths are unemployed. Let's build factories so that our youth will get jobs. On the Mwache dam project, do not chase away investors, provided they will leave for us water. Let's investigate if they do the project as required by the contract since what we need more is water not who does the job," he said.  Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said that the county government support all the projects initiated in the county by local investors as a way to put across the big four development agendas. "We ask the national government to cooperate with us in the construction of a fruit processing plant, a Sh279 million construction of Nyalani dam among other projects we initiate in the county to mitigate poverty, " said Mvurya. Mvurya asked for proper public participation for any project done to avoid eruption of violence. He called for a proper way to air public interests. "Let's have meetings to inform locals what going on incase an investor starts a project. This will provide a clear picture and nobody will threaten to chase away investors," he said. 