The Education ministry is on the spot over missing textbooks meant for three classes in upper primary under the new government distribution policy. Millions of pupils in Standard 4, 5 and 6 have not received textbooks since January. School heads, who spoke to the Star, said no funds to buy books were sent to schools. In January the government adopted a textbook a distribution policy that slashed government capitation meant to buy books. The new policy was decided after a joint World Bank and government team focused on reforming procurement and distribution systems. The objective was to reduce textbook prices, while maintaining a high quality of printing, paper and binding. Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association chairperson yesterday told the Star that schools are still waiting for the government to distribute the books. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development director Julius Jwan said the distribution began on a small-scale to favour those in lower primary, Standard 7, 8 and secondary school. “We have asked the ministry to extend the policy to cover the remaining classes so they will equally benefit from the books,” Jwan said. Under Free Primary Education, every pupil receives Sh761 per year towards the purchase of books, translating to about Sh7.5 billion. Kenya Publishers Association chairperson Lawrence Njagi said the government is yet to reveal when the books for these grades will be distributed. “There has been no indication when distribution for books in these classes will begin. We have completed the distribution of phase one in lower primary, secondary school and classes 7 and 8 and we are now waiting for directions on Phase 2,” Njagi said. Read: Sell textbooks to private schools at fair prices, Uhuru directs publishers Donor funds In the government distribution, Standard 1, 2 and 3 received English and Kiswahili books, procured under the Kenya Primary Education Development (PRIEDE) and Tusome project supported by the World Bank and USAid, respectively. Tusome develops and distributesmore than 24 million English and Kiswahili textbooks, workbooks and supplemental readers. Books distributed in secondary school were jointly funded by the Kenyan government and the World Bank under the Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project (SEQIP). A recent survey by World Bank titled ‘Getting Textbooks to Every Child in Sub-Saharan Africa’ says that shortage of teaching-learning materials undermines learning. The average number of textbooks per student was 3.1, according to the Service Delivery Indicators survey of 2013. Also Read: Distribution of textbooks halted due to heavy rains Click here for the latest political news