The county government of Kilifi has issued a quarantine
against the movement of livestock in Magarini and Malindi sub counties
following cases of Rift Valley Fever. County executive committee member for agriculture, livestock
and fisheries Luciana Sanzua on Wednesday confirmed that 16 goats and 2 cattle
have died of Rift Valley Fever. Speaking at the governor’s office, Sanzua also confirmed
that 17 abattoirs and 4 slaughter slabs have been shut down in the two sub
counties. “There were reported cases of abortions in animals in two
private farms and two homesteads in the two sub counties. Abortions in animals
is the main clinical sign of Rift valley Fever in animals thus these were
handled as suspected cases. Blood samples were taken from the animals and
submitted to the Central Veterinary Laboratory-Kabete-Nairobi. This was on
12/July/2018. We received the results on 30th July and 18 out of the
78 samples turned positive,” said Sanzua. She said the spread was as a result of the heavy rains and subsequent flooding in the two sub counties. The department has since embarked on the spraying of animal
with acaricide (chemical) which kills the type of mosquito which breeds in
flooded areas and is the type responsible for incubation and starting off of
the chain of transmission. “We imposed the quarantine last week to avoid the spread of
the disease to other areas. We have also restricted the movement of livestock
from Tana River and Garissa counties to our county. Our surveillance team is on
the ground and we urged members of the public to keep off red meat for the time
being,” added Sanzua. The department of health has also closed down butcheries in
the two sub counties. On Wednesday, Health county executive committee member Anisa
Omar said no cases of human infection have been reported in the county. She said all health workers have been put on a 24 hour surveillance. “All our medical officers in our helath facilties have been
instructed to screen anyone who may present with symptoms of Rift Valley Fever.
We also urge members of public to sleep in mosquito treated nets to keep of the
vector,” she said According to the World Health Organization, there is some
evidence that humans may become infected with RVF by ingesting the
unpasteurized or uncooked milk of infected animals. The majority of human infections result from direct or
indirect contact with the blood or organs of infected animals. The virus can be transmitted to humans through the handling
of animal tissue during slaughtering or butchering, assisting with animal
births, conducting veterinary procedures, or from the disposal of carcasses or foetuses. Certain occupational groups such as herders, farmers,
slaughterhouse workers, and veterinarians are therefore at higher risk of
infection.  The virus infects humans through inoculation, for example
via a wound from an infected knife or through contact with broken skin, or
through inhalation of aerosols produced during the slaughter of infected
animals.   