Head coach Ian Snook has made three changes ahead of the Rugby World Cup-cum-Africa Gold Cup clash against Namibia in Windhoek Namibia this weekend. Nakuru flanker Dalmas Chituyi, Kabras winger Felix Ayange and veteran KCB prop Curtis Lilako are expected to return for the eagerly awaited ‘winner take it all’ showdown against the holders. Chituyi, the two-try hero in the 45-36 win over Zimbabwe last month, missed the last weekend’s 67-0 win over Tunisia through injury alongside former Kenya Sevens international Ayange, who was recovering from the effects of a route canal. Lilako returns for the first time since the 28-24 win away to Morocco on June 23. Commenting on their inclusion, coach Snook said: “Chituyi is in as we have six forwards, two backs, split in the bench for this game. It has been crucial in a couple of other games with fresh forwards coming on late in the game and making a telling difference. We hope this will be the same. Felix is on the bench as he can cover many positions and is competent in all of them all. He is a tough competitor and we know he will be up for the physical battle. Biko Adema, who usually fills this role is carrying an injury. Curtis is back in so we can utilise his experience and cool head late in the game,” the tactician noted. Snook also talked about his expectations from the match against Namibia, saying,” Our hopes and aspirations is that we play really well and piece together 80 minutes of what has only been seen for 40 or so minutes in the other games. It has been difficult with no warm up games and going in cold for one off test matches. The Tunisian game provided a bit of everything which the players will learn from. I’m expecting that the players are ready for an 80 minute effort and are really looking forward to it.” The team leaves Nairobi tomorrow morning for the Namibian capital, Windhoek. The winner of the match will qualify directly to the Rugby World Cup in Japan next year and will face champions New Zealand, South Africa and Italy in Pool ‘B’. The loser will head to the repecharge in Marseille, France in November where they confront Canada, Germany and Hong Kong await. Simbas squad: Isaac Adimo (Kenya Harlequin), Martin Owilah (KCB), Samson Onsomu (Impala Saracens), William Ambaka (Harlequin), Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Tony Onyango (Homeboyz), Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Oliver Mang’eni (KCB), Jacob Ojee (KCB), Mohamed Omollo (Homeboyz), Felix Ayange (Kabras), Dalmus Chituyi (Homeboyz), Curtis Lilako (KCB), Peter Karia (KCB), Elkeans Musonye (Strathmore Leos), George Nyambua (Kabras), Andrew Chogo (Kabras), Malcolm Onsando (Harlequin), Patrick Ouko Cream Homeboyz), Moses Amusala (KCB), Joseph Odero (Kabras), Colman Were (Kabras) and Davis Chenge (KCB, captain).