Small scale farmers who delivered maize to NCPB depots last season will be given priority in the payment of Sh1.4 billion released by the government. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said this on Monday, noting that this amount is part of the Sh3.5 billion that the government owes farmers. "We assure farmers that we have enough money to pay them," he said, adding the debt will have been cleared by August 20. “We will start with smallholder farmers; the ordinary farmers who brought in their maize," Eugene said. The CS said large scale farmers and traders who delivered large quantities of maize will be addressed later, in line with an audit report by the EACC. "Transporters are not part of this. That is being addressed separately. This is strictly for farmers who delivered their maize,” he said. The minister spoke at Treasury building on Monday during a briefing on the state of strategic food reserves in the country. Eugene said the vetting of farmers with claims is expected to go on until Friday and will be in strict adherence to the list of registered farmers. "Almost 28 teams will be dispatched to the depots to ensure vetting is done as quickly as possible," he said. Farmers are to report to the depots with their delivery notes for the processing of payments. Claimants must also produce copies of ID card, passport photos, PIN certificates and weighbridge tickets showing where the maize was weighed and delivered. They must also submit certified letters from the chief and the sub-county agricultural officers. The CS said the payments were delayed due to the questions that emerged over payments to traders who allegedly disguised themselves as genuine farmers and delivered huge quantities of maize, thereby denying small scale farmers a chance for payments. "We regret the delay but it was necessary for verification and investigations, for a fair, transparent, accountable and verifiable process." On food security, Wamalwa said the country has over three million bags of maize in its strategic reserves and that the government intends to expand it to six million bags or a maximum of eight million after this season's harvest. "We have enough maize," he said. Read: Farmers plan protests over delayed payments Click here for the latest political news