A group of MPs wants the tendering process simplified so many youths can benefit. They said yesterday that many young people cannot access government opportunities because the procedures are tedious. Martha Wangari (Gilgil), Wanjiku Kibe (Gatundu North), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha) and Kibwezi East’s Jessica Mbalu said the youth can only be empowered if they can compete for opportunities. The MPs metmore than 1,000 women and youth groups in Gilgil town under the Huduma Mashinani initiative. The legislators urged the youth to take up the opporutnies provided by the government so they can contribute to socioeconomic development. They promised to ensure Parliament eliminates the hurdles that hinder their progress. “Too many steps involved in application lock out so many of our youths out of business,” Wangari said. Kibe said the big youth population in Kenya suffers and must be supported through proper systems and regulations. “We can’t continue this way. We’ll make sure we rally our colleagues together to change the style that has seen many shy away from getting tenders,” she said. Read: We need more millionaires, youth must get tenders — Wangamati Kihara said lawmakers are committed to ensuring the youth become self-reliant by starting businesses. She warned against overemphasis on white-collar jobs. “We have purposed to take this Huduma Mashinani initiative to the grassroots and have all youths trained on the opportunities the government provides,” she said. Mbalu said access to government tenders should be open to all. She said proper laws and regulations would ensure that is achieved. “Youths will play a big role in the achievement of the President’s Big Four agenda. We want to assure them we will play our part in ensuring this is achieved,” she said. Mbalu praised the initiative. It has played a big role in educating the youth, she said. Youth Enterprise Fund CEO Josiah Moriasi said Gilgil youths will receive Sh5 million to grow their talent. They will also be motivated to engage in meaningful activities that change lives. Also See: Youth are taking up few tenders - PPOA Click here for the latest political news