Senators have dismissed reports that Solai Dam tragedy was an act of God but a case of omission and a conspiracy between the dam owner and state agencies. The committee chairman Senator Mutula Kilonzo said Perry Mansukh, NEMA and WARMA officials be held liable for the 52 lives that were lost in the incident. In a 1,800-page document with 27 recommendations, the committee now wants severe punishment against Mansukh "to serve as an example to other people taking the lives of Kenyans for a ride." The legislators want the dam owner to cede part of the 3,250-acre farmland for use in resettling the affected families. "Mr Mansukh has 3,250 acres of land out of which 800acres hold a wildlife sanctuary. We cannot be having an investor who treats Kenyans worse than his animals," Kilonzo said. The legislator said the dam owner must also be compelled to pay dearly for diverting water for personal use. He said the committee made the resolution after it established the tragedy had caused a significant environmental disaster that left the residents only with rocks. Read: Solai Dam walls cracked long before tragedy, says report According to the report, the killer dam had been built at 1,694 meters above sea with a 30-meter long mud wall holding 300 million litres of water with no spill-out. The senators also reported that the dam had no license, a matter that was allegedly covered up by WARMA and NEMA. "NEMA had not inspected the dam since 2005," the report states, adding that NEMA failed to inspect the danger posed by the water diverted from a river into the dam. Kilonzo said they had also ascertained that the adjacent dam had 180 million litres of water and was about to burst before KDF intervened and emptied it. "We are lucky that the floor of the dam during the tragedy was diverted by a greenhouse otherwise it would be a different story. If it happened at 10pm no one would have survived. This is a criminal act that cannot be let go," the senator said. "We have risked our lives to unearth the truth. People have been calling and intimidating us. We feared for our security but resolved to tell Kenyans the truth," he added. Read: I'm also a victim, Solai dam owner tells Senate The report further recommends that Mansukh must provide food and water to the affected families until they rebuild their lives. "This is a grave matter not contemplated by the Environmental Management and Coordination Act laws. Before Mansukh embarks on the compensation of the victims we must call experts to determine extend of damage so that conditions can be put in place," the report reads in part. "Mr speaker under EMCA, the owner must deposit some Sh5 billion and he must ensure that each of the deceased is rewarded in person with a multiplying effect." "All the children left orphans must be taken care of. He must pay their school fees from Primary through to university and cater for their needs until they attain 25 years," Kilonzo said. The committee also recommended that NEMA, WARMA, and Mansukh be held criminally liable for misleading the committee that the tragedy was an act of God when it was an arrogant act from their side. Also read: State officials protecting Solai Dam owners, Senate committee alleges Click here for the latest political news 