A former administrator who died of rabies after a honey badger attack cannot be buried because of a Sh1.2 million hospital bill. The family of Simon Komen, 64, the former Kapkoiwo sublocation assistant chief is appealing for help so that  Eldoret Hospital will release the body. The burial was set for Saturday this week but was put off because the debt was not cleared. “As a family, we are struggling to fundraise Sh1.2 million to foot pending medical bills and pay for the burial,” elder son Shedrack Kiptoo told the Star yesterday. The animals attacked Komen on July 22, infecting him with the deadly rabies virus. He didn’t seek rabies treatment and died on August 16. The attack occured at his home in Kibarkebo Village in Saimo-Kipsaraman ward, in Baringo county. “I heard my sheep bleating at 10pm. It was dark  and I went outside with a torchand a panga. I saw two animals that looked like dogs trying to kill my sheep,” Komen earlier said from his hospital bed. He said when he raised the panga to scare the animals away they pounced on him. “One bit my left hand so I dropped the torch,” he said. Komen struggled with the animals for 30 minutes, screamed and woke up villagers who rushed him to hospital. Paul Murgor, one of the rescuers, said the predators had entered the compound by digging a tunnel into the sheep’s shed. “We found him writhing with bloody, deep cuts on his hands and legs,” Murgor said. He was rushed to Kipsaraman dispensary for first aid before being referred to Kabarnet County Referral Hospital around 12am. He should have been given an injection of rabies vaccine immediately, followed by more injections. He wasn’t treated and -his condition worsened. “I rushed from Eldoret town where I live, to pick my father and took him to Eldoret Hospital,” his son Kiptoo said. He said the old man was diagnosed with rabies on arrival. Once symptoms appear, rabies is nearly always fatal. A vaccine can prevent infection. Animals still roaming “He responded well with the first four doses and while headed for his fifth and last dose on August 8 he started complaining of weakness, dizziness, vomiting. He became wild, biting people and foaming at the mouth,”Kiptoo said. Kiptoo said his father was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit where he died eight days later. Saimo-Kipsaraman ward representative John Aengwo accused the Kenya Wildlife Service of laxity. “Since the incident was reported to the KWS, they have done nothing to mitigate the situation to date,” he said. Aengwo said the infected animals are still roaming the area, putting the residents at risk of more attacks. Senior Baringo KWS warden Dickson Too said investigations are underway to determine the kind of animals that attacked the old man. Kiptoo said compensation will only be made once full evidence has been tabled. “We have already laid traps to net the wild animals in the area” he said, and cautioned residents to be careful while walking at night.