A Nyandarua MCA caused a scene on Friday after he defied orders to surrender his gun for safe custody before getting into the assembly chambers. Geoffrey Ngaruiya, the oldest member of the House, walked away and hurled insults at the chief sergeant-at-arms Stanley Kimeria. He went into the chambers with the weapon. The 65-year-old insisted that for him to be searched, then all members, including speaker Wahome Ndegwa, had to walk to be frisked for weapons afresh. "If I will be searched, all men in this assembly must walk out and be searched too. This is pure intimidation owing to my stand," the nominated county legislator shouted. He claimed there was another MCA who owns a gun but "was not subjected to such embarrassment." The assembly orderlies quickly locked the door to the corridor leading to the chambers to block journalists from taking photos of the ensuing drama. When he was finally allowed to the House Ngaruiya, interrupted the speaker who was explaining the importance of security in the House. "Point of order!" he shouted to the agitation of the speaker. "Who is out of order?" the speaker fired back. "Point of information," Ngaruiya corrected himself. He was given a chance where he claimed he was mishandled after he declined to submit for search. He lamented that it was only him who was targeted yet the speaker had said no one should escape the ‘punishment’. The speaker told the House he had given instruction for members to be searched after concerns that some legislators were going to the assembly with weapons. "The sergeant at Arms has absolute right to ask any member to submit to a search to ensure the House and every member is safe," he said. "I am very sad to report that one such member has even thrown insults at the Chief Sergeant at Arms who had actually confirmed he has a gun." "Members, whenever you come, any weapon, including a stick or a knife, cannot get to the precincts of the assembly, leave alone the Chambers." Ndegwa said any weapon must be surrendered to the Sergeant at Arms the moment any member carrying one gets at the gate of the assembly. "That is a matter of life. It is about our lives. It is not something that can be ignored," he said. Click here for the latest political news 