There was nothing to celebrate during National Youth Week, Jubilee youth leader Samuel Mundia has said. Mundia noted on Wednesday that camps, workshops and conferences to mark the week will not solve the unemployment problem. "The meetings are instead meant to draw allowances for a few honchos," he said. "We have had all these for the last 54 years with little value to show for it. It is unfortunate that we are yet to solve issues of youth unemployment and hopelessness." His sentiments came after Deputy president William Ruto pledged tenders of over Sh200 billion for youths, women and the disabled. Ruto said the youth needed to network their way into opportunities. "No opportunity will be brought to your door step. You must network your way into these opportunities," he told them. Read: Sh200 billion tenders in store for youths, women and the disabled - Ruto But to Mundia, since the government is yet to allow the youth to actively participate in policy making, networking efforts remain a mirage. "There is more of a guarantee of better job opportunities, equal and revised wages, training subsidies and youth entrepreneurship interventions when the government gets involved and successfully supports them." Mundia further noted that the government has neglected disadvantaged youth who could no longer work due to unfavourable conditions. While noting that youths were left unemployed because of lack of sourcing and connections to employers, he said partnerships are important. "It is important to build connections by developing partnerships between employers and the government or schools so that they align skills to be taught with employer requirements," the youth leader said. "Such connections can make a big difference." He added that targeted interventions should include labour-market training and work-experience programmes to drive business growth for youth in disadvantaged areas. Mundia also called for support for entrepreneurship, mentoring on career guidance and investment in youth programmes. He further said work experience standards should be revised and youths allowed to experiment by venturing into several industries. Also read: Abolish Helb, EACC clearance fees, Jubilee youth leader asks Parliament Click here for the latest political news   