Deputy President William Ruto was awarded in Kampala on Saturday night for being part of Jubilee's initiative to give 30 percent of all government contracts to youths, women and the disabled. Ruto received the prestigious 2018 Lifetime Achievement Award in the Ugandan capital during the 2018 Young Achievers Awards ceremony. He was described as being a visible champion for youth empowerment, industrial and technical training, and praised for supporting talent development through sports and art. It was also noted that Ruto was once a 'hustler'. Read: 'Hustler' Ruto returns to Kambi Kuku, motivates chicken sellers Also read: Sh200 billion tenders in store for youths, women and the disabled - Ruto Uganda Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda, who read a speech on behalf of President Yoweri Museveni, noted that historically, young people have played key roles in the transformation of their nation. “The people I mobilised in the 70s and 80s to confront and defeat injustice in our country were young people,“ he said on Museveni's behalf. The President said his goal was for youths to go from being guzzlers of wealth to becoming active agents of social change and economic transformation. “Let no one tell you that you cannot achieve your goals. If they say so, ask them 'what about William Ruto, who, from selling chicken at a railway crossing, is now the Deputy President of Kenya?" Rugunda praised the nominees and winners for attempting to solve big social problems using simple innovations that arise from youths' ideas.  Deputy President William Ruto receives the 2018 Lifetime Achievement Award during the 2018 Young Achievers Awards ceremony in Kampala, Uganda, August 18, 2018. /DPPS Ruto, who was with his family, praised his parents for emphasising that hardwork pays. “I have come to learn that innovation, creativity and enterprise pay even more," he said The DP said he accepted the award not because the organisers are well known but because of the idea it represents; that Africa must begin to celebrate and reward its achievers and validate their dreams instead of waiting for others to do so. The DP noted that the continent is rich and values hard work, enterprise, craft and innovation, that are mostly associated with the youth. To unlock their potential, he said, primacy must be given to science, technology and technical education as keys to transformation. Ruto said: "We must start imparting relevant skills to our learners. For what will it benefit a young man to know when Vasco Da Gama came to Malindi when he doesn’t know how to mechanise his farm or innovate new technologies to scale his enterprise?" He added: "Let us leverage on our young people's enthusiasm and energy to unleash new opportunities and open arenas for discovery and achievement." Ruto was with his wife Rachel, EAC Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed, Governors John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Josphat Nanok (Turkana). Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito and MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Robert Pukose (Endebess) also attended the ceremony. Click here for the latest political news