As they were walking along the road, someone said to Jesus, “I will follow You wherever You go.” Jesus replied, “Foxes have dens and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay His head.” (Luke 9:57-58 ). Pastors across the world have adopted sophisticated – and flamboyant – lifestyles compared to their counterparts in the old days, who were known for their modest way of life. From travelling around in private jets and expensive machines, to playing golf—the rich man’s game—to holidaying in exotic places and being fashion trendsetters, these men and women of God are indeed a living proof that His grace is sufficient. Kenya has its fair share of such preachers. Prophet Owuor of Repentance and Holiness Ministry travels around like a king, complete with the red carpet and security detail. Reverend Teresia Wairimu recently built a church in Karen worth Sh1 billion. Bishop Allan and Rev Kathy Kiuna of Jubilee Christian Centre (JCC). Controversial Apostle James Nga’ang’a of Neno Evangelism Centre has been embroiled in several controversies. Pastor Pius Muiru of Maximum Miracle Centre. Bishop Dr Victor Kanyari was exposed on TV for conning his followers. This to name but a few. Most of these pastors are wealthy and drive luxury cars such as Range Rovers and Mercedes-Benz. They wear designer clothes, watches and accessories, and live in the city’s finest suburbs. They always fly first class. Not so long ago, Bishop Allan Kiuna caused a stir online after news went viral that his congregation planned to buy him a private jet on his 50th birthday last December. The man of God told the Star, “The church is expanding. My calendar and itinerary won’t allow me to meet the demands of missionary work. This calls for efficient travel and it’s too tedious to fly commercial from one continent to another.” Q: Jesus lived a humble life and Christians are supposed to be Christ-like. Are you living a Christ-like life? A: Only the word of God can demystify misconceptions. I state categorically Jesus was never poor. Tell me of any poor man who has an accountant. Judas Iscariot was the accountant and used to steal. When you steal from a poor man, what can he be left with? You know the answer. Kiuna’s JCC is one the fastest-growing churches in Kenya. It has 15 branches in the country and five international ones.