Pedestrian accidents along Jogoo Road are expected to decline as the Kenya Urban Roads Authority sets up cycling lanes on both sides. The 1.2-km stretch will run from Landhies Road to the Likoni Road roundabout (Church Army section). Pedestrians continue to lead with the highest number of fatalities in road accidents in Nairobi. According to the road agency, the track is expected to reduce conflict between motorists and cyclists and in return reduce frequency of accidents on Jogoo Road which accommodates a large number of vehicles. Decongestion on the main road will also reduce as cyclists will not have to struggle for space with other road users. A spot check yesterday revealed that most traders along the road are contented by the efforts by Kura to set up the cycle tracks and barriers. “I have witnessed more than five accidents since January and most of them are as a result of speeding PSVs who knock pedestrians on the road sides. But with this new track, the barriers will minimise the accidents,” Rosemary Nyangweso, a trader, said. Tom Mutua, a trader, also said the cycle track will improve observance of traffic rules among pedestrians and motorists. Jogoo Road had been mentioned by Kura as one of the city’s busiest roads as there are traders operating from both sides of the road. According to the NTSA Northern Corridor and Nairobi County Route Hazard Mapping launched in July, Jogoo Road was revealed as one of Nairobi’s risky roads with nine black spots. The spots are located at Burma footbridge, Rikana, Uchumi supermarket, Uchumi junction, Mogas, Hamza, Hamza Oryx, Rabai Road Junction and Jogoo Road flyover near Donholm roundabout. NTSA had recommended repair of damaged guard rails and installation of speed bumps to slow down motorists to reduce the number of accidents. The authority also recommended the repair and maintenance of traffic lights and road banks. On law enforcement, it was suggested all motorists and PSVs speeding and driving on the wrong side should be arrested. 