Hundreds of
slum residents have asked a Kenyan court to stop them being
evicted from state-owned land, their lawyer said on Wednesday, a
week after authorities demolished the homes of 30,000 Nairobians
living in one of Africa's largest slums. The National Building Inspectorate, a state agency in charge
of housing safety, issued a notice to residents in six Nairobi
slums on July 19 warning that their houses would be demolished
in August. "We want them to be given time to move," said lawyer Soyinka
Lempaa, who is representing about 300 slum residents. "(Evictions) should be done in accordance with the law and
as humanely as possible," said Lempaa, who works with the Katiba
Institute rights group. Moses Nyakiongora, secretary of the National Building
Inspectorate, said in a phone interview that people had invaded
and built on Kenya Railways and Kenya Power's land and resisted
efforts to relocate them. "There is encroachment with impunity, even where orders have
been given," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "People live very dangerously, even near railways and power
lines, and when something happens they claim compensation from
government. We need to do something now." International law regards forced eviction as a gross
violation of human rights, regardless of whether or not the land
was occupied legally, as it can push people deeper into poverty. Kenyan law says people illegally occupying public land
should only be evicted after receiving three months notice, but
it does not oblige the government to offer them alternative
housing, the advocacy group Amnesty International says. Thousands of shanties were bulldozed last week in Kibera,
Nairobi's largest slum and home to some 400,000 people, to make
way for a road. Amnesty International said the demolitions left 30,000
residents homeless, highlighting the difficulties faced by poor
people living in slums as African cities expand rapidly. About half of Africa's 470 million city residents live in
informal settlements, a figure that is expected to rise as the
World Bank predicts the continent's urban population will double
to 1 billion people by 2040. Kenya's rail and power companies own huge tracts of land
nationwide as safety buffers where their lines pass and for
future expansion, although much of it has been encroached on. See: [VIDEO] Kibera and the road that divides residents Click here for the latest political news