A healthy working relationship between DCI chief George Kinoti and DPP Noordin Haji is said to be the force behind the new anti-corruption purge. Unlike their predecessors, Ndegwa Muhoro and Keriako Tobiko, who literally could not see eye to eye, the new pair has a good working relationship. The poor working relationship was blamed for the slow pace of dealing with high-profile criminals. The exit of Muhoro and Tobiko from their powerful offices on January 5 brought to an end a five-year-old battle between the two powerful individuals. Their frosty relationship reached the ears of President Uhuru Kenyatta as early as 2016. Uhuru made several attempts to mend the relationship between the two but failed. Their relationship at a personal level was marked with suspicion and mistrust, further straining their professional work. “The renewed drive is a result of the good working relationship between the top chiefs. Our relationship with staff from the DPP has also greatly improved,” a senior DCI officer, who requested not to be named, said. Read:Turf wars: Unease at EACC as Kinoti takes charge Haji and Kinoti have become the new champions of the anti-corruption war. Less than six months after taking office, the duo has gone after big names in the NYS and Kenya Power scandals. Top officials in government, who in the past seemed untouchable, have been arrested and charged. Among the big names dragged to court are former PS Lilian Mbogo Omollo and former Kenya Power MD Ben Chumo, who at the time of arrest was poised to be named the new chair of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong of Busia and former Nairobi chief Evans Kidero have not been spared by the pair. Sources said Haji and Kinoti meet frequently whenever there is a major task. For instance, during the NYS investigations, Haji was a frequent visitor to the DCI offices on Kiambu Road. Together with top officials from his office, Haji met Kinoti and his investigators to jointly review the evidence and draft charges. The two are also said to consult regularly on the phone. Also Read:NIS dossiers drive Uhuru's war on graft Click here for the latest political news