The High Court in Kisii has ordered the government to pay America-based Kenyan journalist Peter Makori Sh8.5 million for torture inflicted nearly 15 years ago. Justice David Majanja also awarded the journalist interest at 12 per cent from June 7, 2012, which will raise the total compensation to nearly Sh15 million. The judge made the decision on August 10. Majanja issued the orders after hearing an application filed in 2015 by Makori seeking to compel the Attorney General to honour a ruling to compensate him for torture and malicious prosecution. The order brings to a near end the 15-year battle for justice waged by the journalist who was brutally assaulted by police in July 2003 and later accused of fictitious capital offences of robbery with violence and murder. interest Makori spent 319 days in remand at both Kisii and Kodiaga prisons. In 2012, Justice Kalpana Rawal adopted a 2006 verdict by a tribunal of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights that the journalist’s rights had been violated. It awarded the journalist Sh8.45 million together with interest. Read: Nearly crippled by torture, journalist fights for Sh12m pay ‘frustrated’ by AG However, former AG Githu Muigai and Solicitor General Njee Muturi declined to pay and proposed to “negotiate” with the journalist. Makori rejected the “negotiation” offer as a form of blackmail and moved back to the High Court to seek fresh orders to compel the AG to pay. respect court order Majanja ruled that the AG has an unconditional obligation to comply with the judgment and dismissed an affidavit sworn by the principal litigation counsel at the AG’s office, Charles Mutinda, as diversionary. Makori told the Star from Missouri, USA, that the High Court ruling was a triumph of justice over impunity and hoped that the new AG, Justice Kihara Kariuki, being a judge will respect the court order. “No Kenyan should be subjected to such injustice. I have always asked myself how many innocent people who cannot fight for their rights are suffering because of the system’s failure,” Makori said. Click here for the latest political news