“Are you
complaining?” Rob asks regarding my comment on his size. Without waiting for an
answer he gets on top of me and begins to make love to me. He’s slow, gentle
and it’s quite extraordinary. I scream with abandon. Like for real. I’m talking
about the wake-up-the-darn-neigbours type of screaming. Like the
I-know-my-life-is-better-than-yours type of screams. Basically, the
I–can’t-have-sex-with-anyone-else-inside-the-house-because-this-is-what-it
sounds-like-when-doves-cry type of screaming. Three orgasms later, we dose off.
For all of 15 minutes. Then he wakes me up again. He is already rearing to go. Where
does he get the strength? In the gym, clearly, I’ve never been with someone who
is as ripped as he is. It’s strange because even though I’m not in the same
shape he’s in, we still click. He leads, I follow. The kisses this
time round, are more passionate, less bland. And he screws me. This is not
lovemaking. Before he was Luther Vandross, a piece of velvet. His lovemaking
every bit as rich as the special looms woven out of silk that create velvet. But,
no, that’s Luther. This is more of the rock band Guns N Roses – whose
belligerence and reckless disregard for society’s rules made them famous. Someone
once described their music as a sawed off shotgun. That’s what’s happening to
me right now. Getting banged by a sawed off shotgun. It’s crass. It’s noisy. Complete
with a creaky bed with a headboard banging against the wall, there’s flesh on
flesh sounding like wild clapping sounds. There’s perspiration dripping all
over the place. There are moans and groans. There’s dirty talk. Rob takes me in
different positions, gets rough, spanks me, and pulls my hair back. As kinky as
it is, it’s still strangely mild. I can feel him holding back. Kind of testing
the waters of what I like.  When it’s
finally over, I’m very sore. And also very well loved up. We lie there for a
moment. Both of us processing what just happened. Luther was phenomenal. But
Gun N Roses is probably more exciting for him. I can’t move. “Were you holding
back?” I ask remembering the restraint. “You could tell?”
he asks. “Yes, what did you
want to do to me?” I ask. “Have you ever
tried erotic asphyxia?” he asks. Mmm. He’s
referring to depriving my body of oxygen, either by cutting off my air supply
with his hands around my throat or perhaps using a plastic bag. This could lead
to unconsciousness or even death. And all this goes down while he’s inside you.
Choking your partner is supposed to heighten sexual arousal and orgasms. But
who wants to end up in a morgue? “Isn’t that
dangerous?” I ask. “You can tap me if
I go too long and I’ll let go,” he says. Freaky Scorpios.
Sigh. “Does it hurt?” I ask. “Not while I do it
but later, yes, it might,” he says. He’s done this
before. Why I’m I not surprised? “But it’s worth
it,” he says. He leans towards my neck, kisses it and moves his lips to my ear
and gently whispers. “When my hand is
around your neck, the loss of oxygen will increase the feelings of lightheadedness.” He puts his hand
around my throat and continues whispering. “It creates a near
hallucinogenic rush. It’s euphoric. Sex will be an out of body experience for
you.” He squeezes my
throat gently. “You have to trust me,” he says. He keeps squeezing as he rubs
my clitoris with his other hand. He dips a finger inside me and I try and gasp
from the sensation but his hand is still around my neck. The pressure doesn’t
totally restrict my breathing though... The whole thing feels very intense and
I’m getting seriously aroused. 