The National Youth Service will now be led by a Chief Executive Officer after Cabinet approved proposals to restructure the institution in efforts to curb corruption. The changes were reached following a Cabinet meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday at State House. The move is to transform the institution into a body corporate body with a Director General as the CEO. Other measures taken include the establishment of an oversight board to deal with the "serious managerial and operational challenges at the NYS." The Cabinet also proposed a clean-up of the supply chain management function as well as budgetary and internal audit reforms. Also read: Clean 'messy' NYS, Uhuru tells Youth PS Francis Owino at swearing-in This came at a time the institution has been hit by two major corruption scandals in a span of three years. In 2015, the NYS lost over Sh791 million under the then Devolution, Youth and Gender CS and now Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru. The institution made headlines with chief suspect Josephine Kabura confessing to have carried millions of shillings in sacks. The saga saw Waiguru step aside to allow for investigations. She denied culpability in the questionable dealings and was later cleared by the EACC. However, senior directors at the time of the scandal among them PS Peter Mangiti are still battling a matter in court which involves some Sh47 million that was lost at the entity. The case followed an appeal by DPP Noordin Haji in May after Mangiti and two others were acquitted of the fraud-related charges. More on this: DPP appeals Mangiti, NYS scandal suspects' acquittal Another Sh468 million scandal saw immediate former NYS director Richard Ndubai, Youth PS Lillian Omollo, and 46 others charged with various crimes related to the loss of funds at the youth agency. Related: Kobia, Sicily summoned over Sh9bn NYS scandal Also read: Kobia sends NYS officers packing as theft investigations heat up More on this: James Tembur appointed acting NYS boss ahead of major shake-up Click here for the latest political news