Title: I Used To Know Her: The Prelude - EP Artiste: H.E.R. Genre: Hip hop, R&B/Soul Release: August 3  Every music enthusiast, especially those inclined to R&B/Soul, knows that Gabriella Wilson's identity was once completely unknown as she preferred to remain anonymous and only be recognised by her music. Now, at least we have an idea of what the artists by the stage name H.E.R. might look like. However, she still won't let us see her eyes. All we know is she has curly, shoulder-length hair and quite the collection of eye-wear. For H.E.R. - which is ironically an acronym for Having Everything Revealed - it always been the music that has propelled her career. Since her debut EP 'H.E.R., Vol. 1' she has maintained her mysterious vibe but extended her reach being one of the incredibly amazing R&B acts in the world. Tunes like "Focus" and her guest appearance on Daniel Caesar's "Best Part" have boosted her presence to the top of the charts. Her latest EP 'I Used To Know Her: The Prelude' is a continuation of her enigmatic approach towards creation of her craft. The six-track project kicks off with a tribute to the talented hip-hop Legend Lauryn Hill on the track "Lost Souls" which features Dj Scratch. On this track, she delves deep into the issues of feminism and female empowerment. "Against Me" is a seamless combination of brilliant, entrancing vocals and spoken word outro. H.E.R. details the need for women to understand that they ought to exist only in relationships where respect is extended to them by their lovers. The interlude "Be On My" highlights a broken relationship that H.E.R. wishes she could exit. Bryson Tiller joins on "Could've Been," a track that highlights the possiblities of relationship between two hopeless romantics. H.E.R. dives deeps into the negative emotions that often play a part in her relationship on "Feel a Way." The EP closes out with "As I Am," this time bring out a happy tune unlike the previous tracks. She celebrates the love she has for her lover and needs to know if they will be together forever. H.E.R. was only 14 when she was signed to RCA Records and she evolved into a music icon. Her music resonates with the millennial era while picking inspiration from the greats. As she prepares for her debut album, she continues to be a voice for women. For her it's not about the stardom, but about making good music and she continues to live by this guidelines.  Star rating: 3 out of 5