A Mt Kenya school yesterday beat stiff competition from schools in Muslim dominated regions to emerge the best in the category of Islamic Religious Song for primary schools at the ongoing National Music Festivals in Nyeri. The event enters its fourth day today at the Dedan Kimathi University of Technology. Performance by Sagana Muslim Primary School from Kirinyaga was declared the best Islamic religious song after scoring 89 per cent. Judges said the pupils aptly captured the spiritual mood of the moment and were able to control the playing of their instruments on stage. Kilifi Primary School was second with 88 per cent and Ndhiwa Primary School from Homa Bay came third with 87 per cent. Sagana trainer Grace Mwangi said she was happy with the performance. She said the school has often been among the top three but has never won the category. The Catholic teacher said she intends to do more research to retain the position. “We have both Muslims and Christians at the school. I attribute this success to discipline and unity among teachers,” Mwangi told the Star. She said she studied Islam and Hindu for her masters degree, which equipped her with the right knowledge to guide the students. “I have vast knowledge in Christian, Hindu and Muslim religions. That’s why we were able to capture what really matters,” said the Geography graduate. Mwangi said she fasts with Muslims during Ramadhan and listens to many Muslim stories, factors she attributed to her success. The performances were themed around the prophetic attributes of Mohammed, including the ideas he brought to the Islamic faith. There were sub-themes on anti-terrorism and anti-violent extremism, prayers of supplication and the various pillars of Islam. The performances came just a day after Kenyans marked the 20th anniversary of the August 7, 1998 Nairobi bomb attack in which 224 people were killed. The attack was carried out by al Qaeda terrorists. The group is believed to have links with Somali-based al Shabaab, which continues to pose threat to the country. While the performances were limited to Islam, other schools tried to sneak in different melodies.The audience also grappled with exaggerations which affected diction making it difficult to hear the communication. A total of 14 schools performed in the category including Inspiration Primary from the Coast. In the Taarab category, Kimilili Girls Primary from Western emerged the best with 89 per cent followed by Kitale School at 88 per cent while Isbania Primary from Migori came third with 87 per cent. The schools beat their competitors from the Coast which is the heart of Taarab music. The Coast schools in the category included Sacred Heart, Isack Nyondo and Kwa Jomvu primary schools. During the performances, girls and boys kept on separate sides of the stage according to tradition.