Police in Eldoret have arrested a slaughterhouse worker who battered his pregnant wife for three hours and tried to cut off her ear for allegedly misusing Sh500. It was the second time in 10 days that a viral video prompted public fury, compelling police to act on escalating domestic violence. “He works at the slaughter house and since we met he has been so brutal. This time, I thought he would slaughter me," Valerie Masibo told the Star in an exclusive interview on Sunday. She suffered serious facial injuries; one of her nearly severed ears was reattached at Moi Referral Hospital. The victim had been rescued by police from a house at Kipkaren Estate where she had been locked up by the suspect, identified at Nafatali Lusuli. A picture of her disfigured face had gone viral on social media and neighbours informed the police of the violence, leading officers to storm the house on Friday night. On August 1, a Winifred Mwende was severely beaten by her husband Daudi Nzomo as she lay on a dirt path in Makueni. The viral went video, including pleas from onlookers to stop. The DPP stepped in. The man was arrested. In the latest of many similar cases, Valerie Masibo was battered. She is four months' pregnant; she has not lost t the baby. Valerie was discharged and is recovering at her aunt's house in Eldoret. She will remain under medical care. The suspect was arrested in the house and is being held at the Yamumbi police station. He is expected to be charged today. “We have the suspect in custody and he will be taken to court to face charges in relation to the crime," Eldoret South OCPD Wilson Abduba said. Valerie and Lusuli have been married for five months Read:Makueni man jailed 12 years for beating his wife “This is about the fifth time the man has attacked me viciously but this time it was so serious I could not even see after the beating. I felt like I was dying, but I thank God I am alive and free from his brutality,”Valerie said. She said the man, whom she started dating in March, arrived home last Friday at 6 pm and was very drunk. He accused Valerie of misusing the Sh500 he had given her for rent. “I still had the money and as I tried to show it to him he pushed me to the ground and started using his shoe and a cooking stick to beat me," Valerie said. The men then used a sharp object to cut off part of her ear, causing her to bleed profusely. She screamed for help but the man locked the door from inside. The neighbours alerted police who arrived at the house but the man had escaped. He was arrested in the same estate. Valerie said they had known each other for a short while but they decided to stay together when she learned she was pregnant. She was taken to the police station to identify her attacker. “When he saw me, he could not believe that he was one who inflicted such injuries. He pleaded with me to forgive him but with the suffering I have gone through, I want the law to take its course”, she said. She said she would never return to her batterer and said she hoped that other women going through the same suffering receive help.  