Somewhere in the heart
of West Pokot county, a determination to overcome illiteracy is unfolding. A makeshift classroom under a tree has drawn 50 elders who missed education due to poverty. They have no pen, no paper, and their teacher has no blackboard. Some students are sniffing
tobacco. Others are chewing miraa. But they are all paying attention. “I never knew the aged
in the community had a thirst for education,” teacher Jackson Madah tells the
Star. “My oldest student is 75 years. He has a problem with his sight but still struggles to ensure he grasps something before the lesson ends.” Welcome to Alale
Education Centre in North Pokot subcounty. It is two weeks old but already, it
embodies the silent revolution taking place in a county with 67 per cent
illiteracy. Some students arrived long before class started. The
county government launched the programme this year to help reduce illiteracy. All markets have
an adult education centre, where elders attend classes from 2-4pm. More than 40,000 senior residents have enrolled so far. Madah says his
students come because they want to know how to operate smartphones, read the
Bible and cast votes on their own. He says it is too early for him to set tough
rules, so he does not stop the elderly students from bringing miraa and
tobacco. “When they fully
understand the importance of education, I’m sure they will stop coming
with such things to class for the two hours. I fear if I ask them to stop, they
might abandon classes. It will require some time before they stop the habit,”
he says. Seventy students have
enrolled, but Madah understands why 20 have not made it today. “Some students
miss classes because they are busy looking for food to feed their families,” he
says. TIRED OF BEING CONNED Student Isaac
Yamering’ole, 55, decided to enroll at the centre after he saw elderly people under
the cash transfer programme being conned by their children. “After the aged sign up
for the cash, their children take their portion and give something small to
their parents, since they don’t know how to count. I don’t want to undergo the
same problem when I attain the age and start receiving the cash,” he says. Yamering’ole asked the
government to supply them with uniform since they want to attend school fully. Another student,
Julius Moareng, 50, says they have decided to go back to class to help
develop the region, which has been marginalised for many decades. “Many developed
countries and counties have developed because of education. Nobody makes
decisions for them. They make their own decisions based on their priorities,”
he says. Moereng wants to know
how to read and write so his children and grandchildren cannot deceive him. He
asked the government to supply them with learning materials to enable them
acquire academic skills. CREATING PROFESSORS Governor John
Lonyangapuo said he set up the adult education centres to increase the number
of learned people. “During my period as
the governor, I want to leave a legacy. I want to ensure almost all people know
how to read and write, despite their age. I want to ensure this county has many
professors like me,” he said. Speaking a week after the
programme was rolled out, he said he was happy with the outcome. “A single
class has over 50 students,” he said. He said his plan is to
ensure that where there is a nursery school, an adult education centre must be
set up. “Since early childhood education centre was devolved, I want to ensure
we maximally use the structures, whereby adults will be using the classrooms in
the afternoon,” he said. The governor also
asked the national government to chip in and support adult education, since the
elderly also have a right to education. “The government is
concentrating on young people only. It should not draw boundaries but allow all
Kenyans to access education,” he said. He asked the government to allow
counties manage both nursery and adult education to help the aged acquire
education. Lonyangapuo promised
to hire mobile teachers for the students during dry spells to prevent the
students from missing classes. “During dry spell most adults will migrate with
their animals in search of pasture and water. We shall be forced to follow them
so they cannot miss classes,” the governor said. He said the classes
will help reduce cases of election malpractices, since the elderly will be able
to vote for their favourite candidates. LEADERS CHIP IN Elites from the county
have also thrown their weight behind county efforts in the fight to reduce
illiteracy levels. Led by speaker Catherine Mukenyang, they have started
sponsoring children from humble backgrounds to further their studies at various
technical institutions. “High illiteracy
levels have hindered development, and it may bar the government from achieving Vision
2030, if we don’t take measures to reduce the number,” she said. Mukenyang said they
decided to chip in since the county lacks personnel with technical skills. “Currently
we are outsourcing persons with technical skills, and yet we have technical
institutions that offer skills to our youths,” she said. The speaker thanked
the government for supporting technical institutions to help educate students
who miss out on universities. Mukenyang said she was
triggered to support the students since some of them had lost hope in life
after attaining low grades, and some had families to cater for with no
permanent job. She is also supporting young mothers who had given birth before
getting married and lacked anybody to help them. CHALLENGED BY GRANDSON Back in Alale, Yaran
Yarang’ole, 60, arrives at the centre late but armed with a class one maths
textbook. He sits down breathing
heavily, since he has walked over 2km to the centre. Asked by the
teacher why he is late, he says he was grazing his animals and his grandson arrived
late from school to relieve him. When asked where he
got the textbook, he says he borrowed it from his grandchild, who is in class one. “I was amazed to see
my grandson at a younger age reading and writing his name and mine. This
encouraged me to attend classes so I can compete with him,” he says.