I do not think there is a crisis in Deputy President William Ruto’s backyard. It’s only that sometimes, in politics, you have to be sure about what you have, because “a bird in hand is worth more than two in the bush.” It’s better to consolidate your constituency so that when you go outside, there are fewer discordant voices from your home turf. The many strident voices from the Rift Valley — from the likes of Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and Baringo senator Gideon Moi — will make Ruto work hard at home and spend energy and resources he could have spent productively elsewhere. It is a way of consolidating votes and to be sure, his backyard is calm. Th e direction the Deputy President is taking shows that he is becoming a kingpin in the mould of ODM supremo Raila Odinga. More efforts need to be undertaken to ensure that the gathers maximum support from leaders and residents in his backyard. But we have many other ambitious people who may not reach anywhere and the earlier they back Ruto the better it will be for them because he is the only person who has a national outlook. I think the persons spreading dissenting voices are pushing for bargaining power so that they might be considered in the future in one or two positions of leadership. It is a form of bargaining power so that they rise above their peers. In the process of rising against William Ruto, they will lose their support base and will just be floating, untethered. For instance, Gideon, the Kanu boss, does not have even a single MCA in Baringo county. Anyone hurling a voice against Ruto, according to me, is in trouble. The current noises are just coming from a few individuals who are well known, especially sympathisers of Kanu. They have tried to portray the Rift Valley as divided for their own political survival, to re-clinch their own regional elective seats. But as far as the national political outfit is concerned, they are nowhere. In Central Kenya, some dissenting voices are emanating from leaders who have an activist background. But Ruto has now partnered with the new Kikuyu elite, such as Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa and Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, who resonate with the grassroots. Read: Ruto plans meeting of Rift Valley leaders The political analyst and don at the University of Eldoret spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news