Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga yesterday called for the removal of settlers who have encroached into the Mau Forest, saying their continued occupation is a threat to the country’s biggest water tower. Raila said settlers who have encroached into the forest land beyond the recommended cut-line are there illegally. The current eviction by the government is meant to protect and preserve the forest, which he said is the source of water for communities living around Mau Forest and beyond. However, the former PM said evictions in the Mau should be handled in a humane way, adding that settlers should be given an alternative area to live. He hit out at leaders who visited Mau and blamed him for the eviction, saying he is not in government. Raila said such rhetoric is reckless and aimed at inciting residents against him. He spoke in Kapsogurek village, Bureti constituency, Kericho, at the funeral of Joseph Koskei. Raila absolved himself for the evictions that occurred when he was Prime Minister, saying he did not remove people from Mau. Read: Mau evictions could hurt DP He is only for the restoration of the destroyed sites at the Mau towers, the opposition leader said. “I did not remove people from Mau Forest as it was alleged by some people then. Some used the evictions that occurred at the time to settle political scores and fight me.” The former PM was with Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga, ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire and Ronald Ng’eny. He said the ongoing eviction should not be politicised. On the March 9 handshake, Raila said his decision to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta on building bridges and uniting Kenyans has bore fruit. It was a turning point in Kenya’s politics to take the country forward for the sake of development, unity and posterity, he added. Read: KOT rap Murkomen for dragging Raila into Mau eviction row The Nasa leader said, “The handshake has started to yield fruit by uniting the people and fighting impunity. This is evident in the ongoing fight against corruption at the top government level. The war on graft is one of the nine key points we agreed with Uhuru.” Raila said never again will residents fight after elections. He said leaders come and go, but the country will remain. The two leaders resolved to fight poverty, end tribalism and eradicate corruption. Also See: Raila meets Narok MCAs over Mau Click here for the latest political news