My brother and I recently decided to check out
Sieku Glamping in Timau, about an hour’s drive from Nanyuki
and three hours from Nairobi. The main attraction was its proximity to Ngare
Ndare Forest Reserve, coupled with the fact that accommodation was only Sh5,500 per double tent, which seemed like a steal given that other high-end
places in Laikipia often cost thousands of shillings. My room was a high
quality bell tent imported from the UK, a first of its kind in Kenya. It was
about five metres wide and furnished with thick sheepskin rugs, a comfortable bed with
two hot water bottles for those cold Timau nights. The flaps unzipped and
rolled out onto a private balcony with deck chairs, where I would take in every
spectacular sunrise or magical starry night with freshly baked cookies. The
tent was covered by a thatched hut structure on the outside, which only lended
to its rustic ambiance. Bathrooms were outdoors and water had to be heated
first then loaded onto the safari-bucket and hauled up by rope, complete with
eco-friendly drop loos with scenic views of the plains. The set-up was small and intimate, which only
made the service more personalised. The camp only sleeps a maximum of two
groups at any one time. An instant favourite was the open plan mess tent and
lounge. At the far end of the space was a rustic farmhouse-style kitchen, which
was well equipped complete with a cooking station and refrigerator. Guests can make their own meals or hire the camp’s chef. For our stay we selected
from a menu that had been sent to us at the time of booking, and the chef was
tasked with buying and preparing all meals, including our premium wines and
ciders. These were served on a long wooden table with several lanterns hanging
above it, which when lit at night added quite the romantic ambiance. The plates
and bowls were handmade from fired earth pottery in Naivasha, with Kitengela
drinking glasses and locally sourced table mats, Maasai coasters and colourful
kanga napkins. The bohemian living area was inviting with plush sofas, indoor
plants, wooden shelves, great quality cowhide and sheepskin rugs, board games,
books and maps. In the cold evenings, there were always logs crackling in the
grate of the fireplace. Sieku has several lounging areas: Swing sets,
swinging day beds and hammocks overlooking the plains. The property is set up
in an ecosystem that was previously depleted with a lot of the red cedar trees
being cut down and the land being used for wheat farming, grazing and charcoal
burning. Looking around the property today, a lot of trees have been replanted
and the flora is thriving. My favourite thing to do was lie in one of the
hammocks overlooking Borana Conservancy, with a glass of wine and pair of
binoculars, taking in wildlife such as zebras milling about. Legei, one of the longest-serving staff members
at the camp, was our liaison, taking us out on early morning bush
walks, setting up a breakfast picnic and packing up what turned out to be a
feast for our hike up Ngare Ndare.  Location: Timau Website: siekuglamping.com Email: siekureservations@gmail.com Rating: 4.2/5 stars  