Schools reopen for third term today with a packed calendar that includes national examinations and the final stages of the piloting of the new curriculum ahead of its rollout next year. The term is expected to run for eight weeks to October 26 to pave way for the national examinations. Parents yesterday flocked to shops to buy books, uniforms and stationery. Speaking to the Star, parent Moses Mogeni said the cost of learning materials had increased. There will be no prayer sessions in schools this term, a move implemented in 2016 to reduce contact between candidates and outsiders during the examination period. The rule was introduced to curb cheating in national examinations, which had become rampant. “It is a short term and it is important that we do not overwhelm students with too many activities. We have advised all school heads to ask teachers to concentrate on classwork and make the most out of the eight weeks,” Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association chairman Shem Ndolo said. He said school heads are yet to receive capitation funds from the government. “We already received capitation for first and second term, but we hope this week or next week the government will release third term cash.” Read: Uhuru assures KCPE, KCSE candidates of fair and secure 2018 exams The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development will also be putting final touches to the proposed learning system ahead of its implementation from nursery to Standard Four next year. The new curriculum is under a national pilot phase that covers pre-primary and classes one, two and three. The Education ministry shows 1.6 million candidates have registered for this year’s national examinations. Kenya National Examinations Council acting CEO Mercy Karogo said 964,119 candidates have enrolled for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education and 631,750 for Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams. The KCPE exam will take place between October 29 and November 1, while KCSE will run from November 5 to 30. Candidates will be required, for the first time, to use unique personal identifiers instead of index numbers Columnist Niccola Milnes in May said if Kenya is serious about the new 2-6-6-3 curriculum, it needs to start investing in school libraries. Kenya is currently transitioning from the 8-4-4 system. With this transition will be the introduction of a new syllabus for ECDE, primary, and secondary schools. The complete transition is projected to take seven years, with the rollout for primary schools due to be completed in 2020, and the rollout for secondary schools due to be completed in 2025. Also Read: Exam preparation on course - Knec Click here for the latest political news