At least
4,000 Kerio Valley residents, who are to be evicted for fluorspar mining, will wait longer for compensation. Political leaders led by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos have asked the government to slam the brakes on the payout process, for landowners to choose the mode of
compensation. Tolgos noted the need for wider consultations before landowners are compensated as
the ministry plans to license a fluorite mining firm. The
landowners surrendered 9,070 acres to the Kenya Fluorspar Company in
the 1970s but have not been compensated to date. KFC
suspended its operations in February 2016, citing a higher cost of operations
and loss of key markets in Asia and Europe. The closure rendered more than 500
people jobless. Some
landowners want to be paid cash for their land while others want their properties leased to the new investor. Tolgos said
the residents should be given enough time to settle on a mode of compensation and that he will a team of county leaders in a meeting on this matter. “We need this
issue addressed soberly. It should be executed to the
advantage of residents,” Tolgos said. “Leaders must sit with landowners before making
decisions. Wananchi should get what they deserve.” He urged the
residents not to sale their land at low prices to unscrupulous businessmen keen on higher value once mining begins. While pointing out that Kerio Valley is the only area in East Africa with fluorite deposits, the Governor said a harmonious agreement should be reached before compensation and mining. Keiyo South
MP Daniel Rono asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and for the property to documented to weed out impostors. Community
leader Micah Kigen urged residents not take money in exchange for their land. A team led by National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri toured the Kerio Valley fluorspar mining site in April and had a meeting with residents. Kigen said the
Sh250,000 per acre proposed by the NLC is not enough to buy land anywhere. "The
average price of an acre of land is no less than Sh500,000. It doesn't make
sense that landowners are given what cannot even buy an acre. I suggest we
lease our land to the new investor," he said. Read: State set to revive mining of fluorspar Also read: Licence dispute, evictees’ pay stand in the way of reviving Kerio Valley’s fluorspar mining Click here for the latest political news