Fighting corruption can never be the effort of an individual. It is a national enterprise that everybody should join to fight against. But still, not everybody is worthy to join in this war. The clean, not the corrupt must take charge of the war against corruption otherwise, it collapses. First, you can never look for a sheep with the one who ate or stole it. The corrupt don’t have the reason nor the will to fight it. Second, our system breeds greed and corruption. It makes this fight futile because it restores the very graft we fight. As part of the war on corruption we must change our capitalism with social democracy. In the meantime, we must tame our capitalism with Chapter Six that Parliament has put on hold. As long the chapter on integrity is emasculated, the crackdown on graft will even be much more difficult. Third, our capitalism breeds graft and corrupts leaders. This is because leaders use corruption to acquire power and resources through rigging and theft of public cash. The ongoing crackdown on graft is, therefore, championed by leaders who may not be completely clean and may come to a halt. People who are viewed as corrupt may be innocent but must take responsibility for corruption, an impression they must clear or be completely unable to fight corruption. Four, those tasked to fight corruption must, like Caesar’s wife, be above suspicion. To inspire people they must enjoy unquestionable moral high ground above those they lead. If those who support corruption can poke holes into the moral amour of those who fighting graft, these efforts will sooner or later collapse. Five, to advance, succeed and enjoy everybody’s support in the country and abroad, this war must be led by people of unquestionable character, reputation and history. Already, we have people recommended for corrupt investigation, themselves leading the war against corruption. It does not make sense. Six, nobody can fight corruption without moral ethics. It, therefore, means living by ethics, which must be used as tools of fighting corruption. Not much is to be expected from a society and a people without values. That’s why today, as corruption increases by leaps and bounds, the country has become a moral desert. Those on the fore front in the war on graft must have the following values: One must be his or her brother’s keeper. They must not lead to steal but to serve. One must live and die by ethics. One must not exploit and steal from the weak, the poor or the public. For one to fight and win this war, they must happily embrace integrity, morality, honest and ethics. One must love others as oneself, do unto others what one would have others do unto him or her, not eat alone or one will die alone. To fight corruption one should eat with others what they can share with others. One must accept that it is better to be selfless than selfish and be for the best possible system for society. To fight corruption, one must embrace rather than shun and ostracize the good people. They must always defend good values. They ought to be a committed foe of negative ethnicity and love justice. To fight and win against corruption, one must embrace fairness, hate human suffering and love equality. To fight corruption, never look a thief in the face. 