IEBC is banking on the vetting of its senior staff, restructuring, relocation of the commission headquarters, and a streamlined procurement as part of measures to redeem its image. Chairman Wafula Chebukati in a statement on Monday said the commission’s current organisational structure has duplication of functions, overlapping roles and a culture of silo mentality. These, he claimed, has created challenges of coordination and accountability. He said there is the need to restructure to enhance efficiency and coordinate delivery of the Commission’s mandate. "The Commission has approved a report on the restructuring and plans are underway to recruit a reputable and professional human resource firm to guide the process," Chebukati said. Senior staff vetting Chebukati said the IEBC has identified a need to undertake public vetting of all staff manning critical functions to enhance the Commission’s effectiveness, accountability and restore public confidence. He said stakeholders will be accorded an opportunity to raise any concerns about the commission's staff, within a defined structure. According to him, the exercise will meaningfully address any integrity concerns posed taking cognisance of the need to safeguard our employees’ lawful rights. Also read: IEBC staff, commissioners to undergo public vetting - Chebukati Relocation On the need to move the headquarters from Anniversary towers, he said this will see the commission cut costs in its Sh100 million paid every year for rent at the current premises. This sum excluded the costs incurred in hiring venues for meetings, conducting trainings among others. He said with the new offices, IEBC purposes to cut the high recurrent costs of office space, the hiring of venue for various commission activities. IEBC hires halls for meetings with stakeholders, nominations of candidates, trainings for staff and stakeholders, storage/warehousing for strategic and non-strategic materials. "The relocation out of the CBD would further see minimal disruptions to other activities in the CBD in the event of any picketing and demonstrations," Chebukati noted. Procurement The Commission is also reviewing its internal procurement processes to be in tandem with the Public Procurement and Assets Disposals Act, 2015. Chebukati said this was being done with the view of making the commission's processes more open and transparent. The reform, he said, will encourage stakeholder participation in the process of procuring goods and services. He adds that it will ultimately lower the overall cost of elections in Kenya. Chebukati further maintained that the polls agency is properly constituted for purposes of delivering and discharging its mandate. He cited the High Court judgement delivered on Friday, August 10, which he said affirmed the same by allowing the August 17 and October 8 polls. The decision was reached notwithstanding the vacancies arising from the resignations of four commissioners, a situation argued to have caused a quorum hitch. Following this, IEBC wants the respective government authorities to initiate immediate recruitment of new commissioners." The posts fell vacant following Roselyne Akombe, Consolata Nkatha, Paul Kurgat, and Margaret Mwachanya's exit citing various reasons. Also read: Akombe exposes the rot inside IEBC More on this: IEBC crisis persists as Chebukati suspends Chiloba yet again The court on August 10 ruled that the four did not follow the due procedures while closing their contracts with the commission, and had technically not resigned. But Chebukati says he hopes the ruling "settles the concerns on the composition and constitution of the Commission." Legal reforms Chebukati at the same time said the IEBC has formed a task force to guide the legal reform process. He said an inception workshop was held from July 10-13, 2018 in Machakos and the legal reform activity is at the preliminary stages. The chair added that the Commission will be conducting stakeholder engagements, including incorporating views and representations from the PEE, in the legal reform process. Among issues to be addressed are challenges created by late and incessant amendments to electoral laws, election campaign financing and review of the existing draft regulations. The team will also deal assess the election dispute resolution; timelines and overlapping mandates, and electoral timelines. Others include electoral technology - to enable presidential candidates securely access results real-time, enhancing transparency and alleviating suspicion/perceptions of opacity. The team will also assess the Electoral Code of Conduct and the existing (Integrity) vetting mechanisms, boundaries delimitation procedures following the first review and enhanced regulation of party primaries and nominations by way of party lists. Chebukati adds the focus will also be on the IEBC Fund, adoption of alternative modes of voting including early voting, electronic voting - for diaspora, and addressing the legislative gap on the ‘place of’ independent candidates. The aspect that will be addressed by the legal team include a review of law to entrench the procedure for assumption of office by a deputy governor in the event of a death of a governor, he said. IEBC also seeks the team to clarify the procedure for subsequent appointment of a new deputy, withdrawal of candidates after nominations, and/or lapse of the period for withdrawal and review law on exit polls. Click here for the latest political news 