Kitisuru MCA Alvin Palapala says his life is in danger. This follows an attack on him and his supporters by a group allegedly allied to Governor Mike Sonko. Palapala said the goons tore his clothes and beat him up and his supporters in front of the governor. But Sonko’s team denied the claims and faulted the MCA for “insulting the governor on social media”. Palapala was among the MCAs who had lined up to welcome Sonko when he went to launch a children’s park in Kangemi on Saturday. “The governor was in the area earlier in the week and he soiled my name, saying he gave me Sh3 million meant for youth and I squandered it. So I went to the event so that I could clear my name in public,” he said. Palapala said as they were lining up, a youth approached him with a placard written, ‘Palapala heshimu Sonko.’ Then immediately, he was attacked by goons, some with pangas and knives. “They knocked me down and started beating me. But my bouncers were seriously hurt because as they were shielding me, the goons turned on them. They were injured on the head, legs, hands and the back. Some had panga cuts and are still in hospital,” he said. Palapala said he reported the matter at Kabete police station under OB /53/4/8/2018. The incident was recorded at 3.30pm. Addressing the gathering, Sonko accused the MCA of abusing his mother after refusing to heed his request to buy him iron sheets. He alleged Palapala is one of two MCAs sponsored by his opponents to fight and blackmail him. Sonko urged residents to collect signatures to recall the MCA for disrespecting and abusing him. But Palapala denied abusing Sonko. He claimed that he asked Sonko to buy iron sheets and blankets for his constituents who had been left homesless after a fire incident. “I built my house in 2014 and completed it. Why should I ask Sonko to build me a house?” he said. Palapala showed the Star a note by now-suspended chief of staff Brian Mugo authoring the release of blankets. He said the governor declined to donate iron sheets on grounds they would benefit rich landlords. Palapala said trouble started last week after he questioned Sonko’s random staff dismissals in the chamber. Click here for the latest political news