The national government's bypass roads infrastructure within Meru and Maua towns is 60 per cent on course in fulfilment of President Uhuru Kenyatta's big four agenda, Kura and Meru leaders have said. Meru deputy governor Titus Ntuchiu, North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood, Kenya Urban Roads Authority director general Silas Kinoti and Board chair Henry Musemato assured Meru residents to finish the stalled Sh. 3 billion for Meru town bypass and Sh. 1.1billion Maua town roads construction by end of October 2018. They spoke on Thursday during an inspection tour of the ongoing roads construction projects. Dawood noted that the projects were faced with delays due to rejection by some Leaders and residents saying the Meru town Western and Eastern Bypass were directed to pass in the Imenti Forest. Others objected it for lack of timely compensation to affected residents on resrves. About Sh. 15 billion has been allocated or used for compensation. The World Bank is funding the about 22kilometers project. The project was to be completed in three years and they were launched in April 2015. Kura director said the construction is at 60 per cent. Ntuchiu said "the progress is good, we regret that there has been a lot of traffic jam within Meru town. The bypasses will ease such congestion. We formed county roads board and involved all agencies to avoid duplicate in tax payers money in construction of roads. "Kura officials are to add more funds for construction roads such as the one leading to Cathedral Catholic Church and the one along County Assembly towards Library. We are grateful that on June 1, Madaraka Day celebrations Kura upgraded several link roads including the county commissioner residential road. We are united with Kura, Kenha and Kenya rural roads authority. I am grateful to area MP for support to ensure the roads are complete," Ntuchiu said. The director also said Board members are on a routine inspection to ensure the money on the project is spent well. "We emphasize to finish the roads by October, there is a cordial relationship and a good support by County, the Jubilee government so that we actualise President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda. Infrastructure is key." he said. He added"Meru town Bypass costs is Sh. 3 billion and those for Maua town roads is Sh. 1.1billion. The works are at 60 percent and the main remaining construction is now Bridges and underpass." Chairman Musemato said once the projects are complete they will lead to more investors coming to invest in Meru, create more jobs and enable farmers to easily reach to Market with their produce. "We were inspecting ongoing government projects in Eastern region and yesterday, we weren't Tharaka Nithi inspect the Bypass, though there has been strong rains the Bypass are progressing well. Dawood added that the officers need to add more Labour and machines, saying the County has the Meru Youth Service to give necessary Labour.