Embu governor Martin Wambora won on Friday after the Court of Appeal declared he was fairly elected in the August 8 polls. The court reinstated Wambora, saying the decision made by the High Court early this year, nullifying his win, was not proper. Justices William Ouko, David Musinga and Fatuma Sichale said the trial court erred in law when it ruled the polls were not held in accordance with the Constitution. The three judges said former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti, who challenged the governor’s victory, did not prove his case. “The first respondent did not discharge the legal burden of proof to the required standards to show these alleged irregularities.” “From what we have said, that burden was not discharged and therefore the learned judge erred in invalidating the appellant’s election.” The court said Justice William Musyoka, who nullified the election in February, dealt with issues that were not raised in the petition. “He went on to find that there were administrative irregularities which he could not attribute to the respondents. He, nonetheless, went ahead to nullify election on the very issues he postponed and declared irrelevant, without assigning any reason for that conclusion”. The judges added that had justice Musyoka determined the merit of the complaint raised in the petition regarding interference, for which evidence was led, he would have ascertained whether there was indeed meddling. Read: Justice Kantai quits Wambora poll case over attempt to influence outcome Musyoka had in his judgment said elections in Embu were marred with massive irregularities. The judge said the anomalies that occurred during the elections were too immense and it would be a travesty to wish them away. However, the bench on Friday said there were no proper grounds to warrant a nullification. Analysing the facts, the judges said Kivuti’s assertion that more people ( 129,652 ) voted in Runyenjes when there are only 86,977; that in Manyatta constituency, the votes cast were 105,700, yet the registered voters were only 99,339, was not supported by evidence. Read: Governor Wambora out as High Court orders fresh election “We allow this appeal. Because the appellant was validly elected ... The costs of the appeal and cross-appeal, to be met by the first respondent are Sh1.5 million.” Wambora said the will of the people of Embu had been upheld. “What the judge in Embu did was out of the law and that has been rectified. Today’s judgement is in favour of Embu voters and the entire community,” the governor said. He promised to unite Embu leaders, adding that he will, as soon as next week, start development projects that had been stalled by the court process. Also Read: Election victory for Wambora as High Court ruling set aside Click here for the latest political news