Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has accused MPs of being the stumbling block in the fight against corruption. Kalonzo criticised MPs for allegedly accepting bribes to shoot down a report by joint parliamentary committee that was investigating the contraband sugar saga. He said the 12th Parliament has failed Kenyans. "It is a shame to see legislators lining up to receive Sh20,000 to reject a report in which the effect is going to kill our sugar industry," Kalonzo said. He was speaking in Makindu on Saturday during the burial of former PS Sammy Mbova. Kalonzo asked President Uhuru Kenyatta not to relent on the war on corruption. "The mood in the country is such that if the President blinks, he will have missed an opportunity to bequeath this country a legacy in leadership and governance," Kalonzo said. Kalonzo eulogised Mbova as a straight-forward civil servant who was never linked to corruption. Mbova is said to have refused to accept a bribe from a senior government officer who wanted land in Makindu. Mbova's wife Anastasia said the former PS fought for the land to be allocated to squatters who live on it. President Uhuru Kenyatta is among other leaders who eulogised Mbova as a dedicated civil servant who should be emulated. The President's speech was read by Makueni county commissioner Mohammed Maalim. Former minister Noah Katana Ngala said Mbova was hardworking and honest. "He was always punctual. We worked in the same ministry at one time," Ngala said. Former Wiper chairman David Musila said Mbova was an icon of democracy. The former PS served as the party's director of election in 2012. as an icon in democracy. "I recall that was the time we had the most successful party nominations, and i am not sure whether there will be any other," said the former Kitui Senator. However Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana pledged to ensure transparency in future party nominations in memory of Mbova. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua eulogized Mbova as a focused and peace loving man. Mbova who worked in seven ministries before retirement was Mutua's advisor till his death. Mutua urged Kamba leaders to unite in memory of Mbova and for the sake of development.