ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has
said he doesn't owe Deputy President William Ruto any political debt, even
as fresh Luyha unity talks gain momentum. Mudavadi instead asked the DP to appeal directly to the Luyha nation to support his
2022 presidential bid. The ANC leader said he will also be a candidate, and that they will meet
in the ballot. “There is no debt. We should not
create a political 'Zacchaeus' who wants to collect political debts because
they will be dangerous,” Mudavadi said during a Citizen TV interview on Tuesday night. “I am a competitor and I may come to
ask him (Ruto) for his support in 2022,” Mudavadi added. See: [VIDEO] 'Nobody owes me anything' DP Ruto says on 2022 bid The DP  had at the weekend said Mudavadi
and the Luhya community owe him for his decision to support Raila Odinga, as President, and Mudavadi as Vice President, in the
2007 General Election. Mudavadi also denied the Luhya community is divided, saying they supported former President Mwai Kibaki in 2002 and Raila last year. “Whose narrative is it that the Luhya
community is divided? It is not good to vilify a community for being the most
patriotic by voting for anybody,” he said. Read: Mt Kenya, Uhuru owe DP Ruto in 2022, Maa leaders insist Already a political earthquake looms
in Western Kenya following a fresh push to unite the community ahead of the
2022 polls, in what could alter the country’s political landscape. Key political heavyweights from the region are
plotting to rally the community under one political outfit in a landmark
political calculation that could lock out Jubilee and ODM from the region. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya,
Raila’s key pointman and ODM deputy party leader, has given indicated he could abandon the outfit for the sake of Luyha unity. This if the leaders from the region
agree to fold up their political parties in favour of a single vehicle to drive
the region’s 2022 presidential interests. “I am willing to leave ODM even
today and join my brothers in one party so that we can have a strong vehicle to
negotiate effectively for this country’s leadership. We cannot achieve this
when each of us has a small party that he uses for selfish gains,” said Oparanya
in an interview in one of the local papers. Oparanya, who had declared he will
run for President in 2022,  asked Mudavadi and Ford
Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula to fast-track the merging of ANC and Ford-K. “We are tired of using our people
for personal political capital. A brother does not need months to consult to
enter into another’s home,” he said. Mudavadi, Wetang'ula and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, who are the senior most political leaders from the region, have been
meeting in an attempt to rally the region together in
2022. Raila commands huge political support in the region and it would be interesting to see how the new unity bid would complicate his matrix in Western in the next election. See also: DP Ruto did well to say no political debt Click here for
the latest political news