Speaker Justin Muturi wants the Committee on Foreign Relations to immediately embark on a fact finding mission on some Kenyan embassies he says are under-staffed and lack enough resources. Speaking on Thursday when he toured the Kenyan High Commission in Botswana, Muturi said some stations have been neglected while others have been given more attention. He called on the committee chaired by Kajiado South MP Katoo Ole Metito to move with speed. “The committee should visit these stations to see for itself some of these challenges then sit with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see how they can be addressed. Where budgetary allocations are needed, the committee will make recommendations to the Budget and Appropriations committee,” Muturi said. Read also: Foreign Affairs ministry appoints 117 new staff at Kenya’s foreign missions During the tour, it was discovered that the Botswana embassy is manned by only six officials and the mission requires money to hold annual trade fairs. Former High Commissioner Jean Kamau and three other senior officials who served in the mission were recalled to Nairobi and the embassy has never had a substantive commissioner. Anastacia Osundwa, the charge d'affaires who has been holding brief since June this year told the delegation that while trade is in favour of Kenya, it has gradually gone down since Kenya Airways stopped direct flights from Nairobi to Gaborone in 2016. A chargé d'affaires is a diplomat who heads an embassy in the absence of the ambassador. Osundwa called on Parliament to intervene to have the national carrier resume direct flights to Botswana saying it will not only boost trade but will also allow more Kenyans to exploit the business opportunities. “The direct flight is a major issue, at the moment you have to go through South Africa which is expensive and a challenge to businessmen who deal with some sensitive goods such as flowers," Osudwa said. The flights were stopped over what was said to be bad business and huge taxes, Osundwa said. She also disclosed to the Kenyan leaders about negations between Kenya's National Transport Authority and Botswana to have a bus company operate between Nairobi and Gaborone. She said if the talks are successful, Kenyans will have an opportunity to transport their goods directly to markets in Botswana. Osundwa said another concern that requires urgent attention is the issue of renewal of work permits which she said has become a nightmare as Kenyans are only issued with three-year permits. Click here for the latest political news