The biggest game in Kenyan club football goes down on Saturday when champions Gor Mahia FC welcome bitter rivals AFC Leopards SC at the MISC, Kasarani.  This fixture dubbed Mashemeji (In-law) Derby acted as a shootout for the domestic league title for decades but has been dominated in recent times by K’Ogalo who are yet to lose to their sworn enemies since March 2016.  With the SportPesa Premier League leaders only needing a point from the clash to retain their crown, SportPesa News looks back at the last five Mashemeji showdowns.  Leopards 1 v Gor 2 (July, 22 2018)  Jacques Tuyisenge grabbed the first goal in the first half after short passes between the AFC Leopards defenders and keeper benefitted the on rushing striker to pounce on a loose ball.  Leopards Whyvvone Isuza produced the moment of the occasion with a well-taken overheard kick to restore parity before the stroke of half time.  George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo would however have the last laugh after a deep Francis Kahata cross from the right side connected with his left foot to ensure Gor snatched all three points.  The result maintained Gor’s unbeaten record on home soil that was only broken on August 7 when the champions lost 1-2 at Bandari FC  Gor 1 v Leopards 1 (August 27, 2017)  Former Gor Captain Musa Mohamed put through to his own net in the 22nd before Meddie Kagere capitalised on a poor Musa Mudde clearance to equalise.  At the time, Gor were on course to reclaim the SPL title from 2015 winners Tusker FC whilst it marked the first Mashemeji Derby of the season for the men in charge of the clubs, Kerr at Gor and the returning Robert ‘The Lion’ Matano in the Ingwe dugout.  Kerr went on to lead Gor to their 16th domestic crown as Matano steered their archrivals to the domestic cup, a first trophy for Leopards since 2013.  Leopards 0 v Gor 3 (March 7, 2017)  Goals from Kagere, George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo and Timothy Otieno disarmed Leopards in a lop-sided derby that sparked the meltdown at the Den.  Leopards had started the season well and led the SPL standings under Briton Stewart Hall and it did not take long after the hiding for the Ingwe boss to pack and leave as the musical coaching chairs continued.  The high of winning the first leg derby put wind in the sails of the Gor campaign despite the exit of ex-Brazilian international, Jose Marcelo ‘Ze Maria’ Ferreira who masterminded the big victory mid-season.  Leopards 0 v Gor Mahia FC 2 (October 23, 2016)  Meddie Kagere scored from the spot in the 65th before Enock Agwanda, now with Sony Sugar FC, sealed the lead with a scintillating strike.  The result left four-point gap between Gor and eventual league winners Tusker FC who went on to deny K’Ogalo a fourth straight league-winning successes.  Leopards caretaker boss at the time, Ezekiel Akwana, was shown the door shortly afterwards.  Gor 0 v Leopards 1 (March 6, 2016)  Mohammed Lamine Diallo came in as a sub and scored the winning goal in the 80th to hand Leopards their last victory over the old enemy.  It marked the last match in charge for two-time league winning K’Ogalo head coach, Frank Nutall who had led the club to clinch the 2015 crown unbeaten.  The Scotsman fled Gor to Egyptian giants, Zamalek and after a promising start, Leopards too ended the season struggling to avoid relegation.