Days after demanding an apology from Sports CS Rashid Echesa and threatening him with a censure motion in Parliament, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has been warned against doing so by a group of ANC youth leaders. Kakamega ANC youth leader Emmanuel Buchichi yesterday said Osotsi would face disciplinary action by the party. Last week, the MP accused Echesa of engaging in politics despite being a public officer and demanded an apology from him for attacking ODM leader Raila Odinga. CS Echesa accused Raila of plotting to have him fired. Osotsi also witnessed a brawl between Echesa and Alego Usonga MP Sam Atandi at Kisumu International Airport over the CS’s remarks about Raila. Buchichi urged Osotsi to support Echesa in discharging his duties and desist from “being used by powerful forces to fight your own brother”. On Wednesday, Raila denied talk of a Cabinet reshuffle, saying it was speculation created by the media. He denied plotting an entry into government. Buchichi said Osotsi, Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala and ODM secretary Edwin Sifuna were being used by Raila “to orchestrate the sacking of the CS”. “Echesa is our son. He should not be fought for being a Luhya,” he said. Ken Manono, the ANC deputy head campaign strategist, said the party will take action against Osotsi if he goes ahead with his motion. He accused Malala of belittling the CS and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi.  focus on work “He is working with Raila to fight Mudavadi and Echesa. We have put him on notice and we will impose disciplinary measures against him too. Euphoria is coming in Western in the next two weeks and all rebels will be disciplined,” Manono said. He said they only recognise Mudavadi, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa as leaders from Western and “young Turks cannot purport to speak on behalf of the community”. But in a rejoinder, youths allied to Malala, Osotsi, and Sifuna told off the ANC youth brigade, saying they cannot speak on behalf of ANC. They accused them of being used to cause confusion in the region. Benjamin Wandala, the Bunge la Vijana secretary general, said the Sports CS should stop politicking and concentrate on discharging his duties. “The Constitution doesn’t allow a Cabinet secretary to engage himself in politics,” he said. 