Wiper leaders have said they will make MCAs from the party toe the line and support Kitui governor Charity Ngilu. Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka  and chairman Kivutha Kibwana on Tuesday urged MCAs  to avoid  conflicts with  Ngilu. The  two assured Ngilu of a smooth run in office. They spoke during the launch of Kitui county health insurance cover at Katulani Subcounty Hospital. Kalonzo and Kibwana’s comments came following Wiper MCAs’ initial move to reject the Kitui Emergence Fund Bill.  They had also used their numerical strength to frustrate the passing of the Kitui County Integrated Development Plan. “Wiper MCAs, who are the majority, should work with Governor Ngilu.  They must avoid situations that will create unnecessary conflicts. I want to guarantee the governor that the MCAs will work hand in hand with her,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper boss said since he had a working relationship with both Ngilu and  Kibwana  and were speaking  in one voice, “other party leaders, without exception, must follow suit”. Incitement allegation “Why should  anyone who comes from Ukambani want to be a spoiler?” Kalonzo said. He said it was time  for all leaders from Ukambani  to speak in one voice. Kibwana warned Wiper members against undermining Ngilu’s leadership.  He said those doing so were by extension subverting Kalonzo. “I thus request that we all come together and work under Kalonzo  in diligently serving our  people so that our region can progress,” Kibwana said. Kalonzo has come to Ngilu’s defence before. In February, Kalonzo defended Ngilu against incitement allegations. She had been accused of asking locals to ‘deal with pastoralists and charcoal dealers who had invaded the county’. Kalonzo said, “We congratulate Ngilu for blowing the whistle. You don’t punish the whistleblower. Ngilu can’t get one community to fight against the other.” MP wrangle In April, Kalonzo stepped in to end the wrangles pitting Ngilu against Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi. The MP had accused Ngilu of visiting his constituency without notifying him. Kalonzo called on the leaders to respect each other.