President Uhuru Kenyatta has assured the EACC of his full support and urged it to step up the fight against corruption and economic crimes. The President advised the agency to work closely with others mandated to fight the vice as the war should not be a source of competition within government. Uhuru issued the remarks on Saturday during a meeting with the EACC's top leaders, led by chairman Eliud Wabukala and Chief Executive Officer Halake Waqo at State House in Nairobi. “Nothing is further from the truth [when it is said that] you do not have my support,” he told the officials and asked them to work harder in support of the achievement of Kenya’s development goals. The President said the anti-corruption fight will bear more fruits if it is conducted through the multi-agency framework. The framework brings together the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI), the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP), the EACC and other security agencies. The renewed anti-corruption drive has led to unprecedented arrests of suspects and arraignment of senior government officials implicated in the theft of public resources. More on this: [VIDEO] Impunity must end! I've lost many friends over demolitions -Uhuru Also read: Uhuru must deal with the corrupt mercilessly The EACC leaders updated the President on their recent milestones in the fight against corruption. In the last financial year, the commission recovered illegally acquired assets and cash amounting to Sh488 million, from individuals and institutions, through court proceedings and out-of-court settlements. Of this amount, Sh76 million was in cash and Sh412 million in form of land and other immovable assets. Wabukala told Uhuru that his agency has acted proactively and disrupted 12 suspected cases of corruption, saving the country an estimated Sh4.7 billion in the process. The chair also briefed the President on the EACC’s strategic plan for 2018/19, which prioritises involvement in policy formulation and the promotion of ethical conduct among Kenyans. He observed that developing an ethical nation is more important in protecting public resources than focusing on litigation and recovery of stolen assets. Wabukala noted that the agency continuously and closely monitors the use of funds counties and is working with the public to prevent waste. Related: Switzerland to return stolen assets to Kenya in corruption war Read more: Seize ill-gotten wealth used to frustrate graft war, Raila tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news