A senior Jubilee politician is in trouble. The MP from Central has gone under following reports that Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (pictured) sleuths were pursuing him. The MP is accused of the mismanagement of Sh25million from the CDF and could be arrested any time. At the centre of the probe are claims that he used public funds to purchase land ostensibly to put up a secondary school but instead constructed a five-storey building in a posh estate around Kiambu town. The MP is said to have last been seen crossing into neighbouring Tanzania for a regional conference two weeks ago. ***** A non-executive chairman of a parastatal in the energy sector has left many tongues wagging due to his behaviour. The man has reportedly made himself “super CEO”. He makes unilateral decisions on behalf of both the board and management by way of daily long e-mail instructions. But even more saddening are reported threats to the CEO and the staff without due regard to the law — the State Corporations Act. Recently, he surprised staff when he gate-crushed the CEO’s meeting and started tongue lashing the management on issues he is said to be clueless about. The chairman also left industry players confused when he took sides with the parastal’s debtors who owe the firm Sh3.5 billion minus accrued interest for 10 years. Who will save the employees from the chairman? ***** Civil servants banking with Barclays and Standard Chartered are yet to receive their July salaries. Why? Because of changes in government that affected almost all ministries that are still trying to restore business flow with the Central Bank, Corridors is informed. But some public servants were overheard saying that some officials in charge of the payroll may have taken advantage of the hitches by putting it in fixed deposit accounts. The delays have caused the staff anguish as they can’t meet their financial obligations and want the government to intervene before they are thrown out of their homes. ***** Is the new political song by Sauti Sol and Nyashinski “Tuko pabaya kuliko jana,’ out to excuse poor leadership and blame the situation on the young people? Well, Corridors has learnt that some supporters are not amused. They accuse them of downplaying the public debt and encouraging the youth to make money through hook or crook. “‘Tusake zetu tungali vijana”, simply advocates for make “hay while the sun shines”! ***** Still on lyrics: When Nyashinski raps “Traffic ma-drug u-buy ndai/ Traffic mandai zina-drag”, is he celebrating the ‘good side’ of drug-trafficking? See how he folds his hands with ‘Ku-admire mwizi ame-make it/ Story za shamba amegrab”. Click here for
the latest political news