Jubilee's party retreat President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party has planned a two-day retreat to review the performance of its disobedient parliamentary leadership and may purge some 'rogues.' The meeting has tentatively been set for the weekend of September 1-2 in Naivasha. Mzee Jomo Kenyatta's last days Forty years ago yesterday, Kenya's founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta collapsed in a washroom in Msambweni before he died at 3.30 am the following day at State House, Mombasa. But while the then government mandarins claimed Jomo died “peacefully in his sleep”, it would appear the ex-president had been having many sleepless nights. The unfamiliar script is given by Lee Njiru, then a young information officer at State House before he rose to become ex-President Moi’s press secretary. Uhuru and Maraga asked to talk on budget South Africa Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng has said the silent war among the Judiciary, the Executive and Parliament can only be solved through talks. Mogoeng said the differences will be resolved when the heads of the three arms of the government have a sit-down and talk. He said the slashing of the allocation to the Judiciary should be done "with honor" to avoid "making one party feeling squeezed". Fighting tobacco People with high level of education are less likely to use tobacco and are less exposed to related diseases. The Global Education Monitoring Report 2017-18 found that education is the strongest determiner of tobacco use in both poor and rich countries. Those lacking formal education are more likely to smoke. Botched abortion Seven Kenyans die every day from botched abortions. Social stigma around abortion and lack of service delivery policies are pushing women to resort to quacks (backstreet or untrained providers). Mama Lucy hospital troubles Poor management of Mama Lucy hospital has returned to haunt medical superintendent Musa Mohamed who has been nominated for the position of chief officer. Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Mwangi, in whose constituency the hospital is located, has opposed Mohamed’s nomination. In a letter to Governor Mike Sonko dated April, he called for the revocation of the nomination. The MP says he is unfit to hold the position. Click here for the latest political news