A slaughterhouse worker who battered his pregnant wife for three hours for allegedly misusing Sh500 was yesterday charged before an Eldoret court with assault causing grievous harm. Nafatali Lusuli appeared before chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa and denied assaulting Valerie Masibo, who sustained facial injuries and had one of her ears almost chopped off. He allegedly committed the offence on Friday at Kipkaren in Eldoret town. Police asked the court not to release the suspect on bail because the matter was serious and had attracted public interest. Obulutsa said the suspect can be released on a Sh300,000 bond with a similar surety. When the magistrate asked where the victim of the attack was, the suspect said, “Mrembo yuko kwao hapa West Indies na hata alikuja kuniona huko kwa police ndio tuelewane (The beautiful woman is at her home in West Indies and she even came to see me at the police station so that we can agree)”. Read:Eldoret man charged with assaulting pregnant wife The magistrate asked why he was referring to the victim as ‘mrembo’ after the beating. Valerie’s cousin Meshack Masibo told the magistrate she did not go see the suspect at the police station to settle the matter, but to confirm he had been arrested. Obulutsa directed the case be heard next Monday. Valerie was at the her aunt’s home in the town after treatment at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, where she was taken after being rescued by police from a house at Kipkaren estate where she had been locked up by Lusuli A picture of her disfigured face went viral on social media and neighbours informed the police of the assault leading officers to storm the house on Friday night. She is four months pregnant. Valerie has been married to Lusuli for five months. “This is about the fifth time the man has attacked me viciously, but this time it was so serious that I could not even see after the beating,” she said. Also Read:Eldoret man arrested for battering pregnant wife Click here for the latest political news