Kamba
leaders have asked Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku not to politicise the Nol-Turesh
water matter if he wants peace with Makueni people. They noted on Saturday that Kajiado and Makueni residents have live peacefully for long, while sharing a boundary and resources. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said he was perturbed by incessant comments on the matter that were attributed to Lenku. Lenku said Kajiado residents should be given priority by Nol-Turesh Water and Sewerage Company before “outsiders” are considered. On December 12, 2017, he threatened to cut Makueni and Machakos counties off Kilimanjaro water. “Our people can’t suffer while our Makueni and Machakos neighbours enjoy our resources. My people, look to me for solutions to their problems – water is one of them," the county chief said. At that time, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana declined to comment. Kilonzo Jr said: “This water comes from Mt Kilimanjaro and our people have been sharing it with Kajiado. It is wrong for the Governor to insinuate that he has no regard for our people and yet we have been assisting them with grass during drought." "I have been in the forefront of agitating for issues affecting the Kajiado Maasai in the Senate, and I have even supported the equalisation fund because they have been marginalised for many years.” In July, Kajiado county denied claims that it disconnected Nol-Turesh pipeline water to Makueni and Machakos counties. Water CEC Florence Waiganjo told the Star that the problem resulted from a strike by the company workers. More on this: Lenku denies disconnecting water to Makueni, Machakos counties Also read: Lenku scraps Kajiado water companies, forms one with Naikuni as boss Kilome MP Thaddeus Nzambia apologised to Kajiado residents for an assault on Maasais in Konza early in the year. The attack took place as they clashed with members of the Kamba community over grazing land. “I am apologising on behalf of my Kilome people, and this is from my heart, for the embarrassment caused to our Maasai neighbours. We are declaring from today that no Maasai cow will die of starvation while we have grass in our county,” he said. The politicians spoke during the homecoming of Imaroro MCA Amos Peshut, which thousands of people attended. Peshut caused laughter while introducing his family by saying: "Let me declare here today that I am married to my wife, who is female, and that we are blessed with three children. "I am emphasising that my wife is female because I am told men, these days marry those of same sex," he said. Click here for the latest political news