Safaricom has clashed with the Communications Authority over its study report that seeks to introduce remedies for players and create a level playing ground in the telecommunication sector. The firm’s chief executive Bob Collymore yesterday told the Parliamentary committee on ICT that the study seeks to declare Safaricom dominant in the market and impose interventions that will not only punish the giant telco but also go after millions of its customers. Collymore claimed the report seeks to dictate retail price controls on Safaricom’s services making them expensive to its customers. This, he said would result in customer migration to its competitors based on hiked charges. “The operators who are seeking these interventions will have been taught not to invest but instead to rely upon the infrastructure that is built by others. They will have been taught not to innovate as innovations will be served to them on a silver platter,” he said. He warned that such a move will not grow the country’s economy, provide new technologies in the market and create job opportunities. The telco’s  director of corporate affairs Stephen Chege said statistics from Communications Authority conducted between January and March 2018 already show a decline in the firm’s market share to 67 per cent from 72 per cent the previous quarter. “Actually this is like tying someone’s hands telling them to go and play with colleagues who are free. That is not the right direction to take. Every licensee should be treated equally,” Chege said. Communications Authority director general Francis Wangusi recently told the committee that each operator should provide mobile money services of all the other service providers. “Under the competition Act, restricting agents from providing other services constitutes abuse of dominance,” he said. This was the first time Collymore was appearing in public after a nine-month sick leave abroad. He later took to twitter to announce his comeback and thanked everyone who has supported him for the nine month he was receiving medication for undisclosed ailment. ‘’I’m back. Thanks to everyone who supported me over the past nine months especially the clinical team at the University College London Hospitals, superb team at Safaricom and of course my wife Wambui Kamiru,’’ Collymore tweeted. In May, while announcing the firm’s full year results, the team at the giant telco told investors via teleconference that he will be back soon. The firm’s chief finance officer Sateesh Kamath and Strategy director Joseph Ogutu have been overseeing operations at Safaricom while Collymore received treatment.