Deputy President William Ruto is pulling no punches in what appears to be an elaborate plan on his quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. On Thursday, he put up up a robust defence of his wealth dismissing an opinion poll released on Wednesday which had Kenyans putting him top among perceived corrupt Kenya leaders. While hosting Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, who was ranked second in the same poll, the DP said that he will not be distracted by the under-the-table political tactics by his unnamed opponents. The Star has established that Ruto's speeches and actions are aligned to an elaborate strategy he is silently implementing to succeed his boss Uhuru Kenyatta. The Elusive Luhya Unity Political heavyweights from Western Kenya are plotting an elaborate strategy that could lock Deputy President William Ruto and opposition Chief Raila Odinga from the region. Raila has continued to command massive support and in some cases near fanatical following in the western region, and even beat ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi in his own backyard during the 2013 general election. The region's unity drive being crafted my Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ul and Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa would also whittle down fortunes for the ruling Jubilee party. A Husband From Hell For six months, activist Jane Komen remained under the care of doctors, fighting for her life. What took Jane, 56, to the Emergency Room and subsequently caused her admission to hospital was not an accident. It was a diabolical act wrought on her by the man she loved: her husband of 24 years. Jane, who advocates poor people’s rights through Bunge la Wananchi, met her future husband in early 1985 in Nairobi city. Jane recalls how they fell in love and it was magic - a match made in heaven - until cheating episodes tripled and so did his verbal, physical and emotional abuse. Swazuri demands full access to office National Land Commission Chairman Muhammad Swazuri is back fighting to have full access to his office days after his replacement following corruption charges. Swazuri is aggrieved by the bond terms set by chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi, who barred him from going to the NLC offices unless accompanied by a police officer. Swazuri was granted Sh6 million bond or Sh3.5 million bail and barred from accessing his office. He was arraigned a fortnight ago before an anti-corruption court where he, Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina and 10 others denied numerous counts relating to SGR land compensation. The prosecution said the accused conspired to pay for public land that was irregularly acquired and that led to the loss of Sh222.3 million for three parcels belonging to the Kenya Railway Corporation. Kenya borrowed Sh1.7 billion daily The government borrowed an average of Sh1.7 billion daily in the last financial year, according to data from the National Treasury. The cumulative borrowing over the period was Sh632 billion pushing the country's overall debt to Sh5.04 trillion from Sh4.41 trillion as at June 2017. Compared to June 2016, the debt has increased by Sh39.53 per cent or Sh1.43 trillion, the full year economic and budgetary review ending June 2018 shows. The full year’s economic and budget review also shows that Kenya Revenue Authority missed its 2017/2018 financial year revenue target by Sh172.4 billion. While the revenue collection was 11.59 per cent short of the set target, it was Sh86.64 billion higher than the Sh1.4 trillion collected during the 2016/2017 financial year.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Showers late at night. Low 12ºC. High 21ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. MOMBASA: Morning showers and night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Scattered thunderstorms. Low 19ºC. High 25ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60%. Click here for the latest political news 