First of all we must appreciate the rationale behind the handshake and building bridges. This was an idea that was not founded out of political convenience, personal ambition or drive, but is an idea that founded out of patriotism and the love of our country. Realising that the political class had pushed our country to the brink of violence, and then you have a huge section of the population boycotting an election which proceeds to produce a government, and you have that huge population calling for secession, calling for the rights to self determination, then you know that the unmaking of a nation is underway. And therefore President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga realising the historical significance of the geographical entity called Kenya, decided to bury all that had defined us since independence. They created a foundation for a modern Kenya, that is basically the rationale of  building bridges and handshake as a concept. That henceforth, we want to play our politics at a pedestal of national unity, patriotism and the love of our country. In my view therefore as a county leader, this is nether a Luo-Kikuyu alliance nor a Raila-Uhuru partnership but a concept and idea that is bigger than the two individuals or their communities. It is an idea that defines Kenya going forward in terms of development, its policies and its economics. What that therefore means is that we must reasonably and legitimately expect that the development projects of this government must not be skewed towards one region. That the Luo must not expect to be favoured, neither the Kamba nor the Kikuyu because their son or daughter is a principal in the building bridges initiative. Instead it should be that we have begun a dispensation whereby every Kenyan matters and every region must be treated as part and parcel of this great nation called Kenya. So when the President comes to launch the Universal Health Care programme, what we expect is that the very action must transcend to the Rift Valley, Coast region, North Eastern region and to all parts of the country without discrimination. What we called for during the election that was boycotted, was that every Kenyan must be recognised as having rightful inheritance in this land that God gave to our grandfathers. Oloo is the Kisumu County Assembly speaker, he spoke to the Star Click here for
the latest political news