Residents of Bungoma County who will take part in this
year’s traditional circumcision exercise have been urged to uphold good conduct
and shun bad behaviour during the traditional cut. Speaking at the launch of initiation ceremony for Bukusu and
tachoni communities, County Executive Committee member in charge of Public
Administration Sabwami Keya cautioned against bad morals and destruction of
property in the process of escorting the initiates to be circumcised. Mr. Keya who represented Bungoma County Governor Wycliffe
Wangamati at the event that hosted initiates drawn from all the 9 Sub Counties
officially launched initiation ceremony that kicks off today 1st of August to
30th of August this year. The County government
has pledged to support two needy initiates from each of the 45 wards with
medicine and food at the cost of Shs. 4,000 per child. This is following a training of over 500 people tasked with
carrying out traditional circumcision of young boys from Bukusu and Tachoni
communities. They were trained on safe traditional circumcision and each was
awarded a certificate that recognizes them as the official practitioners of the
exercise. He however noted with lots of concern that a section of the
public in past have indulged in bad habits in the course of the practice. He
reiterated that the initiation ceremony is meant to preserve traditions and
history of the communities through the messages passed across in the
circumcision songs and good conduct of the participants. “In the past, songs sang during circumcision season would
praise of our heroes and urge the society to shun bad behaviour and emulate
good deeds done by those heroes and heroines,” said Mr. Keya. County Executive Committee member in charge of Gender,
Youth, Sports and Culture, Ms. Everlyne Kakai has called upon the initiators to
carry out initiation in the required manner to avoid accidents occurring in the
process. “The initiators were taken through the training on good
health practice of initiation which is to ensure that none of our generation
can be lost due to poor circumcision process,” said Ms. Kakai. She said initiation ceremony gives the young initiates a
sense of belonging and groups them into age sets that guides and nurtures their
upbringing. County Director of Culture Alice Wafula warned
any individual performing circumcision outside the set dates as going against
the traditions and that stern action will be taken against them.