The internet must be "clean and
righteous" and vulgar content must be resisted in the field of
culture, Chinese President Xi Jinping told a meeting of senior
propaganda officials, state media said on Wednesday. The government has been tightening controls over internet
content as part of what it says are efforts to maintain social
stability, taking on "vulgar" and pornographic content as well
as the unauthorised dissemination of news. The moves come amid a broader clamp-down targeting online
content from livestreams and blogs to mobile gaming, as the
country's leaders look to tighten their grip over a huge and
diverse cultural scene online popular with China's youth. Speaking at a two-day meeting, attended by officials from
major state media outlets and the internet regulator, Xi said
propaganda efforts needed to be put front and centre, the
official Xinhua news agency said. "Uphold a clean and righteous internet space," the report
cited Xi as saying. China shut as many as 128,000 websites that contained
obscene and other "harmful" information in 2017, Xinhua reported
in January, citing government data. China's media regulator has also been cracking down on video
spoofs, as part of the intensified crackdown on any content that
is deemed to be in violation of socialist core values under
Xi. Despite strict censorship, China has a fairly lively online
community of bloggers, who frequently respond to breaking events
with humorous - and sometimes risqué - sketches and short
videos, although they often face their posts being taken down. Xi told the meeting that those who work in culture and the
arts had to express quality and responsibility and respect the
law, Xinhua said. "Reject the vulgar, the base and the kitsch," Xi added. "Put
forward more healthy, high quality internet works of culture and
art." The government has stepped up already tight controls over
the internet since Xi took power six years ago, in what critics
say is an effort to restrict freedom of speech and prevent
criticism of the ruling Communist Party. The government says all countries regulate the internet, and
its rules are aimed at ensuring national security and social
stability and preventing the spread of pornography and violent
content. China maintains a strict censorship regime, banning access
to many foreign news outlets, search engines and social media
including Google and Facebook. Click here for the latest political news