Deputy President William Ruto led a host of political leaders and sportsmen especially athletes in bidding farewell to former world 400m hurdles champion Nicholas Bett. Bett was buried at his Simat home in Uasin Gishu county. Ruto said he had been sent by President Kenyatta to deliver condolences to the family. The 28-year-old died in an accident near Lessos in Nandi county a week ago. Bett, who was a police officer, was buried with full honours of a 21-gun salute. "We join the entire sporting fraternity globally in celebrating the life of our brother Bett. We bring our condolences and sympathies because we have lost not just a person from this county but a national athlete and an international citizen," the DP said. He said Bett made the country proud as a police officer and was also a patriot and a gallant athlete for the country. Ruto said in 2013, an insurance scheme had been set up for police officers who die while on duty. He said the insurance scheme would give Bett’s family Sh2 million and the President had also sent him with an additional Sh2 million to start a bursary kitty for Bett’s children. The DP described Bett as a national hero, who would always be remembered. Sports CS Rashid Echesa said at the Thursday ceremony that Bett had died a hero. "Bett, we will celebrate you always as Kenyans even in death. For the athletes, I know it’s painful for you because I know what you go through to fly our flag as a nation like he did." Echesa said the ministry was finalising a plan on how all athletics heroes including those who are deceased would be celebrated. "God gives and takes. We loved our brother Bett but God loved him more and we pray that his soul rests in eternal peace," the CS said. The Sports minister said he had met Bett during the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australian and noticed that he was passionate about improving athletics. Lands CS Faridah Karoney said Bett and other athletes had done the country and the police force proud. "To the family, we say sorry for the loss of Bett and we will always remember him," Karoney said. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett said the service has lost officer of great integrity, who was always determined to serve the country in the best way. "We have lost an officer of integrity who was considerate to his peers and his subordinates. He was liked by his seniors and subordinates. Notwithstanding his great athletic prowess and his fame worldwide, he still related very well with his seniors and others with great humility." He said the force pay tribute to him as a great athlete, police officer, and nationalist. He said in honour of Bett, the force would consider recruiting some residents during recruitment exercise for the service. Hundrdes of athletes led by 2015 world javelin champion, Julius Yego and Ezekiel Kemboi mourned Bett describing him as a hero. "He was my best friend and always encouraged me and others. After winning the hurdles in Beijing, he came and gave me his running shorts to wear so that I also win. He always wanted all of us to win and not him alone," said Yego. Yego reminisced about meeting Bett in Asaba, Nigeria recently and described him as a very nice guy. Senator Margaret Kamar regretted that Bett had died at a young age when his athletics star was still shining and asked the family to rely on God. "He was a hero internationally and we should join hands to ensure his family is taken care off," Kamar said. Athletics Kenya (AK) chairman Jackson Tuwei said Bett made history in 2015 when he won the 400m hurdles in World Championship. He said they would fulfill Bett’s wish to have a special camp for sprints set up in his honour. Tuwei said once construction of the Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret is completed, the first-weekend meeting to open the stadium would be used to honour Bett. "He has inspired many youths particularly in sprints and we will honour him," Tuwei said. He said they were already in discussions with several companies to establish a medical scheme for both active and retired athletes. Governor Jackson Mandago, tens of MPs, senators and other leaders were in attendance. Click here for the latest political news