What prompted Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda's to table a motion seeking to block Deputy President William Ruto from contesting in the 2022 presidential poll? Was the MP just seeking cheap publicity or was he serious? Some Coast lawmakers who were heard loudly discussing in the precincts of Parliament wondered whether the move is a confirmation that Ruto is a real threat to ODM leader Raila Odinga. Or created the impression that Raila was afraid of facing Ruto. ***** A chairman of a parastatal shocked patrons in a city hotel when he gleefully narrated a nefarious plot against his CEO. The man who was drinking on Wednesday evening bragged how he has authored a deadly forensic audit that will bring down his CEO soon. The chairman known for his insatiable appetite for the bottle, triggered questions about how he got hold of the report before the consultant finished authoring it. He said the forensic audit consultants — with whom he meets frequently to compare notes — have firm instructions to ensure the report pins down the CEO. Oook! ***** Are there personal differences between National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale and Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko? Some MPs were heard asking why Duale keeps on poking holes in the appointment of businessman Jaswant Singh Rai to sit on the board of the Kenya Forest Service. Well, the Rai family has interests in the paper manufacturing industry but the lawmakers recalled how Duale cheekily introduced the issue of Rai’s appointment during debate on contraband sugar. Is the Garissa Township MP playing his oversight role or driving a hidden agenda? ***** A senior parastatal head in the energy sector recently flew out of the country after frantically trying to get clearance. The man is reported to have flown to an unknown destination fearing that detectives could arrest him anytime in the ongoing anti-corruption purge. Those in the know say the man has been working behind the scenes to have his CEO and other junior officers implicated in graft yet he is said allegedly the most corrupt. ***** Eastleigh residents want the inspector general of police to reign in and investigate the conduct of Pangani police station officers. They say that whenever hawkers go to report crime and cases of harassment, they are always told the occurrence book is full! Residents are wondering why the book is always full yet not full when moneyed business people report their cases. The residents allege that several police officers from the station collude with criminals in the area to steal from them. They also allege that the station’s OCPD does not listen to their grievances. Over to you, Bwana Joseph Boinett. Click here for the latest political news  