“And as Samuel turned around  to go away Saul seized the edge of his robe
and it tore. So Samuel said to him, “the Lord has torn the Kingdom of Israel
form you today, and has given it to a neighbour of yours who is better than
you” 2 Samuel 15:27-28. Could
the current intense political simmering in Kenya between Deputy President
William Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi about to reach boiling point and
present a scenario like the one in the old kingdom of Israel? Is the coveted,
ultimate political prize — the presidency — about to be snatched out the hand
of DP Ruto? The
signs are crystal clear and the writings on the wall. Or what would we make of
President Uhuru Kenyatta saying his deputy ‘anatangatanga?’, Or when Ruto makes
a visit to Kabarak and is denied access to his would be host? Or when Uhuru and
Raila have handshakes and later hugs and the DP is only a by-stander? These
signs maybe clear indicators of an imminent fall or fallout. His utterances and
the outbursts of his   lieutenants may be
the catalysts that could lead to this fall. They respond angrily and
emotionally to every perceived attack or government directive, which seem not
to favour them. Anger
and emotional response to any situations, more so competitive political
environment such as ours, is the greatest barrier to power.  Emotions dim vision and reason. It has a
ripple effect that invariably makes the situations less controllable as Robert
Greene would put it. This would intensify the resolve of his enemies to curtail
and vanquish him completely. No
wonder CS Charles Keter, a DP ally, completely wigged out to the  extent that he compares  the nabbing of KPLC transformers saga
suspects to the unfortunate Zambia national football team plane crash of  1993. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has further
exacerbated   the situation by inciting
the Mau evictees to stay put, despite government directive to have all
squatters moved out of the water tower. These two angry retorts from Ruto
allies and earlier ones directed at the person of the President and his family
will not only accelerate DP’s downfall but also 
lead to his likely  total
political subjugation. It would seem those advising the
DP have not read Robert Greene’s book The
48 Laws of Power. The first law simply says, “Never outshine the master.
Always make those above you feel comfortably superior and be careful when
trying to please or impress them not to go too far in displaying your talents
or you might accomplish the opposite  —
inspire fear and insecurity”. And this could be the greatest
political sin Ruto might have committed since he became Deputy President. He
would match, even display bromance, outshine or out rightly contradict his boss
in public. It was even rumoured  that in
many occasions  the DP would brag to his
close allies and supporters that he was in-charge of the government. Many
political analysts would aver that sooner or later Ruto would fall. And  that fall seems to be at hand. Ruto’s advisers would only be
compared to young men at King Rehoboam’s court in the united kingdom of Israel,
who misadvised him into rejecting a request by his subjects to lighten the
heavy yoke and burdens loaded on them by his father, King Solomon. The young
courtiers’ advice resulted in the division of the kingdom leaving King Rehoboam
to rule only one tribe out of the twelve tribes. And history is replete with  many fallen men who tried to  be equal 
or outshine    their superiors. In December 2013 in North Korea,
Jang Song Thaek, Kim Jong-un’s uncle was executed for seemingly
challenging  the  leadership 
of his youthful nephew by displaying 
his brilliances in matters of state, his 
long experience and strong political power base built over  the years. Closer home, in July 1983, a
Judicial Commission of Inquiry was set up to inquire into the conduct of
Charles Njonjo, who had established a powerful political network which seemed
to challenge the leadership of President Daniel Moi. That commission ended Njongo's
political ambition and career. Could the choreography against Ruto
and his  lieutenants on the Mau Complex
the high voltage corruption saga at the KPLC, the NCPB, the Ruaraka land  scandal, the Kenya Pipeline and many others
be the rope that  would lead him to his
political guillotine?     Talel is a management consultant in Nairobi