The tenure of Director of Public Health Kepha Ombacho has been rocked by controversy after it emerged a human resource advisory team asked for the suspension of his contract. The Star has established the Ministry of Health’s Human Resources Advisory Committee had recommended Ombacho’s two-year contract be put on hold, pending the outcome of a case challenging his appointment. “That the processing of the contract to appoint Dr Kepha Ombacho be put on hold until the case in court is heard and determined,” the ministerial committee chaired by Francis Musyimi resolved. Ombacho was set to retire late last year, but former Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu sought extension of his contract, a request the Public Service Commission gave the nod on August 23. Read: Make sure free loos are clean and safe - public health chief ‘no pay for eight months’ But activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court, saying the appointment is irregular. He is facing a separate suit by the EACC among other ministry top brass for irregular procurement of the Sh1 billion mobile clinics. It remains unclear how Ombacho is transacting on behalf of the ministry, including being the directorate’s AIE holder. Last week, a section of public health and environmental staff wrote to CS Sicily Kariuki, asking why the ministry ignored its own advisory team. “Why the double standards madame CS and PS to disregard your own advisory committee recommendations on the matter…You have given Ombacho the authority to incur expenditure yet he has no official position in the ministry,” reads a protest note by some officers. On Thursday, Health PS Peter Tum told the Star the matter is being internally handled by the Ministerial Human Resources Advisory Committee. Sources, however, said Ombacho has not been paid his salary for eight months. This follows a legal advice from the ministry’s legal department dated December 22 last year that advised the ministry not to sign any contract while the case is ongoing. “In the event that the petition is allowed by the court, the ministry will be seen to have not done due diligence as payment would have been effected to a contract already challenged,” legal unit head John Gicheru said. In his defence in court, Ombacho said he needs more time to mentor a successor, a claim a section of his staff have rebutted. Click here for the latest political news