With 10 matches to be negotiated, the month of August was expected to provide the sternest test to Gor Mahia’s aspirations domestically and on the continental front. Despite the recent stutters that saw their unbeaten run in the league halted, the runaway league leaders regrouped and brought the feel-good factor back with victory over Posta Rangers on Friday. The result left them needing just four more wins in their remaining 10 league matches to retain their title. Today, as they confront Kakamega Homeboyz, an unwelcome distraction has been thrown their way. For the second time this season, their indispensable Ugandan left back Godfrey Walusimbi is in the crosshairs of the clubs power men after he reportedly sneaked to South Africa for talks of a possible move to PSL side Kaizer Chiefs. Gor chairman Ambrose Rachier revealed on the club official portal that his Amakhosi counterpart contacted him over a deal for Walusimbi but he could not engage him until he had communicated with his executive, going on to accuse the South Africans of player-tapping. It is just the kind of headache coach Dylan Kerr would rather do without in a month where his charges could win the league for a record-extending 17th time and also reach the last eight group stages of the CAF Confederation Cup. Wesley Onguso and Charles Momanyi will fill Walusimbi’s big boots should the Uganda Cranes veteran get his desired switch. Homeboyz attackers will provide either of them with a tough task this afternoon. Moses Mudavadi, Noah Wafula and Allan Wanga — all seasoned campaigners in the topflight league — will be eager to take advantage of any uncertainty in the K’Ogalo backline. At the back, the Boyz will also need to be alert to the threat of Rwandese marksman, Jacques Tuyisenge, who is hitting form in front of goal at exactly the right moment. The Golden Boot candidate will likely start upfront alongside Ivorian Ephraim Guikan and George Odhiambo. With the return leg clash against Rayon Sports four days away, Kerr might chop and change his starting line up with Humphrey Mieno or Francis Kahata being rested. Three more points today and the unfolding saga involving Walusimbi might be put in the backburner as the champagne glasses are brought out.