A businessman who fatally shot his wife four years ago in a domestic row will spend 20 years in jail. Erastus Odhiambo, alias Ediot, was found guilty of killing 27-year-old Linda Irungu on December 12, 2014, at Waihura Court, Buru Buru Phase Five. Justice Stella Mutuku said she considered Odhiambo’s mitigation and the gravity of the offence. “Having considered all the facts of the matter, justice is to be served if the accused is to serve 20 years in jail,” the judge ruled. Mutuku said she considered the Victim Impact Statement which told of Irungu’s family’s pain and loss. She also considered Odhiambo’s mitigation that showed he was remorseful and regretted the act. The judge sympathised with Irungu’s family, saying nothing will ever bring her back. Read: Trader found guilty of killing second wife after quarrel The father of four could have acted differently,  the judge said. Mutuku said the mandatory death penalty aspect was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, however, it was not scrapped. The apex court said trial judges have the discretion to rule otherwise on deserving cases. In mitigation, Odhiambo pleaded for leniency, saying what happened was not deliberate. He asked the court to consider that he honoured all proceedings until his sentencing, which shows he has good intent. Through his lawyers, Odhiambo said whatever happened cannot be reversed and he is remorseful. His lawyers said Odhiambo can still change and be a useful member of society. He asked the court to consider other forms of correction other than the death sentence because the accused has a family. His wife’s family asked the court to impose the maximum penalty of death because he killed their daughter. Irungu’s brother said their lives changed after she died. Other relatives said they are still living with the trauma of losing a sister. In the victim’s report, the Irungus said they lost a mentor and a friend. They questioned why Odhiambo did not walk away from the quarrel. Mutuku said Odhiambo was not a happy man and violence was the natural reaction of a human being, following what happened that night. Click here for
the latest political news