Public hospitals in Uganda have
been hit by shortages of essential medicines and supplies needed
for emergency care, a health workers' association said, further
hurting services at facilities already struggling from years of
neglect. The shortages are affecting the East African country's main
Mulago Hospital, which handles serious cases referred to it from
other facilities, Uganda Medical Association (UMA) said. Most patients in Uganda seek care at public health
facilities although private hospitals whose services are beyond
the reach of many are common. UMA President Ekwaro Obuku, speaking to Reuters, said
government hospitals were experiencing serious shortages of
basic medicines for emergency care such as vaccines and other
drugs, syringes, gloves, catheters, gauze and others. "Mothers and their babies are at increased risk of death if
something is not done urgently," Obuku told Reuters. At least one woman in labour who was referred to a public
hospital has lost her baby as a result of the shortages, Obuku
said. Vivian Nakaliika Serwanjja, health ministry spokeswoman,
said shortages had been caused by financial disruption at the
government agency responsible for procurement of medical
supplies. "But the scarcities are not widespread," she said, adding
only a few hospitals were affected and supplies had started
being delivered. She had no information on the alleged baby
death caused by the shortages. Doctors and other public health workers in Uganda routinely
gripe about paltry salaries with demands for pay rises largely
going unmet. Critics of long-ruling President Yoweri Museveni say the
chronically under-funded health sector is a victim of his luxury
life-style in which he flies around in a private jet and travels
in a motorcade stretching sometimes to dozens of cars. Rampant graft also eats into key public services including
healthcare. At some government facilities in rural areas, roofs leak,
windows panes are missing and a lot of equipment barely
functions. The country's only radiotherapy machine broke down in early
2016. It took more than a year before a replacement was
installed leaving mostly poor cancer patients untreated. Rather than be tended to in poor medical facilities at home,
top government officials often fly to India and South Africa for
treatment. Click here for the latest political news