Jubilee Party does not need advice from outsiders on how to run its affairs, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto told Jubilee leaders to ignore "prophets of doom' who are busy predicting division in the party. He termed those propagating politics based on tribal affiliations as ‘enemies of unity and development’. Speaking at Kamarich AIC in Aldai, Nandi County, Ruto said Jubilee was formed on a strong foundation of unity and development. “Jubilee is the strongest party ever, with firm and strong foundation because its owners are people who are tired of politics based on tribal backgrounds and committed to initiation of projects like water, electricity, roads, health, education among others, which can improve the lives of Kenyans,” Ruto said. He said some leaders who had benefitted in the past from politics based on ethnic affiliations were now fighting back as Jubilee was successfully implementing its agenda for the country. “Those criticizing and undermining our development agenda are the same people who benefitted from tribal politics in the past. This is why they are engaging in all manner of rhetoric including predicting that our party is headed for division,” said Mr Ruto. Present were Lands Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney, Governor Stephen Sang (Nandi), Senator Kiprotich Cherargei (Nandi), Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Julius Melly (Tinderet), Tecla Tum (Women Rep, Nandi) and former MP Zipporah Kering. The Deputy President said Sh1.4 billion has been allocated for phase two and three of the Last Mile Electrification project, targeting 30,000 new households in Nandi County. He said the Government plans to expand the Eldoret-Kapsabet-Chavakali road as part of its infrastructural development across the country. The MPs dismissed the Ipsos opinion poll survey, saying it was politically motivated. Governor Sang cautioned institutions doing opinion polls against using corruption to blackmail people. “Let us not use the fight against corruption to taint the names of some leaders for selfish reasons,” said Governor Sang. Senator Cherargei dismissed the Ipsos opinion poll, saying Ruto’s political opponents who were shaken by his development track record have resorted to such polls to tarnish his image ahead of 2022 race sponsored it. Click here for the latest political news