Demolition of more than 2,000 illegal buildings in Mombasa is to start this weekend after the deadline of the notice issued to some owners elapsed. Governor Hassan Joho is keen to restore the county to the beautiful city it was more than two decades ago to attract tourists and investors. He has ordered verification of all approvals issued by county officers and other state agencies. The Star has learnt that demolitions will be in phases. The first phase could start as early as Saturday. It targets structures on waterways and wetlands. These are mostly found in Kiembeni, Junda, Jomvu and Kwa Bulo, Nyali. The second phase could start after one month. “We’ll start as early as tomorrow [Saturday] in Bombo, Utange. Right now we are organising equipment. It’s something heavy,” county secretary Francis Thoya said on Friday. “These continually cause perennial flooding when it rains. All these structures will be demolished. The owners better start demolishing them themselves before we come.” Civil society, led by Haki Africa, is also pushing for the demolitions. It says they deny residents their rights to decent housing, a healthy environment and recreation. The Ndung’u land report recommended the revocation of 450 titles of plots in Mombasa. They were irregularly allocated. Another 200 plots were to be probed further. On Thursday, Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid, in a letter to Joho, said the plots hold more than 2,000 structures, flats,residential houses, beach hotels, apartments, warehouses and offices. The buildings have been mapped out in areas such as Kizingo, Ganjoni, Lumumba Road, Bondeni, Nyali, Makadara, Markiti, Guraya, Mama Ngina Drive and King’orani. “We’ve established that the Nema land use guidelines for buildings to be at least 60 metres from the high watermark and public access to be no more than 400m apart have been flouted by many beach hotels,” he said. On Thursday, a private developer in Bombo, Utange, who had illegally subdivided part of a public road was given 48 hours to demolish a perimeter wall he built across it and open the road.