Kamba leaders have cautioned Kajiado governor Joseph Lenku against divisive remarks over the Nol-Turesh Water Services. Makueni, Machakos and Kajiado residents share the Mt Kilimanjaro water managed by the firm. On December 12 last year, Lenku threatened to stop supplies to Makueni and Machakos. “Our people can’t suffer while our Makueni and Machakos neighbours enjoy our resources. My people look to me for solutions to their problems — water is one of them,” he said. Lenku said only the surplus would be supplied to the neighbours. On Friday, Kamba leaders said Makueni and Kajiado residents have coexisted peacefully and harmoniously and should not be incited against each other. They spoke in Kiloh village, Kajiado, during the homecoming party for Imaroro MCA Amos Peshut of Wiper. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka also attended. Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said Lenku’s remarks were uncalled-for. “This water comes from Mt Kilimanjaro. Our people have been sharing it with Kajiado. It’s wrong for the governor to insinuate that he has no regard for our people, yet we’ve been assisting them with grass during drought,” he said. “I’ve been at the forefront agitating against issues hurting the Kajiado Maasai. I even supported you to get equalisation fund because you’ve been marginalised for many years.” Kilome MP Thaddeus Nzambia apologised to Kajiado residents over an incident early in the year when Maasais were assaulted in Konza over grazing land. “I apologise on behalf of my Kilome people from the bottom of my heart. We are declaring from today that no Maasai cow will die of starvation while we have grass in our county,” he said. Meanwhile, Kilonzo urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to work closely with Kalonzo and ODM leader Raila Odinga to fight graft. “This graft war requires the blessing of Kenyans of goodwill. We declare a curse on the MPs who accepted bribes to scuttle a resolve by Kenyans to know the truth about the state of sugar in the market,” he said. Kalonzo caused laughter when he said he and other Nasa leaders failed to cross over to Canaan in the August 8 election after they discovered the Red Sea had been invaded crocodiles. “We were all set to cross with our followers but those threatening reptiles could not allow us. Going to Canaan is still on our minds, but that’s to be discussed another day. We’re now focused on helping our President to fight graft,” he said. He told the Kamba community in Kajiado not to seek political seats. “You’d be demanding too much if you start looking for seats in other people’s land. Respect them and they’ll respect you. The Kajiado Maasai are humane and have a lot of respect for others,” Kalonzo said.