  The Kilifi county government has closed down slaughterhouses and banned supply of red meat following an outbreak of Rift Valley Fever. Authorities said they made the resolutions after vetenary officers got positive results from samples taken from Malindi and Magarini subcounties. Rift Valley Fever was first reported in neighbouring Tana River before it spread to Kilifi. The county has also put a quarantine on livestock movement from Tana River. Most Kilifi residents consume meat from Tana River. The government slaughterhouse in Malindi and all private abattoirs were indefinitely closed down to prevent spread of the disease. Health excecutive Omar Anisa said they are on high alert. He advised residents not to eat red meat because it could endanger their lives. “Majority of the livestock are from Tana River and Northeastern where the disease was initially reported. We're urging the county commissioner and his security team to be on the lookout for livestock entering the county," Anisa said. She spoke on Thursday during the official handover of a new hospital built by Krystaline Salt Company in Marereni. The executive said the outbreak has raised concerns because it came at a time when Muslims are expected to celebrate Idd later in the month. She called for a multi-agency approach to combat spread, saying it could affect tourism. “Malindi is a tourism area and the matter is very sensitive. I've written to the Italian consulate to assure him that everything is under control,’’ Anisa said. She said the county is planning to engage investors to build an Intensive Care Unit in Malindi to deal with complicated ailments and reduce referrals to Mombasa. The health department receives more than Sh2.6 billion in budget allocation annually but the CEC said it was not enough because recurrent expenditure consumes Sh2.2 billion. “Funding from the national government can,t and will never be enough," she said. Anisa asked the many salt firms in Magarini to partner with the county and construct a level four hospital. Kay Salt Company general manager Dinesh Shikotra who built the dispensary as part of the firm's corporate social responsibility said they will set up a modern health facility in the area. Anisa was with deputy speaker Stanley Kenga, nominated MCA Loice Ngari among other local leaders.       