Twitter has started banning a huge amount of accounts, with many users taking to the site to bemoan the loss of hundreds of followers in a single day. The cull started yesterday and had such an impact on numbers that the 'Twitterverse' was swept with the hashtag #TwitterPurge. The firm is ruthlessly removing accounts, with those who have been previously suspended or banned most likely to see their account deactivated. It marks the latest in a string of moves from the site to clean up the platform as the San-Francisco based firm now places a premium on integrity among its users. In a recent interview, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey said the company intends to focus on politics in the common months. He said: "Election integrity is our first priority this year. We need to make sure that we are considering not just policy changes but also product changes to help alleviate some of these concerns." Twitter has been in an ongoing battle with its user base for some time, after it was revealed the 2016 US presidential election was soiled by Russian disinformation efforts, which were spread using social networks, including Twitter. Read: Twitter bars tactics used by 'bots' to spread fake news The purge marks the first notable action since Twitter declared its intentions to ostracise accounts it deemed to be breaching its guidelines earlier this week. Twitter has cracked down on 'low quality' accounts recently, with the seven-day suspension of Infowars host Alex Jones a high-profile move. Jones' account was placed in read-only mode for a week, which allowed him to browse Twitter posts, but stopped him form interacting with other users by tweeting, retweeting or liking posts. He was also required to delete the tweet that also included a snippet of video, Twitter said. It announced earlier this week its plan to remove the accounts of those who have tried to evade an account suspension. The company says that the accounts in question are users who have been previously suspended on Twitter for their abusive behaviour, or for trying to evade a prior suspension. The announcement came in the form of a tweet and was sparse on details but was a clear indication of the firm's intentions going forward. This is the latest in a series of culls from Twitter, with The Washington post reporting last month that the social media platform had rid itself of 70 million accounts between May and June of this year. This marks a significant uptick in the rate it is removing accounts. It was revealed that the company started this movement during the end of 2017, where it got rid of 58 million user accounts in the final three months of 2017, according to new data obtained by The Associated Press. Twitter flagged fake accounts as those which had been dormant for at least a month. Investors have previously voiced concerns the suspension of malicious accounts could could affect user growth on the platform but this was appeased when the firm's CFO announced the removal of bots and unethical accounts had not affected the company's metrics. The San Francisco-based company has been struggling with user growth, when compared to rivals including Instagram and Facebook. Twitter's user base is steadily shrinking, with the company losing a million monthly active users in Q2, with 335 million overall users and 68 million in the US. Read more in full Daily mail story Related: Uhuru loses followers, Raila gains in Twitter purge Click here for the latest political news