A Makueni court has sentenced the man caught assaulting his wife to 10 years in prison and two on probation. Nzomo was sentenced on Wednesday by Senior Principal Magistrate James Mwaniki, following the July 20 assault on Winfred Mwende at Kya-aka village in Muvau. The man was apprehended on August 2. He pleaded guilty to the charge of causing Mwende grievous harm and was taken to Makueni police cells on August 3. The 33-year-old woman was admitted at Makueni Level Four Hospital and later taken to Nairobi Women's Hospital. Read: Makueni man in video of wife's assault pleads guilty, remanded In the judgment, Mwaniki noted that cases of domestic violence have been on the rise so Nzomo's will serve as a lesson to couples. "During his term in prison, the accused will receive guidance and counselling so that he is reformed by the time he goes back to the society," Mwaniki said. A report tabled by the prosecution stated that the man has a history of harassing and assaulting his relatives. The court heard that eight years ago, he assaulted Mwende after she opposed his plan to marry a second wife. He attacked his father four years later. His uncle, identified as Michael in the report, said the accused once chased all his family members away. The report further stated that Mwende does not want to go back to her matrimonial home. She is quoted as saying: "I have forgiven my husband who is hardworking but I am not ready for a reunion." Mwaniki agreed with prosecutor Jenifer Ndede that the accused could not serve a non-custodial sentence. Nzomo admitted beating his wife but denied the rest of the revelations in the report. In mitigation, the father of eight pleaded with the court for a non-custodial sentence, saying he was his family's sole breadwinner. Among those in the court were Nzomo's brother Sammy Manyenze and his father Kyania Manyenze, who said said he was relieved as the judgment was fair. "I was afraid. I thought my son would be sentenced to life in prison. I am thankful that he will serve his term and come back home," he told reporters outside the court, adding he will take care of his grandchildren. Manyenze said they will consider appealing the ruling - they have 14 days. "I hope that if we don't appeal, my brother will come home a reformed man after serving the jail term," he said. Related: [VIDEO] DPP seeks info on woman caught beating a man over Sh200 debt Click here for the latest political news