Gunshots yesterday rent the air at the burial of the driver of Likuyani MP Enock Kibunguchy in Wiyeta, Kiminini. Douglas Wakacha was shot dead at Soy Highway Motel on August 12. Kibunguchy said the assassin’s bullet was meant for him. He called the attack an “attempted assassination”. The lawmaker said the murder might be related to the acrimony following last year’s election and petitions that were filed in Kakamega and Kisumu courts. Read: Assassin’s bullet was meant for me, says MP Kibunguchy Yesterday, the fracas started shortly after Kibunguchy took to the podium. Kapomboi MCA Emmanuel Mulipuko and two Tongareni MP Eseli Simiyu’s bodyguards suffered gunshot wounds. A West TV cameraperson was within a whisker of being shot after a bullet struck his tripod. Mulipuko was admitted to Mt Elgon Hospital in Kitale, while the bodyguards were taken to Cherangany Nursing Hospital. Trans Nzoia nominated MCA Carolyn Makokha said Mulipuko was shot in the leg as he tried to shield Kibunguchy and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula. Read: Weta demands speed as police hunt killer of Kibunguchy's driver “Kibunguchy was giving an account of what transpired in last week’s shooting when we heard gunshots. Everyone ran for their lives,” she said. Makokha said she saw four attackers — two in jungle green uniform similar to those donned by AP officers and two in black suits. Kibunguchy said the gunmen are the same people who killed his driver. “I know the people behind all this. One of them was my closest competitor during the election. They will not succeed,” he said. Wetang’ula said he spotted police officers in jungle uniform shoot aimlessly at innocent mourners. “I’ve witnessed the violence meted out to mourner’s by police. The last thing we expect is for the government to protect the public and not to shoot at them,” he said. Earlier, Kakamega Youths and Sports executive Robert Makhanu was heckled by mourners who claimed he was part of the gang that killed Wakacha. See also: Police yet to trace killers of MP Kibunguchy’s driver More: Kibungunchy unshaken by 'assassination attempt' at Soy motel  Click here for
the latest political news 