President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday vowed to continue with the war against corruption and impunity and urged the public to join in apprehending perpetrators.  The President said he is ready to lose friends and allies and warned that no one will be spared, however powerful or wealthy. “I have lost close friends over the war on corruption. We must be ready to lose friends and do what is right in the eyes of God,” Uhuru said when he addressed congregants during a service at the Faith Evangelistic Ministry church in Karen. He said the country stands on the threshold of transformation and said, "If we fail to fight impunity we will not achieve our dreams.” “A time has come for us to fight impunity, no matter how powerful you are, which high office you hold, how much wealth you have, or how many people you know in high positions — that will not save you,” Uhuru said. Last week, the government partially demolished multi-billion-shilling buildings including South End Mall, Ukay Centre, a petrol station and convenience store that were built on riparian land. Read:[VIDEO] Impunity must end! I've lost many friends over demolitions -Uhuru As many as 4,000 properties are marked for demolition in the operation by the multi-agency Nairobi City Regeneration team to save the Nairobi River. It is not clear how long the demolitions will take and their cost. Owners are expected to bear part of the cost. Uhuru also announced that officers who approved construction of the illegal buildings should be arrested and charged. Riparian land is public and it is illegal to build there. The Office of the Director of Prosecutions promptly directed the DCI to set up a desk at the Police Headquarters where complainants can file details of the requisite approvals for the illegal buildings. The President said those calling him were wondering how he could remain silent and watch buildings worth billions being brought down. “We must fight impunity not because we want to destroy for the sake of it. If we do not fight impunity, we will not achieve our goals. For the country to succeed, we must fight corruption and impunity,” the President said. “Let’s develop a nation that has a conscience and one that is driven by God-fearing people,” the President told worshippers. He added, “We must begin to judge people by their character and reward them on the basis of what they have achieved for the country, their talents and skills,” he added. LIFESTYLE AUDIT More than two months ago, the President directed a lifestyle audit of heads of procurement and accounting units in government. There has been little communication on its progress and his subsequent declaration that it will be extended to include the whole public service. Later yesterday, the President asked the public to take up the responsibility of fighting graft and told the youth to apprehend the suspects and hand them over to the authorities. Addressing a convention in Kisii, Uhuru said the youth have the power to change the leadership structure and fight for their rightful place. “Let us join together in fighting impunity. Let us lose friends for we will gain others as we move on, let us lose friends and do what is good in the eyes of God,” Uhuru said, reiterating his determination to create a society that respects and treasures hard work, integrity and conscience. “For this country to succeed we must fight corruption; for this country to succeed we must fight impunity and forces that prevent us from achieving our dreams. It doesn’t matter if you know the President or a minister. That should not be what makes us human beings. We should be ready to judge ourselves by our character,” Uhuru said. Read:'Arrest' looters of public funds, Uhuru tells youth He said corruption is one of the forces that keeps frustrating national dreams, including access to quality education, healthcare, decent meals for all and quality jobs that give pride and dignity to Kenyans. “We must fight all forces that prevent us from achieving our dreams,” he said. The President was hosted by FEM Family Church founder, Evangelist Teresia Wairimu, for the service which marked the beginning of a week-long conference. Both Bishop Clarence McClendon who delivered the sermon and Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke, who addressed the faithful through video-link, described Kenya as a great country that is on the right path of development. Also See:Muturi to MPs: Produce dossier on sugar bribery claims Click here for the latest political news