Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa and Alego Usonga MP Sam Atandi on Monday caused a scene that nearly degenerated into a scuffle at Kisumu International Airport. Echesa had just arrived at the airport to board a Kenya Airways flight to Nairobi when Atandi accosted him over his alleged attacks against Nasa leader Raila Odinga Atandi told the Star that he asked the CS why he was attacking Raila and Echesa, instead of responding started shouting and howling insults. Eyewitnesses said Echesa was so upset that if it were not for the police who quickly moved in to diffuse the tension, blows would have been exchanged. Salvaging Nairobi rivers About 4,000 buildings are earmarked for demolition in an operation by the Nairobi Regeneration team to clear illegal structures from river banks in Nairobi. The operation expected to take two months kicked off on in Kileleshwa. A Java coffee house within the Shell petrol station and perimeter walls of several residential apartments in the upmarket estate were pulled down. Some of the apartments were discharging effluent into the river. Several kiosks, billboards and a swimming pool were also cleared. How bomb blast changed Kenya The August 7 mid-morning attack on US embassy in Kenya and Tanzania brought al Qaeda to the limelight. It shaped Kenya’s war on terror and how Kenyans thought about their own security. The attack was masterminded by Fazul Mohamed, who was killed by Somalia forces in Somalia in 2011. Experts say the blast was an eye-opener to Kenya and the world on the threats of terrorism. Lack of proper understanding of terrorism bordered on it being regarded as a mythology, essentially meaning the country operated with delusions, what Adera termed “wrong brief, wrong solutions”. Trump invites Uhuru to White House US President Donald Trump is expected to host President Uhuru Kenyatta at the White House on August 27. The two leaders will discuss ways of broadening their strategic partnership based on shared democratic values and mutual interests. A statement from the White House says Kenya is a vital partner of the US. Musalia handshake effect ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has expressed doubts about the success of the truce between Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. He ruled out the possibility of joining the government. Musalia joins his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula in rejecting the formation of a government of national unity amid speculations a Cabinet reshuffle is in the offing. EDITORIAL The Star Editors argue that many condemned buildings are still standing, thanks to political influence and legal and other interventions. Today, they call on the government to look beyond demolitions to who is responsible. Your Weather NAIROBI: Generally clear - day and night. Low 10ºC. High 24ºC. Winds SE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Partly cloudy. Showers late at night. Low 21ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. KISUMU: Partly cloudy - day and night. Low 17ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SSE and variable. Click here for the latest political news