Kenya private sector growth dropped to a six month low of 53.6 in July on account of high input cost due to limited supply of raw materials and global increase in fuel costs. Data by the International Energy Agency (IEA) shows that global oil prices have almost doubled since July last year when a barrel was quoted at $47.6 (Sh4760 ) to a high of $79 (Sh7900 ) mid last month. Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) quotes a barrel of oil at annual average of $68.31 (Sh6800 ) up from $52.5 (Sh5250 ) in 2017 and $40.6 (Sh4060 ) the previous year. This is attributed to a production cap imposed by oil producing countries mid last year to contain oversupply. The monthly Stanbic Kenya Bank Purchasing Managers’ Index shows operations in the private sector shrunk by 140 basis points from June’s 55, the slowest since January. The highest recorded activity was in April at 56.4. The monthly indicator is based on activity in the manufacturing and service sectors with readings above 50 signalling an improvement in business conditions, while any figure below this indicates poor performance. Stanbic economist Jibran Qureishi said the decline should not be a cause for alarm as the July PMI was still above the historical average since data collection began. He however cautioned that the growth might drop further in coming months if taxes as proposed in Finance Bill 2018 are effected. This he said, will increase production cost, with companies forced to increase commodity prices and cut on human resource. “Anecdotal evidence in July seems to be pointing to rising input costs for firms. That said, other tax measures may still come through over the coming months, subject to pending court decisions,” he said. Last month, High Court suspended the implementation of new taxes imposed under the Finance Bill 2018, including those on mobile money and kerosene. Kenyan private sector output rose in July, thereby extending the period of expansion to eight months. Anecdotal evidence pointed to favourable demand conditions and growth in credit to the sector. The survey shows firms received strong market demand driving up new business while export orders rose at the fastest pace since March. According to CBK, private sector credit grew by 4.3 per cent in the 12 months to June this year compared to 2.4 per cent same period last year. It indicated that lending to the sector is expected to pick up gradually with continued recovery of the economy. Credit to the manufacturing, buikding and construction, and trade sectors grew by 12.3 per cent, 13.5 per cent and 8.6 per cent respectively. The monthly survey measures the performance of agriculture, mining, manufacturing, services, construction and retail sectors and is derived from a survey of 400 companies. The PMI is based on five individual indexes with the following weights: new orders, output, employment, suppliers’ delivery times and stock of items purchased.