County public hospitals are fleecing insurance firms by overcharging insured patients for treatment, lab work and medicine, an anti-graft audit has revealed. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission report released on Friday about Health ministry systems discloses that patients with insurance cover pay more, sometimes far more than patients paying in cash. "I don't know why it is so much more expensive for insurance cover than cash. This is corruption and we should not be subjected to healthcare that is so expensive," EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala said during the release of the report in Nairobi A rich history of compromised legislators The current uproar and professions of shock over alleged bribery in the 'August' House is nothing new. Some MPs are accused of receiving bribes to kill the report indicting Cabinet secretaries over the importation of contraband sugar, some of it poisonous. But this is just the latest of a series of reports and motions that have sailed through or been trashed due to vested interests with deep pockets. Jubilee infighting a threat to Big Four Agenda There is relative political calm in the country, thanks to the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. The hard stance and brittle political brinkmanship seem to have thawed. Ethnic hostilities that ran along ethnic lines have dissipated. However, beneath this apparent warmth in the national leadership is a simmering row within the top ranks of government. There is palpable tension among the key planks of Jubilee mandarins. This unease was initially muted but has become loud lately. For their second term campaigns, the President and his deputy succeeded in uniting their troops under one party just before the last election. However, it is now clear the fault lines were never sealed and healed completely and this is becoming a great threat for Uhuru's agenda, writes Ochieng’ Kanyadudi. Mama Westlands You might have seen her along Waiyaki Way, just after the UNCHR offices in Westlands, praying for people under a shrub. Naomi Jendeka, aka Mama Westlands, is her name. Born in Emanda village, Vihiga county, Jendeka, who is the Mama Region of Bethsaida ADC branch in Kangemi, Nairobi, got saved at the age of 13. Since then, she has devoted herself to spreading God’s word. Read her story on why she chooses to remain humble as fellow preachers live a life of riches and luxury. Click here for the latest political news