Kenyans can now breathe a sigh of relief after MPs voted to suspend the implementation of 16 per cent VAT on petroleum products. The amendment to the Finance Bill, 2018 moved by National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohammed was meant to cushion Kenyans from the high cost of living. The levy will now take effect on September 1, 2020. The Bill meant hard times for low income earners as prices of basic commodities including fares were to rise. National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi said the implementation of the 16 percent VAT should be shelved forever. “We need to postpone the tax for another two years but the House need to decide after this to do away with the tax altogether,” said Mbadi. The Suba South MP said that implementing the tax would have occasioned an increase in the price of commodities by at least more than 10 per cent further making life harder for most Kenyans. “The transport cost would have risen by over 20 per cent. This is an amendment this House must support,” he said. In June, Treasury CS Henry Rotich said petroleum products will start attracting 16 per cent VAT from September 1. This would have raised by Sh17 every litre of the commodity. Rotich argued the implementation of the Bill was in line with agreements with the International Monetary Fund. In 2016 it was agreed that the government would do away with tax exemptions as part of a plan to grow revenues, reduce budget deficits and slow down debt. Read: Viability of VAT on petroleum products Also read: Motorists to block roads in protest against VAT hike The tax was first introduced on petrol, diesel, kerosene and jet fuel in the VAT Act of 2013, with a three-year grace period. It was to come into force in 2016 but was deferred to September. COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli and motorists had protested the tax, threatening to resist implementation of the Bill. Atwoli last week said worker would do everything to block the implementation of the tax which was to take off midnight tomorrow. “Kenyans’ pockets have been dug deep and as workers, we will not continue keeping quiet and watch the government destroy our economy through unreasonable taxes,” said Atwoli. The lawmakers also passed an amendment by Defense and Foreign Relations chairman Katoo ole Metito which will now see Kenyan workers in foreign embassies allowed to import at least one car not exceeding eight passengers. Read; Cotu threatens to call strike to fight fuel VAT Click here for the latest political news