The Kiambu government is on the spot after a recently launched project caused mixed reactions from Kenyans on Twitter. Governor Ferdinand Waititu built a staircase at Karanji in Limuru East,  which is meant to be an alternative route for children going to school. Residents also use the staircase because the road they often use to Limuru town is impassable during the rainy season. As Kenyans on Twitter gave varied views, residents of Kiambu defended the staircase. "Welcome to Kiambu County. We are about to have a staircase meant for us. Cars, boda bodas, cyclists, mkokotenis and wheelbarrow pushers are not encouraged to use the path," @ndungu_nyoro said. @kinga_stanley said "That path is only used by pedestrians as a shortcut. There's an alternative road... The staircase will ease the burden of climbing." "Let's get the story straight, the staircase was built for the common mwananchi who treks from Karanjee to Limuru town, the road adjacent is very passable for motors," @Dokta_Rufas said. She added "Sufferers have been saved years of mud including school kid. The disabled cannot use the slope, it's too sloppy, there is another road very nearby... And it's good for other road users." ‏"I find nothing wrong with the staircase. My problem would have been the cost. There are many sections in Kiambu, Murang'a and Nyeri that require such footpaths," @Anthony17mwangi said. He added "One area that badly requires such is shortcut joining King'ong'o Prison and Nyeri town." @kiplangatLedama said "That one is just a shortcut for pedestrians, there are two roads linking up there with this footpath. I lived there for 4yrs. I support @Waititu_Babayao on this." SHODDY WORK? @kamandaloves said "Why Kiambu people will suffer and live in pain for electing just stone throwers in office. Now the first county to have Staircase Road where donkeys cart, motorcars and motorbikes will be forced to fly." "Look at the Dynamics or the two scenarios..the Waititu one is a mwitu staircase. that area has a lot of bicycle n piki n mkokoteni.y not make a full road instead. At Uhuru part no bikes or pikis.see the difference," @mojookal said. @omuonyotieno said "For sure the work is shoddy. I wonder who the engineer is if any (maybe it is Ferdinand himself). The stairs are below grade (soil level), it will soon be covered by soil and back to square 1." "The honourable governor didn’t involve the planning and design of the project with common citizens. instead, he considered just the tenderpreneurs," @manderaten said. Click here for the latest political news