The hard stance and brittle political
brinkmanship seem to have thawed. Ethnic hostilities that ran along ethnic
lines have dissipated. However, beneath this apparent warmth in
the national leadership is a simmering row within the top ranks of government.
There is palpable tension among the key planks of Jubilee mandarins. This
unease was initially muted but has become loud lately. For their second term
campaigns, the President and his deputy succeeded in uniting their troops under
one party just before the last election. However, it is now clear the fault
lines were never sealed and healed completely. The TNA and URP sides of the Jubilee
coalition did not jell into one homogeneous political outfit. Government
policies are being declared from one side of the ruling party and opposed by
the other side. The opposing side complains the government agenda is out of
tune with their pre-election pledges. They hold the view that the recent
declarations are aimed at disorganising some Jubilee leaders. Some of these
leaders have been bold enough to claim that they are targeted at derailing
Deputy President William Ruto’s ascendancy to State House. Soon after the handshake, the President
appeared to have gained some unprecedented impetus in the fight against corruption.
He declared total war on graft and vowed to stem its widespread in the public
service. This, he determined to be part of his legacy. High profile government officers were
arrested and charged. The frequency of such arrests became unpredictable and
unbearable to the other side of the weak political union. Previously, both
sides had been quick to depict each other as corrupt as circumstances may
demand. However, in the latest battle, it is clear which side had the short end
of the stick. Corruption cases, theft of public funds and evasion of tax are
being unearthed in quick succession. The worst-case scenario was when the
cartels not only evaded tax but also imported poisonous sugar for public
consumption. The hue and outcry was united in condemnation of such acts as
heinous. Then came the Mau Forest saga, soon after the elections the government
declared war on deforestation. The Mau has witnessed unbridled encroachment
that has grossly affected the climatic conditions of Kenya and the East Africa
region at large. It was only in order that the government decided to reclaim
grabbed parcels and initiate reforestation programme. The leaders of the
communities living around the largest water tower deliberately incited their
kinsmen to ignore the government directive. It has served to expose the
hostilities within the political union, which has now turned fragile. High
placed leaders of the government are now driven more by the imaginary (or real)
fear of their personal loss than the public good. Lost in this melee are the benefits of the apparently
good intentions of President Kenyatta’s push for a positive legacy. It is in
this regard that his team might have synthesized the second Jubilee manifesto
into the Big Four agenda — manufacturing, universal health, food security and
affordable housing. These are issues that are pertinent and close to the hearts
of Kenyans in their majority. Why this agenda does not resonate with the other
side of the union is a paradox to ordinary citizens. These nobble initiatives
cannot be successfully executed and achieved in an environment riddled with
corruption and hostile climatic conditions. It is increasingly becoming clear the
arrival of Raila Odinga through the handshake jolted Ruto and his allies. The President has made efforts to
demonstrate he wishes to be a leader of all Kenyans. For his unity project to
come to fruition, Raila has become a key plank in the process. The rumbling in
the government ranks will only serve to undermine the implementation of the Big
Four agenda. It is within this agenda the legacy of Uhuru as the Fourth President
lies. Those who are currently unhappy within the government have trained their
sights on scuttling the Building Bridges Initiative. If they should succeed then in the same
bathwater, they will throw the Big Four agenda baby. In the unlikely scenario
the Building Bridges Initiative succeeds without the Big Four agenda, then
Uhuru will have still lost his legacy to Kenyans. The two processes have since
become intertwined and will only bear fruits if implemented concurrently and
seamlessly. The noise occasioned by the tensions in high offices does not bode
well their success. The President must thus move with deliberate effort to stem
the growing hostilities to hasten the success of the twin initiatives. He
stands to lose more in the event of failure.