The Director of Public Prosecutions has told the court the case of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu should not be confused as a trial against the Judiciary. Secretary Public Prosecutions Dorcas Oduor said Mwilu is being charged as an individual. She addressed the court shortly after the DCJ's defence team poked holes in the processes leading to her arraignment. “The criminal proceedings before this court are against an individual. There is no case against the Judiciary or the Law Society of Kenya,” Oduor said. ODM Secretary General Edwin Wafula on Tuesday said due process was not followed when Mwilu was arrested and taken to court. "It should be remembered that at the height of the fight for electoral justice the Judiciary came under sharp criticism. The Jubilee side promised to "revisit" what they called "problems" within the Judiciary following the annulment of the Presidential vote by the Supreme Court in 2017," he said. Read: ODM pokes holes in Mwilu's arrest, links it to 'revisit' remarks Justice Mwita stopped Mwilu’s trial following an urgent application she lodged in which she argues that charges are of commercial nature and, therefore, it is wrong to drag her to the criminal court. The matter will be heard on October 9. Read: Justice Chacha Mwita suspends criminal charges against Mwilu Oduor said Mwilu’s lawyers did not challenge the jurisdiction of the magistrate's court. She further said the DPP has the mandate to institute criminal charges against anyone and by taking Mwilu to court, he acted in the interest of the public. On Tuesday, DPP Noordin Haji, while addressing the media, said the decision to charge Mwilu had not gone down well with some people. However, he said it is the right decision in law. “There is no submission before the court that you have no jurisdiction. No objections to the charges,” she said. The court was told that the office of the DPP is required to uphold the rights of Kenyans, but also prevent abuse of the process. “But if the High Court issues a stay order, we will comply,” Oduor said. Click here for the latest political news