It has been over 110 years since Ronald Ross made the
discovery that female Anopheles
mosquitoes transmit malaria, which we commemorate tomorrow, on World Mosquito
Day. This discovery was a pivotal moment in the modern battle against this
terrible disease. In the intervening century, the world has made unbelievable strides in the
fight against malaria. But both the mosquito and the malaria parasite are wily
foes with the ability to develop resistance against the tools we use against
them.
A recent study, Malaria Futures for Africa (MalaFA), questioned malaria leaders
in 14 African countries about their views on the fight against malaria. The
report, commissioned by the healthcare company Novartis, revealed that many of
them are highly concerned about resistance to artemisinin combination therapies
(ACTs) emerging. The early stages of resistance to ACTs, the current standard
treatment recommended by the World Health Organization against malaria, have
emerged in Southeast Asia and been observed in several countries there. Strains resistant to earlier malaria medicines have spread
to Africa from Southeast Asia, resulting in a big increase in malaria deaths as
treatments like chloroquine became ineffective. Some of the experts questioned
thought such resistance would spread faster because of today’s vastly increased
trade and travel links between Africa and Asia, but many of them thought that spontaneous
emergence of ACT resistance in Africa is just as likely. To stave off the threat of malaria becoming resistant to
today’s medicines, we need to ensure that new treatments will be available before
they stop working. So scientists are working hard to develop them before the
threat of resistant malaria becomes a reality in Africa. But Africa needs to maintain and
strengthen its network of strong scientific leaders in malaria for the disease
to be eradicated. Novartis is one of the companies taking up the challenge to
stay one step ahead of the parasite, and we are particularly excited that they
are collaborating with some of Africa's best and brightest scientists to
develop new treatments. One of the biggest malaria clinical trials with a new
treatment running at the moment is with a medicine called KAF156. This Novartis
sponsored clinical trial is currently being conducted across 15 trial sites in
seven African and two Asian countries, including Mali and Uganda. Running a large trial like this is a complex process,
requiring specialised laboratory equipment, cold chains for samples sent off
for analysis, and reliable internet connections. However, the greatest need is
for trained scientists who must run the trials. In many established centres,
there are many such scientists, but in more remote areas, there are often very
few – or none. And we need to go to such remote areas, where the disease is
most common, and the impact on people’s lives the greatest. Novartis is working with local clinical trial centres to
make sure that the scientists running the KAF156 trial conduct it to the
highest possible standards. The current trial, running across nine countries
and enrolling more than 500 patients, is big. However, if it is successful, it
will need to be followed by a further Phase 3 trial that may need to enrol
perhaps 2,000 patients. This will involve setting up many more centres and
training additional African scientists, many of whom will be in remote areas. And this new generation of investigators we’re training will
not just be equipped to work on malaria trials – their training and experience
will ensure they are ready to work in other diseases such as TB or HIV. This shows how effective collaboration pays real dividends
in building up the next generation of African scientists. Working together, we
have the power to end malaria for good. Dr Richard Kamwi is
the Ambassador for the Elimination 8, a coalition of eight southern African
countries that aim to eliminate malaria by 2030. He was formerly Minister for Health in Namibia. Dr Havana Chikoto is in charge of running the KAF156 malaria trial for
Novartis.