Aretha Franklin, the preacher's daughter
whose powerful voice made her the long-reigning "Queen of Soul"
with such hit songs as "Respect" and "Chain of Fools," died on
Thursday at the age of 76, the Associated Press reported. Franklin, who won 18 Grammys and had some 25 gold records,
died at her home in Detroit, the AP said, citing a publicist for
the singer. Representatives for Franklin did not immediately
respond to a request for comment. Her family had told media in her hometown of Detroit this
month that she was gravely ill and asked for prayers. Franklin's father was a Baptist preacher in Detroit, and the
gospel singing she heard in his church was her musical
foundation. She created a uniquely emotional and powerful voice
that put her at the forefront of 1960s soul music along with
Otis Redding, Sam Cooke and Wilson Pickett. Franklin sang at the funeral of slain civil rights leader
Martin Luther King, as well as at the presidential inaugurations
of Barack Obama and Bill Clinton. In 1987 she became the first
woman voted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and in 2010
Rolling Stone magazine named her the No. 1 singer of the rock
era. After recording and touring as a young gospel singer,
Franklin's career took a secular turn in 1961 when she signed
with Columbia Records. She had only modest success with
Columbia, which had trouble classifying her style and tried to
steer her toward pop. But when she switched to Atlantic Records in the mid-1960s,
producer Jerry Wexler knew just what to do with Franklin,
putting her powerful voice in a setting that combined gospel,
soul and rock and made her a superstar by letting "the lady
wail." As Franklin put it in her autobiography, she
"Aretha-ized" the music. STRING OF HITS Franklin's heyday extended into the early 1970s as she
dominated the music charts with "I Never Loved a Man (The Way I
Love You)," "Baby, I Love You," "Chain of Fools," "Think," "(You
Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman," "Do-Right Woman" and
"Respect," a cover of a Redding tune that became a song of
empowerment during the civil rights era. Franklin's popularity would fade but she had a revival in
the mid-1980s with songs such as "Freeway of Love," a duet with
George Michael named "I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me),"
"Sisters Are Doin' It for Themselves," "Who's Zoomin' Who?" and
a cover of the Rolling Stones' "Jumpin' Jack Flash." Along the way Franklin inspired a generation of singers. "Pop music today is rich with glorious gospel voices and
women singers in the mold cast by Aretha," the late Wexler said
in his autobiography. "... Aretha became a model for people like
Chaka Khan, Natalie Cole, Donna Summer, Whitney Houston... The
list of her disciples is long." Franklin was known to be shy, moody, imperious and
difficult. She often did not get along with other women singers,
including her sisters, could be quick to fire underlings and was
erratic when it came to showing up for concerts and
appointments. Franklin often demanded she be paid in cash before
performing and took her status as musical royalty seriously. In
2008 Beyonce introduced Tina Turner as "the queen" at the Grammy
Awards ceremony, which Franklin decried as "a cheap shot" at
her. PREACHER'S DAUGHTER Franklin was born March 25, 1942, in Memphis, Tennessee, and
raised in Detroit. Her father, the Rev. C.L. Franklin, was
respected as a civil rights leader, an early advocate of "black
pride" and a friend of King. The Reverend Franklin was a charismatic figure but had also
been arrested for drug possession and, under unexplained
circumstances, his wife left him and their five children when
Aretha was six. Four years later, Franklin's mother died and
Aretha avoided discussing her parents publicly. Franklin started touring as part of her father's gospel show
as a teenager and got a musical education from gospel greats of
the time - the Staple Singers, the Soul Stirrers, James
Cleveland and The Mighty Clouds of Joy. She also came to know jazz and R&B greats invited to the
family home - Cooke, Art Tatum, Dinah Washington, Fats Domino
and Bobby Bland. By 17, she had given birth to two children and later had two
other sons. First married to Ted White, who became her manager
and publicly abused her, Franklin later married actor Glynn
Turman in 1978 but they divorced in 1984. Franklin, who was given the Presidential Medal of Freedom in
2005, was the subject of a singing tribute at the February 2011
Grammy Awards ceremony and a Carnegie Hall tribute concert in
early 2017. She did not attend either. Franklin did not perform regularly for many years, partly
because of an aversion to flying after a rough trip in 1982.
Instead, she traveled in a customized bus. She often had to
cancel shows for health reasons. In February 2017, she said she would keep recording but
retire from touring after a limited run of concerts marking a
new album that year, "A Brand New Me," which featured her doing
some of her biggest hits with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. She performed "Natural Woman" at the Kennedy Center Honors
in December 2015 in a tribute to songwriter Carole King, who
wrote the song. Her last live performance was Nov. 7, 2017, for
the Elton John AIDS Foundation gala. "I feel very, very enriched and satisfied with respect to
where my career came from and where it is now," Franklin told a
Detroit television interviewer in 2017. "I'll be pretty much
satisfied, but I'm not going to go anywhere and just sit down
and do nothing. That wouldn't be good either." President George W. Bush presented Franklin the Presidential
Medal of Freedom in 2005. Click here for the latest political news