The Judiciary is supposed to be independent in order to uphold the rule of
law and administration of justice, which are the foundation upon which the institution
is set out under the Constitution. But that doesn't mean claims of impropriety in misuse of funds and abuse of
office cannot be investigated. It is the function of the Director of Public
Prosecution, Director of Criminal Investigation and the Ethics Anti-Corruption
Commission to investigate any offenses. Looking at investigation of alleged misappropriation of over Sh30 million
and certain contracts procured without procedure, amongst other issues the
Chief Justice and DPP have agreed upon, it is proper that such impropriety is
checked. Not long ago the National Assembly established that about Sh1.5 billion had
been misappropriated by the Judicial Service Commission. The DCI and EACC recommended
prosecution of some JSC members. But prosecution was stalled by a JSC
application to court claiming interference with independence of the commission. As I have indicated, independence of the JSC and the Judiciary as a whole is
not a shield against investigations of criminal offenses. To that extent, it is
in order that investigations continue to ensure public funds are used
prudently. As much as there is trust in the Judiciary to perform its work, there are
certain wayward judicial officers who perpetuate corruption and impunity. The
DCI, EACC and DPP should come in and investigate fully over and above what they
are tackling currently. Complaints against those wayward officers are not only limited to legal practitioners
but have also been voiced by litigants. The DPP himself is on record as saying the
biggest threat to the war on corruption are certain corrupt judicial officers. JSC as a commission is handicapped in criminal investigations against judges
and magistrates. The CJ should work hand in hand with relevant agencies when a
complaint is made against a judge or magistrate to ensure thorough
investigations are carried out and that those implicated in impropriety are
dealt with through established disciplinary or removal procedures. Otherwise we will be glossing over issues of integrity in the Judiciary.  Havi spoke to the Star. 