Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro says he has survived an assassination attempt involving explosive drones. Maduro was speaking at a military event in Caracas when the alleged attack occurred. Live footage of his speech shows the president suddenly looking upwards - startled - and dozens of soldiers running away. Mr Maduro has blamed Colombia for the attack - something denied by Bogota as a "baseless" accusation. Seven soldiers were injured, and several people were later arrested, the Venezuelan authorities said. INFORMATION ON ATTACK The incident happened when Maduro was speaking at an event to mark the 81st anniversary of the national army. Two drones loaded with explosives went off near the president's stand, Communications Minister Jorge Rodriguez said. Maduro later said in a national address: "A flying object exploded near
me, a big explosion. Seconds later there was a second explosion." Photos on social media showed bodyguards protecting Maduro with bulletproof shields after the alleged attack. Maduro accused neighbouring Colombia and elements within the US of instigating "a right-wing plot" to kill him. He added that he had "no doubt" Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos was "behind this attack". The Venezuelan leader, who has previously accused the US of plotting against him, provided no evidence to back his claim. The Colombian government has denied any involvement, saying there is "no basis" to Maduro's allegations. By contrast, Rodriguez accused Venezuela's right-wing opposition of carrying out the attack. "After losing the vote, they failed again," Rodriguez said. He was referring to May's presidential elections, where Maduro was re-elected for another six-year term. However,
Hasler Inglesias, a youth leader with the opposition Voluntad Popular
Party, told the BBC: "We didn't know what was happening. It's hard to
believe that the opposition is going to make an attempt when they have
never made an attempt in this way in 20 years." Meanwhile, a little-known group called Soldiers in T-shirts said on social media that it was behind the alleged attack. It said it had planned to fly two explosives-laden drones at Maduro, but they were shot down by the military. The claim was not backed up by any evidence, and the group did not respond to media requests for comment. To
add further to the confusion, firefighters at the scene disputed the
government's version of events, the Associated Press reports. Speaking
on condition of anonymity, three of them said the incident was actually
a gas tank explosion inside an apartment, but did not provide further
details, the news agency says. In June 2017, a helicopter attacked and dropped grenades on Venezuela's Supreme Court. Oscar
Pérez, a rogue elite helicopter pilot, claimed he carried out the
helicopter attack and called on Venezuelans to rise up against the
government of President Maduro. He was killed by police in a siege near Caracas in January. Who is President Maduro? Maduro has managed to split opinion almost as much as his predecessor in office, Hugo Chávez. Since
assuming office in 2013, Maduro's administration has drawn
widespread condemnation from a string of nations worldwide for
undermining democracy and violating human rights in his country. His
opponents paint him as a ruthless despot who detains his political
rivals on overly harsh charges pressed by a judiciary under his party's
control, while his followers say he is protecting the country from
another coup. His re-election in May came amid a deep economic
crisis which has been driving hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans from
the oil-rich country. However, there is still a loyal core of
people who support Maduro and his United Socialist Party (PSUV),
saying Venezuela's problems are caused not by the government but by
imperialist forces such as the US. Click here for the latest political news 