The council of Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology has resolved not to renew the contract of vice chancellor Fredrick Otieno, which expires in November. The council has conveyed its decision to Education CS Amina Mohamed. Reliable sources at the ministry headquarters said the council’s decision was a response to an earlier letter by Otieno to chairman Jeremy Bundi, requesting renewal of his five-year contract which lapses on November 30. A highly-placed ministry source who sought anonymity confirmed the council’s decision information may be accurate. Bundi could not be reached on phone for a comment. “I am privy to information that following the request by the VC, the council at its meeting of July 26 made it clear to the CS that Otieno will not be favoured with another term”, the source said. Multiple sources at both the ministry headquarters and MMUST told the Star the council relied on the evaluation by State Corporation Advisory Committee. Read:Suspend VC for victimising staff, EACC tells MMUST They also relied on a government circular of November 23, 2010 relating to procedures for re-appointment of chief executive officers of universities and state corporations. According to one source, the council urged Amina not to stand in their way as they put mechanisms in place to see Otieno proceed for terminal leave, which they reportedly recommended should commence latest today, to pave way for recruitment of a new VC. “The council is pleading with the CS after reportedly learning that the vice chancellor may have held captive a number of senior officers in the ministry who are supporting him to ensure his term is renewed  despite the on-going serious matters investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission as well as the current national mood on corruption”, the source said. It is reported that council chairman Bundi was under threat to renew Otieno’s contract. EACC secretary Halakhe Waqo confirmed they have finalised investigations at MMUST and are reviewing the files before forwarding them to the Director of Public Prosecutions. He said the EACC is undertaking new investigations regarding other allegations at  the University. The letter is copied to, among others, President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Head of Public Service, Education  CS Amina, the Chief Justice, the DPP, chairman MMUST university council, and the chancellor. Click here for the latest
political news