The National Land Commission will this morning head to
Mombasa in its bid to recover grabbed land. It has emerged that some companies in Kibarani have encroached the sea. “We will be looking into some of the issues surrounding
Kibarani, as well as historical land injustices at the Coast,” NLC acting
chairperson Abigael Mukolwe told the Star yesterday. She said most government land has been
taken over by private developers. State entities whose land has been taken over
by private developers include the Water ministry, the Kenya Maritime Authority
and the Housing ministry. All government houses in Bamburi have nearly been grabbed. Mukolwe, who steered clear of the ongoings at the
commission, said the Big Four agenda can only be realised if land is
available. Its pillars include housing,
food security, manufacturing and universal healthcare. “The commission is the enabler of the Big Four agenda and as
such, we are committed to delivering it,” Mukolwe said. The NLC's term will end in February 19 next year. The commission derives its mandate from the
Constitution, the National Land Policy (2009) and acts of
Parliament — the National Land Commission Act, the Land Act and the Land
Registration Act, all of 2012. Mukolwe dismissed claims that the commission has performed
dismally during its term, saying many pieces of public land have been taken over
from private hands. In July, the Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural Resources blamed the
National Environmental Management Authority and Mombasa county
for the grabbing of sea land at the Makupa causeway. Committee
chairman Kareke Mbiuki said he was shocked by the wanton encroachment. On August 3, Mombasa Land executive Edward Nyale and former NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri visited the Kibarani dumpsite. Swazuri said the dumpsite was grabbed in 1994, subdivided into four
parcels and allocated to three companies. He said the plots were illegally and
irregularly allocated to Ancient Inland Seas Ltd (0.4ha and 1.3ha),
Halid Ahmed (0.5ha) and  Mtech Ltd (2.6ha). Swazuri said seven parcels stretching into the Indian Ocean have also been allocated. "Ocean water cannot be allocated and this is straight illegalities,"
Swazuri said during a fact-finding mission at the area on Friday. Owners are now expected to produce documentation to showing how the land was acquired.