Jubilee Insurance is on the spot over the suspected illegal termination of an employee. The firm is accused of using redundancy to fire former head of corporate communications Victoria Miguda. In a suit filed by Echessa and Bwire Advocates, Jubilee Insurance is alleged to have discriminated against the claimant and her employment terminated for reasons directly connected to her pregnancy. According to court papers, Ms Miguda says she notified Jubilee Insurance Chairman Nizar Juma of her pregnancy on May 4 2017. She says according to her employment contract, she reported directly to Mr Juma who is a non-executive chairman of the firm. “This I did because although I was to report to the Kenyan CEO, on appointment I was told that the chairman oversaw the communications department hence I would directly deal and report to him,’ reads the witness statement However, to her utter dismay, her job was advertised on the May 6, two days later. The recruitment notice, she says, was placed online by Lafayette Resources, a human resources capital firm. The same firm that recruited her to Jubilee Insurance. This would then be followed by a litany of discriminatory actions by the insurance firm including a demotion as the head of communications and subsequent termination in April 2018. These included a decision to deny her the 2016 financial year bonus awarded to staff. During the period, the claimant, says Jubilee Insurance at one point insisted that she takes a junior sales representative position in the organization. This the Group Human Resources head Emily Mutua she says told her was on instructions of the chairman Mr Juma. She did not take up the role, the court documents explains. A month later, she was declared redundant in what Mutua said was a decision that Juma had made to bring all communications roles under his office. A Jubilee insurance was served by Echesa and Bwire Advocates on the July 16 and are yet to respond to the claims. Click here for the latest political news