Older universities will get less funding from the government this financial year, data from a research firm has revealed. This comes amid the implementation of the Differentiated Unit Cost system. It comes in place of the previous model that had a Sh120,000 flat-rate capitation per student. The government will fund institutions based on programmes taught and the number of students enrolled. The new system was expected to come into effect in July. The government has, however, not released funds. Medical students will receive Sh576,000, pharmacy Sh432,000 and general arts Sh144,000 each. A research by the CPS International says the Treasury will require Sh65 billion to fully implement the DUC. Its findings were released yesterday. Sh91 billion was allocated in this year’s budget for university education. Read:Government to cut funding for older universities University of Nairobi will receive the lion’s share at Sh4.5 billion. This was attributed to the large number of government-sponsored students. The amount would be a Sh1.8 billion decrease from the Sh6.3 billion it got in the 2017-18 financial year. Egerton will receive Sh2.1 billion from the previous Sh2.8 million, while Kenyatta University will get Sh2.8 billion — a Sh300 million decrease. JKUAT will get Sh1.4 billion compared to Sh1.7 billion last year. Recently accredited universities will record slight increases. They include Machakos University College, the University of Eldoret, the Technical University of Mombasa and the Technical University of Kenya. University and Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga yesterday said the DUC will hurt higher education. “If DUC is implemented, these universities will be underfunded and the ripple effect will compromise the quality of education,” he said. Research crisis CPS International research director Herman Manyora said the funding crisis has been witnessed in research. He said allocations are “a drop in the ocean as far as research is concerned”. In Kenya, only 0.8 per cent of the national GDP is allocated to research — far below the two per cent recommendation by United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation. The CPS report reveals that 35 per cent of universities lack basic laboratories to conduct research. “Universities have two main functions to teach and conduct research, but the funds allocated are not enough to sustain productive research. The government needs to relook and give better allocation,” Manyora said. Data from the research show that the University of Nairobi receives Sh537 million for research annually from the government and private institutions. Kenyatta University gets Sh456 billion, Moi University Sh302 million JKUAT Sh236 million and Egerton Sh122 million. Also See:UoN tops list of universities' research funding Click here for the latest political news