Six terror suspects were charged on Tuesday with plotting to carry out attacks in Nairobi. They are Abdimanjit Adan, Mohamed Osman, Anthony Makau, John Kiarie, Lydia Mburu and Francis Karishu. The six were arrested in Isiolo and charged with conspiring to carry out an act of terror by embedding explosives in a vehicle. They were nabbed on February 15 with a Vehicle Borne Improvised Explosive Device (VBIED) implanted on car registration KBM 200D. Adan and Osman were charged with possession of weapons for purposes of committing a terrorist act. This was after they were allegedly found with seven projectile bombs and 36 grenades, seven AK47 assault rifles and 1,099 rounds of ammunition. They allegedly intended to carry out twin attacks on Jogoo House - the National Police Service headquarters and the Milimani court. The court heard that the lot planned the attack, with others outside the country, in an attempt to free a terror suspect on trial. Osman was also charged with being a member of al Shabaab terror group. Makau was additionally charged with aiding and abetting a crime by helping Osman and Adan to purchase the vehicles, including the one turned to a VBIED. Kiarie, Mburu and Karishu were jointly charged with supporting a gazetted terror group by making a forged Kenyan ID card for Jirma Galgalo [deceased]. Galgalo was the alleged member of al Shabaab who was killed by police in a shootout in Merti, Isiolo where the VBIED was recovered. The last count against them say they forged a Kenyan ID and claimed it was issued by the registrar of persons. They denied the charges before chief magistrate Francis Andayi and were released on Sh1 million bond or Sh500,000 cash bail. Andayi set the hearing for three consecutive days - September 4 to 6. The trial was to start on August 28 but was rescheduled after the prosecution amended the charge sheets. The magistrate directed Kiarie to get a lawyer or inform the court of the inability to get one so the government can step in. State counsel Allen Mulama said the prosecution has lined up 54 witnesses and will table not less than 100 documents containing evidence. He said the ODPP is yet to receive the Bomb Disposal Unit's reports on explosives and bombs recovered from the suspects. Mulama also said they are yet to receive the Registrar of Persons' report on identification documents of the suspects. Read: Cops foil terrorists plot to bomb state buildings, arrest four suspects Click here for the latest political news