Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) are hoping to field their top teams in the inaugural Africa School Sport Federation games next year.
The event is set to bring together top teams in various disciplines across Africa.
Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) secretary general, David Ngugi confirmed the development, saying the event’s calendar will be drafted next year.
“This is one of the kind event that top schools across Africa will compete. This is an opportunity KSSSA are keen to take advantage of,” said the official.
He added: “And that is why we want to involve the government through the Ministry of Sports to lay down logistics well ahead of time so that when the event is finally rolled out, we have a go ahead.”
The official was speaking after returning from Rwanda, where Kenya defended the 17th edition of the East Africa Secondary School Games title ahead of Uganda and hosts Rwanda.
Kenya amassed 28 medals—10 gold, 8 silver and 10 bronze medals—ahead of neighbors Uganda, who won 25 medals—9 gold, 10 silver and 6 bronze as hosts Rwanda settled for third position with 16 medals—4 gold, 5 silver and 7 bronze medals
The official, who also serves in the same capacity at the Federation of East African Secondary School Sports Associations (FEASSSA), at the same time said Kenya will field teams in the 2020 International Schools Sports Federation (ISSF) games to be staged in China. ISSF games are global competition that brings together top sporting schools from all over the World.
“Kenya joined ISSF this year and so we hope our participation in the Africa School Sports Federation next year will set a stage for the 2020 global show,” said Ngugi.
Ngugi said the host for the 2019 East Africa Games will be known in month’s time although Tanzania have presented their bid to host with Kenya being the substitute.
Meanwhile, following the success of Trans Nzoia-based schools in the recently concluded East African secondary school games, the county government has set aside a whooping Sh60 million to renovate the Kenyatta Stadium, Kitale and establish a high altitude training area.
The talent rich county, who produced the regional hockey champions St Anthonys (boys) and Trans Nzoia Mixed (girls) set aside the money to develop and support sporting activities besides renovating the stadium.
Speaking after receiving the triumphant schools, the county’s deputy Governor Stanley Tarus disclosed that his administration will renovate the facility and urged the youth to engage in sports and earn a living from the same. Tarus also directed the County Executive Committee (CEC) member in charge of  sports, Aggrey Chemonges, to form a database of players from secondary schools which the county can use to monitor their progress talent-wise and in academics.
“Let us develop a database for our players from secondary schools and other institutions in the county so that we can monitor their progress in the field events and also how they are doing in life,” he pointed out.
St. Anthony’s Hockey coach Kevin Lugalia said though they maintained unbeaten run throughput the competition, Ugandans gave them hard time, settling for a barren draw. “Uganda played hard on us and it seems they are coming up strongly. We need to chuange tact if we are to continue winning,” he said.