The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority yesterday was urged to resume supplying Nairobi hospitals after two years of withholding medicines over debt. Governor Mike Sonko ordered his Finance and Health teams to work with Kemsa. The county owes Kemsa Sh285 million. Last month it paid Sh58 million, but the authority declined to restock facilities, demanding full payment. “I have taken action to ensure this comes to an end. We have settled part of the debt that the county owes Kemsa,” Sonko said. “The Finance and Health teams are with Kemsa officials to reach an agreement. I have directed them not to leave that meeting without a solution.” Read: City hospitals run out of drugs over Sh286m debt to Kemsa Sonko spoke at the launch of World Breastfeeding Week at Pumwani Hospital. On Wednesday, the governor suspended Health executive Hitan Majevdia and director Thomas Ogaro over the sorry state of health facilities and lack of medicine. Residents who seek services in public hospitals are referred to private hospitals, which are beyond the reach of most. The majority have been flocking to Kenyatta National Hospital, a referral facility, and hospitals in neighbouring counties. Sonko said those pilfering drugs will be dealt with, adding that the county has allocated billions of shillings to improve health services. “In this financial year, Nairobi government will equip and launch the Neonatal ICU and the Maternal HDU at Pumwani. We will also fully equip and refurbish the maternity, newborn unit and the theatre,” the governor said. He said the county will partner with the Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service and the Ministry of Health to set up a satellite transfusion centre at Pumwani Hospital. This, he said,  will minimise referrals to KNH. “We have committed to installing a solar lighting and heating system at Pumwani to save on electricity and ensure nursing mothers have hot water in bathrooms.” Sonko said he will close all chemists outside county hospitals after the government distributes medicines to the facilities. The governor told the women present at the launch that should they be charged for maternity services, they should personally call him on 0722886600. More: Sonko in talks with Kemsa to resume drug supplies to city hospitals Click here for the latest political news 