National and County government should accelerate infrastructure development to aid football clubs in the country to meet a crucial part of the Club Licensing requirements that was rolled out at the end of 2016, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president, Nick Mwendwa has urged. Mwendwa, who officially rolled out the first of two Confederation of African Football (CAF) Club Licensing workshops in Nairobi, said lack of sponsorship for most clubs makes it difficult for them to have their own training facilities which is among a key component of the requirements. “We are cognizant that the process is not only expensive but also highly demanding and as such, continue to engage government both at the county and national level on the need to accelerate infrastructure development, which is the single most expensive component for our clubs, many of which are without sponsors,” Mwendwa remarked. “Club licensing is a fairly new concept to most African clubs. Its importance and the crucial role it plays in the development of the game is well articulated to all. As a country, we remain committed to both the club licensing criteria and the building of a football economy and further believe that the process will act as a catalyst to the same,” added the FKF supremo. The workshops, which were officially opened on Monday, will see instructors provide an update on Club Licensing at Caf level to the participating federations with the latter also set to give updates on the situation of Club Licensing at their parent federations. Further, the workshops will also purpose to establish detailed action plans for each member association in order to be fully ready before the deadline for the engagement of clubs in Caf competitions. “CAF are not only particular on when our leagues should end but also adamant that any club that will qualify for both the Caf CL and the Caf CC must have met the Club Licensing criteria, failure to which the qualified club will not be allowed to participate in the tournament. As such, we are appealing to all clubs with a realistic chance of winning the league and/or the cup to ensure they have met the club licensing criteria,” explained the FKF president. A total of 28 federations, represented by their respective Club Licensing managers and Club Licensing Committee chairmen, are taking part in the workshop which will end on Friday.