The government is implementing a Sh10 billion loan facility from the Polish government to mechanise the dairy industry. Agriculture and Irrigation CAS Andrew Tuimur said the 900 milk coolers will be installed at dairy farmers cooperative societies to improve processing, under a loan facility. He spoke on Wednesday when he opened the 14th African Dairy Conference at the KICC. “The loan is being disbursed in two packages. Under the first package of Sh2 billion, farmers will receive 350 milk coolers. We have already received 197 coolers and the balance is expected in the country by end of September. In the second loan package, the dairy industry will benefit from embryo transfer equipment, liquid nitrogen machines and pasteurisers,” Tuimur said. Kenya Dairy Board managing director Margaret Kibogy said the coolers have the capacity of between 2,000 to 5,000 litres of milk, depending on the area and the location. She said milk production in Kenya is 5.2 billion litres annually, out of which 3.9 billion litres are from cattle and the rest from camel and goats. “Consumption at the household level is at 1.4 billion litres and 2.5 billion litres are supplied in the informal market. This is despite losses from the farm to market of more than 500 million litres every year,” Kibogy said. She said the board has licensed 1,550 ATM milk operators with 62 per cent of the facilities located in Nairobi city. “The board is training the operators on milk safety to ensure the milk they have is pasteurised so that it is not harmful to the consumers,” Kibogy said. She said in partnership with county governments, they want to eliminate food-borne diseases arising from milk contamination. Kibogy said they intend to build capacity to value chain players. She added that the formal market handles about 600 million litres of milk out of which the government plans to increase to one billion litres by 2022. “Our intention is to increase quantity of milk going into the formal market from 30 per cent currently to 60 per cent,” Kibogy said. In April, the Kenya Dairy Board was pushing for new legislation to help control milk hawking. Kibogy said more than 70 per cent of milk produced in the country annually is hawked without processing. She said hawking risks consumers’ lives and must be stopped. “With more than three billion litres hawked, many consumers are exposed to risks. We are working to have laws to help us regulate hawking,” she said. Kibogy said the government and the counties have made major strides in providing cooling plants and farmers have no reason to hawk their milk. Some farmers defended hawking. “Dairy firms take time to pay us, but through hawking we have money by the end of the day. But it is fine if there will be laws to regulate the same,” a farmer said.