The government is drafting a Privacy and Data Protection Bill to fight increasing cybercrime, especially using M-Pesa data. Information PS Jerome Ochieng yesterday said the bill will ensure personal data collected by agencies such as M-Pesa and by doctors is secure. He spoke during the Presidential Digital Talent Programme meeting at the Kenya School of Government. “The Act will consider scenarios such as buildings where people have to sign in and give their personal information such as ID numbers and phone numbers,” he said. For instance if someone is signing in, the next person should be standing a reasonable distance away to ensure privacy. When someone gives data, especially when visiting a doctor, the Act will specify who should access that information,Ochieng said. hoarding ideas This bill drafting follows increased cybercrime, especially involving M-Pesa and Sim swaps. Arrests have been made and more than 4,000 Sim cards seized. The action followed a public outcry as Kenyans lost money to fraudsters. Ochieng said most data is harvested from agencies that are supposed to protect it. “Agencies collecting information from Kenyans for various purposes should be careful because they will have to operate under this regulation. The Act ... will work alongside the Computer and Cyber Crimes Act, 2018 which President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law in May,” he said. Read: Kenya’s cybercrime law opens door to privacy violations, censorship Section 34 of the Act targets those who intentionally hide or hold electronic messages, electronic payments, credit and debit card details sent in error. The PS called on youth to come up with innovative ideas and discuss them with the ministry to help the government achieve the Big Four agenda in less than five years. “In every sector there is a new idea. There are many things you can do using ICT. The government has an idea box where you can send you ridea so it can be exploited and executed. Don’t hoard ideas,” he said. Also Read: Cybercrime law: You'll pay Sh200,000 fine for not returning M-Pesa money Click here for latest political news