Two Kebs officials alongside five other people were on Monday charged with releasing substandard goods. The officials Samuel Omolo and Daniel Khamba have been barred from accessing their offices. Read: Two KEBS officers to be charged over illegal sugar importation Mombasa resident magistrate Christine Ogweno said the two Kebs officials should not step into their offices without permission from the court and the investigating officer. They were jointly charged with Peter Nzui, company directors Ali Abdi, Hassan Abdi, and Abdullahi Abdi. Two companies Flora Bakers Limited and Airmenzies International were roped in in the case of causing the release of Egyptian brown sugar. Also read: Only four companies were licensed to import raw sugar, Kebs tells MPs The suspects all denied the charges and pleaded with the court to release them on bail. Ogweno further directed the accused persons not to make any communication with the prosecution's witnesses. The accused persons were also ordered to deposit their travelling documents to the investigation officer and further report to the DCI once every week. Omolo, Khamba, Nzui and Ali were released on Sh1.5 million bond with an alternative of Sh500,000 bail. Hassan and Abdullahi, who pleaded to the charges separately, were each granted Sh500,000 bond with an alternative of Sh500,000 bail. The pre-trial is set for September 3. Omolo and Khamba were jointly charged with unlawfully authorising the release of 5,000 50-kg bags of Egyptian brown sugar. The inspection manager and inspection officer respectively were in charge of inspection at Kilindini port. The were accused of releasing the substandard sugar to Flora Bakers Limited. They were accused that on July 11 within Mombasa county, the two officials agreed with Airmenzies International to permit the release of 10,000 of bags the sugar which failed to comply with Kenyan standards. Nzui, being a port health officer at Kilindini port, was also accused of abusing his office by unlawfully authorising the substandard sugar which poised a danger to the public's health and safety. Nzui was also charged with breach of trust while discharging the duties of his office as an authorised officer under food, drugs and chemical substances. He was also accused that, between June 27 and July 11, he failed to ensure that compliance of the law by releasing the said sugar before obtaining a certificate of the results from the government chemist. Click here for the latest political news 