Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF party won the majority of seats in parliament after sweeping rural constituencies by huge margins, official results showed on Wednesday. This set the stage for President Emmerson Mnangagwa's victory. The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission results showed Mnangagwa's ZANU-PF cruising to a big majority after picking up 109 seats against 41 for the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC). Another 58 seats are yet to be declared. The House of Assembly of Parliament has 210 seats and ZANU-PF would need to win 30 more to have a two-thirds majority that would allow it to change the constitution at will. Voters in Zimbabwe pick a presidential candidate based on their party affiliation and the trend in the parliamentary election was expected to continue when results for the president are announced this week. The opposition MDC, led by Nelson Chamisa, won in most urban centres, where it enjoys majority support. ZEC chief Priscilla Chigumba said the presidential result may not be ready until Saturday. But the MDC earlier accused the election commission of deliberately delaying results in favour of the ruling party. Former MDC finance minister Tendai Biti and ZESN, the main domestic election monitor, said one in five polling stations - more than 2,000 in all - had not physically posted tallies on their doors, as required by law. Biti said this omission gave room for the ZEC, which ZESN and the opposition have accused of bias, to manipulate the results in favour of President Emmerson Mnangagwa and the ruling ZANU-PF party. "There is a deliberate delay in formally announcing results," he told a news conference, characterising it as "interference with the people's will". The commission had said there was no rigging or cheating in the first national election since the end of Robert Mugabe's nearly four decade rule. More on this: Chamisa team accuses Zimbabwe polls agency of delaying results Also read: No rigging in first election since end of Mugabe rule, official says Click here for the latest political news