The country will today mark the international day of victims of enforced disappearance with the launch of a website detailing disappearances and extrajudicial killings. According to International Justice Mission communication manager Joseph Kariuki, the case of one Dan Baru will be featured during the launch. Baru reportedly left his home on January 12 last year to go and buy a cow, but was arrested with others by police officers from Kehancha police station and held in the cells for seven days. He was arrested on claims he participated in a robbery and taken into custody at the police station. He was take alongside Samuel Riro and Joseph Makenge - a motorcycle rider. Samuel Ikwabe, Isaiah Mwita, and Rael Burure were also arrested. The others were taken to court and released because there was no evidence of any crime committed. Baru, however, was not presented in court, he was never released. Baru has never been found to date forcing the court in May this year to order the OCS Kehancha police station Kipsaina Serem to produce him in court dead or alive. The police are yet to comply. "Every time I come to court my children always ask me whether I have gone to pick their father," Rebeccah said after the court found the OCS in contempt of court in July. Also to be featured is the disappearances and executions of IJM lawyer Willie Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and their driver Joseph Muiruri who were abducted by police officers and subsequently found killed in June 2016. The case is pending in court. Baru, Willie, Joseph and Josephat are just a few of the 153 cases of Kenyans who have disappeared in police custody according to verified data published in the Missing Voices website, said Kariuki. IJM said the website has also verified 285 killings by police officers, whereas 1,732 forcibly disappeared or unlawfully killed Kenyans are yet to be verified. Missing Voices is an effort by lobby groups under the Police Reform Working Group to track and document all extrajudicial killings and disappearances and follow cases that are in court. The website will be a one-stop database of all extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances that happen in Kenya, it will explain the circumstances under which the victim was killed and/or disappeared. Through its incident reporting page, witnesses and whistle blowers will be able to report live incidents to the website for investigation and documentation and reporting. Click here for the latest political news