The United Kingdom and Kenya will sign a new agreement to repatriate proceeds of corruption and crime when Prime Minister Theresa May lands in Nairobi today. The plan was revealed by British High Commissioner to Kenya Nic Hailey on Tuesday. In April last year, a deal was signed between Kenya and Switzerland to trace and recover stolen assets and funds stashed in Swiss accounts. Switzerland last year said it had frozen Sh200 million stashed in the country from the Anglo Leasing scandal. Locally, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has recovered assets and cash amounting to Sh488 million in the last one year. The recovery from individuals and institutions has been through court proceedings and out-of-court settlements. Read:Waiting for Theresa May This momentum comes on the backdrop of a fierce and sustained campaign against corruption and economic crimes mounted by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Several high profile individuals, the latest being Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu have been arrested and arraigned on allegations of corruption. Of the Sh488 million recovered, Sh76 million was in form of cash while Sh412 million was in the form of assets comprising of land and other immovable assets. Among the cash recovered was Sh60 million recovery for the Kenya Revenue Authority from Evanson Thuo Waweru and two others, Sh223,000 irregular expenditure by officers of the Murang’a County Assembly on a trip to South Africa in 2014. Sh2.9 million was recovered from Josephat Kipkoech Sirma for Kenya Pipeline Company. Two prime parcels of land in Woodley Estate in Nairobi were recovered from Stephen Kirima Kogi and James Gachagua, each valued at Sh75 million. Other notable asset recoveries include two parcels of land in Kisumu worth Sh30 million recovered from Stephen Okeyo Olus and Sammy Mwaita, and Kotrop Consultants Limited for Kenya Railways Corporation. There are also six parcels of land in Kisii worth Sh30.7 million recovered from different people for Gusii Training Institute. The EACC has also made and granted 24 court applications for the preservation of various assets worth Sh120 million across the country. Read:Uhuru returns from US ahead of Theresa May's visit Uhuru’s renewed war against corruption is being spearheaded by a multi-agency team comprising of the Directorate of Criminal Intelligence, the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, the EACC and a crack team led by the Deputy Head of Public Service Wanyama Musiambo which is carrying out a nationwide crackdown on illicit trade. So far, the fresh anti-corruption campaign has led to the unprecedented arrests and arraignment in courts of senior government officials suspected of having been involved in grand corruption.  Click here for the latest political news