Ugandan police on Thursday arrested Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulani aka Bobi Wine at the Entebbe
international airport. Bobi and another legislator Francis Zaake were held as they were trying to leave the country to seek treatment abroad. They were heading to the US for treatment following the injuries they suffered while being tortured
by the security forces. Allegations that Kyagulanyi and Zaake were
tortured triggered widespread protests in Kampala and other parts of the country. The two were among a group of five lawmakers that were
detained on August 13 in Uganda's northwestern town of Arua. They were
accused of throwing stones at President Yoweri Museveni's convoy during the
campaign for a vacant seat in parliament. More on this: Museveni, in power since 1986, has
repeatedly been accused by his opponents of rights abuses and
widespread use of security personnel to suppress opposition to
his rule. He denies that his government carries out abuse. "The Uganda Police halted the departure of Robert
Kyagulanyi at Entebbe International Airport," police
tweeted late on Thursday. "Given the fact that he is on bail,
the police is concerned and await for guidance from the relevant
government department." In a separate statement on Thursday police said they had
also found Zaake at Entebbe early on Thursday, "trying to flee
the country and accordingly apprehended him." Kyagulanyi in particular has emerged as a formidable threat
to Museveni's 32-year rule, winning popular support through his
music and strong criticism of the government. Read: Museveni faces backlash over Bobi Wine arrests In the days after the lawmakers were detained, allied
politicians and relatives said the two were tortured and both
needed to be taken outside the country for specialised medical
care. Kyagulanyi, who has been charged with treason alongside
several others for his role in the stoning incident, used
crutches in court appearances. He was transported in an
ambulance at times. His supporters say he was beaten with a
metal bar while in detention. Zaake has not been charged but has been at a hospital in Kampala, with images of him posted on social media
showing him lying on a bed, eyes closed, with multiple bruises
on his hand and other body areas. Police said he was taken to the country's national
referral hospital in Kampala where he would be treated under
custody. He would be charged "at an appropriate time" with
offences from the stoning of the presidential convoy. Bobi's wife Barbie condemned the use of violence by police during the legislator's arrest. She said the MP has a medical report from Lubaga hospital recommending urgent medical treatment abroad. "He told me that as soon as they closed the ambulance doors, he was again brutally beaten in front of a government doctor," Barbie said on her Facebook page. "They switched off the lights in the ambulance and started battering him! Bobi is now back in pain and he is dumped at Kirudu hospital." "There is something we're not getting. By denying him access to medical treatment, do they need him disabled for life?" she asked. She also strongly objected to state doctors forcefully trying to administer treatment or draw samples from the MP. "The same people who have acquiesced in torturing him cannot be trusted with his body," she quipped. Also see: Museveni calls Bobi Wine torture 'fake news' Click here for the latest political news 