They had invested millions of shillings in their businesses, and it all went down the drain when bulldozers brought Southend Mall down. Tenants ran multimillion-shilling businesses in the property. They included the posh Charlie’s Bistro Bar and Restaurant, Southend Forex Bureau, three salons and barbershops, pharmacies and clinics. The building, owned by former Bobasi MP Stephen Manoti, was 80 per cent occupied, according to his lawyer Mariaria Nyaboga. "I invested Sh76 million to make this business what it was. I am disappointed because it was disrupted and some of my property destroyed because of this rush," Charlie’s Bistro owner Paul Muhoro said. Muhoro’s business occupied the entire fifth floor and had employed more than 200 people. "On weekdays, between Monday and Thursday, we used to make between Sh300,000 and Sh500,000 a day and on Fridays and weekends, we used to do up to Sh1.2 million," an agitated Muhoro said. Read: Protesters demand end of forced evictions, demolitions in Nairobi He hired youths to help him salvage some of his items after he and his workers were overwhelmed. It was hectic for the youths to carry some of the heavy items such as tables as the stairs were dark after electricity was disconnected. Hussein Mohamed, a businessman running Southend Forex Bureau Limited, said he lost more than Sh7 million. He faulted the landlord for failing to notify them about the impending demolition. "I was not aware of the demolition. I contacted the landlord and he told us not to worry because he had a court order only for me to be called this morning that the building was being pulled down," Mohamed said. "Before I started doing this business, I submitted a building plan to the Central Bank because it is a requirement and they okayed it." Mohamed faulted Nema, the county and the Water Resource Management Authority for approving the construction of the building and later demolishing it. Read: Kileleshwa flat walls pulled down in ongoing demolition Walter Konya, the proprietor of Agmart Pharmaceutical, spent more than Sh10 million to set up his business  in January. "It is obvious the landlord could not come and tell us to leave. Nema themselves should have served us or pinned notices on the wall. This is so unfair to us," he said. The business proprietors hired lorries to ferry their salvaged property. Some had to pay youths to not only carry the items from the building and load them on to the lorries, but also to protect them from looters. Click here for the latest political news