Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya has dismissed claims by Likuyani MP Enoch Kibunguchy that he is behind the attacks targeting the lawmaker’s life. The two have traded bitter exchanges over the fatal shooting of the MP’s driver a fortnight ago. On August 13, Kibunguchy said the bullet that killed his driver Douglas Wamakacha at Soyi Motel was meant for him and blamed it on his political rivals. Read: Assassin’s bullet was meant for me, says MP Kibunguchy On Monday, a gun drama ensued during Wamakacha’s burial in Matunda, Trans Nzoia. Five people, including bodyguards of the MP and his Tongareni counterpart Eseli Simiyu, were shot. Kakamega Sports executive Robert Makhanu was beaten up by irate youth. Kibunguchy, in an interview on Wednesday, said Oparanya was behind the violence that targeted his life. But on Friday, the county boss dismissed the remarks as wild claims. Kibunguchy said, “I don’t know the reason, but my heart tells me the governor is after my life. The competitors I had in the last poll have no money to hire gunmen. “I don’t understand why Makhanu came to the funeral when he and the governor have never even condoled with the bereaved family since the shooting a fortnight ago.” On Tuesday, Makhanu said Kibunguchy had invited him to the funeral. Kibunguchy said the bad blood between him and Oparanya started in 2015, after he “manipulated the ODM grassroots election” to block him from becoming branch chairman. He then left the Orange party for Ford Kenya after bitter exchanges with the county chief, he said. More: Kibungunchy unshaken by 'assassination attempt' at Soy motel But Oparanya said Kibunguchy is seeking cheap publicity. “What dealings do I have with him? What will I be thinking about an MP? I’ve never in my political life thought about harming anyone,” he told the Star. “He should go and report the matter to police if he has facts. I’ll be ready to be investigated.” Oparanya said there was nothing of common interest between him and the legislator that could create conflict. “For two people to differ, there must be something of interest between them. I rarely deal with MPs because the people I engage with most are MCAs who have to approve the county programmes,” he said. Oparanya said he was not a contestant in the ODM polls and told the MP to direct his anger to the right persons. Meanwhile, police have summoned the lawmaker to record a statement following the Monday fracas. Kakamega DCI John Onyango said Kibunguchy had not reported by Friday. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula has demanded that police tell Kenyans who the shooters were. He said he dodged a bullet. On Thursday, he recorded a statement at the Kitale police station. Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi and Trans Nzoia leaders accompanied him. “I want police to move with speed and do a thorough investigation and make sure those behind the shooting are brought to book,” Wetang’ula said. See: Chaos as gunshots mar burial of slain Kibunguchy’s driver Read: Police yet to trace killers of MP Kibunguchy’s driver Click here for
the latest political news