Cases of wrong drug prescription leading to fatalities are on the rise, the Kenya Pharmaceutical Association has said. KPA has blamed doctors, nurses and the government for the deaths. Chairman Patrick Adera said on Monday that the government is not employing more pharmacists and pharmaceutical technologists to curb patient mismanagement. Speaking to the Star, the boss noted the country has about 14,000 such technologists yet less than 3,000 have been employed. As a result, he said, nurses and doctors in public hospitals have been assigned the role of prescribing medicine. This, Adera lamented, has caused prolonged suffering to those misdiagnosed. “The only way to go around this challenge is to have the real practitioners play their roles,” Adera said on phone. The association has warned President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda on Universal Health Coverage might be derailed if more professionals are not absorbed. “In a country that has attempted prime healthcare in both her short and long term visions, this is not encouraging at all. This needs to be looked into,” he said. Even with healthcare as a devolved function, it is emerging that the pharmaceutical technologists have been pushed to the back burner. Adera said direct absorption of pharmacists stopped after devolution. “The recruitment procedures for counties have locked out pharmacists and technologists,” he said. Dickens Omondi, a Mt Kenya University student, said he was a victim of wrong drug prescription. He claimed to have been given malaria tabs yet he suffered from typhoid. “This is totally unacceptable. We're being killed as we watch,” Omondi said. Patients have also been given fake or poor quality drugs that the World Health Organization has warned are flooding the African market. WHO says 100,000 deaths are recorded annually because of counterfeit drugs. In Kenya, Mombasa has been listed as a notorious entry point. Read: Viagra most common counterfeit drug in Kenya, says Pharmacy board Related: Nairobi in talks with Kemsa to resume medicine supplies Click here for the latest political news