Some teachers were sent to disrupt the 14th Kenya Primary School Headteachers Association that began in Mombasa yesterday, chairman Shem Ndolo has said. The meeting was brought to a sudden halt after teachers became unruly and demanded to know why their monthly contribution had been raised from Sh100 to Sh500. The teachers also demanded to know why they were being charged Sh6,000 to attend the annual conference. The close to 10,000 primary school heads claimed their contribution was being misappropriated by association officials. Ndolo dismissed the claims as “nonsense.” The embattled chairman who has been at the helm of Kepsha since 2015 claimed his rivals had hired some teachers to disrupt the gathering. The teachers called for Ndolo’s resignation. He was whisked away from the venue at Sheikh Zayyed Complex after the delegates began hurling water bottles at the dais. “It was a planned thing. I strongly believe delegates were bought to cause chaos today and they have succeeded,” Ndolo said. He spoke to reporters from a secluded room behind the dias. He said he had foreseen the disruption. He claimed vice chairman Nicholas Gathemi was behind the chaos. Ndolo had delivered his speech when session chair Gathemi asked delegates whether to adopt or oppose the speech, an action the chairman said triggered the chaos. “What my deputy did is something that has never happened since the inception of Kephsa. I have an issue with him and he must explain why he provoked members,”Ndolo said. Teachers said they were not consulted when the contribution fee was raised. Kaplelmet Primary School headteacher James Taalam said members deserve to know how their money is spent. “We contribute Sh500 every month and pay Sh6,000 to attend this conference. It is therefore wrong for someone to dismiss our demand for accountability. That is unacceptable,” Taalam said. Ndolo said the increase in the contribution fee was passed during last year’s conference. “The Sh500 was an issue that we discussed in our meetings before it was adopted in our Annual Conference last December as a resolution. Treasurer Josephat Otiende gave a breakdown of how the money is spent,” Ndolo said. He said he was surprised the delegates were raising the matter again. “Why they are revisiting that matter is something that we do not know, but we believe someone has incited them,” the chairman said. He said the association first requested the Teachers Service Commission to raise members salaries before the contribution was increased. “We know school heads are getting an additional pay of between Sh7,000 and Sh12,000 in their monthly salaries. What is wrong if they give us Sh500,” Ndolo said. Ndolo’s tenure expires in December when he is expected to retire. He said he was validly elected by delegates as required. “The issue of my resignation is just a storm in a cup of tea. I will go home in December, but not because someone has forced me to. My predecessor stayed in office until he was 65 yet members now want me to go home this early. They want jokers and they will surely have jokers after me,” he said.