Democracy is hailed as government of, by and for the people. Democratic governance is delegated representation knotted by trust. In Kenya’s Constitution, sovereignty is retained by the citizens. This is a universal edict so that power is only exercised ‘on behalf of the people’ under stringent delegated conditions. From this precept, the covenant between people and government is built on mutual mistrust. Citizens know that given space, rulers can wreak havoc on polity. Hence the adage that democracy is sustained by eternal vigilance to keep rulers on the straight and narrow. Through normative elections to extreme revolutions, citizens retain power to hire and fire. In which case, rulers are only restrained from excesses not by lofty ideals, but out of fear of being kicked out. Governments everywhere with the veneer of democracy are crooks. In Africa, government endures by perfecting lies and creating smokescreens that it exists ‘for the people’. This is sustained by a façade of undertaking ‘development’ through token but largely phantom projects that entrench an exploitative system. Hence, a malleable or agitated citizenry’s support is hinged on hope that things will change. This transient trust in the face of an intransigent government is akin to hoping for extra-terrestrial intervention; failing which trust vanishes at the wink of an eye when anger among citizens replaces patience. Why am I on this boring introspection? The Jubilee government honeymoon of lies is now untenable. It’s a predatory burden. If it’s not borrowing to steal, it’s stealing to borrow and then heavily taxing poor Kenyans to pay an unsustainable debt; which amounts to premediated robbery. This is magnified by the lie about cheap energy. Since 2013, access to affordable electricity has been the Jubilee singsong lie that mocks Kenyans. Need we repeat that despite the ruse of superficially scrapping VAT on cooking gas, it still costs more and rising? Affordable electricity is supposedly guaranteed through the Last Mile Connectivity Project turned gravy trail, shadowing a political publicity stunt. Cartels oversee the oversupply of concrete poles at inflated prices. Not that concrete poles are vital compared to wooden poles, but were made mandatory to advance looting. Dumped thousands litter the countryside so much so that when the toothless old lady smiles for cameras next to a meter box in her rural hovel, she does not know she’s a pawn in wanton looting. Indeed, no one gives a hoot that the picture with a political notable beside “her” meter box will be her first and last encounter with electricity. The toothless old lady personifies the phoney drivel by Jubilee minions on the mega increment of 60,000 households ‘connected’ to electricity. For connected consumers, the rip-off has been monumental as the cheap electricity lie continues. Kenya Power was caught fudging Sh10.1 billion worth consumer bills. They belatedly apologised but moved the lie a notch higher; remove fixed change and increase cost per unit for consumers. In conduit with the mysterious Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) through a facility called Electricity Retail Tariffs, Kenya Power removed the Sh150 fixed change paid by consumers for inefficiency, incompetence and looting. Meanwhile, consumers of between 10-50 units were ambushed with hefty increases. Instead of Sh2.5 per unit for the first 10 units, you will pay a heavy Sh12 totalling Sh120. For your next 40 units, you part with Sh15.8 per unit, meaning you are Sh632 poorer instead of the Sh100. Your 50 units will cost you a hefty Sh702 from Sh125. Covertly, the new tariffs are a ploy by Kenya Power to illegally continue “recovery” of Sh10.1 billion in backdated bills. If this is not economic piracy by a plundering government preying on its people, then what is? If this is not a government that has absconded its cardinal covenant to protect the people from want, then what is? Again, where is this connectivity to cheap power? And should Kenyans wistfully stand by when delegated authority is abused to incrust lives in slavery? What happens when trust is betrayed? How much brutality can you withstand?  Communications, Publications and
Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com