Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr has hailed his record-breaking players for their professionalism after they beat arch-rivals AFC Leopards 2-0 at Moi, Kasarani to bag their 17th league title. Kerr revealed he had to go out of his way to ensure his charges remained grounded when the title race seemed all but over. "It’s all credit to the players for how professional they have been to ensure they got the job done. It could have been easy for some to get complacent but they remained focused all the way. For that, I am proud of them and every football fan in Kenya should also be," remarked the jubilant tactician, who joins his compatriot Frank Nuttal as the club’s only foreign coaches to win back-to-back league titles. Against Leopards, a number of missed chances were the hallmark of the opening half an hour. K’Ogalo, however, opened the scoring in the 34th minute through Boniface Omondi, who beat Ezekiel Owade with a hard shot from the edge of the box after tricking two defenders. Former Western Stima man Bernard Ondiek doubled the lead three minutes to half-time with a simple tap off a Boniface Omondi clever pass. Ingwe could have leveled scores just before the break after winning a penalty but Whyvonne Isuza shot wide. Charles Momanyi handled Brian Marita’s cross in the box and up stepped Isuza to take the resultant penalty. He, however, missed much to the disgrace of the Ingwe fans.In the second half, Ingwe made a double change with Vincent Oburu coming in for Baker Lukooya while former Thika United midfielder Eugene Mukangula replaced Edward Seda. Gor introduced Wellington Ochieng for Lawrence Juma in the 71st minute and they managed to hold on to the 2-0 score-line to bag their 17th Kenyan Premier League title. With the league title secured, Gor now turn their attention to the small matter of the Caf Confederation Cup. Last week, the government provided the team’s air tickets to Algeria, where they will be travelling to honour the decisive match against USM Alger on Wednesday. The tickets, costing about Sh6.3 million were given on Friday. The Group ‘D’ leaders jet off to Algeria today to face second placed USM ‘A’ and must win to guarantee themselves a quarter final berth. Any other result, however, will force the team to rely on results between third-placed Rayon Sport from Rwanda and Tanzania’s Young Africans (Yanga). 