Four Nepalese nationals were on Monday charged with trafficking eight women into Kenya for exploitation by deceit. They are Vikrant Thapa, Bir Magar, Suhankar Ghoshi and Stansloues Shikondi. Shikondi is a dual citizen of Kenya and Nepal. They allegedly brought five Nepalese and three Indian women between May and August for prostitution. Magar, Ghoshi and Thapa were charged with being in the country unlawfully. Thapa faced an additional charge of harbouring the eight foreigners at City Park, a Vila House in Westlands by means of threats and force. He also faced an additional charge of fraudulently acquiring travel documents. Read: Detectives raid strip clubs in Westlands, rescue Nepalese girls The suspect allegedly misrepresented facts of an invitation letter to facilitate acquisition of Kenyan Visa for in order to facilitate the trafficking of two of the eight women. He and Shikondi were jointly charged with confiscating the eight women's passports at Maya Bar and Restaurant in Parklands during their the period. Magar and Ghoshi were also charged with working at the same joint as accountant and DJ respectively, without work permits. They denied the charges before Chief Magistrate Francis Andayi at the Milimani law court. They were remanded after DCI's Mary Ngau filed a sworn affidavit to have the suspects detained to prevent them from interfering with investigations. She said the suspects had used violence against the victims before they were arrested in attempts to frustrate the investigations into the matter. "The witnesses am relying on include employees of [Thapa] whom I believe might to compromise them thereby interfering with investigations and the case before the court," Ngau said. "[Thapa] is believed to be a member of a wide human trafficking and smuggling of persons cartel operating within Kenya and having links outside Kenya." Ngau said the fixed place of abode [of Magar and Ghoshi] is unknown and efforts to trace any of their relatives residing in Kenya have been futile. She had also requested to have the case given priority hearing for the victims to testify before they are taken back to their country. Andayi said the application made by Ngau shall be determined by the trial court and set the mention of the case for August 27. Click here for the latest political news 