ODM may face an uphill task in
retaining Homa Bay governor seat should the Supreme Court uphold the
nullification of the August 8 election. The Court of Appeal in Kisumu on
July 19 upheld the decision by High Court judge Joseph Karanja to nullify the
reelection of Governor Cyprian Awiti and Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata. They
vied on an ODM ticket. Justice Karanja on February 20 ruled
that the IEBC failed to conduct a credible election. Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga,
who vied for the seat, successfully petitioned the election. Should a by-election be held, the
party might face a litmus test in retaining the seat due to changing political
dynamics in the county. The dynamics include regional balance, 2022 ambitions,
service delivery by the current regime, and ODM interests. As residents wait for the Supreme
Court decision, the Raila Odinga-led party is in a balancing act on the choice
of their candidate. The majority of the residents have
expressed their displeasure with Awiti's performance since he became governor. Some Luo council of elders in the
county led by Joram Okola (secretary general), Odak Mbaka (chairman) and Opere
Onimo (member) have already urged the party to hand over the ticket to a
different candidate. They argue that most residents are
bitter with Awiti because "his administration has failed to deliver on
development". Okola said ODM would easily loose
the seat should Awiti run against Magwanga, but some ODM supporters say they
can't disappoint Raila. “ODM retention of the seat
lies on the candidate they will present. If they give it to Awiti, then I fear
Magwanga will easily go with it due his strong campaign against the county's
under-performance,” Okola said. Ahead of last year's polls, Magwanga
discredited Governor Awiti’s administration on service delivery, while he
boasted of prudent utilisation of the NGCDF in his constituency. Awiti garnered 210, 173 votes, while
Magwanga got 189,060 in the nullified polls. He has, however, managed to marshal
a good number of voters on his side, after the court decisions. “The voices of the majority have
been heard. We won but they snatched us our victory,” Magwanga said after the
High Court decision. Homa Bay political analyst Mark
Okang’ agreed with the elders and said residents would likely cast a protest
vote against ODM if he gets the ticket. “If I were Awiti and true supporter
of ODM, I would honourably leave the ticket to someone else to avoid upsetting
the party,” Okang’ said. He argued Magwanga now knows
Awiti's weaknesses and would capitalize on them, should he carry ODM's flag in
the county. “No wonder Magwanga says he is ready
to face Awiti anytime. He wants the by-election be held with speed,” Okang’
said. He said ODM should to conduct fresh
nominations or directly pick another candidate, if it is to retain the
seat. The political analyst noted
residents want a total transformation in development and they are likely to
vote in anybody who runs against Awiti. Okang’ and the elders disregard the
2013 pre-election pact, which shared political posts among the three regions in
the county. In the pact, it was agreed that
governor post would be taken by Rachuonyo region, a senator from Suba, while
Homa Bay would take the woman representative and deputy governor slots. Constituencies in Rachuonyo are
Kasipul (57,344 votes), Karachuonyo (84,004) and Kabondo Kasipul (49,432),
while Suba has two which — Suba North (51,454) and Suba South (46,499). 
Homa Bay region's constituencies are Rangwe (52,516), Homa Bay Town (50,570)
and Ndhiwa (85,056). In the 2013 and 2017 elections,
residents abided by the pact and voted Governor Awiti (Rachuonyo) and Orata
(Homa Bay), Gladys Wanga (woman rep) and Moses Kajwang' (senator). Magwanga comes from Kasipul, which
is considered to be the same region as where Awiti hails from. Ahead of the August 8 election,
Magwanga, who ran as independent candidate, also appeared to have aligned to
the pact when the picking his running mate, Joshua Orero. He is from Ndhiwa
(Homa Bay region). Former NSSF boss Fred Rabong’o (Suba
region) and Jessica Juma (Homa Bay region), who stood for senator and woman
representative respectively, supported Magwanga. Rachuonyo and Ndhiwa are the vote
rich constituencies. This would make Awiti, who hails from Karachuonyo
constituency and Orata (Ndhiwa) sit pretty, knowing that they have full
support from those areas. In 2013, the duo got overwhelming
support from all the eight constituencies but faced an up-hill task to marshal
votes outside their backyards last year. Magwanga managed to win against
Awiti in Kabondo Kasipul, Rangwe, Homa Bay Town, Suba North and Suba South
constituencies. But Awiti got clear wins in Kasipul,
Ndhiwa and Karachuonyo. The pact has, however, been disputed
by residents and a number of sitting MPs, who have governor ambitions in 2022.
Wanga and John Mbadi (Suba South) have already declared their interest in the
office. They, including Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town) and Millie Odhiambo (Suba
North), have opposed the pact on grounds that it restricts leadership to a
particular region and, therefore, violates the right to contest for political
seats. Former Homa Bay Majority leader
Owino Ooro and political commentator Cosmus Kanyadudi, however, say Awiti will
retain his seat. Ooro says a common interest of
politicians serving their second term in office and want to take over in 2022
would want Awiti to complete his term. He said the ODM dominance factor will
not allow MPs to go against the party candidate, even if it will be Awiti. “They might have criticized Awiti's
leadership but when it comes to who should be governor until 2022, they are
bound behind Awiti,” Ooro said. Already, Wanga has dismissed
resigning to stand for governor until 2022. He adds that Raila factor is a major
force that would influence the outcome of the polls. “In the past two general elections,
residents voted for ODM candidates right from the MPs to the governor. Why
would Raila want a mixture of leaders after a by-election? Ooro posed. Kanyadudi says Governor Awiti
will win easily should ODM give him a direct ticket and Raila participates in
the campaigns. Her says all the MPs from the county would also have to marshal
support for Awiti in solidarity with the party. “To repack and sell Awiti, especially
after a dismal development performance, would be a bit expensive. But I know
ODM brigades will camp in all corners of the county and ensure he retains the
seat,” Kanyadudi said. He, however, recommends that ODM
conducts fresh nominations or hand the ticket one of the aspirants who
participated in the 2017 primaries. The aspirants were Nairobi
businessman Sammy Wakiaga, business consultant Enosh Bolo and Kanyadudi. Wakiaga, Kanyadudi and Bolo dropped
their ambition after Awiti was controversially announced the winner after the
party nomination exercise. “Fresh and credible nomination
should be conducted to enable interested aspirants to participate. There some
who remained loyal to the party and that’s why they didn’t seek other
alternative tickets, despite the glaring irregularities during nomination,”
Kanyadudi adds. Hitherto, it’s easy to predict the
dynamics since they may change. Recently, Kaluma told Magwanga in
his presence never to concentrate his energies in criticising Awiti on grounds
that ODM may decide to give ticket to a different candidate, if an election is
called. “Tell residents what you will do for
them. If you fight Awiti so much and no one else is given the ticket, then you
will be defeated,” Kaluma said during a fundraiser in his constituency. 