Twelve people have died in a road accident near Kimende town on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. One of the vehicles, an 18-passenger matatu from Royal Mirage Sacco, was headed to Busia from Nairobi. The driver lost control while overtaking and collided head-on with a lorry ferrying green maize to Nairobi. Both vehicles rolled into a ditch. Six passengers from the matatu survived with deep cuts and are admitted to AIC Kijabe hospital. Lari deputy police boss Musa Omari said the dead included adult men and women, as well as a boy and a girl. The driver of lorry survived and is admitted in hospital. A St John ambulance official Robert Kimani said the accident happened at 11pm. “It is one of the ugliest accidents we have witnessed along this section. We worked tirelessly with good samaritans assisting us with vehicles to rush victims to hospital,” he said. However, police said they are yet to identify the victims since they didn’t have identification documents. “As of now we cannot confirm who the children were, if their parents were there or not. They didn’t have identification documents. After we investigate, we can confirm that,” Omari said. The bodies were taken to Uplands Funeral Home, while the wreckage of the vehicles were towed to Lari police station. Omari has advised drivers to be careful while plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway because the road is narrow and slippery. He urged extra caution at Kamandura, Ngarariga, Uplands, Kimende and Kinale areas up to Naivasha. “This season we record a lot of accidents caused by careless drivers. They should be made to understand that the road is slippery,” Omari said. “They should drive at a moderate speed which they can control their vehicles in case anything happens along the highway,” he added. The meteorological department says the stretch has low visibility because of fog during the rainy season. Drivers are also accused of speeding. Nakuru highway is one of Kenya’s most dangerous roads, according to the National Transport and Safety Authority.  