Museveni must go! Say no to torture! Chants filled the air as a section of Nairobians protested the arrest of Ugandan MP Robert Kyagulanyi, popularly known as Bobi Wine. Dressed in Red T-shirts and blouses, the youths who showed solidarity with their Ugandan counterparts said President Yoweri Museveni must release Bobi unconditionally. The youths carried placards written "Kenyans in solidarity with Ugandans" "#freeBobiWine" and "Say no to torture". "We are not begging you to release Him. You must release Bobi Wine," they were heard screaming as they held their peaceful protest at Uhuru Park, Nairobi. Read: Museveni calls Bobi Wine torture 'fake news' 'We're fighting for freedom,' songs rented the air as the protestors demanded his release  Protestors./COURTESY "When Ugandans are bleeding, we are also bleeding, when Ugandans are hurting, we are also hurting. We are all brothers and sisters. We are all sisters just divided by the border." Bobi's arrest sparked anti-government demonstrations and has left him unable to stand after being beaten while in detention. His lawyer accused the State of assaults but the Ugandan government denied the accusation as "rubbish" and said the London-based lawyer should visit the detention facility to see for himself. Bobi was arrested on August 13 on suspicion of involvement in the stoning of a presidential convoy during a parliamentary by-election campaign. He was later charged with unlawful possession of weapons and ammunition. Three other lawmakers and dozens of other people detained in relation to the stoning incident were charged with treason. He remains in a military facility in Kampala. More on this: Museveni faces backlash over Bobi Wine arrests Also read: US, UK issue travel warnings against Uganda over Bobi Wine protests HOMES SURROUNDED On Wednesday, police surrounded the homes of Opposition leader Kizza Besigye, FDC secretary Ingrid Turunawe and Kampala mayor Erias Lukwago. "Every way out of my home is barricaded since very early today. The intention is to deny us freedom to move and to be at the Military Court where @HEBobiwine is to be produced this morning," Besigye said. He added, "The struggle for freedom and sovereignty won't be blocked! Museveni Must Go." Click here for the latest political news