Reverend Lucy Natasha has urged believers not to marry non-believers as religion helps a marriage succeed. The soft-spoken preacher of Prophetic Latter Glory Ministries International is an author of 12 books, four of which are currently available. She says the books have impacted the lives of many people because the topics are diverse. During Valentine's season, Natasha launched a book called Before you say 'I do'. In a recent interview with Word Is, she said some people criticised her because she is single, but she said it was informed by the grace of God. "I totally discourage believers from marrying nonbelievers because your Christian beliefs play a vital role in marriage," she said. The census says there are less men than women and some are already married, leaving women at risk of losing out on partners. So what does Rev Natasha think about that? "Like I said, I will use the Bible, Isaiah 34:16, to defend my restrictions on why I would not marry a nonbeliever. The book says, 'No one who will miss a partner. Regardless of what the census is saying, I believe there is somebody for everyone, because God is a matchmaker." Other people are in relationships because of different situations. "Marriage is beyond sex, and sex is one blessing that comes with marriage, but you cannot be in bondage because of sex. Relationship is beyond that. Sex should come after marriage," Rev Natasha said. "I have categorised these types of single people into single and sinning, single and searching and those who are single and satisfied, meaning they are not ready to settle in marriage again, maybe because of their past experiences." Her advice on those people who get married and divorced is: "Don't rush, because when you rush, you crash. Build a friendship and learn your partner before going to the marriage, and stop focusing on the wedding as an event or the party part and failing to prepare for the life after." Another of her books is 'God's Leading Lady'. She said it is "a book for women, because I believe that women face denominational barriers. It is just to tell them that as a woman, you have all that it takes to succeed, despite what comes along the way".