 The country has
been the bastion of ecological balance for the region for generations. The
fulcrum of which has always been the Mau Complex. The Complex stretches from
the North Rift all the way to the edge of Masai Mara in Narok county. The Mara
and Serengeti ecosystem relies heavily on the Mau ecology and so is the rest of
the country and the East Africa region. It is because of
its centrality to the economic processes of the region that make Mau a hot
potato in the political discourse. Over the years, the Mau Complex has faced unchecked
encroachment and exploitation challenges. The government, out of pressure from
local and international conservation groups, has made fickle attempts to
restore the complex to its optimal levels. Corporations and individuals have
irregularly acquired large chunks of the Mau for private enterprise. Initially,
these were presented by the government as benevolence in settling otherwise
landless citizens. However, it
later turned out that it was a gimmick to reward ethnic loyalty and lubricate the
wheels of political patronage. The Mau Complex comprises mostly of forests and
rivers and is home to rare fauna and flora. There have been efforts by various
government officials at different times to reclaim the lost portions of the
fragile ecosystem. These efforts appear to suffer from internal discord in
government operations and at best have been seesaw in execution.  When it is convenient, the government would
make a declaration to evict illegal settlers in the forest. At other times,
especially during elections, more people would be invited and allocated land
within the forest. It is this flippant approach to an otherwise delicate
environmental issue that has seen the Mau continue to lose its balance. The
consequence has been monumental and catastrophic. A plethora of reasons have
been responsible for the gradual but steady the degradation of the forest. All players and
everyone within the complex agree the Mau is a heritage that must be protected
at all times and costs. However, the conservation efforts have greatly suffered
from myopic perspectives of some key leaders. Mau is a national and natural
resource bequeathed to humanity by God in the geographical boundaries of Kenya.
The country has a responsibility to protect and nurture it for posterity. The
leaders are tasked with the noble responsibility of carrying out this duty on
behalf of the people. The internal contradictions of Kenya’s national politics
have come into play and thus grossly undermined the conservation activities.
The communities surrounding the complex, through their leaders, view the Mau as
theirs and exclusive resource. This narrow perspective has benefitted from
tribal jingoism in Kenya’s political fabric. Any attempts by government
officials to enforce directives on conservation are met with resistance from
local community leaders. They go out of their way cheapen the environmental
discourse in the most of simplistic terms. Not long ago,
some prominent leaders from the Rift Valley wondered aloud in a public meeting
whether rain came from the trees or sky! The crowd promptly roared back in
unison “sky!” The crowd was right because literally, rain drops from the sky
and in any case this narrative would justify their continued logging of Mau
trees and stay in the forests. The Mau debate has cost some high profile
politicians premium office while building others at the same time. After the
electoral amnesia, reality dawns on the same leaders soon enough as their
communities face starvation owing to unpredictable weather patterns. They find
themselves caught between a rock and a hard place. They fumble and engage in
incoherent arguments about environment and the benefits of tree planting in
public places, especially schools. Time runs out fast in their favour and
within a short period, the country is in another election period. Hordes of
peasants are encouraged to move into protected forest areas, ostensibly to find
land for farming and shelter. They push the view that since they are indigenous
to the Mau, they can’t just marvel at their God-given resource, while suffering
in poverty. The other factor
undermining the Mau stability is corruption. 
The county has established in its ranks some of the most effective and
callous corruption networks in the region. They would entice and connive with
government mandarins to hive off large chunks of the forests. The reasons
proffered would be to establish a public utility facility or to settle peasants
squatting on some road reserves or private lands. Other times it would be to
provide land for some strategic investor. The strategic investor
would in turn create employment opportunities for the youth and generate the
much needed foreign exchange. Once the relevant government agency accedes to
these overtures and the land annexed, none of those objectives is pursued.
Instead, the land would quickly be subdivided into smaller parcels and
registered into fake tittles. These fake tittle deeds in private hands would
then be used to dupe unsuspecting citizens into buying the parcels. Kenyans are
renowned for unbridled appetite for land and therefore gullible to the land
cartel conmen. The cartels make their quick bucks and disappear into thin air.
When the government mounts its usual halfhearted operations to flush out forest
squatters, the land owners feel the heat. They discover to their horror the
titles they hold are fake and the sellers cannot be traced. These land cartels
do not care about the harm they visit on the national economy by destroying the
Mau ecosystem. The factors that
contribute to the continued degradation of the Mau also feed on the public
ignorance of environmental concerns. Generally, citizens do not link their
suffering in terms of famine and poor health to the state of their
environment.  They fail to relate the
prolonged droughts, extreme cold winters and floods to the deforestation of the
Mau. The influx of respiratory and water borne diseases are hardly associated
with the quality of air that they breath. The increase in immune-suppressed and
lifestyle diseases are likely to be attributed to bad luck and witch craft instead
of the condition of the environment. The paradox of heavy and prolonged
downpours and dry Ndakaini Dam during the last long rainy season was explained
in terms of sabotage. The leaders together with their legions of supporters are
unable or unwilling to connect these conditions to change in the weather
patterns. The issues of global warming and increasing desertification are
complex matters for the academia. The citizens have been made to believe that
these are not worth their precious attention. Instead, they are usually regaled
with tales of “our turn to eat”. Political
leaders twist the argument that in any case, every community has some forest
that they can protect, if they so wish. In the fullness of time the Mau Complex
will be wiped out if the degradation is not stopped. Not only should the
government halt the environmental abuse and rape of the heritage, but proceed
to reclaim the grabbed parcels. If Kenya should lose the war against the
scramble for the Mau, then the region’s ecosystem and ecological balance would
be dislocated irreparably. The economic and
social stability of families would be disrupted considerably. Therefore, for
posterity and future generations, the government must fully implement and
conclude the current exercise to restore the Mau. 