President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, Opposition leader Raila Odinga and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi are among top dignitaries expected to attend the wedding of Emurua Dikirr MP Johanna Ngen'o's wedding on Saturday. The MP who was re-elected on Kanu ticket will wed his longtime girlfriend Nayianoi Ntutu at Emurua Dikirr Secondary School. Nayianoi, a lawyer, is the daughter of Livingstone Ntutu. Livingstone is a brother of Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu and former Narok senator Stephen ole Ntutu. Speaking to the Star on the phone on Thursday, Ng'eno said more than 100 senators, MPs and women representatives will attend the ceremony. “Preparations are in top gear. Everyone is welcome to celebrate with us as we take our marriage vows,” he said. The bride and her parents will be flown by helicopter from their Pirir home in Mulot to the wedding venue. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter will be Ng'eno's best man, while the Baptist Church will preside over the wedding. On June 2, Ng'eno 45, visited the bride’s home for engagement talks with elders. He was given the green light to make marriage plans. The MP was accompanied by his mother Mary Temas, Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, MPs Keter (Nandi Hills), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Sabina Chege (Murang'a Woman Representative), Knut secretary general Wilson Sosion and the Deputy President's aide Farouk Kibet. Ng'eno decided to quit the bachelors' club to end public ridicule by political opponents. In February 2016, during the homecoming of Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli at Poroko Secondary School in Kilgoris constituency, Narok governor Samuel Tunai attacked the MP over his marital status in the presence of the DP. Tunai said Ng'eno has no moral authority to criticise the national and county governments "since he has failed as a legislator". "Go get married before you can tell us about hospitals," Tunai told the MP when he questioned why hospitals lack drugs. Ng'eno's mother was on his case for taking long to get a wife. In an interview with one of the dailies, she urged him to marry. "I have been urging him to marry and start a family. I'm eager to see my grandchildren," she was quoted as saying. At some point, things got thick for Ng'eno when elders told him to marry if he wanted to be re-elected. The MP said at the time it was not a priority. "I will marry, however, when I want," he said. Click here for the latest political news   