The public transport sector is chaotic and inefficient, and must be streamlined to end jams and reduce emissions, the government has been told. This came up yesterday at DusitD2 Hotel, Westlands, Nairobi, during a meeting to discuss the future of transport, It is estimated that Kenya loses Sh50 million daily in Nairobi to traffic jams. The problems include inadequate roads, poorly maintained roads and concentrated economic activities near roads. Investors also have low-capacity vehicles. Read: City to get 50 Rapid Transit buses next month to ease congestion Germany’s acting ambassador Michael Derus said Kenya should not be left behind in cutting emissions. He said the transport sector should be professionalised and transformed to make it “safe, clean and inclusive”. Derus told decision makers to accelerate the process. Also present were head of road transport Martin Eshiwani, Association of German Automotive Industry international affairs adviser Dominik Borowski, head of Sub-Saharan operations at Volkswagen Group South Africa Marcus Butros and head of Nissan East Africa regional office Max de Wit. Germany, through the German Embassy Green Economy Cycle, partners with Kenya to encourage leaders and decision makers to shift to ecologically and economically sustainable business practices. The cycle showcases how firms can improve their competitive edge while contributing to environmental conservation. Experts at yesterday’s event said that efficient public transport is essential for development. Kenya has pledged to reduce emissions by 30 per cent by 2030. On July 23, Transport CS James Macharia said his ministry needed Sh5.8 billion to improve infrastructure. In April, he said the Thika Superhighway would have a dedicated lane for matatus. In Dar es Salaam, a 130.3km corridor has been dedicated, with 18 terminals and 228 stations. Macharia said they would buy 900 high-capacity buses and 30 would be used for a pilot project. Yesterday, Eshiwani said low-capacity vehicles cause congestion and will taken off the roads, once a mass rapid transit system is rolled out. The experts called for use of electric cars. They said they would lower fuel costs by up to 70 per cent and ensure zero emissions. In Nairobi, for instance, residents spend most of their time in traffic snarl-ups. Participants warned of a crisis if the government does not fix the problem. It is projected that the capital will have 10 million residents by 2030. “Infrastructure for the non-motorised is a challenge and sharing roads with vehicles is risky,” Eshiwani said. “We plan to have a hub where people park their cars and use light rail.” He said respiratory infections are increasing  because of air pollution. A 2016 study by the Global Policy Forum, a policy lobby, said Kenya loses Sh200 billion yearly to premature deaths caused by air pollution. It said an annual average of 19,000 deaths arise from air pollution. Eshiwani said more than 90 per cent of cars are second-hand and they will reduce their age from eight to five years. He said the private sector will play a role in vehicle inspection. More: State introduces dedicated lane for PSV buses plying Thika Road Click here for the latest political news