Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu has told off critics and asked them to instead join him in serving residents. Waititu downplayed differences between him and deputy governor James Nyoro who earlier in the week criticised his boss over the manner in which the governor runs the county. Nyoro complained Waititu does not consult him and raised fears the county could be wasting public funds in the governor’s Kaa Sober initiative of rehabilitating alcoholics. On Thursday, Waititu said it did not matter whether leaders agreed on issues or not provided services to residents were efficiently offered. He also dismissed Nyoro’s claim the county had not remitted Sh300 million to hospitals. “We cleared all the money owed to health facilities in late July. Claims of arrears are false,” Waititu said. He spoke during the launch of renal units at Gatundu and Thika level 5 hospitals. Nyoro had also claimed there were no drugs in the hospitals. But Waititu said there were enough drugs to last the next three months. “In future, we will demand that those making claims be specific about the drugs they are talking about because we can’t allow them to mislead the public,” the governor said. Waititu defended Kiambu Level 5 mortuary attendants over a recent mix-up which prompted a recall of bodies released to wrong families. The governor said it is the role of relatives and not attendants to identify bodies. He said the non-functioning intensive care unit with a 10-bed capacity in Gatundu will be operationalised in a week. He directed that power be immediately connected to hospital. The facility has been non-operational for two years due lack of a power backup. On July 30, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria lamented the non-utilisation of the facility. Waititu said health challenges like sharing of beds in hospitals was not unique to Kiambu due to the large number of patients. “We have had similar challenges in other institutions including Kenyatta National Hospital. That challenge will soon be a thing of the past after the completion of three other level 4 hospitals,” Waititu said.