Opposition chief Raila Odinga has for the first time revealed that part of his agreement with President Uhuru Kenyatta was to freeze 2022 politics.In what may rattle Deputy President Wiliam Ruto and his lieutenants, Raila said he agreed with Uhuru to pacify the country and conclusively deal with the 2017 election fiasco.Ruto and his men have often said 2017 is done and dusted and their eyes are firmly fixed on the prize in 2022. “What we agreed with Uhuru is that we are not going to be talking about 2022. Because he [Uhuru] said we must fix 2017. That was part of the discussion and agreement,” Raila said on Citizen TV on Tuesday night.The decision against politicking, publicly backed by Uhuru has badly split Jubilee with some of Ruto’s allies claiming its a ploy to scuttle the DP’s presidential bid. Read: Raila: I’m not in government, didn't betray NASA principals“When the DP was moving across the country before 2013 and 2017 it was right. What has changed now?” Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen said recently.During the interview, Raila declined to comment whether he would contest for the presidency in 2022. But he faulted ODM rebels, especially from the Coast supporting Ruto’s bid.“Has NASA said it will not have a candidate? Has Wiper said it will not field a candidate? Has ODM and ANC said they will not have a candidate?”Raila said.His refusal to state whether he still has presidential ambitions was immediately interpreted by some of Ruto’s allies that he was still salivating for the top job. “And just like that, he has declared his intentions to vie again in 2022,” Murkomen said.Hours after his ODM party started disciplinary action against Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and Coast Parliamentary Group chairman Suleiman Dori, Raila said the lawmakers are free to quit.But he said MPs are free to welcome Ruto to their constituencies. “If he wants to come to you for a function, welcome him because he is part of the government.”The ODM leader said he has no formal powers in government, but could call President Kenyatta over a pressing national issue and the government would swing into action. Also read: Hope for NASA as Kalonzo holds talks with Wetang'ula Click here for the latest political news