North Korea has not
stopped its nuclear and missile programs in violation of United
Nations sanctions, according to a confidential UN report seen
by Reuters on Friday. The six-month report by independent experts monitoring the
implementation of UN sanctions was submitted to the Security
Council North Korea sanctions committee late on Friday. "(North Korea) has not stopped its nuclear and missile
programs and continued to defy Security Council resolutions
through a massive increase in illicit ship-to-ship transfers of
petroleum products, as well as through transfers of coal at sea
during 2018," the experts wrote in the 149-page report. The North Korean mission to the United Nations did not
respond to a request for comment on the report. The UN report said North Korea is cooperating militarily
with Syria and has been trying to sell weapons to Yemen's
Houthis. Pyongyang also violated a textile ban by exporting more than
$100 million in goods between October 2017 and March 2018 to
China, Ghana, India, Mexico, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Turkey and
Uruguay, the report said. The report comes as Russia and China suggest the Security
Council discuss easing sanctions after US President Donald
Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met for the first time
in June and Kim pledged to work toward denuclearisation. The United States and other council members have said there
must be strict enforcement of sanctions until Pyongyang acts. The UN experts said illicit ship-to-ship transfers of
petroleum products in international waters had "increased in
scope, scale and sophistication." They said a key North Korean
technique was to turn off a ship's tracking system, but that
they were also physically disguising ships and using smaller
vessels. The Security Council has unanimously sanctioned North Korea
since 2006 in a bid to choke off funding for Pyongyang's nuclear
and ballistic missile programs, banning exports including coal,
iron, lead, textiles and seafood, and capping imports of crude
oil and refined petroleum products. The experts said "prohibited military cooperation with the
Syrian Arab Republic has continued unabated." They said North
Korean technicians engaged in ballistic missile and other banned
activities have visited Syria in 2011, 2016 and 2017. The report said that experts were investigating efforts by
the North Korean Ministry of Military Equipment and Korea Mining
Development Trading Corporation (KOMID) to supply conventional
arms and ballistic missiles to Yemen's Houthi group. A country, which was not identified, showed the experts a
July 13, 2016 letter from a Houthi leader inviting the North
Koreans to meet in Damascus "to discuss the issue of the
transfer of technology and other matters of mutual interest,"
according to the report. The experts said that the effectiveness of financial
sanctions was being systematically undermined by "deceptive
practices" of North Korea. Read: North Korea to stop nuclear tests, scrap site Click here for the latest political news 