Proper care for donkeys featured in the themes of this year’s Kenya National Music Festivals at Dedan Kimathi University of Technology in Nyeri. Brooke East Africa pitched tent at the university grounds where it engaged in educating children on proper donkey husbandry under the theme: “Promoting a Culture of Care towards Donkeys”. This comes at a time when donkey transport is becoming popular in Nyeri town. Brooke East Africa is an affiliate of Brooke UK, an international animal welfare charity organisation. The organisation advocates the improvement of lives of working horses, mules and donkeys and the people working with the animals. “Animals welfare encompasses both physical and mental components, which are influenced by environment in which they live and work, human attitudes and practices and the resources available,” the Kenya Music Festival syllabus notes. The theme was supposed to disseminate the animal welfare and freedoms, which include freedom from hunger, discomfort, pain, injury or disease, freedom to express normal behaviour and freedom from fear and distress. Read: Music festival starts with unity as theme The other aim was to expose policymakers such as MPs on donkey friendly laws they can legislate on. The music festival that started on August 6 came to a close yesterday, where 40 teams were selected to entertain Kenyans in a gala today at the same venue. Winners are expected to perform for President Uhuru Kenyatta at Sagana State Lodge tomorrow. About 600 winners emerged in all the genres at the Kenya National Music Festivals. The first week featured performances by Early Childhood Development Education children, primary schools, special needs learners and teacher training colleges whose performances ended on Friday evening. The themes of countering violent extremism and terrorism, online safety and safe use of the internet were also addressed by primary school children. Festival executive secretary Ruth Agesa said oriental music also ended on Friday. Experts from India adjudicate the category. Also See:Forty teams to perform at gala as music festival comes to end Click here for the latest political news