President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned that the era of impunity is over. He has urged the Judiciary to expedite corruption cases, saying the war on graft is his legacy project. “It’s something I’m committed to do. It’s what I want my legacy to be — the fight against corruption and transparency — to ensure the nation’s resources are used in the manner it should,” he said in an interview with the BBC. The Hard Talk show was recorded after his meeting with US President Donald Trump on Monday. “Regardless of who you are, even if you are my own family member, I’ve said that agencies are free to do their job,” Uhuru said. For the first time, he addressed concerns over the lifestyle audit he had ordered in June. Deputy President William Ruto and his allies, including Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, demanded that the scrutiny go as far back as the Head of State’s father, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. Uhuru said the audit should even “go back to my grandfather or great grandfather”. “What we own and what we have is known to the public. If there is an instance where someone can say what we’ve done is not legitimate, say it. We’re ready to face any court,” he said. Uhuru said his father bought land and if anyone has an issue with his family, they are ready to explain how they acquired what they own. Read:Uhuru to corruption suspects: 'Your tribe won’t protect you' “If somebody thinks what we have obtained is illegitimate, then they are welcome to provide evidence,” the President said. The Kenyatta family owns tracts of land in various parts of the country and runs different businesses, including hotels, real estate and a dairy firm. Uhuru said he has given his all to the graft war and promised more arrests and prosecutions. He said the war will be merciless and ruthless. Uhuru said he will stop at nothing to tackle entrenched corruption in government departments. He said there will be no sacred cows. Uhuru said he will spare no effort in dealing with the so-called big fish and lords of impunity who have felt untouchable for many years. He urged the Judiciary to rise to the occasion. “The Judiciary has to do its work independently. You are already seeing results...People are being taken to court. I’m committed to this fight,” the President said. “Cases are now being finalised a lot faster. We’re looking forward to seeing the courts do their part. The age of impunity is over.” The President, however, failed to project how long it would take to successfully eliminate corruption, which has permeated all spheres of government and society. “As far as I’m concerned, the number of cases before court are very many — many of them are people who never expected to appear before a court of law. It’s upon the courts to expedite the cases and convict culprits in the shortest time possible,” Uhuru said. He returned from the US trip on Tuesday night. “We’ve been working quietly over the few years. We’ve begun tackling corruption regardless of who you are...even if you are my family members...agencies are free to arrest anybody.” Buoyed by his handshake with Nasa leader Raila Odinga, the President has embarked on a global shuttle diplomacy to market Kena as an investment destination. He plans to leverage on his high-profile encounters with world powers to lure investors, especially directly into sectors supporting the Big Four agenda — affordable housing, food security, universal healthcare and manufacturing. Uhuru defended the cost of the Mombasa-Nairobi standard gauge railway built by China. His administration has been accused of allowing a win-lose situation with China in the Sh327 billion project. It was accused of ignoring market forecasts and opting for highly priced loans from China to build the SGR. Economic analysts argued the SGR would have been built at half the cost had the government picked the best deal that offered cheaper loans. There have also been claims most of the money ended up in the pockets of a few corrupt government officers who used the project as a gravy train. But Uhuru said it was a good deal for Kenya. He said environmental problems and the need to preserve the country’s heritage shot up the cost, and running it through national parks made it even more costly. Read: [VIDEO] Corruption fight my legacy, Uhuru says in renewed push for lifestyle audit Click here for the latest political news