Democratic Republic of Congo has started using the
experimental mAb114 Ebola treatment to counter the latest
flare-up of the virus, health officials said on Tuesday, the
first time it has been deployed against an active outbreak. Forty-one people are believed to have died from the
haemorrhagic fever in Congo's tenth Ebola outbreak since it was
discovered in the 1970s. The outbreak has spread from its epicentre in North Kivu
province to neighbouring Ituri province after an infected person
returned home, Congo's health ministry said, complicating
containment in a region beset by widespread militia violence. Ebola, which causes fever, vomiting and diarrhoea, finds a
natural home in Congo's vast equatorial forests. Continuing
flare-ups have made the central African country a testing ground
for new treatments against a virus that between 2013 and 2016
killed over 11,300 in a West African epidemic. In an outbreak in western Congo which began in April and was
declared over in July, an experimental vaccine manufactured by
Merck was given to 3,300 people and was considered
central in containing the virus when it reached a city. The mAb114 treatment was developed in the United States by
the National Institutes of Health using the antibodies of the
survivor of an Ebola outbreak in the western Congolese city of
Kikwit in 1995. World Health Organisation Director-General Tedros Adhanom
Ghebreyesus told a news conference in Geneva that medics were
already treating five patients with mAb114 and that he had been
informed they were doing well. "We will use it as much as needed," Tedros said. "But use of
the molecules is decided by doctor and patient consent." Several other experimental treatments have arrived in the
regional hub of Beni and are awaiting approval from an ethics
committee, including Remdesivir, Favipiravir and
REGN3450, REGN3471 and REGN3479, the health ministry said. Separately, authorities have vaccinated over 200 health
workers and contacts of Ebola patients. He said the risk of
international spread was currently considered low even though it
poses a high regional risk due to its proximity to the Ugandan
border, which is only about 100 km (60 miles) away. In all, there have been 57 cases to date -- 30 confirmed and
27 that are considered probable. The response is taking place against the backdrop of
insecurity caused by dozens of militia groups who regularly kill
and kidnap civilians in the region. "Before I went there I was really worried because of the
different nature of the Ebola outbreak in DRC," Tedros said.
"But after the visit I am actually more worried because of what
we have observed there first hand." Authorities are reaching out to militia to convince them to
allow access to zones they occupy, he said. Click here for the latest political news