Chief Justice David Maraga steered clear of DCJ Philomena Mwilu when he presided over the swearing-in of the National Gender Equality Commissioners on Wednesday. He dodged questions from journalists but said DPP Noordin Haji informed him before Mwilu's arrest. Maraga urged the newly appointed commissioners to carry out their constitutional responsibility for the good of the country. "Let the entire country move together and let us leave no one behind," he said during the ceremony held at the Supreme Court. Former Rongo University chairperson Joyce Mutinda, Mureithi Chomba, and former Nyeri woman representative Priscilla Nyokabi were sworn-in as new NGEC commissioners. Former Gender commission chairperson Winfred Lichuma and her team of commissioners left office last year. Read: Kajuju, Nyokabi among former MPs shortlisted for top commission job Maraga spoke at a time panic has swept the Judiciary following Mwilu's arrest on Tuesday for corruption, failure to pay tax, and improper dealings with Imperial Bank - now in receivership. The charges were suspended by Justice Chacha Mwita in a decision reached after the DCJ's lawyers sought orders to block her prosecution in the matter. Mwilu becomes the topmost judge to be arrested in the ongoing corruption purge in the public service. Read: Judiciary panic as DCJ Mwilu faces Sh12m graft charge Related: Mwilu seeks to block prosecution over Sh12m graft On NGEC, Maraga said the people of Kenya are looking up to them to carry out their responsibility. Referring to Mureithi, he lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for appointing the three, saying it was vital to be inclusive as stated in the Constitution. Mureithi, who is a senior lecturer at Kenyatta University, is visually impaired. During his vetting, he had promised to train people with disabilities on the importance of equality and ensure they are treated well. Mutinda, who was appointed NGEC chair, said the development was a testimony to the President's commitment to ensuring the country seals the gender parity gap. The chair said she would focus on the aging, marginalised, and boychild - who have been left out because of commitment to the girlchild. NGEC secretary Sora Katelo said equality in Kenya was a major issue that needed to be addressed. "When we have over 90 per cent of girls in Northeastern undergoing FGM, many Kenyans living in slums in deplorable conditions, women are battered, and illiteracy levels over 40 per cent we have a lot of work to do," he said. Click here for the latest political news  