The political deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his newfound political soulmate Raila Odinga has altered Mt Kenya politics with some leaders now openly gravitating towards the Nasa leader. By August last year, the vote-rich region comprising of 10 counties appeared lined up behind Deputy President William Ruto to succeed Uhuru in 2022. However, the March 9 handshake seems to have changed the political arithmetic. The unity deal seems to have softened the opposition to Raila in the Mt Kenya region and is threatening to be the political deal breaker for the DP. NLC without Swazuri The National Land Commission has denied claims services had been grounded following the arrest of chairperson Muhammad Swazuri. Swazuri and Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina were arrested on Saturday over suspicious standard gauge railway land compensation and conspiracy to steal Sh222 million. The two were charged with corruption-related offences alongside 10 other public officers from the Ministry of Lands and the Kenya Railways Corporation. Also arrested were Commission CEO Chavangi Aziz, Salome Munubi ( director NLC) Francis Mugo (director NLC) Gladys Muyanga (Ministry of Lands) and Obadiah Wainaina (surveyor), a move that could compromise service delivery of the commission. Joho, Kingi target Ruto Mombasa governor Hassan Joho is quietly identifying potential opponents to MPs who have announced their support for Deputy President William Ruto. Joho plans to tour Coast counties to campaign against the opponents as he prepares to launch his 2022 presidential bid. On June 23,  Joho dismissed Ruto's forays in the Coast, saying his 2022 bid is "doomed" and that he was going to work with the DP's opponents consequently scuttle his plans. Blow to justice, ivory trade A High Court judge has set free convicted ivory trafficker, Feisal Ali Mohammed, who was serving a 20-year sentence and a penalty fine of Sh20 million. Feisal had already served two years of his sentence after being found guilty of trafficking in 2,152kg of elephant ivory before the High Court reversed his conviction and sentence. This criminal story has been one of the breathtaking audacity of corruption and nail-biting intrigue, writes WildlifeDirect Legal Affairs manager Jim Karani. Sany hits Dandora More than 350 tenants and homeowners watched helplessly yesterday as bulldozers pulled down their structures in Dandora. The Kenya Railways flattened more than 10 residential houses, including five flats, two churches and a children's home for standing on the railway reserve. Some landlords wailed as their houses were reduced to rubble. But their pleas to the railway officers to allow them to salvage their belongings fell on deaf ears. Your Weather NAIROBI: Mostly cloudy- day and night. Low 11ºC. High 23ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers and late at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. KISUMU: Partly cloudy - day and night. Low 18ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for latest political news   