Fresh controversy has hit the Kenya Forest Service board after leader of Majority Aden Duale said one of the appointments is a conflict of interest. On Thursday last week, Duale disapproved the appointment of Jaswant Rai, who is associated with Timsales. The company manufactures plywood, fibre and block boards, flush doors and deals in timber. Rai is one of the tycoons who imported sugar during the duty-free window last year. This comes as two reports, one by a task force and another by a National Assembly committee, raised issues with the former KFS board. The task force report that looked into forest management and logging had recommended the sacking of the entire board following massive forest destruction. In its preliminary report in March, the task force had also recommended a lifestyle audit of senior managers. It recommended to Tobiko that the process of constituting a new board be expedited. This, the board said, would enable the start of the administrative investigation of 16 suspended officers of KFS. The task force had also recommended the constitution of an independent caretaker management team with special authority. Tobiko had also been tasked with establishing an agencywith powers to undertake public vetting of serving KFS personnel to determine the suitability and culpability of officers of the service. Through a gazette notice dated June 5, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed the eight-member team. Uhuru appointed Peter Kinyua as the board chair for a period of three years. Kinyua served as KFS board chair in the previous board whose term came to an end on March 30. Members of the board are Peter Leitoro, Jane Wamoko, Henry Barmao, Jane Njuguna, Joel Laigong, Peter Wandera, Rai and Anne Tek. They are set to serve for three years.The National Assembly committee report released in May also had tough recommendations. The report was debated in the National Assembly last week. The Kareke Mbiuki-led committee had urged Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate Kinyua for possible conflict of interest and abuse of office, contrary to Section 101 of the Penal Code and Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003. If found culpable,the report said, he should be barred from holding any public office. The committee also found the suspension of KFS senior managers was illegally and unprocedurally done by the chairman of the board.