In what appears to be seeking to bridge political gaps, Deputy President William Ruto is planning a mammoth political meeting of top leaders from the Rift Valley in a bid to secure his backyard. Talk of an anti-Ruto campaign within Jubilee and the persistent threats by Kanu chairman Gideon Moi are said to have alarmed the DP to put his game plan into motion. The meeting of the region’s who-is-who has been mooted as part of an elaborate political plan to neutralise the unpredictable younger Moi who has positioned himself as the counter-force to the DP. Moi Girls Rape Girls were sexually assaulted at Moi Girls' High School but they were ordered to bathe, put on fresh clothes and remember it was no big deal, Education CS Amina Mohamed told MPs on Tuesday. “They were encouraged by adults in the school to go bathe, change and go to class. They were told the incident was a small thing and they should not make a big deal out of it since it could tarnish the school’s name," Amina told the National Assembly's Education Committee. The CS said that two medical reports confirmed the girls were sexually assaulted on the night of June 2-3 in the case that caused nationwide outrage about sex crimes in schools and lack of security. Killing the death penalty Prisoners on death row and those serving life sentences could be handed a lifeline if recommendations by a task force are implemented. More than 7,700 prisoners have been sentenced to die or are serving life sentences. The Task Force on Review of the Mandatory Nature of the Death Penalty has recommended changes to the Penal Code, the Prisons Act and the Kenya Defence Forces Act. This could lead to the reviewing of 838 death sentences, 6,938 life sentences and the sentences of 2,747 inmates, whose death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment in 2016. Farmers NSE lifeline Trade Cabinet secretary Peter Munya has said that the national commodity exchange will be functional by October. He said the exchange will enable farmers to sell their produce at real time market prices, helping them cut out middlemen. Munya spoke at a panel discussion at the ongoing National Trade Week at KICC, Nairobi. He said lack of market information poses a major challenge to local traders. Farmers and traders attending the forum said lack of information flow between national and county governments has disadvantaged them in terms of markets and the items in demand. A fruit farmer from Makueni said they watch helplessly as their harvest goes to waste due to lack of market linkages. School fires: Experts Speak Picture this: About 50 form one students are trapped behind grilled windows and a blocked exit in a school dormitory at night. A group of form two students spills petrol on the staircase and the exit before igniting the petrol using a lighter. They then vanish into the darkness. The orange-red monster blaze tears through the wooden door and blocks the exit. There is a grim chance all the students yelling inside will choke from smoke inhalation then scorch to death. The teacher on duty unsuccessfully dials countless emergency numbers from his phone to request a fire engine, which might arrive too late. Within a minute, one sharp explosion goes off, then another, and another. Then silence. The teacher peers through the window of his house in the school compound. The fire is gone. There is total darkness, save for black smoke that’s barely visible in the darkness. Then all the trapped students rush outside. “Crazy?” asks Jimmy Kuria. “School fires are happening daily, dormitories are being razed to the ground, and it’s only time before we have, God forbid, deaths.” Your Weather Nairobi: Scattered thunderstorms during the day. Partly cloudy at night. Low 12ºC. High 21ºC. Winds ESE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. Mombasa: Partly cloudy during the day. Generally clear at night. Low 21ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Kisumu: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Partly cloudy at night. Low 18ºC. High 27ºC. Winds S and variable. Chance of rain 40%. Click here for the latest political news