 Former MPs
from the wider Meru, a few politicians who vied in last year’s polls and some
members of the business community paid a courtesy call on Raila Odinga to
support the March 9 handshake. In this
regard, we extended our support for the Building Bridges Initiative, and appreciated
his support for President Uhuru Kenyatta's war on corruption and impunity. The
partnership between President Kenyatta and Raila reflects on the Kenyan dream thus,
anyone opposed to it can only be a beneficiary of the impunity that has made us
poorer. We also
came to denounce some national politicians who have lately shown discomfort and
are openly sabotaging the handshake agenda, and dismissing Uhuru’s crackdown on
graft, restoration of the Mau Forest and recovery of riparian areas. The
meeting was not about endorsing Raila for 2022, as he has not indicated
interest in vying then. We also have to wait to know the full list of the candidates. At the
meeting, we made it clear that those rebelling against the President are like
the traitors who were bought by colonialists. We assured the President through the
former premier, that, though some of our leaders may be compromised, the masses
are fully behind him. In fact, excitement amongst the public is about high
expectations that finally Kenya has a united leadership that’s ending theft of
our hard earned public resources. We recalled the 1963 moment in Kenya’s
history, when Jaramogi Odinga stood with Jomo Kenyatta, just as Raila is
standing with Uhuru. The difference today is that the President and Raila won’t
repeat any mistake that led to the Jomo-Jaramogi fallout.  We urged Raila to continue backing the
President, as he mercilessly crashes all merchants of impunity in cleansing
Kenya of the Lords of Graft that fought Wangari Maathai for her protection of
our environment. Our people want all stolen cash returned for development. Mr
President, cleanse Kenya and that will be your best legacy. A Kenya free of
graft and impunity is the best guarantee to the achievement of your four
pillars. Mr President, bring down the towers of graft and erect towers of
integrity for all of Kenya's children to benefit. Crack the whip; sack those
sabotaging your noble efforts, fully aware that those complaining are unworthy
of your friendship. Be a friend of nature and of millions of citizens yearning
for a fresher, new prosperous Kenya. Thieves belong NOT to your palace but to
jail. We are fortunate that on this fight, you not only have the support of
Raila but also that of DCI George Kinoti and DDP Nordin Haji. These are true
sons of Kenya and true friends and allies to the Kenyan dream. We further applaud
the EACC for their latest excellent work as well as the journalists, who are doing
much to expose graft. Meru
leaders, who detest corruption and impunity, have formed the Ameru Handshake
Forum to support the fight against the two evils for united, prosperous and peaceful
Kenya. We call upon Uhuru and Raila (UhuRao) to visit Meru and other counties to
demonstrate what their new partnership portends for a new Kenya free of
corruption and impunity. We are with the people, while those against the war on
corruption are comfortable with looters. It is thus imperative that Mt Kenya
alliances speak in one voice: End corruption, and some dishonorableMPs stop
insulting Raila for doing what the majority of Kenyans are happy with. The war
on impunity of all kinds is a truly holy war, which cannot be won only by the
President, Raila and relevant government institutions. All Kenyans, who wish
this country well, have to join in by not only condemning it but also exposing
those hell bent on destroying Kenya for selfish gain.  The writer is a former Tigania West MP and vied for governor last year      