Nyandarua governor Francis Kimemia has warned his adversaries against trying to sabotage his administration or distracting him from delivering on his promises. He told his detractors yesterday in Ol Kalou town not to play “dirty politics”, saying he is a master of the game and can play dirty too. The governor did not name names. Kimemia referred to a failed bid to remove Finance executive Mary Mugwanja and her Trade counterpart Rose Wamuiya. The county chief reminded those keen to ruin his leadership that he influenced politics when he was the Interior PS in the Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta administrations. He said residents are concerned about quality services that raise their living standards — not self-seeking endeavours. The county will focus on improving roads, water supply, electricity connection and health facilities, among other things, Kimemia said. “In this regard, we don’t have the luxury of time with the enemy of peace, unity and development. It’s time to move fast and do what must be done,” he said. “It won’t be business as usual in the wake of concerted schemes to sabotage and subvert the county government.” He urged leaders to do their work and let others be so they can improve lives. Kimemia said he will not allow anyone to trouble him as they did his predecessor Daniel Waithaka. Development stagnated because of such selfish politics, he said. The county boss attended the opening of paved parking lot in Ol Kalou. It is part of the ongoing town upgrade in line with the World Bank Urban Development Plan. Concerning Kimemia’s reference to sabotage, some residents had petitioned the county assembly to sack the two executives, citing incompetence, abuse of office and gross misconduct. On Saturday, MCAs rejected the motion during a special sitting. Fifteen MCAs voted in favour of the petitioners, while 23 rejected the request. One member was absent. Kimemia thanked the assembly for standing with the executives and “voting for the light” at their hour of need. “You stood with the people and development. Development and Wanjiku will stand with you. The game has changed,” he said. Last month, Kimemia launched the County Integrated Development Plan for 2018-22. He aims to fast-track development through value-addition initiatives. They include agro-processing, building industrial parks, affordable finance and promoting small and medium businesses for women and the youth. Click here for the latest political news 