Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina has criticized Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua for introducing a myriad of traffic regulations in his county. Ole Kina said the new regulations are null and void since road traffic rules in Kenya must be backed by law. “Mr Speaker sir I want to really caution that any time we do something, it has to be backed by law,” he said. On Monday, Mutua said school buses found operating past 6:59pm in the county would be fined Sh50,000. He also said motorists whose vehicles emit smoke would be forced to part with Sh150,000 in fines. Mutua said the rules apply even to motorists on transit via the county to other locations. “In our country, every week, relatives bury their loved ones who have died as a result of road accidents many of which are preventable. It is our responsibility to do something to stop the massacre we face on our roads,” Mutua said during a press briefing in Machakos. Ole Kina said the night travel ban for school buses goes against the Transport Regulations Amendment Act 2017 which caps the deadline at 10 pm. He, however, said Mutua's new traffic rules had presented a perfect opportunity for the House to amend the NTSA Act and include the measures the governor wants implemented. Olekina was speaking on Tuesday during debate on the recent accident in Mwingi that claimed the lives of 11 pupils of St. Gabriel Academy. Read: [VIDEO] Eight pupils killed after school bus collides with lorry in Mwingi The senator supported proposals by a number of his colleagues that schools and long distance public transport buses should have two drivers at any given time to avert accidents caused by fatigued drivers. On obstruction, Mutua said it would attract a fine of Sh100,000, littering (Sh15,000 individual and Sh50,000 collective), while unroadworthy vehicles would pay Sh200,000. Other fines include a Sh20,000 fine for any missing light on a vehicle or motorcycle. Also read; Uhuru mourns eight pupils killed in Mwingi crash Click here for the latest political news