The government plans to sponsor diploma graduates seeking to proceed to university to pursue degree courses. Kenya University and Colleges Central Placement Service chief executive John Muraguri said students who have completed their national diploma will be considered in university placement under the government sponsorship. “This way, universities will be able to stop depending on Form 4 leavers during enrolment and widen their scope to diploma students, who will also have a chance to enjoy government capitation,” he said. But the plan will only be limited to students who have undertaken diplomas in institutions that adhere to national certified examiners like Knec and KASNEB. This will also allow public and private universities to be stripped off the power to teach diploma and certificate courses according to Commission for University Education chairperson Chacha Nyaigoti. This is to enable them to concentrate on research, teaching and innovation. In the past two years, some institutions of higher learning have been scrambling to enrol more students into their certificate and diploma courses as they fight to remain afloat. Read:Embrace Technical training to bridge skills gap, DP Ruto tells youth Muraguri said the plan is a game-changer that will enable universities to have many students, again. Most universities are grappling with low student numbers. In the past two years, less than 90,000 students managed to attain the cut-off mark of C+ to proceed to university. “This way, public universities will sustain themselves again because they will have bigger enrolment numbers and this means more revenue and more capitation,” Muraguri said. The Ministry of Education last week said it is on the final touches in putting across regulations under the Kenya National Qualification Framework to streamline progression of studies in higher learning by determining what level diploma holders attain to join a university. That decision is currently left to individual institutions. In the past years, diploma students joined universities at first year while others joined at second and third years. Under the plans, what the student graduates with in their diploma will determine at what grade they will join degree programmes. Also Read:'Arrest' looters of public funds, Uhuru tells youth Click here for the latest political news