Students without smart cards will not get money from the Higher Education Loans Board from September, CEO Charles Ringera has said. All beneficiaries joining universities this year were requested to acquire the cards. Egerton University, Technical University of Mombasa and Nairobi's Kenya Medical Training College were among the first to adopt the cashless cards launched in 2015. The card - Near Field Communication - that was first issued by the Kenya Commercial Bank will be used to disburse loans. Details: HELB loans on smartcards from September Speaking to the media at HELB's Anniversary Towers offices in Nairobi on Wednesday, Ringera noted that the cards will allow timely disbursement of loans and eliminate errors experienced in the past, such as when learners gave wrong bank details. “If you will not have the smart card, you will not get funding come September," he told students. "We want to eliminate experiences where vice-chancellors and deans of students release conflicting lists of beneficiaries making our work hard,  creating unnecessary pressure and in some cases causing money sent to bank accounts to bounce." The chief executive added that the move will also boost transparency amid reports of fraudulent dealings. The pre-loaded smart card allows college students easy access to their money. It is linked centrally to a sponsoring university/college. Also read: Helb defends smart cards Ringera said the 100 percent penalty waiver announced by Education CS Amina Mohamed between May 3 and July 31 saw 9,920 defaulters pay loans totaling Sh780.1 million. This, he said, helped reduce the number of defaulter accounts from 78,000 (Sh8.1 billion) to 61,000 (Sh6.6 billion). Students numbering 190,554 have cleared their debts. More on this: Amina gives Helb defaulters 100% waiver on penalties until June 30 HELB has disbursed Sh4 billion to 671,448 trainees since inception. Out of these, 396,329 loan accounts worth Sh47 billion have matured for repayment. The rest are being held by students who are currently studying. Amina, who attended Ringera's press briefing, directed all technical and vocational training institutions to use the smart card in the 2018/19 financial year to properly manage funds that the government has invested in the sector. Click here for the latest political news