Kenyans on Twitter have criticised Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko for releasing Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu's wife following her arrest on Wednesday. Wangare was arrested alongside 13 others on claims of putting up a building in Nairobi without City Hall approval. She was released on Sh80,000 bail after denying the charges of occupation of a
building structure without permission. The case will be mentioned on September 6. In a leaked recording, which was widely circulated on social media, Sonko promises Waititu he will release his wife but refuses to help the rest. Read: I'm under Uhuru's thumb, Sonko says, admits illegal release of Waititu's wife Also read: Waititu's wife among 14 arrested over illegal Nairobi buildings This did not go down well with Twitter users who said the governor's move to intervene in the arrest only proved the country belongs to the rich. "That video of Sonko telling Waititu’s wife that she will be released but he can't help the rest clearly shows wanyonge hawana haki (helpless have no rights)," Amal Abdul said on Twitter. Amal further questioned how Sonko was going to fight cartels yet he was "releasing those in his corrupt circle". Blogger
Abraham Mutai said the Nairobi governor demonstrated double standard
adding the country is a ‘Shamba la Wanyama’ ( Farm of animals). "Hii Kenya ina wenyewe (This country has its owners)," Xtian Ndela said. "Just like that Waititu's wife, Susan Wangare walks free thanks to Mike Sonko. Back to business as usual," he added. Twitter
user @Kinyan Boy acknowledged that Sonko had rightfully admitted to
breaking the law adding that "having connections was necessary in the
country". In the phone conversation, Sonko tells Waititu: "I am
breaking the law by securing the release of our wife. Call the boss or
Waita concerning the others." Embakasi MP Babu Owino said the video clip rubbishes all Sonko's purported efforts on the war against corruption. He
adds that in no uncertain terms should the law be adjusted to suit
one's class, title, religion, tribe or any other form of discrimination. Hezbon Mureithi said it was wrong for Sonko to record and leak a private conversation he had with his counterpart. Waititu's wife was arrested alongside Robert Rukwaro, Simon Ngare, Julius Mukala, Kyalo Musyoka, Dickson Mulinga, Paul Mutunga, and Johson Wambua. Others are Dickson Kyalo, Joseph Muiruri, Charles Mwanzi, Sammy Kithus, Alexander Mbithi and Paul Shivanga. Sonko further alleges that the directive is from above, implying that President Uhuru Kenyatta is controlling the ongoing crackdown on illegal buildings. Click here for the latest political news