Three Kenya Revenue Authority staff were on Wednesday charged with clearing substandard Egyptian brown sugar. Vivian Moraa, Monica Wacheke, and Stephen Ochieng' faced three counts related to the crime as well as abuse of office charges. The verification officers are accused of authorising the release of fake 5,000 bags of sugar to Flora Bakers Limited. The suspects were charged that between June 29 and July 11, they disobeyed the law by causing the release of the sugar. They allegedly committed the offence at Boss Freight Container Station at Kilindini Port in Mombasa. The sugar, the court heard, did not comply with standards and was supposed to be destroyed. The suspects denied the charges before Mombasa resident magistrate Martin Rabera. Through lawyer Jared Magolo, they urged the court to grant them reasonable bail terms. Magolo said the suspects' mandate did not include confirming if the sugar was not fit for consumption, and therefore, their bail should be fair. However, state prosecutor Wangare Mwaura told the court to apply the same conditions given to six other suspects and two companies charged with similar offences. She further sought orders to have the case consolidated with the other before the court. Rabera released the KRA officers on a Sh1.5 million bond with one surety or an alternative of Sh500,000 bail. He barred the suspects from going to their workstations. Rabera directed them to report at the Port Police DCI once per week. The suspects were also ordered to deposit their passports at the investigation office. The matter will be mentioned on September 6. Last week, Samwel Omolo and Daniel Khamba - all Kebs officers, Peter
Nzui (KRA), were charged with eight counts related the approval of
illegal sugar. They were charged alongside Ali Abdi, Hassan Abdi and Abdullahi Abdi, being directors of Flora Bakers Limited and Air Menzies. Among the charges are abuse of office and releasing sugar that is unfit for consumption. Also read: Two Kebs workers in illegal sugar probe blocked from offices Click here for the latest political news