Sirisia MP John Waluke yesterday became the latest politician to be arraigned to answer to charges of corruption. The MP was arraigned before Milimani Anti-corruption Court charged with several counts of fraud in relation to a contract his company Erad Supplies and General Contracts Ltd won to supply 40,000 tonnes of maize in 2004. He is a co-director of the company alongside Grace Wakhungu and the late businessman Jacob Juma. Wakhungu did not appear in court as expected and the court issued a warrant of arrest against her. Waluke was accused of uttering a false document. It is alleged on February 24, 2009, being the director of Erad, he knowingly and fraudulently uttered a false invoice for the sum of $1,146,000 (Sh114 million) to be used as evidence in the arbitration dispute between his company and the National Cereals and Produce Board. The alleged uttered invoice was to be used to support a claim for cost of storage of 40,000 tonnes of maize that was incurred by Chelsea Freight. Waluke also denied three counts of fraudulent acquisition of public property where it is alleged that on different dates beween March 19 and July 2, 2013 within Nairobi county, being a director of Erad Supplies and General Contracts Ltd jointly with his co-director Grace Wakhungu, they acquired public property valued at Sh313 million. According to the prosecution, Waluke and his co-director fraudulently acquired the money as costs of storage of 40,000 tonnes of white maize purportedly incurred by Chelsea Freight, loss of profits and interest. Wakhungu will separately be charged with a count of perjury for giving false testimony in the arbitration case between their company and NCPB. Waluke denied all four counts and pleaded with the court to release him on reasonable bond terms. He told the court he is an MP and so not a flight risk and will adhere to all conditions given by the court. The court also heard that Waluke presented himself at the EACC offices on Wednesday evening when he was called and also yesterday morning when he appeared. However, the DPP opposed his release on bail arguing that if released there is a likelihood that he will interfere with witnesses because of the influence he has as an MP. They also urged that court to deny the legislator bail because of the seriousness of the offense that he is facing. The MP was told to sign a personal bond of Sh5 Million and a surety bond of Sh3 million plus a Sh2 million cash bail. Click here for the latest political news