The procedures and standard
operations for all parliamentary committees are provided for under the law. A committee of Parliament is guided by the rules of the House,
which require us to adhere to some standard procedures. When
dealing with approval hearings, we are guided by the Public Appointments (Parliamentary
Approval) Act 2011. The Act requires the appointing authority to, upon nominating a
person for appointment, notify the relevant House of Parliament through the Speaker. The notification shall be in writing and lodged with the Clerk of the relevant
House of Parliament. The Act states that a notification of appointment shall
be accompanied by information concerning the nominee, having regard to the
issues. Upon receipt of a notification of appointment, the Clerk invites the committee
to hold an approval hearing. The committee determines the time and place for
the hearing and informs the
Clerk, who then notifies the candidate. The committee, in this case the Committee on Defence and Foreign
Relations, notified the public at least seven days before the hearing. As required of us
under the law, all our public proceedings on public appointments are open and
transparent. I don’t remember us deciding on our own motion or on the application
of any candidate or any other concerned person, to hold whole or part of our
sittings in camera. They were all open and the media covered them live. We focused on the candidate’s academic credentials, professional
training and experience, personal integrity and background. The law requires that any person may, prior to the approval
hearing, and by written statement on oath, provide the Clerk with evidence
contesting the suitability of a candidate to hold the office to which he/she has been nominated. We received
memoranda as usual, including one from Ahmednassir Abdullahi. The committee is not an investigating agency. Our work was to vet the nominee. The law
requires that once we receive memoranda, which must be in sworn affidavits,
then the nominee is given an opportunity to reply in the form
of sworn affidavits as well. There is no calling of witnesses to appear in
person during vetting. That is the law. The Defence and Foreign Relations committee chairman spoke to the Star yesterday.