Five senior officials at the Nairobi county assembly and a businessman were yesterday charged with several counts of corruption in relation to a tender for supply of books worth close to Sh1 million. Assembly clerk Jacob Ngwele was charged at the Milimani anti-corruption court alongside his deputy Adah Awour. Others charged include Philomena Kavinya (principal accountant), James Kariuki (senior procurement officer), Fredrick Mwangi (senior finance and planning officer) and Raphael Maluki (proprietor of Primara Ventures). They were jointly charged with conspiracy to defraud and it is alleged that between March 6 and July 5, 2017, with intent to defraud the Nairobi assembly, they flouted procedures in the procurement of books for their resource centre by irregularly paying Sh997,926 to Primara Ventures. Muvengei was separately charged with two other counts of abuse of office and willful failure to comply with procedures and guidelines relating to management of public funds. Awour, Kavinya, Mwangi and Kariuki were each charged with a count of abuse of office. Karuiki was charged with undue influence where it was alleged that on March 2017, he instructed Daisy Mueni of procurement to irregularly prepare quotations for four companies including Primara which was contrary to guidelines relating to public procurement. The court also heard that on July 5, 2017, Mwinzi, being the proprietor of Primara Ventures, unlawfully acquired Sh997,926 as payment for supply of books for Nairobi county assembly resource centre. They were each ordered to deposit a Sh600,000 bond or an alternative bail of Sh300,000 to secure their freedom. Chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi further directed them to each deposit their passport in court or evidence from immigration that they do not possess one. The court further barred them from accessing their offices at the county assembly unless they have a written notification conveyed to the county government and the investigation officer. In his ruling, the magistrate said the reasons given by the prosecution to deny the accused bail are not strong enough. He said the issue of the accused persons interfering with witnesses can be taken care of by the conditions he had set out for them. The prosecution had opposed bail saying the offences were a matter of national interest. The case will be mentioned on September 11. Also read: Nairobi Clerk Jacob Ngwele given last chance after skipping PAC grilling     