The government has unveiled a Sh300 million state-of-the art HIV testing laboratory. Prof Matilu Mwau, chief research officer at the Kenya Medical Research Institute said the new HIV Viral Load Testing lab has a capacity to test more than 300,000 Kenyans living with HIV in a day. He said the HIV Viral Load testing will help minimise the amount of time taken to analyse HIV samples in addition to providing more accurate results. Mwau said the machines currently being used take 11 to two weeks to have the HIV test results but with the new machine, this will take less than eight days. The researcher confirmed that to date, nearly 400,000 Kenyans do not know their HIV status and their goal is to have all these people tested. “Five years ago, more that 14 percent of the country’s population was infected. But today, thanks to the investment in infrastructure, people using medication, awareness, abstinence, people being faithful to their partners and the use of condom, the spread has reduced to about five percent. We hope this will reduce further,” Mwau said. Dr Napthali Agata, KEMRI chairman said the new technology of HIV Viral Load testing and monitoring is an essential requirement in not only monitoring patient’s response to treatment but also reducing the traditional waiting time in experienced in analysing of collected samples. He was speaking yesterday during the launch of a HIV Viral Load testing laboratory at KEMRI headquarters. Read:Kemri launches a three-year drive to evaluate HIV-Aids herbal therapy Dr Yeri Kombe, KEMRI director said the new facility will be a big boost towards realizing not only the institutions’ mission of improving human health and quality of life through research, capacity building, innovation and service delivery but also towards achieving the Universal Health Coverage. KEMRI has partnered with Roche Diagnostics, Swiss based manufacturer of biotech to unveil the second state of the art HIV Viral Load Testing and monitoring laboratory in Kenya. The new instrument, the Cobas 8800, is housed at the KEMRI headquarters in Nairobi and it is the second of its kind in Kenya following the installation of another one in Kisumu. Dr Severin Schwan, Roche CEO said they will also provide training for Kenyan laboratory technicians to operate the new system and provide sustainable pricing for the HIV Reagents through Roche Diagnostics’ access pricing as part of the company’s Global Access Program. “The UNAIDS 90:90:90 goals target that by 2020, 90 percent of people living with HIV will know their status. 90 percent of these will receive sustainable antiretroviral treatment and 90 percent of those on treatment will have sustainable suppression of their virus,” said Schwan. According to a report by Kenya Aids Strategic Framework, counties around the lake region of Nyanza have the highest number of HIV infections. Also See:HIV infant tracking system improves early diagnosis, care Click here for the latest political news