Former Mathare United first choice goalkeeper Robert Mboya says he does not regret moving to Tusker in June, where he has struggled to break to the starting team. Mboya mutually terminated his contract with Mathare in June and found a new home at Ruaraka despite being aware of the competition from Kenyan international goalkeeper Patrick Matasi and former national team goalkeeper and veteran Duncan Ochieng, who have pushed him to the bench. In a move aimed to strengthen the department, Tusker swapped Mboya for David Okello who signed for Mathare but barely two months at the club, the former remains largely unused as head coach Robert Matano prefers Matasi in league matches.On the other hand, Okelo found little competition from youngsters Job Ochieng and Emmanuel Otieno at Mathare filling in the void left by Mboya. The towering custodian says he does not rue his decision to sign for a club habouring competition for playing time unlike at Mathare, where he faced minimal rivalry from the budding Ochieng and Wycliffe Kasaya, who later joined Sofapaka in the same month. “I do not regret joining Tusker. It’s good to experience new challenge and new playing style. I am determined to prove that I am equal to the task at my new base despite competition in the goal-keeping department. Adapting to a new home calls for patience and discipline and soon I’ll settle and break to the starting team regardless of the competition.” Despite hunting for playing time without success in the past two months, Mboya is optimistic of breaking the jinx in the final five league matches besides cementing his place in the SportPesa Shield Cup should Matano hand him the starting role. Initially, Matano has been preferring fast-rising glove man Bryne Omondi in the Shield Cup and he is likely to hand Mboya his maiden start when they tackle Sofapaka in the quarter finals on September 1. “I am targeting to play in the final five league matches and the Shield Cup, where I am aiming to show that I am equal to the task. Matasi and Ochieng are experienced and dispensing them calls for patience and proving a point when given playing time. I normally work hard in training sessions and I am confident I will be a regular starter soon.”