The wave of school fires in the country destroyed property worth Sh48.3, Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ole Ntutu says. The rampage also led to the arrest of 379 students countrywide, he told MPs yesterday. Ntutu appeared before the National Assembly Education Committee where he promised that the ministry would work with school authorities and stakeholders to curb further unrest. “The total value of property destroyed in all the counties during the period is approximately Sh48,308,720,” he said. “A total of 379 students were arrested countrywide. However, after investigations, only eleven students were arraigned.” He said the government resolved to have all kiosks situated around school compounds removed to enhance security. But committee chairman Julius Melly (Tinderet) and his Runyenjes counterpart Eric Muchangi said the proposal, if implemented, would hurt myriads of innocent businesspersons countrywide. Read: Poor ministry policies behind school unrest, Sossion says in report to MPs “Under what law does a school principal call for a bulldozer to demolish kiosks neighbouring his or her school?” Melly questioned. Muchangi said: “There should not be blanket condemnation of businesspersons by accusing them of selling drugs and posing security threat to students.” Ntutu called on the Ministry of Education to come up with a clear policy on how to enhance security in schools. He said the Interior ministry cannot offer administration officers to all public schools countrywide but would only participate in vetting and approving private security guards deployed in the schools. “National Intelligence Service and the entire security organ is doing its best in enhancing patrols in the school vicinities,” the CAS said. The government has proposed that students and staff use identification badges in the institutions for easy identification and to weed out imposters. Recently, the government announced that it would encourage establishment of more day schools across the country to create affordable education for all deserving children. See: Politics, incitement and students' peer pressure sparked school fires – report Click here for latest political news