An Ebola outbreak in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo is
likely spread over tens of kilometres and poses a high regional
risk given its proximity to borders, a World Health Organization
(WHO) official said on Thursday. Four people have tested positive for Ebola in and around
Mangina, a town of about 60,000 people in North Kivu province,
100 km (62 miles) from the Ugandan border, the health ministry
said. Another 20 people died from unidentified haemorrhagic
fevers in the area, mostly in the second half of July. Just last week, a previous outbreak on the other side of the
Central African country was declared over after killing 33
people. "It would appear that the risk, as we can surmise for DRC,
is high. For the region it's high given the proximity to
borders, particularly Uganda," said WHO's emergency response
chief Peter Salama. "We are talking about tens of kilometres but I stress that
this is very preliminary information at this stage." Ebola is believed to be transported long distances by bats
and can find its way into bush meat sold at local markets and
eaten. Once present in humans, it causes haemorrhagic fever,
vomiting and diarrhoea and is spread through direct contact with
body fluids. Over 11,300 people died of an epidemic in West
Africa from 2013 to 2016. This is the vast, forested central African country's 10th
outbreak since 1976, when the virus was discovered near Congo's
Ebola river in the north. That is more than twice as many
epidemics as any other country. The response to Congo's previous outbreak was considered a
success despite the 33 deaths, as the use of a vaccine made by
Merck helped contain the virus. The kind of Ebola in the latest outbreak has been confirmed
as the Zaire strain that the Merck vaccine protects against,
Congo's health ministry said late on Thursday. This should allow
health officials to again use what has become the greatest
weapon against Ebola epidemics to date. Still, this outbreak poses new challenges. Eastern Congo is
a tinderbox of conflicts over land and ethnicity stoked by
decades of on-off war and this could hamper efforts to contain
the virus. About 1,000 civilians have been killed by armed groups and
government soldiers around Beni since 2014, and the wider region
of North Kivu holds over 1 million displaced people. "FAST AS POSSIBLE" Officials in Mangina rushed on Thursday to educate people
about the risks of spreading the virus in a town that one local
nurse told Reuters had no ambulance service. Agents were deployed to warn people about the need for
strict hygiene and the local radio station passed on messages
about how to act, a local journalist said by phone. "There is a great panic among the local population following
the appearance of the Ebola epidemic," said a nurse by phone,
who asked not to be named. The hospital where she works has already seen three people
die recently of haemorrhagic fever. The hospital was awaiting
help from the Red Cross to bury the bodies properly, she said. Meanwhile, Uganda has set up screening at the land border it
shares with Congo and at its Entebbe international airport. "Ebola is highly infectious so we have put in place
measures," Uganda's Junior Health Minister Sarah Achieng Opendi
told Reuters. An international delegation including officials from the
United Nations, the World Bank and the WHO is in Beni, 30 km
from Mangina. Also read: WHO hopes to use Ebola vaccine to stem outbreak in Congo Click here for the latest political news