An Eldoret woman has been sentenced to eight years in jail for partly peeling her husband’s genitals. Chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa on Monday found Erica Shihenda, 23, guilty of causing grievous harm to John Tsumala, 30, on May 22. He said the prosecution proved beyond reasonable doubt that Shihenda committed the offence and the court was satisfied she was cruel to the husband. Shihenda has 14 days to appeal. The court had heard that Tsumala was awakened at 2am by excruciating pain in his private parts. The mother of two had partially skinned his genitalia using a sharp knife. Tsumala had been deeply asleep at their Huruma estate home. He crawled out of the house and was taken to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital by well-wishers. Doctors repaired his penis. He reported to Huruma AP camp. The officers arrested Shihenda and presented her to the Eldoret Central police station where she was booked and later arraigned. “The complainant said he went through a lot of pain as a result of the incident. He crawled from his house and was helped by residents to get to hospital,” Obulutsa said. “The court has no choice other than to sentence the accused to eight years imprisonment.” Tsumala testified that they had quarrelled earlier. He said, however, that he never thought his wife would resort to such an act. “It was painful and brutal. I’m healing but I don’t think I’ll be the same again,” he said. On Monday, Tsumala welcomed the ruling. “It was difficult to settle the matter out of court. The law has taken its course,” he said. “I’m happy with the decision. It is a lesson to other women in our country who subject men to torture in their homes.” Elsewhere, a couple along with their son and daughter-in-law were arrested on Monday after police found an AK-47 rifle and 86 bullets at their home near Kesses in Uasin Gishu county. Eldoret South police boss Wilson Abduba said the son, identified as Joseph Kiptoo, is a wanted criminal and would be charged in court. He said officers from Vihiga county were part of the team that tracked Kiptoo. He has “committed many crimes” in Vihiga, Abduba said. “We will take them to court. Investigations are going on,” he said.