Baringo South MP-elect Charles Kamuren has pledged to act as a father, unite the people and ensure development. Kamuren said so on Saturday after the results of the election were announced by the IEBC. He won in his third try and losing to the late Grace Kipchoim in 2013 and 2017. “I will unite all the people of my constituency irrespective of their tribes, and whether they voted for me or not, for the sake of development," he said, noting it is time to focus on their needs. The constituency is mainly inhabited by the Ilchamus and Tugen pastoral communities. Marigat residents turned up in large numbers to celebrate with Kamuren shortly after 9 am, when IEBC Returning officer Paul Kones announced the results at Marigat Secondary school. Party agents, observers and the media spent Friday night at the school. Kamuren got 12,777 votes and was followed by Cynthia Kipchilat (Maendeleo Chap Chap Movement) with 8,968 votes, Paul Motoloi (Chama Cha Mashinani) with 355 and Sylvester Chepsergon (Republican Labour Party) with 17. Among those who joined the celebrations were Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Tiaty's William Kamket, Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis and Marigat-based human rights activist Amos ole’ Mpaka. Others were Irrigation Principal Secretary Fred Segor, Florence Sergon of the East Africa Legislative Assembly, former Baringo Deputy Governor Mathew Tutoek and several MCAs. The politicians praised Kamuren, saying he has implemented several of the projects Kipchoim started. They cited the clearing of payments for more than 14 secondary school buses and the promise to kick off road construction. Cheptumo said: "Now that a Jubilee candidate has won, it is evident that Baringo is locked. Deputy President William Ruto is free to tour the area to fulfill his development agenda ahead of 2022." “Losers of the by-election should embrace the handshake like [President] Uhuru [Kenyatta] and opposition leader Raila Odinga did and join the ship to unite and move our county forward." Click here for the latest political news