Over the past two to three months,
powerful individuals, including current and former governors, parastatal bosses
and senior government officials, have been arrested and charged with corruption
and abuse of office. It is noteworthy that this wave came after President
Uhuru Kenyatta publicly took a stand against graft. The new Director of Criminal
Investigations, George Kinoti, and Director of Public Prosecutions
Noordin Haji seem to be doing their part with regards to investigations,
arrests and prosecutions. Be that as it may, it is still too early to tell
whether these prosecutions will be successful since the average criminal case
in Kenya takes north of three years. Many have been sceptical about
the timing of this ‘new fight against corruption’. They wonder why the
President did not wage this war in his first term. They wonder whether this is
a knee-jerk reaction to the realisation that there might be no legacy to speak
of if things continue unchecked. I choose to look at it from
another angle. Hypothetically, If Kenya is the RMS Titanic, the captain is the
President, and the ‘Iceberg’ is corruption and abuse of power. The captain has been alerted that the vessel is about to hit an iceberg and would likely
sink. Would you choose to support the captain in his endeavours to avoid impact
and save the vessel and all of us in it, or would you start speculating as to
the captain’s motives? For now, I will support the
anti-corruption crusade as long as it will stop the wanton looting of our
resources and heritage. However, the law, due process and human rights must be
followed and observed throughout the processes. Any money stolen or
misappropriated by a public officer deprives Kenyans, especially the most
vulnerable, of human dignity, justice, healthcare, education, employment and
quality of life. Any programmes towards the Big Four, which promise to be a game
changer in terms of standards of living, will be futile if the culture of
plunder and looting of public funds is not tamed. A home-grown, grassroots and
national push for respect of every persons dignity, good governance, human
rights and accountability had begun during Kibaki’s first term. It was soon
thwarted by partisanship within the governing coalition. Eventually, human
rights, saving the Mau Forest complex, protecting riparian land and road
reserves were abandoned. Currently, the National
Environmental Management Authority, with other state agencies
such as the National Construction Authority, is demolishing buildings erected on riparian land in Nairobi. Ironically, the owners of most of the buildings being
demolished had somehow managed to obtain permits from the very same agencies. In line with Chapter Six of the Constitution, heads need to roll within these agencies. The demolitions are taking too many prisoners, especially innocent third parties. The sad truth
is, if Nema and others had followed the law and done their work diligently, none of these buildings would have been erected in the first place.
To go for the builders who wrongfully erected structures on riparian land, while
letting state agencies that facilitated the wrongdoing off the hook is
tantamount to ‘treating the symptom and not the cause’ or ‘putting
lipstick on a pig’. After eight
years of a new and progressive Constitution that established independent
agencies and bound all public officers to leadership and integrity
provisions, we should be very concerned that the anti-corruption war and
environmental conservation only took place after a presidential directive. This could be an indication
that our institutions have totally failed and only operate
when instructed. To them, media reports, public complaints and natural
disasters are mere noises that require no action, leading to zero
accountability. Under our constitutional system, every
government function is derived from the people and is for the benefit of the
people. Surely, Nema, the EACC and
others cannot justify ‘sitting on their hands’, waiting for presidential direction with regards to their own mandates, and how and when they
are to act on pressing issues. Why are they staffed with full time experts in
their respective fields?  Senior programmes officer, Article 19 Eastern Africa demaslaw@gmail.com  @kipdemas