Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong has denied he will support Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential bid. He said welcoming Ruto in Busia did not mean he has joined his camp. “Ruto is my close ally, just like President Uhuru Kenyatta, opposition leader Raila Odinga and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa. Our friendship is geared towards bringing development to the county,” Ojaamong said. He spoke during a funds drive at St Mark Bukiri Secondary School in Funyula on Saturday. The governor said leaders should stop politicking and focus on development and other challenges facing the people. “All these leaders are young in politics and when they approach me, I cannot chase them away regardless of their political affiliation. When the right time for politics comes, I will advise them accordingly. I have enough experience,” he said. Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala, Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi and her Busia counterpart Benard Wamalwa said leaders should join hands and work together for development. “It is important for our leaders to note that unity is paramount for us to fight corruption and poverty. Luhya unity will help Western leaders in their 2022 presidential bid,” Elachi said. On July 20, the Deputy President held a private meeting with Ojaamong at his Okiludu residence, after which the duo attended a funds drive at Kolanya Boys Secondary in aid of the construction of a dormitory and a new classroom. At the function, Ojaamong apologised to the DP for misleading locals to vote for the National Super Alliance, instead of Jubilee. “I apologise on behalf of my people for not giving you our votes. We cast in the wrong ballot, but this time around I promise that we shall walk together,” he said. The governor’s sentiments were not received well by local leaders allied to NASA. In the previous general election, Jubilee garnered 3,000 votes in Busia county, a region perceived to be an ODM stronghold. Funyula MP Oundoh Mudenyo said Raila loves the country and he has sacrificed immensely. “He was humble enough to say Kenya comes first and that is why he shook hands with Uhuru and agreed to forge ahead. Let us emulate him. He is not a coward but a human being who loves this country,” he said. Ojaamong and nine other officials face charges for allegedly engaging in a scheme to defraud the Busia government of Sh8 million. 