Kisumu has launched a Sh4.5 billion urban upgrade programme targeting roads, health and social facilities. “My government will rehabilitate the existing facilities before launching new projects. We must build for the future and create business opportunities,” Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said yesterday. Nyeri deputy governor Caroline Karugu accompanied the county boss on a tour of the projects. The French government is funding the programme. The Kisumu social hall will expanded for Sh63 million, the Lumumba heath centre for Sh113 million and the Kaloleni-Shauri Moyo road for Sh73 million. The social hall will have a new performance theatre, changing rooms, a bar, meeting rooms and a cafeteria. It will also have a new landscape, more office spaces, modern communication equipment and new seats. Lumumba health centre is being upgraded into a subcounty hospital. It will support the universal health coverage. Kisumu is one of the counties selected by the national government for a pilot programme. Once completed, it will have 120 beds — a significant improvement from the current 18. The facility will have a maternity wing, mother-child department, outpatient department, laboratories, operation theatres, consultation rooms and general, female, male and paediatric wards. The 1.4km Kaloleni road is being tarmacked for Sh73 million. It will have a new drainage system to prevent flooding. Nyong’o directed contractors to adhere to regulations and the best standards. He said traders along the Neselica Road will be relocated to Maendeleo Grounds to allow repair. The county chief urged city manager Doris Ombara to engage the traders to ensure smooth relocation. He said the county is keen to promote business and small-scale retialers must be accorded the necessary space so ongoing projects do not interfere with them. Nyong’o warned that his administration will not tolerate illegal structures. He told developers to comply with the law and structural regulations. The county will protect public property, including riparian parcels, he said. “We’re working on a new geophysical system that will ensure modern planning and zoning of the city,” Nyong’o said. Karugu praised Nyong’o and his team for “the good work”. She urged Kenyans to support the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. Their good working relationship has spurred economic growth and restored peace, Karugu said. “The unity pact is promoting intercounty integration and development,” she said.