ATTEMPTS TO FRUSTRATE RUTO BID WILL STRENGTHEN HIS
RESOLVE AND ENHANCE HIS CHANCES By Ochieng’ Kanyadudi, Political and Public Policy
Analyst Soon after the
swearing-in of Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto for a second and final term, things
did not look rosy in government. Schemes appear
to have been hatched to scuttle the succession plot as earlier anticipated.
Signs that all was not well begun to emerge as the Cabinet was being unveiled.
First, it took longer and when the President finally announced it, it was
incomplete. Then the camaraderie earlier displayed in the announcement of the
first Jubilee Cabinet was no more. Instead, the President appeared alone as he announced
the nominations to the nation. It was no longer
a coalition government. This was now one-party government, with a single head
determined to stamp his authority. The other sign was crafting of the Big Four
agenda, which appeared to have been done without consulting the partners. It
was not lost to keen observers that while Uhuru made the announcement at the
swearing-in ceremony, many leaders were caught unawares. It was a radical
departure from the campaign manifesto. The President was clearer on the need to
bear the responsibility of leadership for the country. Talk of the 2022
elections wasput in the back banner and focus was shifted to service delivery.
This was meant to secure his legacy, and it became necessary to reorganise the
government. Senior officers were shuffled, redesignated and redeployed at
Harambee House and State House. It was apparent the Deputy President was
playing insignificant roles in these grand exercises. Then out of the blues,
talk of “no debt owed” begun to filter from some key Central Kenya leaders. Coincidentally
or in a deliberate move, Uhuru reached out to his nemesis Raila Odinga in the
now famous handshake. The tension within the national political sphere eased
like a punctured balloon. With the strong opposition deflated, Uhuru now had
ample space to push his agenda as President without much encumbrances. The
country witnessed the thawing of hostilities that characterized the political
fabric for decades. In these mega events, Ruto seemed to have been left to play
catchup. Some people within the Jubilee ranks then launched overt schemes to
undermine the influence of Deputy President within the support base. Tiaty MP
William Kamket introduced a Bill to revise the structure of the Executive. The
intention was to expand it and create another centre of power. The position of
Prime Minister had been presented as a panacea to the heavily centralised
executive power at the presidency. However, this was immediately interpreted by
Ruto men, as attempts to water down the presidential powers as Ruto inched
closer to the throne. The handshake deal also begun to unfold and its key plank
was constitutional review. These two
processes could not have just been coincidental. Cotu secretary general Francis
Atwoli might have let the cat out of the bag a little too early. On Labour Day
he decleared that Uhuru was still too young to retire from politics. At the
same time he made it known that with Raila working with the president, Uhuru
did not to worry about anyone else. Pundits wondered whether he was not
speaking from a script. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu’s earlier lone voice in
opposing Ruto’s ascendance to the presidency received boost from other Mt Kenya
MPs. Soon, they were trouping to Capitol Hill to pay homage to Raila Odinga. As the Building
Bridges Initiative started to take shape, new alliances were being worked on. Raila
flew to Kabarak to visit the convalescing Mzee Daniel Moi. On hand to receive
him was Baringo Senator and Moi’s preferred successor son, Gideon. This is seen
as an attempt to bring in the hand of the old professor of politics into
mainstream national politics. A day later Ruto
was refused audience when flew to greet his political mentor. Mzee Moi was
reported to have been with his doctors. Observers saw this as a warning to the
man from Sugoi that he was not in the right company. Then came the high profile
corruption cases, where senior Jubilee leaders allied to the former URP wing
were hauled before courts. There was hue and cry that the renewed fight against
graft was targeting people close to the Deputy President. National Assembly
Majority leader Aden Duale could not bear the heat any longer.  He sensationally dragged in the president’s
family name in the ensuing parliamentary debate on the importation of poisonous
sugar duty free. The president’s response was swift — anyone culpable must face
the law even if it was his kin and kith. Then the Mau
debacle which saw Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen lead some Kalenjin
leaders to defy the government’s exercise to flush out illegal forest settlers.
However, it was in Charles Keter that the pain of isolation got clearly
demonstrated. The Energy CS was almost tearful as he bemoaned the departure of
the top management of Kenya Power. In one fell swoop, the entire management was
sent packing and arraigned before the courts on corruption charges. The latest clear
machination at scuttling Ruto’s rise to the presidency is by Kisumu Central MP
Fred Ouda. He is sponsoring a motion to stop the Deputy President from even
attempting to stand in the next election. The purge on
corruption and succession politics have assumed a dangerous ethnic dimesion. History is
replete with instances when attempts were made overtly or covertly to frustrate
the political fortunes of heir apparents. In the old Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, the Politburo considered Josef Stalin not a worthy successor of
Vladamir Lennin. The leaders thus erected numerous roadblocks on Stalin’s path
to the Kremlin. A little earlier, Adolf Hittler, a rank outsider in German
politics had outmaneuvered established leaders to become the Furer. In Kenya, Moi was treated to
almost similar circus as Jomo Kenyatta became frail with old age vagaries. His
friend during these tribulations, Mwai Kibaki, would later be subjected to such
misfortunes while serving as his vice president. These leaders have been able
to weather the storm and emerge victorious by dint of luck, hard work and sheer
tenacity. It should be noted that as the resistance to Ruto’s journey to State
House increases so does the intensity and expanse of his activities. He is more energized
and resolute as the challenges to his vision increase. He is building new
alliances and seem to ignore those not keen on his leadership. His opponents
seem to have reached desperate levels. They are releasing their arsenal in
quick succession and may soon ran out of options. The anti-Ruto forces have
exposed themselves too much too early unnecessarily. They have a clear
objective and strategy but are deficient in tactics, an essential war
ingredient. Leaders who are subjected to such indignified treatment always
benefit from their victimhood situations. People normally
sympathise with those seen to suffer mistreatment from authorities. Fortunately
for them, the forces ganging up against them never find a united front and a
single torch bearer to compete. The challenge is that these processes produce
likely insecure leaders. Insecure leaders naturally tend to be dictatorial and
ruthless. Stalin surmounted the obstacles of the politburo to become the
Secretary General of the Party. All those who frustrated his rise to the helm
were banished to Siberia or eliminated altogether. It has been argued that
Moi’s character as president was shaped more by the maltreatment he was subjected
to while serving as Vice President to Kenyatta. Therefore, if history should
favour Ruto then, the attempts to frustrate his bid will only serve to
strengthen his resolve. The fear should be what political character trait these
maltreatment will build in Kenya’s future president.