Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula has said his fellow opposition chiefs have abandoned Kenyans to join the government, instead of playing their oversight role. He said while it was important for Raila Odinga of ODM and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka to embrace the handshake, it will not solve all the problems Kenyans face. “While the handshake lowered the political temperature and brought peace. It is not 100 per cent positive. It will never bring a solution to election theft and the violence Kenyans face after every election,” Wetang'ula said. He said after the handshake, the country has been concentrating on the Building Bridges initiative but the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has not been reformed. “The country needs a law that will put to task IEBC officers who abet electoral fraud. They should face the death penalty handed to violent criminals as they are behind murders every electoral cycle,” Wetang'ula said. He was speaking on Saturday at Kegonga town in Kuria East, Migori county, during the homecoming ceremony of Nyabasi East MCA Mwita Motangi of Ford Kenya. Wetang'ula said he is the official opposition leader as Ford Kenya is the only opposition party in the country. "ODM and Wiper have crossed over to the government after my brothers Kalonzo and Raila received envelopes. I am the only NASA principal committed to opposition. The rest are packed in State House store," he said. Wetang'ula said the two have betrayed Kenyans and MPs allied to them amplify Jubilee Party ideas instead of playing an oversight role. "My brother Raila betrayed us. He went secretly to State House and cut a deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He did not even have the courtesy of letting one of us know. Do you trust such a person?" he said. Wetang'ula said Ford Kenya will chart its own political direction in the runup to the 2022 general election. He said he will to be the fifth president of Kenya. Kitutu Chache South Richard Onyonka, who accompanied the Bungoma senator, said the opposition should not fizzle out because of the handshake. "In Migori county, we will begin by meeting all potential aspirants for various seats in 2022 to strengthen our party ahead of the polls. The same will be replicated across several counties in Nyanza, where I am Ford Kenya coordinator,” Onyoka said. Kuria East MP Marwa Kitayama said the handshake should not be used to destablize Jubilee succession plan and revive the political ambitions of "some individuals". "We know that Uhuru's term ends in 2022 and thereafter DP William Ruto takes over. This should not change, even with the handshake. We are solidly behind the DP," he said. The leaders urged the government to keep up the fight against corruption.