The management of Mama Lucy Kibaki hospital has
protested the mushrooming of private clinics, pharmacies and laboratories
around the facility and demanded their licenses withdrawn. Medical superintendent Musa Mohamed has written to
the county government to cancel the operating licenses of the facilities saying
they are interfering with the operations of the hospital. Musa said that the operators have been directing
patients seeking services in the main hospital to their facilities, where they overcharge and offer substandard services thus tarnishing the name of the hospital. “The request for this letter is to request for the
intervention of the county governor through it various arms like licensing
department to withdraw the licenses of the facilities across the hospital,” reads
the letter dates August 2. The letter was addressed to Health services chief
officer and copied to Governor Mike Sonko. A spot check by the Star show that there are more
month than 30 private clinics, laboratories and pharmacies right opposite the
Mama Lucy hospital. More than 1,200 patients seek medical services at Mama
Lucy Kibaki hospital each day. However, the hospital has been grappling with
many challenges including lack of drugs and shortage of staff. It this high number of patients and lack of basic medical
supplies that has attracted the establishment of private facilities
around the main hospital. There have been claims the private facilities are
owned by doctors working at Mama Lucy but the Star could not independently verify
the claims. Some patients who spoke to the Star claim that the medics
have been referring them to specific facilities outside the main hospital for services
that are offered in the public hospital. Patients also claim they are referred to the facilities
for mainly laboratory tests and drugs. They are charged more than three times
the normal cost. “It is normal to be referred to the clinics because
sometimes you are sick or you have a patient and you are not that the drugs you
want are not available in the hospital. What do you do? You will buy it wherever
you are told to save yourself or relative,” patient Tom Ogalo told the Star at
the facility yesterday. This is the third time the hospital management is
seeking the intervention of the county government on the mushrooming of the private
facilities. He wrote to the county on April 10, 2014 and on September
6, 2016 but no action was taken to remove the facilities from the vicinity of
the main hospital.