A doctor has become the first
probable Ebola case in one of the eastern Democratic Republic of
Congo's most violence-ridden and inaccessible zones, a scenario
"we have all been dreading", the World Health Organisation said
on Friday. Since the outbreak erupted on Aug. 1, 103 confirmed and
probable cases of Ebola have been identified in North Kivu and
Ituri provinces, including 63 deaths, Congo's health ministry
said in an overnight update. A doctor living in the town of Oicha in North Kivu has been
re-hospitalised with Ebola symptoms after his wife was confirmed
as having the disease when she travelled to the nearby city of
Beni, said Dr Peter Salama, WHO's head of emergency operations. Oicha is almost entirely surrounded by ADF Ugandan Islamist
militia, and there are "extremely serious security concerns"
following many civilian killings, he said. Aid workers, priests
and government officials are held hostage in the area, he added. More than 100 armed groups operate in all of volatile
eastern Congo, including dozens in North Kivu. The doctor's initial test for Ebola - which causes vomiting,
haemorrhagic fever and diarrhoea - had been negative but fresh
results are awaited after retesting, Salama told Reuters. The
doctor is among 14 confirmed or probable cases among health
workers. So far 97 of the couple's contacts who may have been exposed
to the virus have been identified, and vaccination has begun in
Oicha, according to Salama. "So for the first time really we have a confirmed case and
contacts in an area of very high insecurity. It really was the
problem we were anticipating and the problem at same time that
we were dreading," he told a news briefing. WHO and health experts reached Oicha with armed escort by
MONUSCO troops this week from Beni along a road classified as a
"red zone" in terms of insecurity, Salama said. "We know from that incident now in Oicha we are going to
have to operate in some very complex environments due to
security and access concerns." Congo has experienced 10 Ebola outbreaks since the virus was
discovered on the Ebola River in 1976, altogether killing some
900 people. In another worrying development, angry youths burned down a
health centre in the village of Manbangu where vaccinations were
underway, after learning of a death from Ebola, Salama said. Jessica Ilunga, a Congolese health ministry spokeswoman,
later said there had been an incident there but denied that the
health centre had burned. The health minister had held talks
with local authorities to help calm the situation, she said. More than 2,900 people have been vaccinated against Ebola
since the outbreak began and another 10,000 doses are currently
available, Salama said. "We are at quite a pivotal moment in this outbreak in terms
of the evolution of the outbreak epidemiologically and in terms
of the response," he said. Click here for the latest political news