NYS Director General Matilda Sakwa has denied claims of cartels invading the institution. She said poor structures and systems are to blame for the massive looting that has happened in the past. Speaking in an interview with NTV, Sakwa said if proper procedures were followed in procurement and payment of the tenders money would not have been lost. "Whenever the name National Youth Service comes up, many people think of a graft-riddled institution on its knees. But for the last two months I have been here, I have not seen any cartels. They might be within and without but we can fight them with proper systems," she said. Sakwa said finance and procurement officers took advantage of the cartel-like movement to mint public money because they knew no one would trace them. "Just the other day someone came demanding about Sh7 million for goods. She could not produce a requisition note or the LPO, but she only demanded payment with a delivery note. Can you in your sober mind process such payment?" she asked. Sakwa has recruited new suppliers and began vetting them through the Registrar of Companies. More of this: I will kick out the cartels at NYS - Matilda Sakwa Read: NYS suspect Lillian Omollo sacked as PS, replaced by Francis Owino Also read: NYS suspects risk Sh58m in fines, one year in jail if convicted To end the delivery of goods without LPO's, the service will give a two-year contract to the selected suppliers, she said. "We have brought in new procurement officers and new auditors. Cash has been decentralised to our branches across the country. Before we make any payments, we look at the LPO, delivery and acceptance notes and seek expert opinion," she said. Sakwa said the headquarters on Thika Road was in charge of all the money and suppliers. It sent goods to NYS branches in Naivasha, Manyatta, Turbo, Gilgil or Mombasa without proper verification, she said. "NYS is a big institution with a population of more than 59,000 service men and women. In a day, we spend about Sh15 million. It is easy for someone to process illegal payment," she said. Sakwa said since NYS is a department in the Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender, it is possible for the agency's cash to be diverted for other uses since the PS is the accounting officer. "When we become autonomous it will be easier to manage funds and plan activities. The Director General will be CEO and the accounting officer. The board will play an oversight role," she said. "If NYS becomes autonomous the CEO will take responsibility for any loot, but currently it is difficult because the DG has no control over money." Sakwa decried Parliament's decision to slash their budget from Sh22 billion to about Sh8.9 billion. She said it is affecting operations. "We owe the youth about Sh1.1 billion under the Youth Empowerment Project. We wanted to pay them this financial year but are unable because of the budget cut. We hope Parliament approves our supplementary estimates," Sakwa said. Click here for the latest political news 