“Homes of
30,000 people in Kibera demolished to make way for a road,” BBC World Service
reported. On the day this was reported, one of us had given a presentation on
human rights at a workshop. Another
presenter suggested that governments might be embarrassed to be shown up
internationally as seriously violating human rights. Your author responded, “I
am not convinced this has any impact. The government shows no shame.” The response
of our government over the Kibera evictions was reported as being, “They were
there illegally”. Despite being
lawyers, we want to suggest that such a legalistic approach is a complete
violation of the Constitution. The
Constitution is the product of a vision. It was the vision of the people of
Kenya: They were fed up. Fed up with tyranny, with lack of accountability, with
lack of respect, with the accumulation of national resources and power in a few
hands, with the capture of the state for personal gain. The
Constitution of Kenya Review Commission in its Short Report, which accompanied the first
draft Constitution, said this: The Review Act speaks of the needs of
marginalised communities. You might almost say the Commission found a
marginalised nation. … The whole nation feels alienated from the government and
structures of authority. People feel neglected and victimised. They consider
they have no control over their life or destiny. It did not,
though it might have, say Kenyans wanted to be free of what Shakespeare called
the “arrogance of power”. CONSTITUTION
DRAFTERS’ RESPONSE Let’s begin at
the beginning: The Preamble. It speaks of the people being committed to
“nurturing and protecting the well-being of the individual, the family,
communities and the nation”. And recognises that all Kenyans long for “a
government based on the essential values of human rights, equality, freedom,
democracy, social justice and the rule of law”. The
Constitution goes on to say that the people of Kenya are sovereign. What does
this mean? If it is not empty words, it means that the country belongs to the
people. All the people. It does not belong just to the wealthy, the politically
connected, the obsessed with their own power. It must mean that it is a total
negation of the constitution that follows to ride roughshod over the lives,
livelihoods, homes, happiness and prospects of thousands of fellow citizens. Early in the
Constitution is the Bill of Rights. Its purpose is made clear: “To preserve the
dignity of individuals and communities and to promote social justice and the
realisation of the potential of all human beings”. It later says, “Every person
has inherent dignity and the right to have that dignity respected and
protected”. How do you
respect the dignity of people, achieve social justice and enable people realise
their potential by grinding into the dust their birth certificates, their
school certificates, their mementos and their hopes? The Constitution
says: “Every person has the right … not to be subjected to any form of violence
from either public or private sources … or treated or punished in a cruel,
inhuman or degrading manner”. Violence is not just a matter of personal force.
Treatment is not just about medical treatment. The
Constitution shows particular care for older members of the society, and
minorities and marginalised groups and children. “A child’s best interests are
of paramount importance in every matter concerning the child”. Everyone (and
minorities and marginalised are particularly mentioned) has a right of
reasonable access to water and health services. The elderly have the right to
live in dignity and respect and be free from abuse; to receive reasonable care
and assistance from the family and the state
(not to be hounded out of their homes by that state). EVICTION
STANDARDS Everyone, the
Constitution tells us, has the right to housing. No one can deny that sometimes
people have to lose their homes in order for important development to take place.
But the Land Act was amended to provide for evictions to be as decent as
possible, in provisions at least intended to implement the Constitution. It says
evictions must be carried out in a manner that respects people’s dignity, right
to life and security. There must be special measures to ensure protection of
women, children, the elderly, and persons with disabilities. There must be
special measures to ensure there is no arbitrary loss of people’s possessions,
and no more force used than necessary. How can
indiscriminate use of bulldozers possibly respect these rules? Kenyan courts
have also said that evictions must be planned to avoid disrupting schoolwork,
and take account of weather conditions. Instead, people are evicted in a particularly
cold July and in the closing weeks of the school term. Courts have
also indicated the need for engagement with communities before evictions take
place. DISTORTED
PRIORITIES The dismal
truth is that our so-called leaders, and the people who do their will, are
blind to the vision of the Constitution. The notion that a person who lives in
Kibera or Korogocho or Mathare (and indeed, 60 per cent of Nairobi residents live
in informal settlements) is just as worthy of respect and dignity as the
well-heeled, well-fed and comfortably housed is beyond their comprehension. In
truth, the Constitution is beyond their blinkered ability to comprehend. The
Constitution does not value roads more than footpaths, cars more than people,
grand railways and glass office towers more than those who are forced to live
and do business in mabati shacks and kiosks. The
Constitution shows preference for rights over law. It means it is not an
adequate answer to say only “they were there illegally”. DOING THINGS
DIFFERENTLY? Large-scale
evictions are not easy anywhere. That must be admitted. Indeed, it is precisely
because of this that the United Nations adopted Guidelines on Development-Related
Evictions, which were relied upon by our courts when they laid down guidance on
evictions, and are imperfectly reflected in the Land Act. But the truth
is that the Kenyan authorities are not just uncaring, lacking empathy for the
people who elect them and whom the Constitution says they are supposed to serve
rather rule. They are also incompetent. It cannot be
beyond the wit of public servants to think things through from the beginning.
What is the best route for a road (preferably to avoid human suffering as far
as possible)? Can the land be gradually cleared, ensuring that people have
places to go, and that is not just structure owners (themselves squatters) who
get compensated? HOW MUCH
LONGER? Doesn’t all
this make the President’s Big Four promises sound a bit empty? Most of the
people evicted would never be able to afford even his “affordable” housing. When will the
government, national and county, develop a real plan for Nairobi, including a
strategy for informal settlements, which is more caring and sophisticated than a
bulldozer? When will they learn that it needs an integrated, evidence-based,
publicly debated and approved approach, which will ensure decent, affordable
public transport, not just off-the-cuff ideas that go nowhere, like the
lipstick lines? How long can
Kenya’s elite get away with treating so many citizens with such scorn and lack
of respect?