Nakuru County Jubilee Party officials have summoned two MCAs who engaged in a fist fight on Tuesday within the precincts of the Assembly. Peter Cheruiyot, the County's Party Secretary General in a letter summoned the Jackline Manyara and Joyce Anyiso to appear before the disciplinary committee to explain the circumstances that led to the fight. "You are both accused of violating ethics and integrity laws by fighting within the county assembly premises where you also used unprintable and vulgar words," read part of the letter. "As you are aware, Jubilee Party constitution expects highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct from its elected and nominated members as part of respecting, defending the constitution of Kenya," said Cheruiyot in the letter. Read: Drama as two Nakuru MCAs engage in fist fight over boyfriend The two MCAs were having lunch at the county assembly cafeteria when the incident occured. Prior to the Tuesday afternoon incident, the two had exchanged insults via text messages with one accusing the other for snatching her boyfriend. Assembly orderlies assisted by other female MCAs intervened and seperated the two after a bitter verbal exchange qucikly escalated into a fist fight. The Leadership and Integrity Act bars state officers from engaging in activities that can bring the offices they hold into disrepute. "A State officer shall conduct private affairs in a manner that maintains public
confidence in the integrity of the office," reads section 32 of the Act. Section 34 states that a State officer shall not bully any person by use of repeated offensive
behaviour which is vindictive, cruel, malicious or humiliating and is intended to
undermine a person. This was not the first time MCAs at the Nakuru Assembly fought. On March 10, MCAs at the house came to blows inside the assembly after differing over the ouster of former Majority leader George Mwaura. Read: Blows, kicks at Nakuru County Assembly after MCAs reject motion to dismiss Majority leader Click here for the latest political news