The meteorological department has sent an alert of impeding heavy rains that are likely to cause flash floods in various parts of the country beginning next week. Acting director general Peter Ambeje said in a statement on Friday the rains will kick off on Monday, March 12. The weatherman said the showers will be experienced in Western, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Northern, Southeastern, Coast, Central and Nairobi. Ambeje said the rainfall will hit a high of more than 40mm within 24 hours in Nairobi, Western, Central, South and Central Rift Valley from Tuesday. "The rainfall will, however, not be as heavy as the one experienced in the recent wet spell," he said. He spoke even as motorists were stranded for several hours at Suswa after flood waters cut off the Narok-Nairobi highway. On Saturday, March 3, heavy rains visited most parts of the country causing major traffic snarl-ups on some roads for up to 20 hours. The flood waters rendered the road impassable. Those using the Mombasa-Nairobi highway also spent the night in the cold last Saturday after heavy rains caused heavy traffic jam between Athi River and Makutano Junction. Read: Motorists spend night on Nakuru highway Ambeje said the forthcoming rains will continue until Friday, March 16, in counties within the aforementioned regions. They are Kisii, Kericho, Bomet, Narok, Migori, Kakamega, Kajiado, Nakuru and Kwale. Others are Marsabit, Wajir, Nyeri, Mombasa, Machakos, Murang'a, Kiambu, Turkana and Isiolo. "Counties which border Tanzania such as Narok, Kajiado, Taita Taveta and Kwale will start experiencing moderate rainfall from Saturday, March 10," Ambeje noted. He advised residents in the mentioned areas and those in neighbouring counties to be on the look out for flash floods that may occur as the result of the heavy downpour. "Flash waters may suddenly appear in places where it has not rained heavily and can be deeper and fast moving than it appears." "Please keep to safer grounds until the flooding subsides," Ambeje said. He advised against walking or driving through such waters. Click here for the latest political news    