ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi’s spokesman Kibisu Kabatesi yesterday told Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya to stop dreaming of becoming President on the ODM ticket. Let him join other leaders in pushng for electoral reforms, Kabatesi said. He said Oparanya isn’t thought of as a successor in ODM, but a prospective defector. “Oparanya should give us a break! NASA leaders are engaged in a life and death process for the survival of the country. They don’t need busybodies,” he said. Oparanya declared he would be on the ballot in the 2022 polls on the ODM ticket after serving his second term as governor. Speaking during a funeral last month in Khwisero, Butere, he said, “You have seen how we have worked to transform Kakamega. In 2022, I will be looking for a higher seat.” TIME TO RECIPROCATE Oparanya said he has performed as governor and has what it takes to run for a national office. He said he has helped politicians from the Mulembe nation and it is time they reciprocate. Oparanya asked Mudavadi and Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetang’ula to back his bid. Oparanya has not supported either of them. He backed Raila Odinga in 2007 and in 2013, when Mudavadi ran on the UDF ticket and came a distant third. Oparanya also supported Raila last year. Speaking in Khwisero on Saturday, Oparanya challenged NASA affiliate parties to brace themselves for battle in 2022. “It is time for constituent parties in NASA to go back to the drawing board and strengthen themselves,” Oparanya said. On Sunday, Oparanya said NASA is past its usefulness and should be disbanded. He said NASA was purely meant for the 2017 presidential race as affiliates fielded their own candidates. However, Kabatesi cautioned him not to burn bridges. “In any case, none of the three NASA principals holds Oparanya’a fate as he seeks to run on the ODM ticket. The ODM lineup is flooded,” he said. He said a wiser and more popular leader with national stature, ODM boss Raila, recognises the importance of unity in NASA. “Raila joined the NASA coalition knowing ODM could not hack it alone. How the governor expects to make it on his own from an area where ANC has made gains beats logic,” he said. Oparanya’s entry into the race for the top seat will most likely complicate the arithmetic in Western Kenya, where Mudavadi and Wetang’ula are also eyeing the seat. Click here for the latest political news