HAS NASA leader Raila Odinga changed his mind about the
fundraising mode popularly known as Harambee? The Opposition chief, who has
been consistently critical of harambees exploited by former President Daniel arap Moi and emulated by Deputy
President William Ruto, surprised
supporters on Sunday when he attended a Rongai church harambee and coughed up a
huge contribution. One Wiper MP was heard yesterday wondering aloud what might
have changed Raila's anti-Harambee stance. ***** A top official at the
Office of the President was heard telling his friends — top CEOS and directors
— at the Muthaiga Golf Club during the Kenya Open that government intimidation
no longer works against the current generation. The man, in his 50s, said the
best thing to have happened to the Jubilee administration is NASA chief Raila Odinga accepting to work with
President Uhuru Kenyatta. The
official, who voiced his bitterness against Cambridge Analytica for taking
credit following the last polls, said, “It is a complicated series of a
generation who cannot easily be swayed by propaganda and they know much.” He
said a number of Cambridge Analytica tactics fell flat on their faces. ***** JUST who is the ghost junior
law clerk calling the shots in City Hall's legal department?  Officers in
the department, including senior advocates, say the officer has been
bragging in City Hall corridors, calling herself an advocate. She has
attended at least six forums abroad this year, including a recent lawyers’
forum held in Tanzania. She decides which officers in the department attend
various forums and workshops. A mole tells Corridors the officer is a close
friend of a senior officer in the department. The employees in the department
are now calling on Governor Mike Sonko
to intervene. ***** KISUMU residents are now
demanding that Inspector General of Police Joseph
Boinnet come to their aid before they are killed by private gun owners, who
are allegedly misusing their weapons. In the past three months, a number of
private gun holders have been on the spot for brandishing their weapons at the
slightest provocation, especially in social joints. Just last month, a senior
Kisumu county official was on the spot after he pointed a loaded Ceska pistol at
a colleague over a small disagreement. Yesterday, an MP from Siaya county
threatened to shoot a man he accused of testifying against him during a court
petition challenging his win. The MP is said to have alighted from his car with
his pistol pointed at the helpless man, attracting a huge crowd in the city.
The residents now want Boinnet to act, claiming that the private firearms are
being used to settle even minor scores.  Click here for the latest political news