Destruction of riparian areas will increase pollution of rivers, the National Environment Management Authority has warned as heavy rains persist. Elgeyo Marakwet Nema director Sally Kiboss said sewage and solid waste will end up in rivers following the heavy rains, and may lead to spread of waterborne diseases in villages where residents draw water from rivers. Kiboss said riparian areas have been turned bare after irresponsible logging. This, she said, will leave rivers at risk of pollution during rainy seasons. “Riparian reserves should be conserved because they hold soils and absorb agrochemicals that could find their way to rivers,” Kiboss said. She also warned that agrochemicals will be swept to rivers as farmers in agriculturally productive regions begin planting. Encroachment of wetlands is exposing rivers to pollution and poisoning. Residents drawing water from rivers risk consuming poisoned water. Deposits of fertilisers are likely to encourage the growth of water plants and alter biodiversity in rivers and swamps. Governor Alex Tolgos blamed degradation along the escarpment and the Kerio valley on charcoal burning. He said some unscrupulous charcoal traders are burning charcoal in Elgeyo Marakwet and transporting it using licences from the neighbouring Baringo county. He said charcoal burning was banned in the county in 2015 and the ban has not been lifted. MORE LANDSLIDES Meanwhile, the meteorological department has warned of increased landslides thanks to deforestation. Heavy rains have pounded many parts of the North Rift in the past two weeks. Elgeyo Marakwet Met director Simon Cheptot said areas along the Kerio escarpments may experience landslides. He said massive logging in several areas along the Kerio escarpment have left the ground with cracks during the dry season. “Rainwater will penetrate the earth through such cracks and is likely to trigger some earth movements,” he said. “People have cut down trees and this may have several effects in areas with loose soils,” he said. Areas in Marakwet mapped out by authorities as prone to landslides include Embolot, Embobut, Endo, Kaben, Mumol, Kapcherop, Chebororwa and Kipsaya. Other areas include Kapchemutwa, Anin, Keu, Kabechei, Epke, Kocholwo and Turesia in Keiyo. Cheptot said cracks have been witnessed in some of the landslide prone areas. He told locals to move to safe areas when they spot cracks or earth movements near their homes. “We are asking locals to be on the lookout. We are likely to experience lightning and we advise residents to avoid taking cover under trees whenever it rains,” Cheptot said. He said long rains will continue to pound most parts of the North Rift from Monday, through to June.