Parents from Garissa County have expressed their fears over the possibility of their children being locked out of the ongoing registration of school children as the March 31 deadline fast approaches. The exercise started in January and is meant to register all schoolgoing children in a national data base, with all their details captured therein. Parents from the six sub-counties of Hulugho, Balamabala, Lagdera, Dadaab, Ijara, Fafi and Garissa Township have been flocking the Huduma Centre in search of their children's documents required in the registration. However, the exercise was moved to the county commissioner’s boardroom to ease congestion but did not help matters. As a result, its was last week again relocated to the central chiefs' camps. Speaking to the press in Garissa town, Hassan Osman, a parent, said there is a possibility that hundreds of students might be locked out of the exercise because the staff issuing the certificates are overwhelmed by the huge turnout. “The government should move in fast and bring a solution to this problem that is slowly getting out of hand,” Hassan said. “We suggest that the exercise should not only be decentralized to the sub-counties but personnel working on the certificates should also be ncreased,” he added. Hassan said as a result, conmen and brokers are now taking advantage to extort money from unsuspecting parents whom he claimed were working with some rogue civil registration clerks with the promise that they will fast track their certificates issuance. Area MP and national assembly majority leader Aden Duale over the weekend also accused the civil registrar of condoning corruption and threatened to have him investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officials. “I have received a lot of complaints from wananchi over corrupt practices at the civil registrar’s office. We want the EACC to investigate these allegations,” Duale said. Duale said that more clerks should be engaged and posted to the sub-counties to ease congestion at the Garissa town offices.     