Last Friday’s event continues to raise more questions. Complains abound on both sides of the divide about lack of consultation by the protagonists. This event is momentous and will go down in our history as one without precedent, but with the potential to alter Kenya’s political DNA. It threatens the future of some leaders and promises good fortune for others. Careers will be made as others are shattered; new leaders will emerge as some current front runners are consigned to political dustbins. It was presented by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga as the beginning of the healing process for Kenya. But of significance was the establishment of a joint office, led by Ambassador Martin Kimani and lawyer Paul Mwangi, to work on the logistics. This is an indication that Uhuru and Raila will be engaging as leaders of the nation. They pledged that Kenya will not go down as a failed state under their stewardship, an admission that they bear the ultimate responsibility for the nation. They demonstrated that they are able to make decisions without over-reliance on their handlers’ advice. They thus showed rare qualities of statesmanship and commitment to Kenya. As the weekend came to a close, strategists on both sides of the divide were reassessing their new roles in the emerging dispensation. Every one is trying to find out if they are still relevant and if so in what positions. The coming together of Raila and Uhuru is the best opportunity for the country’s stability and economic development. The political buccaneers who profit by exploiting the animosity between Raila and Uhuru have been rendered irrelevant and have to repackage themselves. The rank and file of both NASA and Jubilee will have to re-engineer themselves to fit into the new framework of political engagements. Both leaders have determined to secure their respective legacies as they approach the sunset of their leadership. Their foot soldiers have to shape up or ship out. The country is likely to witness renewed patriotism and enhanced economic growth. Investor confidence will increase and the decline that had begun to set in will be reversed. The polarisation that had reached an alarming fever pitch will end and the nation will be set on a secure path of reconciliation. The government will most likely stop the victimisation of opposition leaders and the discrimination against perceived opposition regions. Kenya will experience inclusivity in its development endeavours and a return to happy hours akin to 2003. Those who had organised their 2022 political plans on the basis of the Raila-Uhuru rivalry have to reevaluate their strategies. It is now clear that the 2022 election will be largely influenced by the two leading Kenyan politicians. If they nurture this pact to fruition till 2022, then none of their current heirs apparent is assured of any deliverables. Each of the politicians seeking to occupy State House in 2022 will have to contend with the ramifications of the national unity leadership. As the structure and form of the partnership unfolds, it would be interesting to see how the principals reorganise their political households and reposition their lieutenants. What is for sure is that alliances will be recrafted and new ones established. Sections of NASA will join up with sections of Jubilee to create a new outfit, while it is now evident that NASA will not participate in the 2022 election as it is currently constituted. Jubilee will itself suffer the burden of internal squabbles and may not survive the curse of an outgoing incumbent. However, Kenyans will reap the full benefits of a united country under the stewardship of Raila and Uhuru working together. Political analyst 