Ulinzi Stars’ head coach Dunstan Nyaudo has welcomed the return of midfielders Collins Ochieng and Enosh Ochieng, who have been sidelined for the better part of the season with injuries.
Enosh was nursing a metatarsal injury sustained in the opening game of the season as the team beat Zoo FC 4-2 while Collins was out with a thigh muscle strain picked in pre-season. The two played a part in the 1-3  friendly loss to Tusker.
The coach believes with the duo’s return, which definitely boosts his options, the team will be much stronger . He, however, has his reservations over their match fitness even though he acknowledges that’s the smaller problem compared to their journeys through recovery.
“Collins is coming up well apart from the fact that he doesn’t have the match fitness he requires so much at this level.  He remains part of my future plans and probably we will see him play before June because he has strong passes and is a good tackler; the kind of player you can always plan with in mind. Enosh has been training but he also has the match fitness issues though he is coming up well right from training,” Nyaudo said on the club’s official portal.
Nyaudo paid more attention to key aspects in the team’s performance in the friendly match against Tusker rather than the 1-3 loss picked in the clash at Ruaraka over the weekend.
The soldiers, coming from a 2–2 draw with Posta Rangers in the league, opted for a training match with Tusker, having played the Brewers two weeks back and won 1-0 . He noted that the key aspect of the game he was looking at was the build up from defence.
In reaction, he said he is impressed at the team’s pressing and having rested a number of key players, including defenders Oliver Ruto and George Omondi, as well as Churchill Muloma, he was also pleased at the input of the selected players.
“I am happy with the pressing part of our game. The way we were pressing from midfield and coming up from the defence and generally the build up was the more important aspect of this game for me.”
“I rested four players who are my regular starters because they have always been playing since we started the season till now. I wanted to test those who have not been playing so that I can see how well they can fit into the team. You are never sure what will happen when you lose that player you depend on so much,” he said. The team is currently in camp, preparing for the game against Kariobangi Sharks.