The Controller of Budget wants the number of MPs, Senators, MCAs and constitutional commissions reduced so billions of public money is not wasted. Agnes Odhiambo made the recommendations before the National Assembly Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee on Thursday. The committee discussed the social economic impact of the implementation of the Constitution. She proposed the reduction of the number of counties and the consequent slashing of the number of Senators, MPs and MCAs. Odhiambo said the task force gauging the social economic impact of the Constitution observed that the higher number of lawmakers has affected the country’s economy. “Instead of abolishing the Senate in its entirety, perhaps there should be appropriate reduction in the number of county governments which will automatically reduce the number of Senators, constituencies and wards,” Odhiambo said. Currently, National Assembly members number 349 members and Senators 68. The Controller of Budget also recommended a reduction in the number of commissioners. “The Constitution provides that commissions shall consist of at least three and not more than nine members. Parliament may consider reviewing the mandates of various commissions and identify the need for mergers and reduction of the number of commissioners,” she said. “Parliament therefore, may consider reviewing the mandates of the various commissions and identify need for merger and reduction of the number of commissioners.” Odhimbo further urged Parliament to formulate legislation for commissions and bosses of various independent organs to serve on part time basis. "[This] may however not apply to holders of Controller of Budget and Auditor General positions as the responsibility of discharging the mandate is placed on individuals holding the office,” she said. She proposed the establishment of the County Government Ward Development Fund to separate the roles of MPs and MCAs and prevent duplication of duties. Odhiambo further proposed that Parliament amend the Constitution to allow Cabinet Secretaries and County Executives to be chosen from elected legislators. “This is the system we had before. For the proposal to work, there may be need to change the governance structure,” she told the committee chaired by Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni Appearing separately before the committee, Auditor General Edward Ouko said he will track down the movement of billions of shillings proposed in the 2018/19 budget policy statement. The statement was presented by the National Assembly Budget and Appropriations Committee. Ouko said his team will help Parliament to track funds channeled to various government agencies in the forthcoming budget. He told the committee that he plans to thoroughly crackdown on embezzlers of public resources. “We will audit and track movement of funds in the next budget by partnering closely with the Budget committee,” Ouko said. “How can ministries request increased resources in every budget cycle for administrative purposes? We really need to check on some of these things.” The Auditor General pledged to set bases in all the 47 county governments so as to tame rogue Governors squandering public funds. “Devolution was an overnight approach which gave Governors mini-powers and lots of cash without proper structures. There were many cash withdrawals but we rapidly audited them and sealed the excesses lost,” Ouko said. He noted: “My capacity is to be custodian of enough information to help Parliament oversight funds. My office should be implanted in the counties to reduce wastage in the counties.” Click here for the latest political stories  