Most constituency development has stalled as the national government has not released cash. MPs have protested against delay in disbursing national Constituency Development Fund cash seven months since they took office. Of the Sh26.5 billion CDF allocation for 2017-18, the government has only released Sh10 billion to be shared among 290 constituencies. CDF Board chief executive officer Yusuf Mbuno yesterday said he sent the money to the constituencies where project proposals had been approved. Read: 'Broke' Treasury plans to slash county budget by Sh15 billion He could not confirm the exact number of constituencies that benefited from the Sh 10 billion. The Board has received project proposals from 247 constituencies anapproved 159. Some have received funding, others will wait for more cash from the Treasury. Mbuno told the Star on the phone yesterday that 43 constituencies are yet to submit project proposals. MPs took their oath of office on August 30 last year. A majority are yet to receive CDF cash, paralysing work in their constituencies. The cash is for construction of classrooms, hospitals, roads and bursary fund for students. Read: Governors renew push to borrow money from banks for projects, salaries First term ends in two weeks, and MPs are uncertain there will be money for the bursary fund. MPs who spoke to the Star expressed frustration over the delay. Each constituency is expected to get Sh86 million, down from the previous Sh101 million. National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi blamed the World Bank for “cheering the Jubilee administration” as it sinks the country deep into debts. He blamed this for the cash crunch. “The government is lived a lie. It finances most of things through borrowing. The delay is not normal, it has never happened before,” Mbadi said. Alego Usonga MP Sam Atandi told the Star on the phone yesterday nothing is happening on the ground. We have presented a budget but there is no money. We are just waiting,” he said. His Laikipia East counterpart Mohamed Deddy said a majority of projects at the grassroots have stalled. Related: Broke state ignored my warning on careless borrowing, says Atwoli  Click here for the latest political news