Agnes Kagure Kariuki, or Agnes Mwangi Kagure, is on Governor Sonko’s short list of candidates to succeed Polycarp Igathe as Deputy Governor of Nairobi County. Agnes, 43 years old, used to be an insurance agent with Alico and has various business interests. Kagure has been in the eye of a storm in the past two years, following fierce ownership disputes over three prime pieces of land in Nairobi that have found their way to the High Court. However, confidential documents seen by the Star have revealed that she may have shortchanged the taxman over the last 20 years. Tax returns that Kagure filed with the Kenya Revenue Authority indicate that she may have only remitted a total of Sh154,507 between 1996 and 2017 despite claiming to have spent hundreds of millions in some of her investments. She started filing tax returns in 1996 but stopped in 2004. In that period she paid Sh27,309 against a liability of Sh88,873. In 2016, Agnes started filing returns again. The returns are self-assessment, apparently of rental houses where she is supposed to submit 10 percent. Between January 2015 and December 2017, Agnes paid a total of Sh127,198. Kagure however declined to comment on the allegations, arguing that they are subject to the case against Elms in the Chief Magistrate’s court. “If you are a professional journalist that you have always alleged to be then don’t act like a goon. Respect the Kenyan law. We don’t comment on matters pending before competent courts and with a working judicial system,” Kagure told the Star. In September 2016, she applied for a Firearm Certifiacte to the Firearms Licencing Board. She said she was trading as Antonio’s Grill, Dynamic Mini-Mart, Consolata Pharmacy and Universal Nautical Limited. “I am normally about the central business district up to 10pm monitoring my business,” she wrote in her application letter. For 20 years I was a lead insurance executive with lots of media cover,” she wrote. “I do humbly request your good office to issue me with a firearm certificate to be able to acquire a firearm for my own security, family and property because I do handle a lot of cash transactions during my business especially in payment of workers and suppliers,” she concluded. Read:Anne Kiguta, Miguna among Sonko's top options for deputy governor Antonio’s Grill is registered as a business name but not as a company. Dynamic Mini Mart and Consolata Pharmacy are not registered with the Registrar of Companies or the KRA. Universal Nautical was registered in 2012 with Edward Gitugo, Agnes Kagure Kariuki, and Isaac Kariuki Ndegwa as shareholders. It has not filed any returns with KRA since registration. She claims she bought the house of the late Bryan Robson for Sh100 million cash in 2011 although she does not have a receipt and Roger never deposited the money in his account. Robson died in 2012 and Kariuki transferred the property to herself in 2014. It is not clear where she got the alleged Sh100 million because her tax returns do not indicate that kind of income. questionable conveyance Roger Bryan Robson, a single man and Kenyan citizen aged 71 years, died on August 8, 2012. He lived at his Karen house until his death. Robson had made a will in 1997, leaving his estate to relatives and charitable organisations in Kenya involved with environment, wildlife, health and education. The principal assets of Robson’s estate were a 5.2-acre property on Ushirika Road, Karen, and a half-acre plot with flats next to the Nairobi Hospital in Upper Hill, together worth at least Sh500 million. The executor, lawyer Guy Elms, wanted to pass the Sh500 million estate to the Kenya Wildlife Service and the Kenya Forestry Service, but since Robson’s death, the Karen property has been occupied multiple times by invaders, including gospel singer Alex Apoko, famously known as Ringtone. A woman called Agnes Kariuki claims to have bought the Karen property for Sh100 million in 2011, while the old man was still living there. But Agnes insisted that she bought the house, and even produced a sale agreement that threatened to put the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the National Land Commission at loggerheads before the public land regulator disowned its investigation report. “Uniquely, this questionable conveyance was not stamped and registered until November 6, 2014, which is three years late in which no penalties are attracted. That is abnormal,” stated a National Land Commission report last year. However the NLC later disowned the report for no clear reason. “The Registrar whose signature has been appended on the Conveyance has also disowned the signature as a forgery. No Day Book Number Entry exists for this document and there is no entry for Stamp Duty either. Agnes Kagure Kariuki’s conveyance document is an outright forgery,” the NLC report stated. In December 2017, Joel Munyoki Munene won an injunction in the Land Court preventing Agnes Kagure Kariuki from occupying a parcel of land in Nairobi’s Umoja Innercore. In the suit papers, Munene claims to have bought the land from Erastus Nyaga who had bought it from the original owner Silas Mugo Kithenji. He provided an assignment dated 31/05/2007 from Nairobi City Council. He found there was a problem when he attempted to get a lease but his application was rejected because there had been double allocation of the plot despite him paying land rent and rates. Agnes Kagure Kariuki claims to have bought the same parcel of land from Joseph Chege Muturi on 15/09/2016 and was issued with a lease although this has been disowned by Nairobi County. “The Court has looked at the lease annexed by the 1st defendant ( Agnes) to her replying affidavit which is shown to have been executed by the Mayor and Town Clerk in November 2016. By that date the City Council of Nairobi had ceased to exist,” the court declared before granting Munene’s application. Click here for the latest political news