City Hall workers risk losing out on pensions after Local Authorities Pension Trust threatened to stop the payments because of a Sh13 billion debt owed by the county government. The scheme on Wednesday said the county has not remitted the money since 2013 despite the workers’ pay slips showing deductions. The county is expected to remit Sh132 million every month to the Scheme. Laptrust CEO Hosea Kiili said Sh6.6 billion is the principal outstanding debt while the remaining is the interests and penalties. He was appeared before the Public Accounts Committee to respond to the audit queries. “If the county assembly does not intervene, then I will be forced to stop paying pensions due to lack of funds,” Kiili said. He said out of the more than Sh50 billion it pays out to its 8,000 pensioners countrywide monthly, about 60 per cent goes to City Hall retirees. The county has more than 13,000 county employees out of whom 9,600 save with the Scheme. About 550 retire every year. Kiili said the problem started with the now defunct county council and continued by the county regimes. “Former Governor Evans Kidero paid us for a few months and since Governor Mike Sonko took over, he has paid us for only two months,” he said. According to Kiili, the council in an agreement signed in January 2011 was to pay part of the debt in cash and the remainder through property swap. The scheme was to waive 50 per cent of the total interest and penalties if the council honored the deal, but the council failed to keep the promise. At that time, the debt stood at Sh8.6 billion. “We were given Sh2.3 million in cash and some estates like Jevanjee/ Bachelors Quarters valued at Sh1.8 billion, Old Ngara valued at Sh927 million and New Ngara which was worth Sh1.8 billion were offerd. Others were Kariokor and Buru Buru estates but the deal collapsed after the Transition Authority stopped the transfer in 2012,” he said. Kidero’s task force agreed that Sh51 million be spread over five years and 65 per cent through property swap. But again the county failed to honour the promise and the debt went up.