Last Friday marked another milestone for Kenya’s most reasonable and dedicated leader in history – President Uhuru Kenyatta. When he walked to the steps of Harambee House alongside ODM leader Raila Odinga, the entire country was at a standstill for one of the most remarkable moments for Kenya. That moment reminded me of the time he stood before MPs and ensured that the sovereignty of Kenya was protected on the international stage. That time, he momentarily and symbolically stepped down as President to ensure that he appeared before the International Criminal Court not as head of state but as an ordinary Kenyan. Uhuru has always sought to hold the Office of the President in high esteem and this is what happened on Friday. And if ever there were people who doubted the leadership quality or sacrifices made by the President, then it is likely that all of those doubts have been put to rest. Since September last year, Uhuru has shown what it means to put the country before self, and he must be thanked for bringing peace to our nation. This was witnessed after the August 8, 2017, election, when the Supreme Court invalidated his win and despite that setback, he went back to campaign peacefully and respected the court’s decision. The President has a history of putting the country first. In 2002, despite pressure from Kanu stalwarts, Uhuru conceded defeat to Mwai Kibaki after that year’s General Election. He has shown time and time again that he values peace and prosperity above his own interests. Without a doubt, inviting former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to Harambee House has sent shockwaves across the nation, and has brought calm. Moving forward, all discussions about the National Resistance Movement, the illegal swearing-in, boycotts, secession and People’s Assemblies have now been laid to rest. Those on social media can confirm that even the extreme hate and animosity that was the daily norm have been silenced. People who have been sworn enemies from the start of the election have started speaking to each other with respect. What happened at the steps of Harambee House was a renewal of this country to get rid of the negative energy that was threatening its future. It set up a momentum, which if maintained, will see this country move to its future with its head held up. Borrowing from other African leaders, Uhuru could have used his authority to crack down on opposition leaders. Just looking at our nextdoor neighbours, one cannot fail to appreciate Uhuru’s move. In Uganda, President Yoweri Museveni is still being hard on the opposition, with its leader Kizza Besigye always having run-ins with security forces. Just last month a court in Tanzania sentenced two opposition leaders to five months in prison for insulting President John Magufuli. South Sudan is even worse. The government is still at war with the opposition, despite efforts by the international community, including Kenya, to restore unity. Instead of acting like an authoritarian leader, Uhuru brought on board the key opposition leader, who has almost half of the country as his followers. This ensures that the President moves on with his development agenda without major distractions. Uhuru knows it will be futile to build a legacy of development and prosperity under the Big Four agenda and leave a divided country. He knows that working closely with Raila will ensure that there is greater unity and they will be the two leaders who secured lasting peace for Kenya. The last time this sort of soberness was witnessed was during Independence, when Prime Minister Jomo Kenyatta made peace with the colonialists. That one move ensured that the country remained united and forgiveness reigned; his son has replicated this same feat. Leadership is being able to compromise and put the nation first while making impactful decisions, however painful they may be. We must all therefore congratulate the President and support this new agenda for the sake of peace and prosperity in Kenya.