Members of the National Assembly yesterday called for the removal of NPSC chairman Johnston Kavuludi, saying he has failed to improve police welfare. Debating a motion by Mandera East MP Omar Maalim on providing salary incentives and decent housing for officers, they said junior police officers have been “suffering in silence”. Minority leader John Mbadi asked Kavuludi to step down and allow Kenyans to scout for a substantive chairperson. “As we speak, this commission is dead. How do you sit in an office when you are personally fully convinced that you are not adding any value to this country?,” the Suba South MP said. He accused Kavuludi of failing to entrench reforms in the police service and allegedly allowing officers to live in deplorable conditions. “Police reforms have completely stalled,” Mbadi said. Turkana East MP Mohammed Lokiru said the Kavuludi-led commission has zeroed-in on vetting senior police officers but failed to address the plights of junior officers. “This commission takes lots of time concentrating on how a police officer acquired a bicycle but has never bothered improving their welfare,” he said. The motion reads in part: “The difficult working environment for the police officers has been often led to frustrations, demotivation and occupational stress among officers with many of them exiting the force in search of other jobs”. The Commission refuted media reports of mass resignations of police officers with Kavuludi maintaining that the claims are a creation of the media and propagandists. The Commission recently said it wants Sh253.9 million for gratuity, car loans, mortgage scheme and leasing of vehicles factored into the next financial year, even as its term ends in September. CEO Joseph Onyango told the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security the staff is entitled to gratuity and mortgages “The Sh20 million allocation for car loans and mortgages is only enough for one member of staff,” he said. Read:Graduate constables to get inspector's salary after audit - Kavuludi   