Of the 30 suicides in Homa Bay county the past six months, Homa Bay Town constituency is the leading with nine deaths reported. Karachuonyo and Suba North constituencies had five cases each. Suba South and Ndhiwa constituencies recorded four cases each, while three people hanged themselves in Kasipul constituency in the same period. County police commander Marius Tum says most victims committed suicide in January. He says nine deaths were recorded at the beginning of the year, while eight deaths were recorded in December last year. “There must be a number of cases of suicide which go unreported. I fear suicide deaths is now a pandemic in this county,” Tum says. The police boss appeals to opinion and religious leaders to intervene and offer guidance and counselling services to residents. He says counseling would help locals understand the value of life and know dangers related to taking away one’s life. Tum calls for immediate action to tame suicides. Otherwise, many children would be orphaned and turn into street children. “We see a possibility of increased cases of crime caused by an increasing number of street children. We appeal to leaders to find a solution to the trend,” Tum says. TEENAGERS AFFECTED A community-based organisation called Nyanza Youth Development Network says teenagers are also victims of suicide. Group strategist George Ocholla says some of the issues that drive teens to suicide include academic performance, teenage pregnancy, HIV-Aids stigma and forced early marriage. Ocholla says pressure on academic progress from some parents or even individuals may drive young people to kill themselves. “Some children commit suicide after failing to meet the standards of academic excellence,” he says. Some teenage girls take their lives when they are tested HIV-positive or when they become pregnant. “The society we live in still takes HIV as a curse, while teenage pregnancy is likened to disobedience. So the young girls can’t cope with them,” Ocholla adds. Ocholla says his organisation is ready to help in creating awareness on the dangers of committing suicide. He says they are running a campaign in Nyanza counties to teach people about the dangers of killing oneself. Some of his colleagues are campaigning against suicide in Siaya, Migori and Kisumu counties. “We have established that many of those who hang themselves are teenagers aged 20-35 years,” he says. “Newlyweds are also affected due to disagreements.” Bishop James Ochiel says some people are “genetically suicidal”. Ochiel, who hails from the Anglican Diocese of Southern Nyanza, says such nature is associated with the devil. “There are suicide-congenital people in the society. These are people who want to commit suicide whenever they are faced with problems,” Ochiel says. The bishop says the state should put up counselling centres with experts to help people with psychological problems, or the suicide rate will remain unchanged. The centres would provide people an opportunity to go for mental checkups and therapy. “A person may physically look normal and healthy but is mentally sick. Unless such people are diagnosed, they may end up hanging themselves,” he says.