KNUT Secretary General Wilson Sossion has said effective management of insecurity in Northeastern holds the key to the unending cycle of mass teacher transfers from the region. Sossion said teachers have been asking for transfers since 2015 due to insecurity in the wake of al Shabaab attacks. "This phenomenon is not new. It started in 2015. We need a lasting solution because this is a cyclic thing. Why don’t we have non-local teachers in Northeastern?" Sossion asked Parliamentary Committee on Education. Read; TSC transfer non-local teachers from Wajir He said that it was disturbing for the Teachers Service Commission to advertise vacancies for new teachers without looking into why it transferred the others. The TSC has received about 2,000 applications after advertising 900 vacancies for new teachers to be deployed in Wajir County. This followed the mass transfer of about 1,000 teachers from the region due to insecurity underpinned by terror attacks directed at non-locals. Also read: Northeastern teachers protest over insecurity, fault TSC's hiring plan About 108 teachers from the region have been camping at TSC headquarters seeking transfers from the region for the past three weeks. "Even if we send another cohort of teachers with security, there are obvious barriers that cannot allow them to work," Sossion said. He said in some incidences, Christian teachers are afraid to go to church for payers for fear of being attacked. The KNUT boss reiterated recommendations for TSC to hire teachers from communities living in the Northeastern region to end the vicious circle of teacher transfers. TSC has previously rejected the idea saying it does not promote national cohesion. Teachers from the region told the Paul Melly-led committee that they are subjected to discrimination by the local communities. They said they are sometimes pelted with stones, their motorbikes burned and some male pupils chase female teachers from classrooms. "I’m calling on these teachers to help in bringing the solid evidence towards that," KUPPET secretary general Omboko Milemba said. He supported Session's sentiments that local teachers should in the meantime be hired to teach in those areas as TSC looks for a lasting solution. "Kindly seek clarification from the officers who are before us so that we are able to go deeper into this. I want us to ventilate more," Melly said. Also read: Let locals teach in North Eastern to curb al Shabaab attacks - Knut Click here for the latest political news