The ministry of education will carry out a three-day inspection in public primary schools on the effectiveness of the early grade mathematics (EGM) . Education CS Amina Mohammed said on Tuesday that the inspection will involve senior officials and administrators. "Senior Education officials and administrators will sit in an actual classroom environment watch and take notes of the way teachers handle literacy lessons," Amina said. The purpose of the exercise is to provide teachers with constructive critical feedback to improve their classroom management and instructional technique. Read; Anti-FGM content for schools Among the counties which will be inspected are Taita Taveta, Nandi, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Trans Nzoia, Busia, Laikipia, and Nairobi. Amina said the mission will also look at various aspects of education and how they conform to the best management practices. The exercise is conducted under the Kenya Primary Education Development (PRIEDE) project. PRIEDE is a grant of Sh8840 million from the Global Partnership for Education (GPE). It is being implemented under the supervision of the World Bank to support Early Grade Mathematics in Kenya. The grant will benefit six million pupils in grade 1 and 2 who benefit from improved early grade mathematics textbooks. The National Coordinator of the Project, Martha Ekirapa said the government has distributed 7.6million textbooks on mathematics "The textbooks have helped the government to attain 1:1 textbook to pupil level in class 1 and 2," she said. She added that about  40,000 teachers have benefited from new methodologies of early grade mathematics instruction. The project, which is in its three year of implementation has benefitted a number of beneficiaries and build capacity of government staff and institutions involved in the implementation. The GPE is a product of the 2000 Dakar framework towards the declaration that ‘no country with a credible sector plan will be thwarted from achieving the education for all goals by lack of resource. Since 2002, The GPE has been helping developing country partners develop and implement sound education sector plans. Also read: Child marriage and FGM blamed for school dropouts  Click here for the latest political news