Starehe MP Charles Njagua aka Jaguar has failed to convince the court to allow Boda boda riders continue operating in the Nairobi central business district. Justice Roseline Aburili on Monday dismissed a suit filed by the Mp saying he has failed to prove how the rider’s rights were violated when the county ordered them out of the CBD. Read: Court declines to suspend boda boda CBD ban, asks Jaguar to serve Sonko with suit The judge said the Mp’s decision to file the case, when a similar one was dismissed in 2016 -was an abuse of the court process. "The same person of interest cannot be left to oscillate around the courts in different colours of rights where today they sue as a Sacco, tomorrow as a welfare Association, and a day after as an MP trying to protect their interest," Aburili said. In February 2016, twelve boda-boda saccos filed a similar case after the then governor, Evans Kidero banned riders from carrying passengers to and from the city centre – which he said was in line with provisions of the Traffic Act CAP 403 of 2014. The suit was heard and dismissed later by the late justice Joseph Onguto. Jaguar went to court in January contesting a similar ban imposed by Governor Mike Sonko meant to reduce congestion and general disorder and rising crime in the CBD. The Mp termed the move ill-informed, unilaterally made and based on irrelevant considerations. "The boda-boda ban may result in more harm than good, as operators will be frustrated and without a source of livelihood. They may easily be involved in the very criminal activities the ban seeks to curb," he had argued. But justice Aburili said the riders must learn to accept court verdicts and move on or challenge the decision in a higher court. "They cannot be allowed to abuse the court by appearing and disappearing as and when its convenient for them with different types of proceedings but the same cause of action," she said. Read: Boda boda ban may increase crime -Jaguar Also read: Sonko asks court to dismiss Jaguar's boda boda ban case Click here for the latest political news