The government will distribute 50 million more textbooks to public primary and secondary schools, bringing to 83 million the total number dispensed
since January. The government aims to achieve a 1:1 textbook to student ratio. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang yesterday said learners will be able to access instructional material at home and at school. “It is not just about schooling. It is about schooling and learning,” he said. The government will distribute 50 million more textbooks to public and secondary schools, bringing to 83 million the total number dispensed since January. Read: Book distribution to continue despite multiple errors, says PS The government aims to achieve a 1:1 textbook to student ratio. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang yesterday said learners will be able to access instructional material at home and at school. “It is not just about schooling. It is about schooling and learning,” he said. Kipsang spoke during the county dialogue on education quality and learning outcomes at St Georges Girls’ Secondary School, Nairobi. In January, the government distributed 33 million core subject books, in phase one, at a cost of Sh7.5 billion. Form One to Four students got six textbooks each: English, Kiswahili, Mathematics, Biology, Chemistry and Physics. Standard Seven and Eight pupils were given English, Kiswahili, Mathematics and Science textbooks. Read: Sell textbooks to private schools at fair prices, Uhuru directs publishers Phase one is expected to end on April 20, while the second phase will begin next year. The National Assembly Committee on Tuesday called for reevaluation of the textbooks issued to Standard Seven and Eight, and Form One learners. Complaints have been raised over errors and misleading information in some of the books. But Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development boss Julius Jwan has dismissed the concerns, saying the errors are too minimal to affect the content. Kipsang said the government must get returns from the huge investments made in education. He cautioned high school principals against imposing additional levies on parents, saying the government had invested Sh29 billion in Free Day Secondary Education. He said any charges outside the fees guidelines were illegal. “School heads found charging fees outside the guidelines will be excluded from the administration of our schools,” he said.  Click here for the latest political news