Top spot will be on the line this afternoon when the National Super League round four matches continue across the country. Promotion hopefuls KCB will take on high-flying Isibania as they seek to put behind them the setback of losing three points following the suspension and relegation of Muhoroni Youth. The bankers will need to get a win if they are to stay in touch with the early pacesetters in the race for the three promotion slots. Isibania, just in their second year in the NSL, have emerged as darkhorses and had won their two matches when the season began before narrowly losing at home to Western Stima over the weekend. Top scorer, Simon Abuko, has continued his rich vein of form in front of goal and will be relied upon again at Camp Toyoyo. Prior to this clash, Talanta and Coast Stima both have a chance of claiming top spot should either emerge victorious in their 2pm kick off. The two sides have started the season well with Coast Stima particularly impressive in only their first year in the second tier. With five points in three matches, a win would catapult them to the summit of the NSL standings. Serial promotion hopefuls Nairobi Stima are desperate to make their years of toil in the second division finally count this year. Ibrahim Shikanda’s charges have registered a mix bag of results in their opening three matches but victory over Kisumu All Stars in Naivasha today will give them, at the very least, a share of top spot. Bidco another side that has sought promotion to the Premier League without success. A chance to go top beckons when they host struggling Eldoret outfit GFF 105. With only a point to their name from their three matches, GFF look like they will be in a battle to avoid relegation for most part of the campaign unless their fortunes change and they get an unlikely victory away at Bidco this afternoon. Tomorrow, Western stima have the chance to firm their grip on top spot when they host Kangemi All Stars. Stima are keen to make a quick return to the topflight league and a run of two wins in three shows that Richard Makumbi and his charges mean business. Kangemi too are enjoying their time back in the limelight winning two of their three matches so far. Should they emerge unscathed in their trip to Kisumu, it will mark them out as a promotion candidate.