Opposition politicians gave self-styled General Miguna Miguna a wide berth as he returned to Kenya yesterday. He was delayed at
the JKIA for hours for lack of a passport. None of the high-flying politicians, apart from Siaya Senator James Orengo, was at the airport to receive him. Miguna was dramatically deported Canada for swearing-in NASA leader Raila Odinga as the People's President on January 30. Miguna's five-day detention
incommunicado and eventual deportation triggered a massive uproar and
his silent return signaled bad blood with Raila's inner circle. Read: Raila intervenes in Miguna airport standoff The controversial lawyer has been firing
ferocious verbal salvos from abroad, castigating Raila for abandoning
the fight for electoral justice and accepting to work with President
Uhuru Kenyatta. “You have joined the despots! Thank you for finally exposing
yourself to the people,”Miguna protested in a letter to Raila He also claims the ODM leader has
reneged on a promise to repair his damaged house and is now
dissuading lawyers from handling his court cases. Aboard emirates EK 719, the opposition activist landed at 2:30 pm
from Toronto via Dubai. However, immigration officials blocked him from exiting the
airport until he produced his passport in what appeared to be a
violation of numerous court orders. After he failed to produce his passport, the immigration officials
then asked him to apply for a six-month tourist visa but Miguna
refused. [VIDEO] I won't apply for tourist visa, adamant Miguna says after JKIA blockade Also read: Miguna to blame for JKIA blockade after passport row - Interior ministry His lawyers Nelson Havi, Cliff Ombeta and John Khaminwa protested
the move by immigration officials and insisted that he be allowed
entry into the country unconditionally as ordered by the court. At some point, Miguna managed to bull-doze his way from the
immigration clearance point but was blocked at the luggage area and
asked to apply a visa before entering the country. A few of his supporters clad in NRM-branded T-shirts protested
outside the international arrivals exit forcing police officers to
lock the main exit door. They only allowed passengers who had been cleared to exit through
the rear door. "Why are they blocking Miguna, he is a Kenyan born in
Kisumu we want the handshake to take effect so that Miguna is let in
as soon as possible,"yelled one of his NRM supporters. Miguna's local passport was confiscated by the state when he
was deported to Canada on February 7. While the same passport was deposited at the High court as
ordered, it had been defaced after being perforated, rendering it
unusable. The state has refused to issue him with another passport which
could have facilitated his legal entry into his motherland. At 4:30 the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights
chairperson Kagwiria Mbogoria and the Commission's CEO were still at
the immigration offices at JKIA trying to negotiate Miguna's entry
into the country.  Click here for the latest political news