A section of Mombasa Road was reopened on Thursday morning after water levels following heavy rains declined. Mto wa Mawe River in Athi River, Machakos County, burst its banks on Thursday. More on this: [VIDEO] Mombasa Road impassable after Mto wa Mawe River breaks its banks On Friday morning, the water level at Stoney Athi Bridge on A8, between Athi River and Kyumvi (Machakos Turnoff) had declined. Charles Njogu, KeNHA's Assistant Director of Corporate Affairs, said repairs were underway. "While the bridge has now been re-opened to traffic, road users are requested to exercise care and strictly follow traffic control instructions from the officers on site," Njogu said in a statement.  The effects of heavy rains in Athi River, Machakos County, March 15, 2018. /GEORGE OWITI Njogu said water levels at the bridge along Kangundo-Kamulu-Ruai Road had also subsided and that it was safe for use. He urged patience saying further disruptions may be necessary. Meanwhile, some residents of the nearby Green Park Gardens Estate have accused Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua of taking advantage of their plight to play public relations for political gain. They said the county did not send a rescue team as Mutua claimed. On his Twitter page, Lauso al-Wahosh wrote: "Not to prove you wrong, Mr Governor, but I have not seen your people. We are just sorting ourselves out as good neighbors so who gave you this information? One Subdey said: "[Don't you know him]? He got PhD in PR ... the reason he applied Kiwi [on the road in the name of tarmac]. Don't take him seriously. Poleni sana, itabidi mjisort (Sorry, you will have to sort yourselves out." Al-Wahosh said they took matters into their own hands when trouble began at 2pm.  The effects of heavy rains in Athi River, Machakos County, March 15, 2018. /GEORGE OWITI  The effects of heavy rains in Athi River, Machakos County, March 15, 2018. /GEORGE OWITI Other estates affected by the floods in Athi River include Sunset Boulevard, City Carton, JamCity, Kwa Mangeli, Kasuitu and Kinanie. Farms were also destroyed, forcing residents to call for swift action, including evacuation, by the county. Sources told the Star that engineers working on the two bridges are from the Kenya National Highways Authority, not the Machakos government, as Mutua reported on his Twitter and Facebook pages on  Thursday. But in an update on the developments on Friday, the Governor said: "[The] Machakos emergency team worked overnight to save lives and no-one is stranded." Click here for the latest political news