Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka on Sunday cautioned governors against sacking or suspending staff seconded to the counties, terming the move illegal. He said the worrying trend is will lock out counties from accessing the services of professionals. This came in the wake of increased court cases by civil servants who had either being suspended or laid off by governors who assumed office after August 2017 polls. Lusaka said the new development had caused fear among professionals keen to work in the counties adding that there was need to urgently address the issue. "The Assumption of Office Bill currently before the Senate will address the crisis. There is hue and cry from civil servants over the sackings and suspensions targeting them." Lusaka addressed journalists at Enashipai Spa and Lodge in Naivasha at the weekend during the ongoing retreat for members of the roads and infrastructure committee. On the issue of roads classification, the former Bungoma governor said that the current case in court should be withdrawn and a solution sought. "The electorate do not care who is doing what road...the council of governors should withdraw the current case in court," he said. Nyandarua governor Francis Kimemia, who was representing the COG in the meeting, said KURA and KERRA functions should be devolved for better service delivery. He attributed the current court case to lack of proper coordination between the government agencies and counties while working on the roads. "There should be equity in terms of infrastructure funds as some counties like Nyandarua have only 300kms of tarmac against 3,000km of roads in the region," he said. Kimemia dismissed plans by the National Treasury to slash counties' cash noting that this would not work due to the high levels of poverty and wage demands. "The counties are already reeling from the high wage bill...we are totally opposed to the planned funding cuts by the national government," he said. The sentiments were echoed by Kiambu senator Kimani Wamatangi who said that the planed austerity measures by the government were against the law. "There is a law on how revenue to the counties should be disbursed and we shall follow this to the letter and what treasury is planning is illegal and against the law." Read: Counties notify staff of delayed February salaries as cash crunch bites Click here for the latest political news 