We arrived at Enashipai Resort and Spa to smiling staff, a glass of juice and a quick check-in process. Located by Lake Naivasha, this attractive hotel is surrounded by well-kept gardens and indigenous trees. I stayed in one of the Fountain Rooms facing the garden and a manmade waterfall. The large room with a balcony was furnished in modern, Maasai-inspired décor. The Wifi worked very well and all the rooms have TVs, although I preferred to be outdoors. The bathroom water sometimes had an unpleasant smell, but there was complimentary drinking water in the rooms. The connecting doors between rooms make them ideal for families with young children. A nice surprise was outdoor shower enclosed by a stone wall with an open ceiling. Further away from the main hotel building are villas and cottages that feel like holiday homes. The resort spreads out over many acres, so golf carts are used to transport guests around. All meals were served buffet style, and we mostly ate in the Senteu Restuaurant. No particular dish stood out, but there were plenty of options. Lunch was served by the lake one day, under big marques, which was a nice change of venue. Mealtimes were busy yet the staff did a fine job of seating guests and managing the service. Overall the hotel staff were very responsive to any requests we had. My stay happened during the school holidays, so there were many children at the hotel. The swimming pool area was quite noisy and the games room was also busy. So our small group preferred to sit in the more peaceful garden area. There are also two indoor lounges that are more suitable for adult relaxation, and while here you can order snacks or a full meal. The hotel’s onsite Maasai Museum features cultural objects, and the bicycles were very popular with the children. A treatment at the hotel’s Siyara Spa was a real treat, right from the beautiful décor and soft background music to the pleasant spa attendants. Outside the hotel we visited the nearby Elsamere Museum and Hell’s Gate National Park.  LOCATION: Nakuru county ACCESS: 2-hour drive on Nairobi-Nakuru highway/A104 CONTACTS: info@enashipai.com; 0719 051000  Star Rating: 4/5