PSC officials who
worked closely with former chair Margaret Kobia have heaped praises on her saying they will miss her leadership. Alice Otwala, who is Secretary of the Public Service Commission, said that under Kobia's leadership, the Secretariat was restructured from a steep,
structured and multilayered organisation. Otwala said the organisation now has a flatter structure with grades and five technical directorates. The restructuring also
included establishment of the Compliance and Quality Assurance Directorate to
oversight implementation of decisions. “It was under Kobia's
leadership that the commission introduced Medical, Work, Injury Benefit (WIBA)
and Group Personal accident covers (GPA) in 2013," she added. "This portfolio has grown from Sh6 million at introduction to Sh75 million in the current
financial year." Related: New rules give PSC powers over state corporations, hiring staff Also read: State could waive some taxes to help women invest Otwala further termed the
Secretariat strong and motivated because of Kobia's "great leadership' and her ability to rally everyone together. Budgetary allocations to the PSC increased from Sh883 million in the 2013/14 financial Year to Sh1.4 billion in 2017/18. Acting chairperson Peter ole Nkuraiya assured Kobia that the commission will improve on the solid foundation she established. They spoke at a Nairobi hotel on Thursday during the former chair's farewell luncheon Kobia, who now heads the
Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs, asked the
commissioners to strengthen the institution in its decision making and advisory roles. She also urged them to help President Uhuru Kenyatta roll out the Big four Agenda on healthcare, manufacturing, affordable housing and food security “The President has
insisted that the face of the public sector changes. This
commission holds the key on what needs to be done," she noted. "For instance, there is need
for a scales audit to convince the government that we need more doctors. The
commission also needs to look into why staff in public service are
demotivated and offer remedies." Kobia said news of her nomination to the Cabinet Secretary post came as a surprise. "I had no idea I
was going to be appointed. I am still struggling to come to terms with
that title. I was used to chair. But I remain committed and optimistic in my
new role. "Thank you for this farewell. I feel honored that I had an
opportunity to lead the commission." Read more: Cabinet vetting: Margaret Kobia pledges integrity, honesty in public service Click here for the latest political news 