The winner of the 2018 Barclays Kenya Open Golf Championship will receive Sh10million up from 4.4 million last year, according to the prize fund breakdown released by the Kenya Open Golf Limited. This according to organisers represents a 127% increase. The runner-up at the tournament will go home Sh6.9 million richer with third-place finisher getting Sh4.3 million. This year’s prize fund has been revised by the organisers in the wake of the increased total prize kitty for the tournament from €220,000 (Sh27.5m) last year to €500,000 (Sh62.5m) this year. The development makes the tournament the most lucrative on the 2018 European Challenge Tour calendar. The prize fund will be distributed across players for the top 60 players who will make the cut and is a major incentive especially for professionals playing in Round One and Two of the tournament. This year, the least a player who makes the cut will earn Sh193,750, owing to the enhanced profile of the tournament. Kenyan players who make the cut In addition to the money from the prize kitty, Kenyan Pros playing at the Kenya Open, will have more reason to make the cut and push for a top 10 finish after the Kenya Open Golf Limited offered a Sh100,000 cash prize to any Kenyan who will make the cut and a further Sh500,000 to any Kenyan, who will finish inside the top 10 places. Meanwhile, Professional Golfers of Kenya received Sh1 million from Safaricom towards the Tournament Management System (TMS) for members. The TMS includes a full tour membership system, tournament entry option, player database and financial recordings. It will also have information on tournament draws, scoring, cut and a results facility linked directly to the website www.progolfkenya.com. The website which will be available on mobile will also give members access to communication via email or SMS, of their tee-off times and scores after the last round. “It’s an honour for us to be part of yet another golf sponsorship, just a few days after we announced our support for this year’s Barclays Kenya open. We continue to invest in the sport because we believe in its potential to attract and transform the lives of the players,” said Steve Okeyo of Safaricom. PGK tested the system the qualifiers series in preparation for Kenya Open. “We are absolutely thrilled as PGK board to be able to provide these facilities for our members using a digital platform. We hope this will inspire young golfers to take up the game as a career. It has eased the administration of our tournaments and allowed all players to concentrate on the golf round,” said PGK chairman Charan Thethy.