Should a draft law on the floor of the National Assembly go through, medics will now have a commission to address their affairs. Sponsored by Chuka Igambang'ombe MP Patrick Munene of Jubilee, the Health Service Commission Act seeks to "establish a Health Service Commission, to provide for the registration of healthcare workers, and for recruitment, employment and deployment of registered healthcare workers." "This commission will basically operate like the Teachers Service Commission in terms of remuneration and appraisals," Munene says. Related : One doctor deregistered in 21 years, says board Some of the functions of the commission will be to recruit, employ and deploy registered healthcare workers, assign, transfer or promote those employed by the Commission to any public hospital or public health facility. The commission will also handle all matters of personnel emolument and ensure the medical practitioners, pharmacists, dentist, nurses, clinical officers, nutritionists and other healthcare-related workers comply with standards prescribed by the Commission under the act and any other law. This means the commission will manage the medics' payroll. The commission will also facilitate career progression and professional development for workers in the healthcare sector, including career appraisals. The country has faced consistent human resource challenges in the recent past, resulting in frequent strikes. Last year, doctors went for a record 100 days strike, while nurses had boycotted for five months following failures to implement their respective CBAs. "The current issues affecting the health sector are because governors, health being a devolved function, don't want to negotiate the salaries and other terms of service, making it hard to reach a compromise agreement," Munene says. The MP says the Bill, if it becomes law, will bring together all health workers, from doctors to clinical officers. Last month, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union threatened to call for a doctors' strike over failure by universities and medical colleges to pay allowances due to their members. KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga aid the allowances were agreed in the return-to-work formula and the CBA they signed last year. Clinical officers have also gone on strike in various counties. At the centre of these strikes are remuneration, working conditions and career development issues. Click here for the latest political news