A head teacher who was sacked over allegations of defiling
and impregnating a pupil wants his job back after winning the case. Joseph
Chebii, who was at Kibirech Primary school in Marakwet West, was falsely accused of
impregnating a 15-year-old pupil. He says the Teachers Service Commission
fired him without following the due disciplinary procedure. Chebii was
accused and charged at an Iten court in April 2014. He was
also fired the same month. He won the
case on January 24 after a DNA test result showed that the sacked
teacher was not the father of pupil’s child. "The DNA analysis excluded the accused from being
the father of the complainant’s child. In the absence of any contrary evidence,
this court finds that the offence of defilement was not satisfactorily proved,"
Iten resident magistrate Nelly Adalo ruled. Chebii on Friday said the pupil’s father Simon Sirwanei colluded with some school
committee members to fix him. Area
sub-county director of education, Chebii says, bought the story, leading to his
sacking. The teacher argued he was not subjected to the TSC disciplinary procedures. "The pupil did
not report to school from January 2014. We closed school in April 9 and the following day, I received a call from the sub-county director of education who informed
me that I have been accused of defiling and impregnating my pupil." "I was
shocked. I am still shocked to date," an agonised Chebii said. He said: "I am told a school committee and some education officials met and recommended
my dismissal from service. I was not given any chance to defend myself against
the false allegations." He is now
seeking to be reinstated by TSC and paid Sh2.6million in salary arrears since
April 2014. "I want to
ask TSC CEO Nancy Macharia to give me back my job now that the court has said I am
innocent. Let TSC pay me all my money and clean my records," he said. He said he
has taught for 30 years and has never had any record of canal knowledge with pupils. Chebii said
he is a respected member of his society who was elected a CDF representative in Lelal ward. "My family
has languished in poverty since I was dismissed. My children have dropped out
of schools because I can no longer discharge my responsibilities as a father,"
he said as he fought back tears. He said he
will battle it out in court if TSC fails to reinstate him. Click here for the latest political news 