MCAs are unhappy with Governor Mike Sonko's askaris, whom they say have gone overboard by treating hawkers like criminals. They said in a new push to get hawkers and boda boda riders out of the CBD the askaris have resorted to thuggish methods. Some city residents have filed complaints at the county assembly. They are especially furious that women with babies strapped on their backs are roughed up and pushed into vans with no regard for the young ones' safety. Last week, ward reps held a special session to debate the atrocities. They want to ensure hawkers are ejected from the CBD in a civilised way. Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok moved the motion. He complained the operation to move hawkers disregarded human rights, particularly for nursing mothers and traders living with disabilities. “The manner in which the inspectorate and police are executing the directive is inhuman, primitive and ruthless. It has led to loss of property and livelihood of the traders,” Imwatok said in the assembly. He accused Sonko's administration of not having guidelines on how small-scale traders can conduct their business without the cat-and-mouse chase between askaris and hawkers. He said women who sell fruits and vegetables as well as second hand clothes are being mishandled. Imwatok said the county government must urgently provide alternative trading zones for the hawkers. But Harambee Ward MCA Anthony Kimemia supported the crackdown and claimed some hawkers were armed with knives and machetes. He said they have a history of attacking askaris. “There are areas in Ngara near Equity Bank, where hawkers do not want county askaris to set foot. They are armed and attack askaris when arrested,” he said. Embakasi Ward MCA Michael Ogada said unemployment and poverty are the main reasons why hawkers stream into the CBD. He said the problem can only be resolved by the creation of more jobs. He supported the crackdown, but said it should not be used to harass, injure or even kill traders. Ogada said county chiefs identify select streets in which the traders can operate as a long-term solution is found. “We agree that the hawkers have contributed to crime, but these are our people and we must accept it. Where does the county expect them to get their income yet they also pay taxes?” Ogada asked.