Home fans will be pegging their hopes on the 22-man local pros to deliver the elusive crown when the 50th Barclays Kenya Open tees off the most lucrative European Challenge Tour event. As it has been the tradition, Kenya Open will also serve as the season opener for the Challenge Tour which has for the first time in many years attracted a star-studded field due to the increase of the prize fund from 220,000 euros to 500,000 euros. It will be interesting to see just how locals will perform given the recent scramble for slots by Challenge Tour players and those relegated from the main Tour. Jacob Okello, who has made the most Kenya Open appearances, qualified for the umpteenth time to resume his dream of winning the coveted title. His 11 under par 61 is the best round ever recorded at Muthaiga Club. Okello, who is the resident pro at Golf Par k is the only Kenyan, who has come close to winning their home Open and this year, he hopes to go one better in what is a landmark year for both himself and the Barclays Kenya Open, as they both turn 50 years old. Finishing on 12 under par, alongside Argentina’s Ricardo Gonzalez, Okello nearly held his nerve for what would have been the most famous of wins – but he came unstuck at the third play-off hole with a bogey at the par three 13th proving to be his undoing. Other local pros to watch will be big hitter Dismas Indiza and Muthaiga’s Greg Snow who are currently considered the finest in terms of form. Snow finished joint 9th in 2014 which was no mean achievement going by Kenyan standards. “Although the foreigners have an advantage over course time and exposure, we have also prepared well with the back-to-back home qualifiers, so we can only hope for the best,” Indiza said. Indiza is renowned for his long hitting skills but has had a downside on his short game. “I have been working extra hard to up my short game because I can hit the ball well. The essence this week will be to keep the ball on the fairways and play well on the greens,” said Indiza. Action begins today at 7am from both the first and 10th tee boxes. The first group to tee off from the first tee will comprise of Retinal Saxton of Netherlands, Antoine Rozner (France) and Martin Ovesen (Denmark). Former Kenya Open champion Sebastian Soderberg (Sweden) will tee off at 7:40am alongside Ricardo Santos of Portugal and Italy’s Francesco Laporta. Okello and Indiza will be in action much later in the day. Okello will tee off at 12:40 from the tenth with Joel Gittbach (Switzerland) and Oscar Lengden(Sweden). Indiza will tee off alongside Oscar Stark and Ashley Hall. South Africa-based Kenyan Stefan Engell Andersen returns to the Kenya Open hoping to make a mark on the night stage.