Kenya will lift the ban on importation of Uganda chickens and poultry products in the next few weeks, a senior veterinarian has said. In January last year, the government imposed a ban on poultry and poultry products, mainly eggs, from Uganda. This followed an outbreak of avian flu — highly pathogenic Avian Influenza. It was a “stopgap measure to prevent possible importation of the disease to Kenya”. Then-Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett said the decision was in line with the Animal Diseases Act and Meat Control Act. The Ugandan authorities said the disease was brought into the country by migratory birds from Europe. Yesterday, Michael Cheruiyot, deputy director of veterinary services, said the process aimed at lifting the ban has started. Uganda has been declared free of the disease. The Agriculture ministry had formed a team of experts, including officials from the African Union, the Food and Agriculture Organization and the University of Nairobi, to pursue the matter with Ugandan authorities. “The Ugandan government has managed to implement the conditions we agreed on last year and, soon, Kenyan traders will start importing poultry and poultry products from Uganda,” Cheruiyot said during the release of the Sixth Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare report. Kenyan traders prefer buying poultry products from Uganda because they are cheaper, he said. The neighbouring country has low-cost production. In Kenya, feed costs are high. black market trade Kenya has a population of 32 million domestic birds, but the number is not enough to feed the increasing consumer population. Cheruiyot said for any poultry products to enter Kenya, traders must present a certificate of origin to Kenya Revenue Authority officials as part of border inspection. Kenya imported Sh500 million poultry from Uganda annually before the ban. Much of the trade was, however, carried out through the black market. Kenya also imports a significant amount of products from South Africa, Israel and other countries. The Farm Animal Welfare report showed that meat lovers are concerned about how animals are raised so their health is not ruined. “Farm animal welfare is riding high on the consumer agenda, hence poor animal welfare along the supply chain. Leading fast food restaurants cannot be ignored,” Dr Victor Yam said. “We expect higher standards of living for farm animals that ensure animals have a good life, free from pain, fear, boredom and frustration from these companies.” Yamo is the Humane and Sustainable Agriculture campaigns manager, World Animal Protection. “Over 50 food companies, including Dominos, Subway, Burger King and Carrefour, have committed to making meaningful improvements to the lives of chickens,” he said.