ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula have hinted at a possible merger between the two parties. The two Luhya community leaders said they are already in talks with other political leaders in the region and the merger will be announced at the right time. “Every other time we have been fielding many candidates as a community but this time around we decided it will not happen again. Wetangula and I will walk together on the journey to unite our people,” Mudavadi said. Read; Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge Wetangula and Mudavadi accused NASA leader Raila Odinga of betraying them and vowed to allow disunity among the Luhyas ahead of 2022 elections. Wetangula said their predicament was like they had "gone to war and returned with injuries". “We will heal and move on and hence we are in talks with my brother Mudavadi and others like Bonny Khalwale along with other Luhya leaders and we will soon give our people the way forward,” Wetangula said. He accused Raila of turning against his own friends and political allies in NASA. They were speaking at Tuloi primary school in Nandi during the homecoming for Kaptuiywa ward MCA. The event was also attended by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and Senator Samson Cherargei. Mudavadi said although they fully support dialogue for the sake of the country it should be all inclusive and aimed at tackling the challenges which Kenyans face. “Dialogue is very good for the country but it cannot be an issue between two people. It has to be well structured so that the issues we have been talking about like electoral justice can be dealt with," Mudavadi said. Wetangula said the unity of the Luhya people would be achieved soon and vowed that come the 2022 elections, the community would speak with one voice and give one candidate to vie for the presidency. Khalwale claimed that the handshake between President Uhuru and Raila was laced with corruption and the two cannot be trusted to lead dialogue that will heal the country. “Our people have been asking that we unite and we have agreed with Weta that we will be together as from now,” Mudavadi sai d. Read; Ford Kenya trashes Wetangula’s ouster, say will strip ODM of minority posts  Click here for the latest political news