Bursaries, provision of healthcare and water, and poor road network were the key issues in the Kitui West MP by-election campaigns ended on Friday. The constituency’s 52,042 registered voters will go to the ballot on Monday to elect a replacement for former MP Francis Nyenze. Nyenze, 60, died of colon cancer at Nairobi Hospital on December 6. His widow Edith Vethi is one of the candidates seeking to replace him. She is running on the Wiper ticket. Other candidates are Robert Leli (Narc Kenya), Dennis Mulwa (independent), Fridah Mutui (KSC) and Elijah Kilonzo (CCM) They wound up their campaigns on Friday, with each promising goodies if elected. On Thursday Edith was joined on the campaign trail by 2017 Machakos governor candidate Wavinya Ndeti and Kibwezi East MP Jessica Mbalu. They visited Kikanga, Kathuma, Maseki, Muuani in Matinyani, then Sangala, Katutu and Katheka shopping centres in Kauwi. Edith said she is the most qualified candidate and she has the “records” of the constituency’s needs. “While Shabiki (her husband's nickname) was working, he was like a school principal and I his deputy. As you know, deputies perform the donkey’s work as the principal attends various meetings," she said. "Therefore, I am very well informed about what Kitui West needs. I will not let you down.” Edith said she would continue her husband's legacy of selfless service. Edith, a teacher, served for many years as principal of Kyondoni Girls Secondary School. She later worked as a senior manager at the Retirement Benefits Authority, from where she resigned to run for office. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka earlier in the week campaigned for her alongside NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula. The other candidates have tried to capitalise on the Nyenze-Mwendwa hegemony, claiming the two families have monopolised the constituency leadership. But residents seem to have rallied behind Edith. The leaders promised to man the 143 polling stations to ensure that no vote interference takes place and the Wiper candidate carries the day with a resounding margin. Wiper enjoys massive support not only in Kitui West but also the whole of Kitui county. , having the majority of MPs at the National Assembly and MCAs at the county assembly. On Thursday, Ndeti urged residents to vote for Edith, saying she is hardworking and God-fearing.  