IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati on Friday promised to give Kenyans answers about the extra Sh1 billion the commission spent on lawyers’ fees for the 2013 election petitions. He said he is yet to get a report on the issue from the Secretariat. Chebukati spoke at Kwale IEBC offices. “I came to office last year. The commission needs to be briefed over the issue by the management, then give back our views to Kenyans,” Chebukati said. Asked whether the amount was spent appropriately, Chebukati said he can only answer after he gets the report. Read: IEBC lawyers to earn hefty sums from election petitions Chebukati was responding to a recent revelation by the Auditor General that the commission spent Sh2.1 billion, instead of Sh1 billion to pay lawyers who handled the 2013 election petitions. He said the IEBC welcomes public opinion to ensure officials serve Kenyans effectively. Chebukati said the August 8 General Election had only 10 per cent of the petitions, adding that this means the commission conducted a free and fair poll. Early this week, the IEBC chiefs were summoned by the powerful NASA-led watchdog committee over what the Auditor General flagged as questionable financial expenditure. Read: IEBC, Jubilee lawyers clueless, uninformed - Orengo The Parliamentary Accounts Committee summoned Chebukati and CEO Ezra Chiloba. The IEBC was to explain, among other issues, how 30 law firms were paid Sh328.3 million without proper contracts. The Auditor General also said the IEBC paid Sh17.8 million to five law firms that were single-sourced and were not prequalified. The controversial transfer of 200 BVR kits to the National Youth Service was also an issue of concern. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his report has said the transfer, which triggered political heat last year, was “unsatisfactory”. Ahead of last year’s election, opposition politicians, led by Raila Odinga, claimed the kits given to the NYS were used to illegally register voters. The IEBC is also on the spot for irregularly inflating the tender for purchase of BVR system vendor support and maintenance services above the sum quoted by the winning firm. Related: IEBC inflated kit maintenance tender threefold, auditor report  Click here for the latest political news 