Jackson Kibor's youngest wife has sued the Standard newspaper for defamation saying it referred to her as a gold digger. Eunita Kibor traditionally married the veteran politician cum farmer in 2002. The woman in her 40s and the 86-year-old have five children. More on this: Jackson Kibor, 86, weds new lover Yunita as he pushes to divorce 2nd wife Josephine Also read: Politician Kibor granted divorce from his wife of 51 years Eunita has filed a suit against the Standard at the Eldoret Magistrate’s Court, seeking an apology and compensation for a story published online. This concerns an article titled 'The gripping Jackson Kibor – Yunita drama series continues' which was published on or about October 15, 2017. Eunita accuses the Standard and writer Njoki Kaigai of "jointly, falsely and maliciously" printing and publishing an article that portrayed her as a materialistic woman taking advantage of her old, rich husband’s wealth. Kibor owns more than 3,000 acres of land and other properties in the Rift Valley. In the suit filed on February 28, Eunita cites part of the article as stating: “I hope Yunita has accepted the fact that she will always be seen as the young gold digger wife whose singular achievement will have been taking advantage of an elder to earn a lifetime meal ticket.” Through lawyer Waziri Omollo, the woman further notes that the publication stated her children were born out of an illegitimate relationship. She explains that she and Kibor got engaged and then married after meeting in Chepkoilel area near Eldoret. Eunita further notes the “false and malicious” publication has been distributed to millions of people across the world, tainting her image adversely. The media house and Kaigai are also accused of deliberately using abusive language, failing to verify the information and intentionally taking an action that has ruined her business. “Whereas the defendants have the right to express their opinions, they ought to have respect for the plaintiff’s rights and reputation…” the application states. Eunita, a businesswoman in Uasin Gishu County, wants the court to issue a permanent injunction barring the media house from publishing any defamatory information about her. A hearing date is yet to be set. Meanwhile, Kibor is seeking to divorce his third wife less than a year after a court granted him orders to part ways with his second wife. Kibor married Naomi Jeptoo more than 43 years ago but now accuses her of abandoning their home and denying him conjugal rights. The man also claims, in court papers filed on February 28, that she has been hostile and intolerant of him, causing him psychological pain. “She had plotted to kill me and has been consistently beating me up, causing me actual bodily harm,” he says. Details: Kibor seeks to divorce third wife, cites mental and physical torture Click here for the latest political news