The Bomet government has defended the demolition of unapproved structures on the streets of Bomet town. County askaris brought down the illegal kiosks on Sunday night. Urban Planning executive Daisy Rono yesterday said those claiming they were not informed of the demolitions are insincere. The county gave traders operating in illegal structures a seven-day notice to relocate to the new market. Those affected include vendors who worked along the main highway, the bus stage and the main streets. Rono said the decision was arrived at after many months of deliberations and discussions with traders and officials of the Chamber of Commerce. But local Chamber of Commerce officials termed the demolitions barbaric and uncalled for. “The traders were moving slowly and they needed time. The county knew this. It is shocking they have used force on traders, who were willing to move,” officer Stephen Sang said. He said the process should have been conducted in a way that does not lead to destruction of property. Sang said the county should have given the traders more time to move to the new market. Rono said, “The affected traders had been given notice to move. They were all aware. We don’t expect them to lay the blame on any of us.” “We are operating within the law and they will have to bear with the situation because we want to finish this once and for all and move to something else.” In bad faith The small-scale traders have been sifting through the debris of their premises since Monday to salvage what is left of their wares. Some traders have supported the county government, but others have criticised the manner in which the whole process was handled. “We welcome the action undertaken by the county. It is for our own good. We need Bomet to be clean just like other towns,” fruit vendor Joseph Katitu said yesterday. “The only way that can be achieved is by agreeing to subscribe to what is right.” Those opposed to the demolitions said they were carried out in bad faith and the vendors’ property was looted. “We have not refused to move. The stalls in the new market are few and we had to take time to organise and leave the streets as we had agreed, but the demolitions were effected before we did that,” a Kipchamba Street kiosk owner said. Some traders accused the county officials of encroaching on private property. They said they operated on private plots. “Those carrying out the demolition encroached on our private property yet the notice was clear that those operating on road reserves were the only ones to move,” Josphat Kipkorir said. Click here for the latest political news