Just as the first war on illicit brews was led by politicians, so too is the new fight. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i launched a nationwide crackdown on illicit brews and other drugs on Wednesday last week, and the choice of Kiambu county was telling. Kiambu has 1,226 public primary and secondary schools but has 3,062 licensed alcoholic outlets. Matiang’i asked county governments to help crack down on illicit brews and initiate programmes to rehabilitate addicts. Speaking at Makwa village in Gatundu North, he said the national government will partner with county governments in the fight. “Consumption of illicit liquor has led to loss of innocent lives, destroyed families and hurt development in the country,” Matiang’i said. The crackdown launch came in the wake of a law passed by the Kiambu government on March 6 that cancelled all bar licences and required operators to reapply after inspection. Bar owners must also keep detailed records of all liquor supplies and label all drinks. Night clubs may operate only from 2pm to 3am on weekends, while bars operate from 5pm to 11pm on weekdays. Governor Ferdinand Waititu said he will lead the war on alcoholism to save generations from addiction. He said many people have been left dead, blind, maimed from fights in bars and road accidents blamed on drunk driving. “We cannot stand to see people suffer because of alcoholic effects. We will worl until we turn the region into an alcohol-free zone,” Waititu said. He said the Kiambu government will ban selling of drums in all wholesale shops and hardware outlets, since illicit brewers prepare the dangerous alcoholic drinks in them. WRONG STRATEGY? However, sellers complained that Kiambu’s alcohol laws appear intended to finish their businesses, rather than fight the illicit liquor. Kiambu County Liquor Welfare Group chairman Richard Kagiri said the government should fight illicit liquor, not target established businesses. He said many people may lose their jobs, and the government will lose revenue from liquor traders. Rights activist James Njenga said alcoholism has turned the region into an example of evil things done openly without fear or shame. Njenga is the national chairman of the Chama cha Wanaume na Watoto. He said men are the most affected, as their families break up and women run away with children and household items. He said 37 per cent of reported domestic violence cases in Central region are fuelled by alcoholism. If alcoholism is not controlled or eliminated, it will threaten population growth. “Our society is at a risk. If the trend continues, people aged 30 will not see grandchildren, or there will be very few. Our people are dying of alcoholism in their 20s and 30s. This is so sad," Njenga said. Njenga urged Central region governors to join hands and control the sale of alcohol. “These counties interact daily as people trade and work together. We need to control the alcohol that residents consume so we breed a generation that is strong and will live long to see the fruits of their hard work,” he said. 