Although Greg Snow has played in twelve Kenya Open editions, he believes he still has what it takes to shine in his 13th attempt. Greg is rated as one of the finest professional golfers in Kenya at the moment alongside Mumias long hitter Dismas Indiza. “Ever since I a was a kid, I have always loved playing golf. I have played in four Kenya Opens as an amateur and 8 as a professional. So I believe I possess the requisite experience a pro golfer would savour at Challenge Tour level,” he said. Snow’s best finish in the Kenya Open was ninth overall in 2014. “Finishing in the top ten was no mean achievement. I have always had the burning ambition to become the first local winner of the Open. Aaron Rai and Jacob Okello have inspired us immensely. Rai who won the tournament last year had Kenyan roots in the sense that his mother was born in Kenya before relocating to the UK. Jacob came really close in 1998 when he lost in the last minute shoot-out. We have always hit the ball well so hopefully, I can achieve my dream of becoming the first local winner. That has always been my ambition and I have been working hard year in year out to achieve it.” Snow started playing golf at the age of 6 in Kiambu before moving to Muthaiga. Although he is not the resident professional at Muthaiga, he spends much of his golfing time at the “Home of Golf” trying to perfect his skills. Unlike most of the Kenyan pros, who realised their potential in the game as caddies, Snow had his love for the game ingrained as a result of accompanying his dad and mum to the course. “My father and brother played golf, so I believe we had the bug long before I learnt how to crawl. Dad was my mentor and he inspired me into playing golf,” he continues. Once again, the Barclays Kenya Open field will be full of local talent, with more than 20 home professionals teeing off in the European Challenge Tour this week as they seek to emulate the success of Snow, who finished in a tie for ninth in 2014. His six under par total a year ago saw the 28-year-old finish four strokes adrift of eventual winner Jake Roos. He became the youngest player to represent his country in 2006 at the age of just 16, and he went on to study at the University of Texas on golf scholarship.