Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria yesterday defended a Bill he sponsored to recognise hawkers as legitimate traders. The Hawkers and Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood) Bill, 2018, seeks to provide a legal framework for recognition, protection and regulation of vendors in all the 47 counties. If passed into law, the governor said, hawking will become a legitimate business. “Hawkers and street vendors make a substantial contribution to the national economy, about 90 per cent of all contributions of all traders in the country,” Wa Iria said. The Bill was presented to Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on Tuesday. “There are about eight million hawkers in this country who stand to benefit if this Bill is approved. This habit of beating up hawkers and confiscating their wares is inhuman,” Wa Iria said. He said street vendors will remain an active ingredient of the business value chain in the country for years to come. The governor said he wants hawkers to be mainstreamed into the national business organisations, such as the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, owing to their contribution to the economy. He said hawking in developed countries, such as India, have been structured and it has yielded success. An authority, governed by a board of directors will be appointed by the relevant Cabinet Secretary under the law. This will help to streamline the hawking business and decriminalise the trade by setting out clear dispute resolution mechanisms. set up a tribunal The authority shall also facilitate the registration, vetting, regulation and monitoring of trade by hawkers and street vendors, besides establishing a national bureau and registry of the informal traders across the country. “We will set up a tribunal to deal with issues around hawking and dispute resolution mechanisms, because we don’t want to see what we have been seeing where hawkers are brutalised by the county inspectorate officers,” Wa Iria said. The governor said they will from next week start engaging stakeholders, including the county governments and those from academia to get their views on how the Bill can be improved. They will also benchmark with countries that have managed to streamline hawking. “The Bill has been supported by the Nyeri Governor and, from next week, we are set to rollout engagements with different people in the country as the Senate also conducts its public participation,” he said. Last month, Wa Iria said the  hawkers’ Bill will restore sanity in the sector and command respect for the vendors. He said the Bill seeks to have hawkers’ zones established in towns and along busy roads, where hawkers will freely sell their wares. “It is socially immoral for county governments to have a contingent of officers chasing after hawkers and confiscating their goods every day. It is not illegal to be a hawker,” he said. rassment.