Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has a constitutional right to contest any political seat in this country. It is within his constitutional right if he chooses to vie for President or any other position. It is not up to any of the politicians to dictate to Raila when he should retire from active politics. The Kenyan Constitution 2010 doesn’t have an upper presidential age limit. The controversial upper age limit for presidential candidate was scrapped in 2004 in the draft Constitution. Our Constitution is classic and open-ended, with equal opportunity for any politician seeking the highest office. Personally, I don’t agree with those calling on Raila to quit politics. While we understand the country’s political terrain, some would be out for selfish gain and think that by Raila quitting they would have better leverage to advance their political careers. Those of us who subscribe to the rules and tenets of democracy must understand that politics is the art of the impossible. Kenya has made great strides in advancing democracy and the rule of law. As politicians, we must not seek to put roadblocks in the way of our colleagues seeking the highest office so that we reap political capital by their absence in a political contest. True, politicians committed to the ideals and principles of democracy must live strictly by the rules without erecting hurdles in the way of others who aspire for highest office. The Opposition leader is free to run even 10 or 20 times for the presidency as much as life permits him. Indeed, Raila shouldn’t be limited to four or five terms; it would be unfair and unconstitutional to be asking the former Prime Minister to retire. Those within the Opposition ranks calling for his retirement aren’t genuine and are pursuing a selfish agenda, which they know themselves. It is as perplexing as it is worrying that, despite the strides we have made over the years with the advent of the new Constitution, some other leaders could want to fear competition. If it is Raila’s desire to run and if that provision is expressly provided for in the Constitution, as politicians we should learn to live with it and appreciate that. As Jubilee we don’t want to interfere with what NASA is doing in regards to its plans for a presidential candidate. The writer is the National Assembly Majority Whip and Mumias East MP