Details have emerged of how retired judge Philip Ransley was involved into money washing business and embezzled his clients’ money in the belief he would make millions. The details of how the judge transferred millions of shillings of his clients’ money to individuals are contained in affidavits filed before the Advocates Complaints Commission. Ransley, who is wanted by the Director of Public Prosecutions to face charges of embezzling funds, reveals how a woman identified as Irene Adema, introduced him to the business of "cleaning" money. The retired judge, who has since fled to England, says Adema made him believe some persons from the Central Bank of Kenya and De La Rue, were involved in the business. At first, they allegedly cleaned about €5 million. This was sometimes in June 2015. And to be a member of the "money wash" business, the retired judge said he was informed he had to pay $37,000 membership fee. He paid the amount on June 9, 2015. Three days later, he was told to pay Sh57 million, to kick-start the business. The instructions were purportedly from the financial controller Dr Phol Gustav Baoteng of Ste Gruppe Rustung – a company supposedly from Sweden. On June 17, 2015, he allegedly transferred Sh57 million by swift transfer from an account at Chase Bank River Side branch to Joseph Lendrix Waswa. “In order for the bank to release the money to Joseph, the bank demanded evidence of the transaction,” he said, adding that Joseph advised him to fabricate a fictitious land sale, which they made. He later transferred Sh43 million to allegedly purchase gas to be used in the cleaning of money. The retired judge later transferred Sh10 million for transportation of the gas and a week later, he transferred Sh12,730,000 to pay security guards to accompany the gas from Mombasa to Nairobi. A few days later, he transferred Sh7.5 million to settle technician and warehouse charges after he was informed the money had already been cleaned. He was then promised that the money would be taken to the Central Bank. An accountant with law firm of Ransley McVicker Shaw Advocates, Robert Karugu, has also sworn an affidavit detailing how he was instructed by Ransley to transfer money from the firm to several accounts. Virginia Shaw, a partner in the firm has denied any involvement in the transactions, saying she is a stranger. The lawyer further says there is no evidence linking her to charges of professional misconduct she is facing before the Advocates complaints tribunal. She said she is aware the complainant John Rowland Minns was a long-time friend of Ransley and by virtue of the relationship, he was his personal client. Further, she said she has never offered any services in a professional capacity and has no personal dealings with Minns and his money. She, however, admits that the form holds several accounts that keep clients’ and among the money was Sh277 million belonging to Minns, from the sale of some property. Minns says he engaged the firm and he wants both to be found guilty of professional misconduct for failing to remit his money. “This is misappropriation of clients’ money and I have suffered the loss and benefits of the said funds,” he said. He wants the tribunal to take stern disciplinary action against the two lawyers and they be compelled to release his money plus interest over years. The Tribunal directed parties to file their submissions and appear before it on July 16.       