There are many books on apartheid, but Hum if You Don’t Know the Words by Bianca Marais brings a fresh perspective to a well-discussed theme. The novel begins on the eve of the 1976 Soweto Uprising, a peaceful student-led protest that turned tragic when white policemen opened fire killing hundreds of unarmed people. Robin Conrad, 9, is a tomboyish white South African girl. She lives in Johannesburg with her shy twin sister Cat, their parents and an African nanny called Mabel. As the chaos unfolds, Robin’s parents are killed and Mabel flees, leaving her an orphan. Meantime, in faraway Transkei region lives Beauty Mbali, a widowed school teacher struggling to care for her two sons. Beauty suddenly has to travel to Johannesburg after receiving news that her daughter Nomsa, a university student, is in trouble. In the violent aftermath of the Soweto uprising, Beauty comes into the life of Robin, now living with her Aunt Edith who is a capricious air hostess that is ill-suited to being a parent. Still grieving, Robin’s hitherto sheltered outlook is challenged by new acquaintances like the Jewish neighbours, the coloured caretaker, and Beauty who does not behave as black people should. Meanwhile Beauty suspects that her daughter may be entangled with Shakes Ngubane a notorious criminal element and recruiter for the military wing of the African National congress. Her desperate attempts to find Nomsa expose her to immense danger. At the same time Robin’s makes some unwise decisions that further complicated Beauty’s search for her daughter. Hum if You Don’t Know the Words reveals multiple elements of the apartheid era such as white the South African sympathisers who protected black people from the ruthless consequences of the racial laws. We examine lesser-known types of discrimination like anti-Semitism and homophobia. Truth be told, there many subplots and secondary characters, and not enough time to fully explore them. Robin’s reckless escapade to set things right almost felt like the detective books she loves to read. But uncovering the identity of Robin’s sister was quite unexpected. This is a sad yet charming story is written in descriptive and often humorous language. The story also stands out for reviewing a devastating period of history from the lens of a naïve but smart white child and an educated black woman. We see the lengths to which people will go to protect their loved ones and how friendships can develop between the most unlikely people. Like Robin, Marais was raised in a mining district, lived among bigoted white people and had limited interaction with Africans beyond their domestic staff. She admits having to analyse her own prejudices when writing this book. The character Mabel is drawn from her own nanny who rarely saw her children while working for Marais’s family. In 2017 this debut book was on the “must-read” list of the New York Post. But Marais has not released it in her homeland as South African publishers are weary of another apartheid book.   Star Rating: 4/5