Camelot is a castle and court associated with the legendary King Arthur, a British leader who, according to medieval histories and romances, led the defence of Britain against Saxon invaders in the late fifth and early sixth centuries AD. In American contexts, Camelot is used to refer to the presidency of John F. Kennedy and to a period America came closest to having a ruling dynasty, given the love and admiration of the Kennedys, even long after JFK’s assassination. Americans have this love-hate relationship with ruling dynasties; on the one hand, they profess their distaste for ruling dynasties when surveyed, yet, in a country of more than 300 million people, we have had in this half century alone a father and son as president, albeit at different times and nearly had a wife of a former president take the presidency as well in 2016, but for the rude dashing of the dream by one Donald J Trump. Indeed, in 2016, Jeb Bush attempted to seek nomination for President, an office his father and mother occupied. However, even his own mother said that was just too much, urging him not to vie. He did anyway, only to see dust as Trump swept past him. There’s, however, an irony, if not a contradiction, about how Americans view dynasties or, as reporter Aaron Blake puts it, the fact is that for everyone who professes to be disgusted with the idea of another Bush or another Clinton inhabiting the White House, there are many more people who are quite fond of the predictability and ease of voting for a name they know. This phenomenon is equally prevalent and true in our own Kenyan politics, except ours is heavily influenced by tribal politics more than anything else. Closely related to this phenomenon is the wicked belief by many, especially in Africa, that once elected, one must serve till death. Again, as noted above, feeding into this notion is the very conception of tribalism these power grabbers exploit to entrench their hold on power, and in total disregard of what the will of the people is. President Uhuru Kenyatta is a man this writer actually likes and has had occasion to meet and talk to once briefly and another time at length. On both occasions this writer concluded, despite what’s written about Uhuru — especially back then when he was getting ready to face-off against Raila for the 2013 election - the man is full of wisdom, intellect and humility to do the right thing for the sake of our beloved country. If only he can shake off a few around him who constantly want to drag him away from his core instinctive cues that are mostly good. Now that Uhuru and Raila have shaken hands and there’s clearly lots of behind-the-scenes moves to shape the future of the country, both leaders have a unique opportunity to deliver a major, if not fatal, blow to tribalism. The man best positioned to do this by virtue of the power he holds is Uhuru. Let him spend the next four years systematically dismantling the underlying still rotten system intended to benefit only a few to the detriment of the rest of the country, and, by so doing, he will not be “finishing” anyone, but ensuring the national cake, in whatever form it takes, is shared more evenly and more equitably. Raila, for his part, must be there to make sure those who still believe the presidency is a matter of entitlement are in for a rude awaking sooner rather than later and, with that, he will be the last one laughing at the expense of those who have always written him off every time they think he’s been knocked down and out. Not quite yet. File that one and let’s compare notes, come the next presidential election.  The writer is a legal expert and political commentator in the US