Likoni is fast becoming notorious for young gang crimes. Children as young as 10 are joining gangs, according to the Kenya Community Support Centre. Kecosce executive director Phylis Muema told the Star on Wednesday that she found 50 of 91 pupils in one primary school using hard drugs. Parents have given up on their children, leaving discipline to teachers. Discouraged teachers are giving up. “It was shocking. Had I not seen them, I would not have believed it,” Muema said. She visited the area on Tuesday on a fact-finding mission. She spoke on the sidelines of a policy dialogue workshop on youth-inclusive ways to prevent and counter violent extremism in the Igad region. Muslims for Human Rights said on Wednesday that security officials are using the wrong methods to deal with the problem. Reports indicate that in the past week at least 10 people linked to gangs have been killed. They were 18-22 years of age. Likoni police boss Benjamin Rotich said on Wednesday all those killed were criminals. “Some were arrested and will appear in court. Some were killed, others escaped, we are pursuing them,” Rotich told the Star. Muhuri boss Hassan Abdille said, “Though the situation is worrying, killing is not an option. The government needs a better approach. Speaking on the phone, Abdille said killing suspects will only worsen the situation. Haki Africa’s Francis Auma said, “Police have a duty to maintain law and order but must also uphold the sanctity of life.” Security reports indicate at least 12 criminal gangs operate in Likoni. They include Wajukuu wa Bibi, Watalia, Kapenguria Six and Young Thugs. Gangs like Wakali Kwanza have crossed over to Likoni from Kisauni. Police deny such groups are active. County commissioner Evans Achoki said youth are only using notorious names to commit “petty crimes”.“Some use the names to instil fear. There is nothing like Wakali Kwanza or Wajukuu. There are no such groups in Mombasa,” Achoki said on Wednesday. Muema said the government has been sitting on a proposed crime-reduction policy. The Rehabilitation and Reintegration Policy is with the National Security Council chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Muema civil society groups drafted the policy three years ago. She said government should remove barriers to youths’ economic progress to stem escalating violence. “Likoni teachers are grumbling. Soon they’ll start demanding transfers, like teachers in Wajir because they are also being attacked by the kids they teach,” Muema said.