Nyeri county leaders yesterday picked Senator Ephraim Maina as their spokesperson to promote development, unity and make the county shine. The Nyeri Leaders’ Progressive Forum, made the declaration at a Nyeri hotel. “We expect him to ensure all leaders — elected and non-elected — are united for us to gain maximum benefit from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government’s Big Four agenda,” they said in a statement. Politicians Thuo Mathenge and Wambugu Nyamu led the team.  They urged the senator to work closely with all leaders for the common good. Thuo had declared his interest to run for Nyeri governor in last year’s General Election but was locked out of the race by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission over his academic credentials. Nyamu ran for Senate seat but lost to Maina. The forum told Maina to market the county and ensure it commands respect nationally and internationally. “The days of retrogressive politics are over. We’re geared towards reaping maximum benefits and development from our government, that’s what our people have been yearning for for years,” they said. They said unity between elected and non-elected leaders will help erase the reputation of disunity that has characterised Nyeri leadership. Disharmony among leaders has derailed development, they said. They pledged to support the pact between Uhuru and Opposition chief Raila Odinga to heal divisions. In the first county administration, leaders wasted four years as MCAs and MPs fought Governor Nderitu Gachagua, who died in office. YEARS OF DISHARMONY In August last year, leaders said there would be no more wrangles. They said they had learnt a lesson from their squabbling predecessors. They included then-county chief Wahome Gakuru, Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga (now governor), Maina, Woman MP Rahab Mukami and MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Gathiaka Kiai (Mukurwe-ini), Gichuhi Mwangi (Tetu) and Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira). “Our mandate is to ensure development, accountability and transparency. Our county must shine,” Kahiga said. Maina said, “We’ll work together and speak in one voice. But I’ll never condone graft.”