Education CS Amina Mohamed yesterday blamed lecturers’ union for the delayed conclusion of the 2017-21 CBA negotiations. She told the National Assembly Committee on Education that the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum has been unable to engage the dons due to a pending suit and the recent strike. It began on March 1. The IPUCCF is awaiting a court ruling today, Amina said. “We are hoping Uasu will withdraw the case they filed against the SRC [so] the job evaluation [is] completed,” she said. “We are also optimistic that the Labour Relations Court will declare the case illegal and unprotected this will allow parties to start negotiations and the government to give its counteroffer.” The government is yet to give a counter-offer on the 2017-21 CBA. The lecturers’ union, in its draft proposal, recommended Sh6.8 billion be given to the university staff for basic salaries and house allowance increments. Amina said the job evaluation by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission will act as a strong point of reference for the CBA negotiations and ensure harmonious remuneration of all university staff. “When the country set up the SRC, it was agreed that it will be the guiding pillar in salary determinations, but the lecturers don’t want to be guided by the same body,” she said. But Uasu secretary general Constantine Wasonga said the union was not opposed to evaluation but feels the lecturers are discriminated. Wasonga said fully fledged professors in universities ought to have been graded in the highest job group, F, as opposed to the current placement (Job Group E). “Why are the highest and most learned academic staff (professors) not in the highest job group? So who is supposed to be there if the most learned are not there?” he said.  SO MANY ISSUES  Amina said the ministry has requested universities to submit payroll data for analysis to establish the number of staff. This comes following concerns that the universities are grappling with understaffing. “The issue of the strike is just a tip of the iceberg. So much is going on in the universities that needs to be addressed,” she said. Amina further raised concerns over the collapse of postgraduate studies. According to Commission for University Education, universities are struggling with the postgraduate programmes as there are only a few qualified tutors to handle them. The programmes are expected to take one or two years, but are now taking more than three years to complete, Amina said. According to the CUE 2016 report, only 4,394 students — one per cent of the total population of learners — are enrolled for doctoral degrees. The report further revealed the highest number of academic staff with PhDs ( 27 per cent) were found in public universities compared to only nine per cent in private universities.