The Kiambu government will relocate Forest Dispensary in Lari constituency to Ha Gachira to allow easy access and avoid the risky five-kilometre walk during which people have been robbed. Residents complain it is difficult to access and say some have been robbed of cash and valuables on their way to and from the clinic. Health executive Ng’ang’a Murega and Lari Kirenga MCA Joseph Karichu on Wednesday visited the facility and said it would be shifted soon. As the name suggests, the dispensary is in the middle of Uplands Forest. The relocation will complement the national government’s efforts to protect forests. It has launched tree-planting drives. Residents say muggers ambush patients and visitors. A building at the new site — Ha Gachira — was constructed five years ago and is ready for occupancy. PREGNANT WOMEN CAN’T RUN Women are attacked and robbed once they alight at Ha Kariuki stage on the Nyambare Githunguri road. They have to walk about 5km to reach the health facility. It was founded by white settlers in mid-1950s. Most of those visiting the facility are pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers. “Women wait for each other at Uplands, Shauri, Ha Karenju and other places so they can walk together because they fear being attacked,” community health worker Susan Njeri told the two leaders. “We have a history of expectant women being robbed. They can’t run away and the thieves take advantage of that.” She said the new building at Ha Gachira is complete and is safe for use. “It has steel doors, has been painted, has a large waiting area and enough examination rooms. We urge the county government to move with speed to transfer the services,” Njeri said. Karichu said it was wrong to allow women and children to continue walking in the forest to seek medical help. A contractor has been hired to furnish the new building within two weeks so services are transferred swiftly, he said. “When women lack partners so they can walk together, they spend too much bus fare to seek medical attention at the Rukuma Subcounty Hospital. They have to use three vehicles to arrive there,” Karichu said. Githirioni dispensary will also be opened soon, the ward representative said. Its construction took four years and it has been completed. “I have taken the issue to the assembly and the Health department to seek help. I want residents to have medical facilities near them,” he said.