Former Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze’s widow Edith Vethi yesterday dismissed claims the IEBC and security officers are working to ensure she wins a forthcoming by-election. Nyenze’s died of cancer on December 6 last year. Nyenze, 60, died while undergoing treatment at Nairobi Hospital. He had been ailing since 2008. On August 31, Nyenze presented himself for swearing in at the National Assembly with an oxygen tank. He arrived at the assembly with the tank behind him and tubes snaking out of his back. The by-election will take place next Monday. Vethi said the allegations by rivals is an “overt display of desperation by people who have sensed defeat”. She said they have realised she is popular. “I have not violated the electoral code in any way. I have never met the Kitui West election coordinator since I presented my nomination papers. How dare they accuse him of campaigning for me? They must accept they have been rejected by the electorate,” Vethi said. Opponents Mutiso Leli and Elijah Ikonge claimed IEBC officials, led by the constituency boss and security personnel, favoured and campaigned for Vethi. CUNNING? “I have already filed a protest with the Kitui West election coordinator. We want a level playing ground,” Ikonge said on the phone. He said Vethi has been moving ahead of him to address campaign gatherings he had organised. But Vethi said she has followed the campaign schedule she presented to the IEBC. “All these allegations are unfounded and baseless. They are from people who are crying wolf because they have realised I will beat them on Election Day. Let them prepare for defeat because it has become clear I am more popular than them,” she said. CHEERED Leli said he has hired a lawyer to document the electoral malpractices abetted by the IEBC and Vethi. Vethi said her popularity can be seen at social gatherings, including funerals. She said residents cheer her everywhere. Nasa co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka has accompanied Vethi to campaign rallies. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua supports Vethi’s bid. He said, “I am the senior most elected member of Wiper in Kitui. The party has asked me to push hard to ensure Edith wins the March 26 by-election.” He said Vethi, his sister, is capable of efficiently delivering services if she wins. “Being my sister is a nonissue since in her own right, she has a history of being a performer,” Wambua said. Nyenze caused a storm last year when he left the opposition to support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election on October 26. Five contestants will face off in the Kitui West MP by-election. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said Vethi (Wiper), Ikonge (Chama cha Mapinduzi), Leli (Narc Kenya), Dennis Mulwa (independent), and Frida Mutui (Kenya National Congress) are eligible for the poll.