More than 500 Canadian doctors and residents have signed a public letter protesting their own pay raises, CNBC reported on Tuesday. "We, Quebec doctors who believe in a strong public system, oppose the recent salary increases negotiated by our medical federations," the letter says. The group, which included over 150 medical students, say they are offended that they would receive raises when nurses and patients are struggling. "These increases are all the more shocking because our nurses, clerks and other professionals face very difficult working conditions." CNBC further quotes the doctors saying they won't accept the raise "while patients live with the lack of access to required services." They cited drastic spending cuts in recent years and the centralisation of power in the Ministry of Health. The letter, which was published February 25, says: "The only thing that seems to be immune to the cuts is our remuneration." "The 213 general practitioners, 184 specialists, 149 resident medical doctors and 162 medical students want the money used for their raises to be returned to the system instead," CNBC adds. The group is of the view that the resources can be redistributed to promote the health of the population and meet the needs of patients without pushing workers to the end. "A doctor in Canada is paid $260,924 (Sh26,433,036) per year on average," CNBC quotes a September 2017 report from the Canadian Institute for Health Information. "This is total gross pay, however, and does not take into account overhead each doctor pays to operate," CNBC adds. The situation is different from Kenya whose doctors went on strike for over three months demanding salary raise last year. Read: Doctors begin 'longest strike in history' over 2013 CBA agreement They signed an agreement with the government in March 2017 after lengthy negotiations that even saw union officials jailed for contempt of court. More on pay row: Doctors sign deal ending 100-day strike In the new arrangement, doctors in Job Group I were to receive an additional Sh36,000 per month, hence will be paid a total of Sh66,000. Those in Job Group M, N and P will receive an additional allowance of Sh 42,000 per month, and will therefore receive Sh72,000. Job Group Q and above will receive an additional allowance of Sh50,000 per month with a sum payable of Sh80,000. "Every doctor gets a new medical risk allowance of Sh20,000 per month effective January 1, 2017," the agreement states. Fast forward to January 2018, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union threatened to call another strike. They cited failure by universities and medical colleges to pay allowances due to their members, a situation that mirrors the push and shove around the medics' bid for salary raise. KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga earlier said the allowances were agreed in the return-to-work formula and the CBA they signed last year. The medical risk and emergency call allowances and arrears were supposed to be paid from January 1,2017. More on this: Doctors issue strike notice over unpaid allowances Since Monday, registrars at Kenyatta National Hospital and Moi Referral Hospital downed tools following a strike by doctor lecturers. Coupled with KNH issues, the lot says that they have no supervisors hence cannot risk attending to patients. Click here for the latest political news