A businessman has moved to court challenging the ban on logging and timber harvesting in public forests. Daniel Kariuki wants the State compelled to release his timber worth Sh650 million. The Kenya Forest Service restrained him from collecting and transporting 26 tonnes of blue gum from Elgeyo to Mombasa. He said he has invested Sh650,000,000 and the continued ban will cause him losses as the timber loses market value. A three-month logging ban was imposed on February 24 following wanton logging. Deputy President William Ruto directed the Ministry of Environment, all environment agencies and the relevant county departments to ensure the ban is enforced. Ruto further directed Environment and Forestry Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko to constitute a task force and prepare a report on the forest sector. The team will propose appropriate remedial measures to check destruction of the environment and natural resources. Following the directions, Keriako gazetted a 15-member task force on February 27. The team, chaired by Marion Wakanyi, is expected to reassess forests and present its report, recommending measures to save Kenya’s forest cover. In his suit, the businessman says the Toropket Sawmills, where he bought the timber, was issued with a receipt on November 30, 2017, months before the ban. “I have a legitimate and rightful expectation that the Forest Conservation and Management Act should be applied uniformly and with due regard to equal treatment,” Kariuki said yesterday. He said the decision by KFS denying him a permit is unreasonable and based on extraneous considerations, selective  and in excess of its jurisdiction. “It is unlawful and illegal,” he said.  Kariuki says he followed all the requirements, and wants the court to suspend the decision denying him a permit. Under Section 8 (c) of the Forest Conservation and Management Act, the respondent has the mandate to receive and consider application for permit in relation to forest resources. The timber ban followed recommendations by the Parliamentary Committee on Environment. The committee asked the government to impose an immediate ban on logging, citing an environmental crisis. The committee called for the formation of a multi-agency team to conduct an audit of the country’s forest cover and inform the government on a future forest conservation plan. The committee proposed that the Kenya Water Towers Agency be anchored in the Presidency. On March 12, Tobiko said he is dismayed that those charged with protecting forests, including the KFS, are actually the enemies. He pointed the finger at KFS for allegedly making him believe licences issued to members of the Community Forest Associations were bound by conditions. The associations were given permits for shamba systems on land in forests. But the CS said, “I have just learned that there is nothing like that. Communities adjacent to forests are the best protectors and must benefit from the forests. They are allowed to get into the forests and plant their crops and take care of tree seedlings.”