Financial institutions, government agencies and key industrial sectors of the economy in the country should prepare for a massive exploration of Cyber crimes as 2018 unfolds. According to the director of Cloud strategy at giant technology firm Microsoft Rudiger Dorn, the year is likely to see an increase in phishing- where hackers obtain account details of employees or individuals through credit cards and banking details to commit a Cyber crime. This comes one month after the National Bank of Kenya confirmed that fraudsters got away with Sh29 million in what was suspected to be a hacking incident. In march 2017, the Kenya Revenue Authority also lost about Sh4 billion through hacking.Microsoft estimates that the crimes will cost the global economy Sh600 trillion annually by 2021 up from Sh300 trillion in 2016. “82 per cent of all companies should expect to face a cyber-attack,” he said. “In 2018, we expect phishing attacks to become more sophisticated. Hackers will no longer just attempt to dupe the user through phone calls or emails requesting information...and it will become more harder to differentiate a valid request for information or one that is attempting to solicit information for criminal activity,” Dorn added. FINANCIAL DAMAGES During his presentation dubbed Cyber security in todays IT environment, Dorn outlined receiving fake login forms that require sensitive information, malicious files that corrupt personal files, and personal customised messages as some of the major attacks to be faced Released yesterday, a new report by Technology firm Cisco states that more than half of such Cyber attacks result in financial damages of more than US$500,000 ( Sh 50.55 million ) annually including, but not limited to, lost revenue, customers, opportunities, and out-of-pocket cost. Another study on Fraud by audit firm Pricewaterhousecoopers ranked Cyber crime as the sixth highest economic crime in Kenya at 28 per cent likely to be most disruptive to organisations in the next 24 months. EXPLOITING LOOPHOLES In the financial sector, the audit firm rated it at 48 per cent ahead of asset misappropriation by senior officials at 65 per cent, with most firms losing up to Sh100 million annually on economic fraud. On Cyber crime, phishing and malware were the most common tools through which Cyber attack was perpetrated in most organisations at 37 and 34 per cent incidence rate respectively as shown in the graph below. Ahead of Cybercrime is consumer fraud where customers exploit loopholes in the designing of financial products or instruments to perpetrate fraud. Last year in August , Central Bank of Kenya issued a guidance note on Cyber security which requested Financial institutions to come up with a Cyber security Policy, strategies and frameworks by end of November 2017.          