The government will launch the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority next month to tap rain water. Water and Sanitation Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui said if properly done rain water can greatly supplement piped water and reduce floods in urban centres. Speaking during celebrations to mark World Water Day yesterday, Chelugui said all water infrastructure projects should incorporate components of water resource management and sanitation. This, he said, will help in coping with the effects of climate change, which have impacted negatively on diminishing water resources resulting into frequent drought and floods. Torrential rains in country have caused flooding, resulting in the deaths of at least 16 people. There has been massive destruction of property and scores of families have been left homeless. “Using harvested rainwater through innovative harvesting systems has become a viable option for supplying water for domestic use, irrigation and industrial use,” Chelugui said. Kenya is considered a water scarce country with a per capita water availability of less than 600 cubic metres, which is below the global threshold of 1,000 cubic metres per capita. According to the United Nations Environmental Programme, Kenya’s rainwater potential is more than 350 billion cubic metres. “If captured and managed, this water is enough to support a population of 233 million people or close to five times the current population of Kenya,” the UN report says. The 2009 Kenya Population Census shows that only 0.8 per cent of the urban population uses rain water. “Rain water harvesting, quality assurance especially in urban areas is key and as a Country, we commit to work with our partners in the private sector especially those in real estate and the National Construction Authority to ensure our buildings are complaint with rainwater harvesting systems. We will also bring on board the micro-finance institutions that offer market products for rainwater harvesting,” said Chelugui. To achieve universal access to water by the year 2030, Kenya needs Sh1.764 trillion, which translate to annual requirement of Sh100 billion. The sector, however, receives only Sh40 billion annually. “It is crucial that we share information and data on planning and development projects in order to fast track water coverage currently at 60 percent and to reach 80 percent by 2020. We also need to encourage Kenyans to conserve water either at home or harvest rain water from roof tops and construction of water pans in their farms,” said water PS Joseph Irungu.      