The Homa Bay county government has suspended water supply in the town after floods destroyed pipes. Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata and Homa Bay deputy county commission Chuck Masua said there are fears the water is contaminated by raw sewage. Orata said a lot of pipes are burst and clean water is mixed with raw sewerage. They have stopped pumping water as precautionary measures against waterborne diseases, he said. “Residents of Homa Bay town and the surrounding areas will face a water shortage until the situation is rectified. We don’t want to supply dirty water,” Orata said. Addressing the press at Makongeni sewerage plant in Homa Bay town on Monday, Orata said the sewer systems are overflowing into Lake Victoria. He told residents to boil water before drinking to avoid contracting cholera and other diseases. “We are asking people to maintain high standards of hygiene. We have alerted the ministry of Public Health to be well prepared,” he said. woman, child killed Orata urged the national government and humanitarian agencies to help the county deal with the problem. He said a majority of people are affected by flooding during the rains. “We are concerned about areas such as Kibiri, Ndhiwa and lower parts of Karachunyo, that are prone to floods. Urgent help is needed,” he said. Orata said he is saddened by the deaths of a woman and her three-year-old child who were swept away by floods in Makongeni. goods destroyed Masua told residents who have built structures on the drainage to move out. He said the illegal structures cause blockage. “Kiosks erected on road reserves should be demolished because they block the flow of water and result in flooding,” Masua said. He told residents who live in low- lying areas to move to high ground.On Sunday and Monday heavy rains pounded Homa Bay town, leaving a trail of destruction. crops ruined Shopkeeper John K’Oriko yesterday said he is counting losses after his goods were destroyed by floods.Some of his household items were also washed away. “Floodwater damaged foodstuffs and other goods in my shop. Cement bags were destroyed,” K’Oriko said. Farmer Owaka Ocholla complained the floods destroyed crops he had planted a week ago. “My maize, which was beginning to germinate, was washed away,” Ocholla said.