The three embattled Nasa principals are in the coalition to stay, Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka has said, adding the Senate Minority leader issue has been resolved. Kalonzo said on Monday that they have agreed that ODM recall its demand for Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula's ouster. The Senator could be replaced as Senate Minority leader with his Siaya counterpart James Orengo who stands with Nasa chief Raila Odinga at most functions. Senators in ODM, which is Raila's party, want Wetang'ula out but he said the divorce will be noisy and messy. More on this: Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila Kalonzo addressed reporters on Monday as he, Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) drummed up support for Kitui West MP candidate Edith Nyenze. The Wiper boss, who gave an apology on behalf of Raila, said: "We call on all of you to look at the bigger picture. We do not have time to look at what is registered in the memorandum with the Registrar of Political Parties. We are all united in Nasa," he said. Regarding electoral justice, the politicain said it is very painful to live knowing you lost an election through theft and noted the roots of the vice deepen with lack of action. "If you mess with one of us you mess with all of us. We remain focused to ending electoral theft and other malpractices," he said in reference to the disputed outcomes of the August 8 and repeat October 26 presidential elections. Raila successfully challenged the first outcome at the Supreme Court but withdrew from the re-run saying the result had been predetermined. He had insisted on leading Kenyans to 'Canaan' after refusing to acknowledge Uhuru's leadership. While calling on government to support devolution, the Wiper party leader said the principals totally support Kitui Governor Ngilu's action on burning charcoal for environmental conservation. If measures are not taken to end charcoal trade, he said, the country might turn into a desert. Read: Nasa intact, Uhuru handshake doesn't mean Raila 'jubilated' - Kalonzo In his address, Wetang'ula stated that they remain "totally uncompromising" on the calls for dialogue with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The three want to know Uhuru's side of the story following talks and a unity handshake with Raila. They were not aware of the events that transpired at Nairobi's Harambee House on March 9. Wetang'ula said the Nasa dream is embedded in Kenyan' minds and that no amount of deviation will change that. He refuted claims that the coalition is on the verge of collapse. "A frustrated dream is not a dead dream. We shall get where we want," he said and told Raila that the power lies with Kenyans. He added: "Since Kalonzo came from Germany he has been calling for dialogue, same to Musalia and I. We want a structure dialogue that will kick start the national conversation on problems facing Kenyans, especially on free education, devolution, corruption and logging. "Calling for dialogue is not a sign of weakness but an act of patriotism because we want the country to start a national conversation. We remain uncompromising on our demands on constitutional amendments and we shall not relent." His sentiments were echoed by Mudavadi who said their calls should not be misinterpreted to mean they are decamping from the National Super Alliance. "There is a big difference between dialogue and decamping. We are in the Opposition and any opposition in any democracy must be part of dialogue. All we are saying is let us not suffocate Nasa." Mudavadi added that they will not run from the coalition as leaders also need to discuss the increasing national debt that is likely to burden Kenyans. Click here for the latest political news