Title: She Artist: Muthoni Drummer Queen Genre: Hip hop/rap Release: March 2  Muthoni the Drummer Queen’s recent release is more audacious, an unapologetic dispatch that measures up to power only a good production can provide. “She” builds on the momentum and the promise of its antecedents, a natural extension of the openly hedonistic tone of Muthoni’s lyricism since she welcomed us to the disco back in 2011. In its essential respects, “She” is a celebration of womanhood. However, there are instances where Muthoni glides into other imperative issues. The 12-track LP begins with three singles we were already familiar with before the album dropped. The first track, Million Voice, honours those who go out of their way to make a living for themselves. Kenyan Message is a socio-political awareness tune that is immediately followed by the club-destined Suzie Noma that dropped a while back, with an impeccable dance routine video. Again, a day before Valentine’s, MDQ released the album’s fourth single, Lover, which was followed by a poetic interlude, Dear Mathilde, a thoughtful, empowering statement directed to the woman of the everyday life. Throughout the album, we get to experience the different sides and styles of MDQ. MDQ exhibits her vocal capabilities as a singer on Caged Bird, No More and Make It Right. She trades off lyrical bars on Criminal, Time Bomb and Elevate, then gets the opportunity to inspire individualism and self belief on Squad Up. With this attempt, which lasts not longer than 37 minutes, Muthoni knows she’s made her classic her own way. She makes the bold move of ensuring zero features and still manages to create and deliver a record that soars. It could be considered a minimalist project, but one that plants Muthoni into the pantheon of Kenya’s rap greats. You can’t ignore her incorporation of Michael Soi’s creative touch on her album cover art. The artwork features Muthoni’s portrait image with chip-like patterns (a continuation of the Soi’s “The Motherboard” series) drawn on her body and the same design depicted on the background. So far, this is the biggest Kenyan record this year.  Star Rating: 4/5