Environment CS Keriako Tobiko has denied claims that he ignored summons to appear before Parliament's Environment committee to explain challenges facing the ministry. In a statement on Friday, Tobiko said he informed the chairman of the committee Kareke Mbiuki in advance that he had other official engagements on Thursday. He said he sent his PS Charles Sunkuli to represent him and ask for a postponement to a mutually convenient date. "I have therefore learnt with surprise of the media reports; attributed to the committee and suggesting that I snubbed the appointment. Nothing can be further from the truth," he said. On Thursday, the committee declined to allow Sunkuli to stand in for him. Mbiuki insisted that the CS ought to have appeared in person to explain weighty issues affecting the conservation of forests in the country. In response, Tobiko said he wrote to and personally spoke to Mbiuki and informed him about his official commitments that he had already confirmed he would attend. The CS was attending a tree planting event in Ndakaini, Murang’a County, to commemorate World Water Day. "As a follow up to the letter, I also placed a call to the chair of the Committee, first thing on Thursday morning to inform him about the letter earlier sent and explain my predicament. He seemed not to have any difficulty on the same as we had a cordial chat. A chat that left me convinced that a postponement would be mutually agreed at the committee sitting," Tobiko said. He said his record for honouring summons from departmental house committees while serving as DPP speaks for itself. "I have always attended committee and related sessions as required; providing detailed accounts on any queries as necessary. I remain committed to advancing even better relations with Members of Parliament throughout my tenure as a Cabinet Secretary," he said. The committee issued fresh summons to the CS to appear before it on Thursday next week. The legislators said he should have appeared before them before heading to Ndakaini saying they had also postponed tree planting event in their respective constituencies. Among other issues they want Tobiko to explain are the suspension of Kenya Forest Service officials, key policy issues and a ban on plastic bottles. Mbiuki urged Tobiko to honour the repeat summons. Tobiko said he is committed to ensuring challenges facing the forest department are resolved. "I remain resolute that Environmental and Forestry matters facing this nation are grave and will require concerted efforts and partnerships among all stakeholders to address." Read: House team reads mischief in KFS officials suspension  Click here for the latest political news