Money lender Dennis Mwangeka has put in an application for a fast-track suit against Keroche Industries heir, Anerlisa Muigai, to have her posts on Instagram and Facebook pulled down for allegedly being defamatory. This comes after he filed a suit claiming the rich kid defaulted on a Sh19 million loan. In the suit filed on March 21, seen by Word Is, Dennis claims the posts made the public view him as a "fraud or dishonest person, and this attitude, I am apprehensive, shall adversely affect my company's business as a non- deposit-taking entity that lends money to its customers." The suit added that if the orders "prayed for herein are not granted, the defendant (Anerlisa Muigai) shall go on a rampage, publishing and broadcasting disparaging and derogatory words against myself and my company". In a certificate of urgency filed by advocate Albert Kuloba, also filed on the same day, the lawyer seeks an injunctive order restraining Anerlisa from posting any more about Dennis on her social media. This is also reflected in the notice of motions, where Dennis prays the controversial post is altogether "pulled down". According to the court papers, Anerlisa claimed on her Instagram and Facebook that: "One morning, Ben called me and told me that he needed 20M for a tender he had secured with the government to supply electrical cables. That evening he also submitted original documents, which until now I have not understood how he managed to forge the documents. So I told him I could only give him 7M but for the other 13M, he had to borrow from elsewhere. Two days later, Ben told me that his friend knew a financier but the financier did not know Ben personally. The financier was also known for asking for heavy collateral, which Ben did not have, and since I had a stronger standing socially and business-wise, I could borrow money on his behalf." Businessman Ben Kangangi has also sued Anerlisa to clear his name. He also wants the court to bar the businesswoman from further linking his business to dubious deals. He said Anerlisa’s allegations are “false and misleading”, and he was not involved in any way in the Sh19.9 million deal.