Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria got a boost on Thursday after
a Senate committee endorsed his Bill on legalising hawking in Kenya's towns. The Trade and Tourism committee, chaired by Kirinyaga Senator
Charles Kibiru backed the draft Hawkers and Street Vendors Protection
Bill and pledged to forward it to the House after involving other stakeholders. Wa Iria, who made his case before the committee, argued that the livelihood
protection bill will see the rights of these business people protected. He termed their harassment a “plain social injustice”. “Street vendors form a vital cohort in Kenya’s economy. They
are the largest informal sector offering a means of livelihood to the urban
poor,” he said. The Governor noted that passing the Bill into law will allow hawkers
to operate as co-operative societies and regulate themselves. “Hawkers and vendors are subjected to constant mental and
physical torture by local officials and are harassed in many other ways
which at times lead to riotous situations, loss of property or monetary loss,”
he said. The Bill aims to end tussles concerning the payment of
prescribed fees and charges by hawkers, and proposes that every county - in consultation with the County Vending Committee - designate vending
zones classified as restriction-free, restricted or no-vending zones. Bomet Senator Christopher Langat supported the proposal but expressed concern about the traders' tendency to operate near highways, terming it dangerous. “Legal frameworks have to be adopted as this will [ensure] control in the trade. Safety structures should be provided,” he said. The committee chair pointed out that the Bill will create
order, affirm the tax bracket, enhance security and provide employment. Kibiru urged other county governments to adopt it to dispel the plight of hawkers countrywide. “We need to look at international best practices and innovate
as it is our mandate to protect and oversight,” Kibiru said. He promised to rally other Senators to ensure the bill goes
through. Click here for the latest political news