The fight between the two Houses of Parliament — National Assembly and Senate — resurfaced yesterday during a debate on the Division of Revenue Bill, 2018. Majority leader Aden Duale said the Constitution grants the National Assembly more powers than the Senate. He told the House the Senate is not captured in Article 108, which spells out the hierarchy in the Legislative arm of government. “They must accept that the only two people who are provided for in the Constitution in the Parliament leadership are the Leaders of Majority and Minority in the National Assembly,” Duale said. Read : Duale, Murkomen fight over Senate, National Assembly roles “The ones in the Senate are enshrined in the Standing Orders. That is the truth of the matter...The Speaker of the National Assembly is more senior than the Speaker of the Senate as far as the Constitution is concerned.”  MINIMUM OUTPUT  The Garissa Town MP asked the Senate to support the Bill and “cease intimidating us ... The time for intimidation [ended] when Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta shook hands.” Minority Whip Junet Mohammed accused the Senate of failing to stop the misappropriation of billions of shillings channelled to the counties. “Why is the Senate there if they cannot make sure that counties get enough money on time? If they cannot follow up how resources are spent in the counties, what are they doing?” he said. Mohammed said since the onset of devolution, resources have been disbursed to the counties from the national government, but minimum output has been recorded at the grassroots.  EMPOWER SENATORS  “There is no room for negotiations with the Senate. This is the House that knows how much money is available for disbursement to the counties. I wonder what senators are doing while cash is being misused on the ground,” the Suna East MP said. Also read : Muturi, Duale back Senate oversight role Duale called for proper empowerment of the Senate to ensure it carries out its oversight role effectively. “I want to tell my colleagues that we cannot oversight the counties if we don’t empower the senators,” the Garissa Town MP said. “Let us empower the senators by giving them resources to traverse our counties and follow each and every penny channelled there.” The revenue Bill passed through the second reading. Click here for the latest political news