Vice chancellor Japheth Magambo yesterday was sent on terminal leave from the Meru University of Science and Technology following a year of student protests and the killing of a student leader. Students have been demanding dialogue with him over fees and other issues, which they say he refused. Education CS Amina Mohamed announced this at Meru University main campus in Nchiru, Tigania West constituency. Amina said Magambo will combine his leave as he hasn’t taken it for a while. His contract expires in June. Deputy vice chancellor Charity Gichuki will become acting vice chancellor, pending recruitment of a new VC. She was in charge of finance and administration. The CS said Gichuki should work to end unrest at the institution. The institution has seen six demonstrations in one academic year. “We encourage the acting vice chancellor to engage stakeholders, including the community, and students regularly to uplift the university,” she said. Amina was accompanied by University Education PS Micheni Ntiba and university council chairman Bolicha Galgalo.  The CS sent condolences to family of slain student leader Evans Njoroge who was shot dead by police on February 27. The killing took place at a farm a kilometre from the institution. “We are saddened by what happened to Njoroge,” Amina said. Njoroge was shot at close range. Police have been accused of murder. They have not commented, but Ipoa is investigating. Njoroge had been vocal in advocating students rights and led protests against fee increment at the institution. On February 2, he accused the university’s management of hiking fees and failing to adhere to guidelines of the Education ministry. After Njoroge’s murder, protests and calls for Magambo to resign followed, but he said he saw no reason to step down. Students accused him of failing to honour a pledge to reduce fees by Sh8,500 as agreed in a meeting between the management and student leaders. witnesses told to come forward The CS said investigations on the killing are going on. “We hope the rest of the investigations will be completed soon to give family peace,” Amina said. Last week, IPOA dispatched officers to investigate the shooting. Head of communications Dennis Oketch said if the officer is culpable, he will face the full force of the law. He appealed for witnesses to come forward with information,” he said.