Penalty heroics from goalkeeper Philip Odhiambo were not enough for 10-man Wazito as they were beaten 3-2 by AFC Leopards in a league match at Machakos yesterday. Odhiambo first denied Ezekiel Odera in the 15th minute and Victor Majid ten minutes from time with the clash finely poised at 2-2. Whyvone Isuza, however, broke their heart with the winning goal, just two minutes later. Where Leopards would be this season without Odera is a matter of conjecture. For the fourth successive match, the bereaved forward was on target to cancel out Piston Mutamba’s opener and provided an assist for Isuza to head the ball into the net for the second goal. He also played a crucial role in the winning goal after Mutamba had once again drawn Wazito level. The win saw Leopards climb to second with 13 points—three behind leaders Gor Mahia. Leopards, buoyed by two back-to-back victories coming into the clash, started brightly with Jaffery Owiti dragging a shot wide when released by Victor Majid. Two minutes later, Owiti picked Isuza with a pinpoint cross but the Kenyan international headed straight into the waiting arms of the Wazito goalkeeper. Odera had the chance to put Leopards ahead from the spot in the 15th minute when he went down after coming together with Emmanuel Tienan but his penalty was saved by Philip Odhiambo. Prior to that, Odera had been the first player to go into referee George Mwai’s book. Then out of nowhere, Wazito took the lead. Yusuf Maingi fouled Luis Tumba, allowing Joakim Omolo to float a free-kick into the box. Jairus Adira came for a routine clearance but missed the ball entirely, allowing Mutamba to nod it into an empty net. It was a lead that Wazito barely merited but it was they who had the better chances after going in front with Kennedy Ayako rushing his shot when unchallenged. Ayako was then booked for a dangerous foul on Brian Marita. Leopards went close twice just before the break with Salim Abdala and Odera having their headers. Just as half-time beckoned, inform Odera levelled for Ingwe with an overhead kick that went past Odhiambo who was caught by surprise. Leopards were quick off the block in the second half and when Ayako was sent off for a second bookable offence, Moses Mburu sent in a free-kick that Odera headed past the stranded Odhiambo for Isuza to apply the finishing touch into the unguarded net. A goal and a man down, Wazito bravely made attacking changes with Joe Waithira and Kennedy Wendo coming on for Tumba and George Owiti. With Leopards going all out for a third goal, they were punished when Brian Nyakha cleared the ball sending Waithira scampering forward unchallenged with only Adira to beat the substitute instead passed to Mutamba to side-foot the ball into the gaping net. The game looked to be trudging towards a draw until David Oswe fouled Marvin Nabwera in the box but Odhiambo saved Majid’s freekick. That feel good factor lasted only two minutes as Odera picked out substitute Baker Lukoya at the far post and set up Isuza to plant the winner. Click here for the latest political news