The pledge by NASA leader Raila Odinga to work with the
government does not spell doom for the coalition, Kilifi North MP Owen Baya has
said. He assured NASA supporters that the move does not limit
the coalition's MPs from ensuring checks and balances on the government. Speaking in Kilifi on Saturday, Baya said the voice of the
minority will be heard in both the National Assembly and the Senate. "In the new dispensation, we do not have an Opposition. We have
the majority and the minority. We will make sure that the voice of the minority
is heard even if the majority will have their way," Baya said. He supported the move by Raila to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta adding that the move now it gives leaders from the minority parties the confidence to walk into
government offices and demand for services. "Before this meeting, it was hard for me to walk into a government
office and ask for projects for my people because you are seen as an MP from
another government." "We had our own President but now I will be confident when
asking for projects. This is the best thing to happen and it is the right way
for national healing," Baya said. He spoke at a function in the constituency on Saturday. Former Kaloleni MP Gunga Mwinga also
welcomed the gesture and urged leaders to make sure it trickles down to the
ward level. He said for the country to move forward, reconciliation is a must at all levels of leadership. "It is good that these people have agreed to work together. We
now want to see governors and other leaders pledge to work together with those
who vied and lost." "We need to embrace each other as leaders for prosperity of
the nation," Gunga said. Other leaders who supported Raila’s move are Kaloleni MP
Paul Katana and his Rabai counterpart William Kamoti. Also read: Raila-Uhuru pact aims at finishing Kalonzo politically, says Mwingi West MP More on this: Recognise Uhuru as president, uphold unity pact, ex-Migori MPs tell Raila Click here for the latest political news