“It will be no walk in the park, I want to promise them a heavy duel,” former Ugenya MP David Ochieng has told his opponents following the nullification of the election of MP Chris Karan. The High Court in Kisumu stated Karan was not validly elected. It ruled that Karan’s campaign was “perverted”, and that the entire August 8, 2017 poll in Ugenya was “compromised”. Karan suffered a double blow as the judge ordered him and other respondents to pay Sh7 million in costs. The verdict followed Ochieng’s argument that his campaign was hampered after he was accused of having a hand in the killing of IEBC ICT manager Chris Msando. The judge ruled that Karan profited from a “perverted” vote chase. campaigns Ochieng said he will vie on his party Movement for Democracy and Growth ticket in the by-election. He said ODM will run a smear campaign like it did in August last year. He said it is time for politicians’ campaigns to be pegged on services and what residents should expect from them, not propaganda and malice. Ochieng said the reforms for electoral justice start now. “As you fight for national government positions and say there must be electoral justice, even here in Nyanza we must talk about electoral justice.” Ochieng added, “It cannot be that you talk in Mombasa and Nairobi about your rights as voters, but when you come back home, you do the opposite and step on others.” Former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo said campaigns should be about services, not the ‘If you are not with us, you are with them’ mentality. Gumbo thanked the judge who ruled on Ochieng’s case. He said it was wrong for Ochieng’s political rivals to call him a mole to secure votes. “We must move to a level where we can procure votes in a civilised manner,” he said. odm vs jubilee The Nyanza region is predominantly an ODM zone. Any candidate who vies on an alternative party ticket or as an independent is labelled a Jubilee mole. The Thursday judgment might change the constituency’s politics, seeing as the court dismissed Karan’s election even though Ochieng’s rivals allegedly ran a smear campaign. Judge Tripsisa Cherere faulted ODM for running a dirty campaign. She said Ochieng, who was defending his seat, had successfully convinced the court he could not seek votes because Karan poisoned the environment. “... the campaign was perverted and compromised the integrity of the election,” the judge ruled in a packed courtroom. She said Ochieng had a hard time campaigning in his constituency. Earlier during the hearing of the case, Ochieng said accusations that he had a hand in Msando’s death created the lowest moments during the campaign period. He was called a Jubilee mole, sorcerer and a murderer. Two weeks before the polls, Ochieng said a prominent NASA leader warned voters that if they voted for him they would be “followed to their homes”.