Matatu operators in Nairobi have accused the government of unfairly targeting their businesses by introducing NYS operated commuter buses within the city. The Matatu Welfare Association said on Saturday the buses which are charging a flat rate of Sh20 will kill their businesses. Chairman Dickson Mbugua said the National Youth Service will have undue advantage since it will not be subjected to taxation like PSV owners. “It's unfair and senseless for our government to use duty-free buses using tax free consumables to compete with its citizens’ private PSVs which have been subjected to [all] manner of full loaded taxation. “It's foolhardy unless our serikali [government] intends to impoverish the hundreds of PSV investors and their employees,” Mbugua said. Read: NYS lowers bus fares for city trips to Sh20, cites public outcry On Thursday, NYS Director General Richard Ndubai said the agency would deploy 27 buses to alleviate commuter crisis in the city caused by heavy rains. He said commuters will pay a flat rate of Sh50 regardless of their destination. The fares were later revised to a flat rate of Sh20 on Friday due to “public outcry”. The buses are plying Kibera, Githurai, Mwiki, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Dandora, Kariobangi and Kawangware routes. On Friday, Mbugua and his Matatu Owners Association counterpart Simon Kimutai questioned government’s motive behind the introduction of the low priced commuter services. They said they would frustrate the initiative until it fails. Read: We'll frustrate move for Sh50 NYS buses until it fails - matatu operators "We don't fear competition but we perceive such a move as a deliberate action by the government to spoil our business," Kimutai told the Star on the phone. He questioned the criteria used to introduce the buses considering that the National Transport and Safety Authority suspended enrollment of new players in the industry. Mbugua decried the high costs matatu operators have incurred by investing in large capacity buses following the gradual phase out of the once popular 14-seater matatus. “In the last four years, matatu owners have invested heavily in the high occupant buses and are not done in servicing their loans. It's pathetic,” he said. However, it remains to be seen if NYS will be able to cope with competition on the routes it will operate on. This is because some PSVs charge as low as Sh10 during off pick hours on those routes. This means PSVs will give NYS a run for their money during low business hours. Related: House urged to ban top state officials from owning PSVs  Click here for the latest political news 