President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga have jointly appointed Ambassador Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi to oversee the bid to unite and heal Kenyans. The two will matters of ethnic antagonism, lack of national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, divisive elections, security, corruption, shared prosperity and responsibility. According to the two leaders, they have unanimously agreed to roll out the program that will implement their shared objectives. The program, they said following their meeting at Harambee House on Friday, shall establish an office and retain a retinue of advisors to assist in its implementation. Uhuru and Raila, in a joint statement, said: "Kenya must courageously face its challenges, and openly and honestly
discuss its successes and failures in order to formulate and implement
the necessary corrective measures." The two said they are the leaders
who symbolise the many ways in which
the country has gone full circle in its
divisions. "They were
witness to the
unity and hope
that was followed by discord and division," their statement reads in part. The leaders added that the initiative aims
to create a united nation
for all Kenyans
living today and for future generations. Read: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Below are the areas where the program will focus on: Ethnic antagonism and competition The leaders agreed to put efforts towards reversing the continued
deterioration of relationships between ethnic communities and political formations. They resolved to stand together and
urge Kenyans, political leaders and formations to compete without using ethnic 
profiling or by promoting disdain
for any group. Lack of a national ethos Uhuru and Raila said Kenya is today
increasingly being defined internationally by its negative politics and the
challenges that they create. They said corruption and violence are the main characteristics by which Kenyans are
defined with at the
international front. Despite the many positive attributes of the
country, they said Kenya is yet to define and promote its national ethos. Nationhood and patriotism, they said: "...requires
that people feel they
enjoy a commonality beyond the sharing of residency
in a country. They feel they have common characteristics, beliefs, and
aspirations." Inclusivity Uhuru and Raila further greed that inclusivity is one of the
greatest challenges the new team will have to deal with going forward. The duo said Kenyans have
failed to appreciate God-given differences in how they think, the languages they speak, the regions they come from, and the way
they worship. "Our political system has been unable to
respond to feelings of alienation in sections
of our people.
Many feel alienated from the mainstream national development initiatives and political activity. Such
real and imagined exclusion is anathema to effective nation-building,"
they said. "We both commit to fight
hard for inclusivity and to make sure, in an accountable and impactful way,
that public institutions work to deliver to all Kenyans at the national and county level." "And, crucially, we will work together to guarantee that all
Kenyans are served equally by public institutions, no matter who leads them," the statement added. Divisive elections. In regards to elections in
the country, the two said they it is unfortunate elections have become a threat
to lives, economy, and people's standing as a nation. They regretted that every four years, the
country almost comes to standstill as investment and economic
activity slows, results into loss of jobs
and livelihoods. The duo said they will work to ensure Kenya will
have elections that are not marred by mistrust and conflict. Corruption The two leaders said corruption is an existential threat to the country adding that it is destroying lives, public trust and prosperity. "It is being passed
to the young generation, making a mockery of their hopes and their need to
forge an honest and proud living. It is undermining our public and private
institutions, and will destroy them and our aspirations as a nation," they said. Read: Ruto gives Uhuru, Raila pat on the back for Harambee House meeting Click here for the latest political news