NASA leader Raila Odinga has dismissed reports in some newspapers that he “smells” betrayal among other principals. Addressing the press at his Opoda farm in Bondo on Sunday, Raila said the opposition is very united, contrary to propaganda being “spat out” in the media.He referred indirectly,not by name to the Sunday Standard headline: ‘I smell betrayal.’. Raila defended Kakamega Governor Wickliffe Oparanya, the ODM deputy party leader, against reports he asked him (Raila) to retire. Raila called that propaganda by a section of media to taint Oparanya’s political career. “I shared on the issuewith Oparanya and he confirmed to me he only asked the Jubilee government to end the political stalemate by accepting dialogue,” Raila said. Raila warned media houses against misreporting with the aim of creating division in the coalition. “It is true every movement sometimes goes through difficult times and we have seen it even in Jubilee but that does not split a union with a specific agenda like NASA,” he said. Raila said all affiliates will continue to support each other in thealliance, surviving the test of time for now and even after 2022. The opposition leader reafirmed that they do no recognise the Jubilee government after the Supreme Court nullified the August 8 presidential election. He said if Jubilee is not ready for dialogue to address political injustice and electoral reforms, the coalition will use their own means to arrest the situation once and for all. He dismissed President Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto’s statements that the time for politics is over, saying there cannot be development without politics. “Politics must come first and that is when development can take place. Development cannot take place in a vacuum as Jubilee wants us to believe,” he said. Raila said Uhuru’s famous “We shall revisit” words seem to be playing out with continuous attacks on the Judiciary by the Executive. He called this a “perfect breeding ground” for political dictatorship. “The Judiciary must be independent. We will not allow anyone to remote control it,” Raila said.