Like any assembly, for the Senate to fill a certain position or make any changes, explanation must be given. Due process must be followed and the Speaker informed. And if they have given to the Speaker the request to replace Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula as a minority leader with his Siaya counterpart James Orengo, they have given reasons. There is a laid-down procedure. I expect it to be followed based on the good reasons they have given. And the good leaders in the House will make a fair decision based on reasons. They can’t do it just like that. NASA is a big family like a polygamous home. Issues may arise and sometimes become more complicated to provide fast solutions. President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga met and forgot their hardline positions. They put the nation first and resolved that issues affecting Kenyans will take precedence. Most important, everything happens according to the rules laid down. They may filter down to individuals for that matter. For this to happen, there are good reasons. These are momentous times, normally when elephants fight, a bit of grass is crushed. If it can filter down to that level in the interest of the working system, I will not see something funny. Most important, they followed the procedure and laid-down rules. This is a presidential system, where it is not envisaged that we will have an opposition wing and government wing. All members of Parliament are empowered to oversight the government of the day, irrespective of the party. Where you come from they want to see the government of the day under Articles 95 and 96 – to see the government utilise the resources very well. When ODM wrote to the Speaker they had good reasons. It is not final and it is going to the floor for all leaders to discuss. This will make ODM not lose its popularity and support in Western Kenya. The leaders from Western will represent the people of Western on the House floor and their decisions will bind all the people in Western. Kenyans are more informed to make the correct decisions. In the last Parliament, Wetang’ula was the Minority representative and represented everyone freely. Right now he is alone in the Senate. Changes can be made and let us not feed any lies to the people. The writer is a former Kitutu Masaba MP