Kenyatta National hospital has withdrawn the suspension of the trainee doctor who opened the brain of the wrong patient. The hospital has also withdrawn the suspension letters of the other medics involved in the surgery. KNH board chair Mark Bor told journalists on Thursday that the matter will now be handled by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board as mandated by the law. "Effective immediately, the board will not engage in any disciplinary matter as the issue is supposed to be handled by the medical practitioners and dentists board." Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said the board of the hospital will submit its preliminary report on Friday. "I expect the KNH board to fully cooperate with the medical board by availing all the necessary information," she said. The second report will be submited by the KMPDB after seven days. After the grave mistake was made, KNH suspended the admission rights of a Neurosurgery Registrar and issued him with a show-cause letter on March 2. The hospital also interdicted a ward nurse, a theatre receiving nurse and an anaesthetist for roles they could have played in the mishap. Chief Executive Officer Lily Koros and an officer in charge of clinical affairs were later sent on compulsory leave to allow investigations. More on this: KNH suspends surgical staff after brain operation on wrong patient Also read: KNH CEO Lily Koros sent on compulsory leave over brain surgery saga According to the hospital's procedures, such an incident requires the suspension or interdiction of involved medical staff. They are also issued with show-cause letters to explain what happened within seven days. This is followed by the convening of a Medical Advisory Committee, chaired by the Director of Clinical Services, to hear all sides and make a determination. The procedure also requires the hospital to forward the determination to respective regulatory bodies for further action if warranted. KNH has been on the spot following allegations of rape, which it said could not be established as victims did not file reports and the abduction of a baby. Several groups of its employees have either gone on strike or threatened to take this action for reasons including a system overhaul. George Magoha, who is chairman of the medical practitioners board, urged striking registrars to go back to work in good faith to prevent unnecessary deaths. "After the inquiry, due process will be followed in establishing what happened on that fateful day." Read: KNH registrars strike over wrong surgery, KMPDU demands overhaul Click here for the latest political news  