Motorcycles continue to prove their popularity in the local
market with the highest number since July registered last month. Government data in the latest edition of Leading Economic
Indicators, some 18,073 two wheeled units were registered by the Kenya Revenue
Authority in February, up from 14, 345 units booked in January. Station wagons were the only close competitor with 3,272
units registered for the roads in February, from 5,115 units released into the market
in January. Only 487 saloon cars were registered last month, compared to
972 units in January. Last July, 19,875 motorcycle units were registered, the
highest number last year. In December, 14,013 motorcycles were registered. The bodaboda industry has grown to see the rise of online apps that customers use to request rides or have parcels delivered. The motorbikes are growing increasingly popular for food deliveries in the city too. Some apps, including Mondo Ride, BodApp, Mara Moja, Sendy delivery and the newly launched Taxify Boda are among new developments in the sector. In a move to entice their subscribers, the apps offer sign up bonused and later charge a percentage on the fare as agreed on terms. However, there has not been enough action from customers and motorbike operators to sign up to these motorbike hailing services. Linus, a Sendy Delivery user says he has been forced to employ the traditional non-digital operations as the charges are high. “The firm charges 20 per cent on a trip therefore I get little returns. Earlier, charges used to be favorable but nowadays a trip that would charge 500 today charge for 300,” Linus said. Taxify Boda, recently launched, is giving offers for operators with a minimum fare of Sh50 per trip, a base rate of Sh30, Sh15 per kilometre and three Shillings per minute. Samson Change, a motorbike operator in Nairobi’s central business district feels the earning per kilometre will be very low compared to normal charges as they charge Sh100 for town service. Customers pay Sh700 from city centre to Kitisuru. However, with the app, it will cost Sh260, three times less than what the operators would have made. “These apps will only benefit clients and the companies,” Change said. Growing competition has led to price wars with most firms cutting down their fares and giving incentives to attract customers. As a marketing strategy, Taxify partnered with fuel services company Total to give their motorbike operators fuel discounts and subsidised prices on products from any service stations. “The partnership enables the operators to save three to seven per cent per litre with the use of a Total Card. Fuel costs take up to 40 per cent of their daily earnings. If fuel price increases, it will be reflected in charges,” said Chisom Anoke. Taxify Kenya operations manager Chisom Anoke said the company will focus on group meetings with operators within the city and in Mombasa to build their market. “We want to help the motorbike riders formalize their businesses by providing them with a platform to track trips, earnings and even plan for personal development initiatives such a saving with a sacco,” Anoke said.