The National Bank of Kenya will close some of its branches in a restructuring strategy to improve profit margins. Corporate communications manager Patrick Kinyua yesterday said the downsizing is a continuous exercise based on the profitability and strategic relevance of the channels. “Branches are just one of the many channels we will use with informed decisions on whether to close some while relocating others,” Kinyua said. In January, the bank laid off 150 employees as part of its restructuring plan to keep the lender afloat. The board rolled out a voluntary early retirement scheme that targeted some of its permanent and pensionable workers aged over 35 years. The bank had 1,079 staff in 2014. Its profit after tax dropped to Sh138.1 million in the period to September last year compared to Sh521 million reported over a similar period last year. JOB CUTS NBK, in which the Kenyan Treasury and the state-run National Social Security Fund own a 64 per cent stake, had its shares drop 12 per cent this year, under-performing the Nairobi Securities Exchange All Share Index, which has risen 5.9 per cent over the same period. Wilfred Musau took over leadership at the lender in 2016 from  Munir Ahmed, who was fired over claims of financial malpractice. The banking industry is undergoing transformational changes attributed to a depressed economic performance. Banks have retrenched staff to manage costs since the legislation of the law capping interest rates at four per cent above the 10 per cent rate by Central Bank. In September 2016, the government capped commercial lending rates at four percentage points above the 10 per cent central bank rate and also imposed a minimum deposit rate of 70 per cent of the Central Bank Rate. Lenders have claimed the cap has cut lending to risky borrowers like small enterprises who often fail to pay, affecting their returns. According to Kenya Bankers Association, its members cut 1,933 jobs between August 2016 and the end of June 2017, attributing this to the adjustment of the rate cap.