Mandera Governor Ali Roba will have little time to celebrate after his August 8 victory was upheld by the Milimani Law Courts on Wednesday. Justice Fred Ochieng’ upheld Roba’s election, citing lack of evidence by the petitioner. Roba, elected on a Jubilee ticket, had defied elders’ directions to step down in favour of Hassan Noor. Under power-sharing ‘negotiated democracy’ within the clans in Mandera, the elders wanted Roba to make way for rotational leadership amongst the 20 Garre subclans. Also defying elders were the five former MPs and 18 former MCAs. Roba garnered 72,671 votes against Noor 62,496 votes. Noor ran on the Economic Freedom Party ticket, as did most victorious lawmakers. Roba’s biggest headache remains how he will handle the rival lawmakers of the EFP. The party has 17 elected and 10 nominated members, while Roba has 10 elected and seven nominated. Analysts say he has no choice but to reach out to the MCAs who have shown no sign of compromise. REJECTED ROBA’S PICKS The governor is expected to present another list of county executive nominees after the MCAs rejected the list he presented in November last year. The EFP lawmakers argued that the governor’s list was not inclusive. They said he handpicked nominees allied to his Jubilee Party, sidelining EFP. They also said Roba’s nominees were either not qualified or had been appointed to head dockets, for which they were academically not suited. “It will cost him nothing to reach out to this people, especially those not happy with the ruling. He should just eat humble pie and realise that he needs these MCAs more than they need him,” resident Mohamed Abdi said. Meanwhile, Roba’s supporters in Mandera took to the streets to celebrate the court ruling upholding his victory. Chairman of people living with disability in the county Hafid Maalim said the verdict was long overdue, but urged residents to remain united. He said it is time to focus on challenges affecting them, regardless of who is in power, since the most important issue is deliveing services.