Kakamega Homeboyz winger Noah Wafula is eyeing the Kenyan Premier League Golden Boot after a splendid start of life in western Kenya. Wafula netted a brace in their 2-1 win over Vihiga United to open his account following his move from former champions Tusker during the January transfer window. He believes his goals will be crucial if Homeboyz are to fight for the title. “ Homeboyz have what it takes to fight for the title. We have good players and experienced technical bench and therefore, I don’t see any reasons for us not to do well,” said Wafula. “We understand the standards are so high this season. We just want to remain focused and approach one match at a time,” pointed out Wafula. Wafula, who joined Kakamega alongside former Tusker teammates Allan Wanga and James Situma, said it has been easy for him to settle at his new team, owing to the familiar faces. He added that his role at the club is more distinct but believes it will take team work to enable him meet his goals. “My simple challenge to my fellow players is to always embrace the spirit of hard work and teamwork and the results will come our way,” said Wafula. “As the new players in the team, we want to appreciate all those who were with the team last season for the warm welcome and also for helping us settle.” The former AFC Leopards and Tusker winger expects a tough outing when they face bottom of the table Nzoia Sugar this weekend. Elsewhere, teams converge at the Thika grounds to battle for Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom Central region title. The event will be used as a yardstick to pick top two teams that will represent the region in the national finals on March 24-25. “We had over 200 teams when we began the Central region group stages in January and we’re looking forward to seeing the top sides in action. We will be on ground to scout for talent from the region and see who can be called up for trials for the national teams,” said Nick Mwendwa, Football Kenya Federation president. The boys’ semi-finals will see Juja United from Thika take on Euronuts from Kiambu while Lufa from Laikipia will face Kirinyaga’s Intercity. In the girls’ semi-finals, Limuru Starlets from Kiambu will play Good Girls from Thika while Rwambiti from Kirinyaga will face Express from Laikipia County. The winning teams from this weekend’s finals will each receive Sh200,000 while the losing finalists will also receive Sh100,000 each. “We are very proud of the fact that quite a number of players from the tournament have been called up to the National under 20 trials. We wish them all the best and look forward to seeing them representing the country at international level,” said Sylvia Mulinge, the Safaricom consumer business director. At the grand finale, the winning teams will walk away with Sh1 million each and an opportunity to go for an international training and mentorship camp in London in April.