Champions Gor Mahia showed they are cut from a different cloth to their Kenyan premier league rivals as their second string side eased their way past Nzoia United yesterday. Boniface Omondi’s strike against his former side sealed the 1-0 win for the champions who moved five points clear at the top of the standings. With one eye fixed firmly on their CAF Champions League return leg duel against Esperance, a tie finely poised at 0-0, Dylan Kerr made 10 changes to the side that held the Tunisians to a goalless draw four days earlier. The near wholesale changes, with only Joash Oluoch retained, gave Nzoia some hope of building up on last weekend’s win over Kakamega Homeboyz. After dominating the early exchanges with efforts from hat-trick hero Elvis Rupia, which drew a save from Shaban Odhonji, NZoia found themselves behind when Omondi applied the finishing touch to an incisive move involving Cercidy Okeyo and Kevin Omondi just before halftime. From then on, it was always going to be an uphill task for Nzoia to get anything from the game as Gor held them at an arms length and should have won by a bigger margin had Ephraim Guikan and Kevin Omondi been more composed when chances came their way. K’Ogalo now are the only team in the top flight league yet to lose a league match or indeed any competitive duel this season and have 16 points from six matches, five more than the three teams closest to them. Nzoia, on the other hand, are back to the bottom of the table with a measly return of three points in six matches. Meanwhile, Bandari reaffirmed their status as the darkhorses in the Kenyan Premier League title race as they blanked visiting Sony Sugar 3-0 to move into third place in the standings. New signing William Wadri was the hero for the dockers helping himself to a brace with a goal in either half with substitute David Kingatua completing the rout with the third goal late in the encounter. The win for Ken Odhiambo’s side improved their points tally to 11. Sony endured a second defeat on the trot and will be wary of being sucked into a relegation dogfight as only three points separate them from basement side Nzoia. Ulinzi Stars are also back in contention for the title after pipping Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0. Masita Masuta was the hero once again as his lone strike gave the soldiers a second successive win. The soldiers have 10 points in sixth place.