That ambassadors Mark Bellamy and Johnnie Carson are
accomplished US diplomats is not in doubt. It may also be assumed that their
relationship with Kenya as former ambassadors in Nairobi gives them a more than
average understanding of Kenya’s politics, economy and even social aspects. But
the article by the two gentlemen published online on February 22, in
which they call for US intervention in Kenya, is a clear demonstration of how
preconceived notions and stereotypes about Africa by Western technocrats
override any practical experience and knowledge acquired on the
continent. Their knack for getting it wrong on African and Kenyan issues is dumbfounding. It is also a demonstration of why desk research on Africa, with
the only source of information being a biased Western media, should be treated
with disdain. The authors seem to revel in misinforming their readers not
only on the existing situation but also on the events that unfolded during
Kenya’s election cycle in 2017. They talk of political chaos and possible
intercommunal violence and a palpable desire to change this trajectory. They
even mourn that attempts by Western governments to appeal for calm are not
being heeded. The reader will note how the authors are keen to weave the now
familiar narrative of a crumbling African state and the ever-benevolent Western
states, ready to intervene and sort “another fine mess in Africa”. Inevitably, attempts
to weave this narrative in this article fall flat on the face due to the
blatant use of lies, half-truths and innuendos. It’s a fact that Kenya’s vibrant electioneering period ended
with the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta on November 28, 2017 after he
was duly elected in the October 26, 2017 repeat presidential election. The
claims that there is a deliberate attempt by the Executive to subvert the rule
of law cannot be further from the truth. Throughout the campaign period, the
government demonstrated fidelity to the law with the then incumbent President
accepting the Supreme Court ruling nullifying the August 8, 2017 presidential
election even as he, and other legal analysts, disagreed with it. The main
opposition coalition, clearly aware that their political strategy had failed,
dithered and withered, eventually boycotting the repeat presidential elections.
Their attempt to perpetrate violence in the wake of their electoral loss have
been out rightly rejected by Kenyans with the government taking the necessary
steps to fulfill its cardinal responsibility of protecting the lives and
property of Kenyans in line with the Kenyan constitution. In the long and
arduous walk to entrench democratic principles in Kenya, no individual or
institution is exempt from the dictates of the constitution. Just like in any
other democracy, the media, various arms of government, political parties, the
civil society groups and all citizens are bound by the constitution and the
violation of the same has consequences in line with the rule of law. The fact that Kenya went through the prolonged campaign and
electioneering period and emerged peaceful, should be a reason to celebrate the
resilience of her democracy. Kenya’s constitution which was enacted in 2010 is
barely 8 years old. The 2017 elections presented an opportunity to test the
institutions created by the Constitution including the Judiciary and the IEBC. The question of whether the
institutions withstood the test can be attested by the peace and tranquility
that is existing in Kenya barely three months after the repeat election. Kenyans are back to work and the economy, which had slightly slumped during the
electioneering period, is now on an upward trend with the World Bank projecting
a 5 percent economic growth for the year 2018. Even international investors
have given the Kenyan economy a vote of confidence by a sevenfold oversubscription
of a Eurobond issued by the Kenyan government in the London Stock Exchange on February 21, 2018. The tourists are trooping back to enjoy the unrivalled Kenyan
flora and fauna and bask in the white beaches of Malindi and the entire Kenyan
coastal region. The authors assertion that Kenya is unravelling due to what
they refer to as the widening rift between the ruling Jubilee and the
opposition NASA coalition betrays their double standards. It is not lost
on Kenyans that the differences in ideologies between the Democrats and
Republicans, especially during the 2016 presidential election, and the toxic political
drama that culminated in the election of President Donald Trump left some
social and political fissures in America. Despite their divisive nature, the
Trump Vs Clinton political campaigns can rightly be described as a
demonstration of the vibrancy and maturity of the American democracy. In a
clear display of bias and cognitive dissonance, the authors describe similar
ideological differences and political rhetoric between the Jubilee Party and
NASA coalition during and after the electioneering period as political
turmoil. Competitive politics in a democracy, both in America and in Africa,
can never be described as turmoil. Indeed, political competition is a key tenet
of democracy and Kenya has demonstrated that with strong institutions, credible
and peaceful elections are possible. On a positive note, the authors have acknowledged the cordial
relations between Kenya and the US which they had an opportunity to strengthen
during their respective tenures as US ambassadors to Kenya. They use this as a
basis for advocating for US intervention to prevent what they term as Kenya
descending into violence and threat to rule of law. With memories of US
interventions in countries such as Libya and Iraq ostensibly to return
democracy, still fresh in our minds, the jitters about this proposal by senior
US leaders is understandable. Any form of interference by the US in a country
that has time and again demonstrated her commitment to entrench democratic
principles, rule of law and good governance can only portend danger. It is no wonder that the current US ambassador in Nairobi and
indeed the entire US government has risen above Kenya’s political challenges. Just
as Amb. Carson was proven wrong on his assertion in the period preceding the
2013 general elections in Kenya that election of President Uhuru Kenyatta would
have negative consequences, the two countries have once again continued in the path
of strengthening their bilateral relations and partnerships with a clear
understanding of the need for mutual respect. The threats issued and the grand
standing advocated for by the two US leaders in this article is not only
unfortunate but also an affront to Kenya’s sovereignty. On her part, Kenya will maintain momentum in strengthening governance
institutions, entrenching the rule of law, building a cohesive society and
buttressing peace within its borders and in the region. While we welcome
positive and constructive criticism from our partners and friends, we remain
averse to any suggestions of interference with our internal affairs from any
quotas. Our response to the authors’ absurd demand for US intervention in Kenya
is a loud NO THANKS! Amb Macharia Kamau is the Principal Secretary for Foreign
Affairs and the immediate former Permanent Representative of Kenya at the
United Nations, New York.