Kenya Revenue Authority boss John Njiraini was yesterday sent away by MPs for late submission of documents. Members of the Public Investment Committee also accused Njiraini of submitting unsigned documents. Chairman Abdulswamad Nassir accused Njiraini of ambushing members with voluminous documents. He called off the meeting, saying members needed time to study the documents. "Our job is to ensure tax collected from Kenyans is properly utilised. KRA should treat this committee with the seriousness it deserves," Nassir said. The documents submitted by KRA had not been seen by the Auditor General Edward Ouko as is required. Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh demanded that the team be turned away. "There is a procedure in which documents are submitted to Parliament. Such documents should have been certified by the Auditor General. They should go and prepare themselves well," Kolosh said. The committee gave the taxman two weeks to put its house in order. Njiraini was expected to furnish the MPs with the gazette notices of all audited accounts since 2012. He was also to provide the status of implementation of Sh17 billion Excisable Goods Management System. Njiraini was also expected to explain the implementation of a 2012 court ruling that allowed KRA to demand taxes on sale of returnable bottles from soda firms. The court allowed KRA to demand Sh5 billion in unpaid taxes. KRA accused the bottlers of failure to remit taxes from the sale of returnable containers for the period between 2006 to 2009. The Sh5,620,730,161 demanded accrued from tax arrears, penalties and interests. Njiraini told the committee that the matter was still pending in the Court of Appeal. As such, he could not comment on it. "But even if there were taxes to be collected, we could not because the matter is still pending in court," Njiraini said. Nassir ruled him out, saying the committee was only interested in the implementation. When asked to comment on his legality in office, Njaraini said "there is no vacancy at the moment." Njiraini's legality in office has been challenged in court. The taxman told MPs to ask Treasury CS Henry Rotich about his tenure.  Click here for the latest political news