The country will experience heavy rains that may cause floods in low lying areas over the weekend. The weatherman yesterday said the rains are likely to be heavier on Friday and Sunday. “Rainfall is expected to continue over most parts of the country. Heavy rainfall may be experienced over parts of Central, Western, North Eastern and South Eastern areas. The expected rains may cause floods in low lying areas and urban centres with poor drainage systems,” the meteorological department said in a forecast. Related : Motorists stranded at Suswa as weatherman warns of heavy rains The update comes after a student was killed and hundreds of motorists and passengers forced to spend Tuesday night in the cold after a section of the Mai Mahiu-Narok road was cut off by flash floods. Peter Mundinia, the Kenya National Highway Authority director general, attributed the collapse to volcanic activity in Suswa area. He said the rains were not responsible for the cutting off of the busy highway. “Volcanic activities are still taking place in parts of the Rift Valley and we cannot be be sure where it will happen next. The rains only catalysed the destruction,” Mundinia said. A contractor has been deployed to build a makeshift bypass to ease traffic. Suswa has geological faults that run from north to south. Daniel Ichangi, chairman of Nairobi University’s geology department said the collapse could have been a result of volcanic activity. When it rains, water gets into the cracks, leading to underground erosion that causes the collapse. “We have cracks all the way from the Red Sea through Ethiopia to Kenya and Magadi. So when it rains, such incidences are likely to happen,” Ichangi said. He told engineers to use modern technology immune to volcanic activity. “Engineers must take into account the local geology to design roads that can withstand such problems. Quick short-term solutions to ensure traffic flow will not address the matter,” Ichangi said. According to Red Cross, four people have been injured and five rescued from floods since the onset of the rains. Click here for the latest political news