FEARS have emerged within
President Uhuru Kenyatta’s inner power
circles that his advisers want him to hold on to the Jubilee Party leadership
longer so that he can control Mount Kenya politics in his retirement.  Our
mole in the Presidency says that they believe any change in the political
landscape ahead of the 2022 polls might not cater for their interests. She told
the Star, “A number harbour serious political interests and the reports of
rebels in Mount Kenya coming up with a new party are being treated cautiously.” ***** JUST why have NASA
co-principals Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi promised their boss Raila Odinga revenge served hot? Doesn’t it mean that they have failed to
reinvent themselves in the wake of the latest political developments within
NASA? ODM Treasurer Timothy Bosire,
a key ally of Raila’s, is wondering whether the duo is admitting
inability to survive without ‘hanging’ on the Opposition chief’s coattails. “A
leader who vows to revenge is useless and has no calling,” says the former
Kitutu Mabasa MP. He is daring the two to go ahead and avenge themselves, but
prepares them for far-reaching political consequences. ***** ON Saturday the Ministry of
Tourism and International Trade said it has set up a task force to look into
the modalities of wildlife utilisation. A number of concerned citizens have
protested that the move would likely wipe out endangered species and promote the
ivory trade. One of the government bosses who talked to the Corridors said,
“Instead of using colourful words such as wildlife utilisation they should have
just said they want to legalise poaching and the game meat business.” ***** WHAT happened to the
renovation at the Ministry of Health to create a grand office for Cabinet
Secretary Sicily Kariuki? Sources whisper to Corridors that the works on the
ministry's seventh floor have stalled. It’s said that the accounting officer
has refused to release funds as the project is likely to gobble up millions of
shillings. The argument by those against the project claims it is likely to
disrupt the ministry’s budget. ***** WHAT is it with the leadership of the
ODM youth league? Well, sources intimate to Corridors that senior officials are
hobnobbing with Jubilee, to the shock of party leadership. Things are said to
have gotten worse after the appointment of Rashid Achesa, himself a former ODM
youth-winger as CS for Sports. Some current officials are said to be literally
living in his office. It’s said that Rashid has promised many of them jobs and
one of the youths is seeking to be the new boss at the Kenya Sports and Stadia
Management Board.                