A court case by lecturers objecting job evaluation and their ongoing strike have derailed efforts for talks on the 2017-21 CBA. Education CS Amina Mohammed said this on Thursday when she faced the National Assembly Education committee. She told the team that the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum has been unable to engage the dons over the deal due to the pending suit. IPUCCF is awaiting a court ruling on Friday, Amina told the committee, and added they want the strike declared illegal and unprotected so negotiations begin. “We are hoping Uasu will withdraw the case they filed against the SRC [so] the job evaluation [is] completed. We are also optimistic that the Labour Relations Court will declare the case illegal and unprotected," she said. "This will allow parties to start negotiations and the government to give its counteroffer." She added the job evaluation by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission will act as a strong point of reference for CBA negotiations and ensure harmonious remuneration of all university staff. Read: Labour CS disappointed after striking lecturers snub talks Related: Lecturers reject government's Sh6.8 billion offer to end strike The CS regretted that the work boycott has affected the quality of university education due to disruptions to the school calendar. She noted she told Uasu officials on Wednesday that it was becoming untenable for them to air their grievances through strikes and demonstrations, and asked them to embrace dialogue. “This is an opportune time for us to find a solution that will not only be permanent but that will allow institutions to continue working to minimise distractions,” she told the committee led by Tinderet MP Julius Melly. The Minister also raised concern that it is taking too long for students to finish their courses due to frequent lecturers’ strikes. “We need to arrest that situation. We cannot allow students to come out of universities at an older age than they were supposed to, therefore actually limiting their chances and opportunities in life." Amina said efforts by the departmental committee to appropriate funds for the finalisation of the 2017-21 CBA and clearance of Sh3.56 billion for accrued pensions for 2013-17 and 2013-17 are welcome. On the demand for mortgages, she told the committee that existing education policy guidelines require universities to set aside funds for mortgages for their staff Amina was summoned to respond to the petition she was served on Wednesday by lecturers who held peaceful demonstrations. Lecturers have complained that their salary structures are distorted such that some assistants earn more than professors. Staff affiliated to Uasu, Kenya University Staff Union and Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers are taking part in the strike. They are demanding Sh38 billion towards pension, mortgages, car loans, medical cover and salary adjustments. On Tuesday, IPUCCF asked the committee to intervene and urge Treasury to increase capitation to universities. Chairman Paul Kanyari noted universities are underfunded making it hard to address most of their needs. Click here for the latest local political news    