The Mai Mahiu-Narok road was reopened yesterday 24 hours after a large section collapsed during flash floods. A section near Karima trading centre was washed away Tuesday, causing a huge gully, about 10 metres deep. Opened volcanic fissures on either side extend two and six kilometres. The road connects Nairobi and the Masai Mara Game Reserve. Hundreds of travellers were stranded. Traders of fresh produce such as vegetables, meat and milk, suffered huge losses as they could not reach markets on either side of the ravine. Engineers from Chinese Communications Construction Company, who work on the nearby SGR, filled the gully with rocks, gravel and cement. Transport resumed on Wednesday night. CCC general manager Du Xiao said they repaired the road in nine hours, following a request by Kenha. He said the section is stable, as it was compacted using rocks before motorists were allowed to use it. “It’s now safe for use,” Du said. The fix is not permanent and a redesign and reconstruction will be needed. VOLCANIC ACTIVITY Despite the reopening, there were fears over the future of the road A Nearby fault line is open, exposing passersby to danger. The firm is consulting government officers on how it can be fixed, Du said. “The fault line has something to do with volcanic activity. But we are in consultation with government officers on how the road can be redesigned and the problem solved,” he said. A senior government engineer who requested anonymity said the faultline runs deep and the problem would turn serious if not resolved early. “There are many fault lines along sections of this road. The only solution lies in either redesigning or shifting it,” the engineer said. Resident Mwangi Kaguora welcomed the reopening of the road. The highway is crucial to the economy of hundreds of residents, he said. “The government should seek a lasting solution, as this is the second time this section has been washed away,” he said. Motorist Phillip Otila said praised the Chinese contractors for acting swiftly. He said Kenya relies heavily on the road for domestic and international trade. The economy suffered because of its closure, Otila said. Residents said some stranded matatu passengers decided to walk around the gulch. But as they passed through farms, owners demanded pay as they passed one section after another.