Muslims for Human Rights has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to publicly apologise to Miguna Miguna, his family and the entire nation for his government’s “dreadful” behaviour. Muhuri yesterday said it supports the growing protest against the treatment and deportation of Miguna, saying it made the country look like a banana republic. “We call on Kenyans to speak out. The time to defend our rights is now. Everyone must be held individually accountable for their utterances and actions,” a statement said. The lobby said the NRM ‘General’ was subjected to inhumane and degrading treatment and demanded that Uhuru immediately facilitate his return to Kenya. Miguna, who attended Raila Odinga’s swearing-in as the People’s President,was forcefully deported to Dubai on Wednesday. He said he was wrestled to the floor and injected with sedatives in several places in his body. He had returned after a previous deportation. Court orders to have him freed and presented to court have been ignored. A High Court judge on Thursday found CS Fred Matiang’i, Police IG Joseph Boinnet and Immigration PS Gordon Kihilang’wa guilty of contempt. They defied orders to facilitate Miguna’s return and produce him in court. He fined them Sh200,000 each. The state will appeal. In a statement on Thursday, Muhuri executive director Hassan Abdille said, “This is impunity of the highest order. Civilised societies do not water down their laws and institutions based on the political regime.” He said the Interior ministry must be held to account. “Kenya is not a banana republic or a police state. We cannot allow ourselves to return to the dark days of impunity and massacres,”Abdille said. The executive director said the passport-stripping and deportation of Miguna will polarise Kenya further. “It is sad to see a situation where the Kenyan government and its officials are making the country their personal property where the rule of law is no longer valued and court orders are ignored,” he said. The rights group blamed the GSU and CID which “replaced the force of law with law of force”. GSU accompanied the sedated Miguna to Dubai.It criticised the police for intimidating and manhandlingMiguna. “This is not only illegal but irresponsible. It will lead to further unnecessary tension. This type of behaviour is a violation of the Constitution, which is inconsistent with our fundamental notions of liberty and freedom,” Abdille said. The state has a responsibility to ensure the safety of all its citizens, he said, adding it must maintain a positive environment free from intimidation and harassment. Quoting the Constitution, Abdille said a citizen by birth does not lose citizenship by acquiring the citizenship of another country. Years ago Miguna had to flee Kenya; he acquired Canadian citizenship at a time dual citizenship was allowed. He did not reapply for citizenship but says he doesn’t have to. Muhuri said the continued crackdown on Miguna was a “witch-hunt’ and a recipe for violence.   