T he dumbest question you can ask another human being is, who do you think you are? Many a time, this question is posed during a heated moment. Following a fender bender, perhaps. Or if you walk up to couple at a party and start chatting up the girl, she chats back, and the man she’s with feels a bruised ego coming on. Or, and this actually happened, you accidently step on wet cement, that had no warning sign saying so, and the owner of the establishment flounces up to you in a fume and shouts the question. Dumb. Taken literally, the answer to this question could be anything. And what possible difference would it make to the dent on your car, or your hurt ego, or the footprint on your freshly cemented floor, if I answered, I think I am the Black Panther, king and protector of Wakanda? For all you know, the person you’re asking the question could be delusional. Do you really want to go down that road, considering the acrimonious circumstances? But, this question is not meant to be taken literally. It is, in fact, a sly insult meant to imply that the person being asked is not important, special, extraordinary. This is also dumb because the assumption being made here is that extraordinary people are a dime a dozen. Many of us mistakenly think that if one drives a big car or owns a big house, it makes them important and extraordinary. It doesn’t. Not when millions of other people around the world also drive big cars and own big houses. It is very likely that many of us will never actually meet an extraordinary person in our lifetime, as extraordinary is that rare. The meaning of the word is right in front us, extra… ordinary. Walking on the moon is not ordinary. The 12 people who have done it are extraordinary. Diving 702 feet underwater without breathing apparatus is extra, which makes the one person who’s ever done it, extraordinary. So don’t ask a dumb question that you already know the answer to. That answer being, I am an ordinary human being, just like you, unless you’re one of the 12 that have walked on the moon. We look down on ordinary. We then equate extraordinary with the right to exist, entitled to do anything we want, including stepping on wet cement. All around us there is this push to be extraordinary, a quest to be special, the best, and then the problem happens. We end up with this notion that being average and ordinary makes one a nobody. This is dangerous thinking. It makes us frantic, ashamed and resigned. When you believe that being average equals being nobody, you then think who cares for my individual talents? They’re average, humdrum. When you work so hard, frantically, to be special, you leave no time to be alive, to embrace the simple, the average, the everyday, which is where most of life happens. Everyone is ordinary. Some of us will do an extraordinary thing or two, but that won’t make you a more important human being than the next. I’m not saying don’t set your sights on walking on the moon; I’m saying ordinary is good too. “Use what talents you possess, the woods will be very silent if no birds sang there except those that sang best.” — Henry Van Dyke.