Formal learning can teach you a great deal, but many of the essential skills in life are the ones you have to develop on your own.” - Lee Iacocca In his March 1 column, Okech Kendo is not happy with the government decision to start day wings in secondary schools that have been exclusively for boarding students. Kendo claimed that allowing day scholars into these schools would not only weaken their competitiveness in national exams but also upset student discipline. This is to clarify that thinking and reflection went into the government decision to create day wings in the 19 secondary schools. The principles of access, equity, quality and transition — without underrating any of them — underpinned this decision. The idea of boarding/day school model is not a new idea in Kenya. Most schools in this country were either full day or had both boarding and day wings. Nairobi School, for example, had both boarding and day students. The school enjoyed sterling performance in national exams and also in discipline then and now. Sterling performance in national exams is not the exclusive preserve of boarding schools or students. Strathmore and Kianda schools, Loreto Convent Msongari Girls Secondary School are day schools but post excellent results, as Dr Ribeiro Parklands Boys’ High School does. Highway Secondary School was until recently, a day school but was still an academic giant. While boarding schools have, generally speaking, posted good results, boarding is not the only determinant of school success. The above named schools attest to that. The claim that day students will affect discipline in these schools is far-fetched. National reports and statistics on student discipline show students in boarding schools are as vulnerable to negative influence as those in day schools. Indiscipline among students says a lot about the presence or absence of life skills, more than whether they are boarders or day scholars. Regrettably, however, we have had, in comparative terms, more incidences of student indiscipline and unrest in boarding than in day schools. The argument that students arriving every morning, and leaving every afternoon will lead to indiscipline does not hold water. The vision of the policymakers about education is holistic and goes beyond grades. They are thinking about the importance of those grades and how they can help children “build a deep and broad foundation for life and for lifelong learning.” What matters is how education and the concomitant environment — which is not restricted to schooling — can be used to help learners build life skills that they need to deal effectively with the challenges in everyday life. In creating day wings in boarding schools, the government is enabling the learners to access quality education without compromising the standards the schools have established. And the educational standards in question are founded on strong instructional leadership abilities of the principals. They provide or are expected to provide purpose-driven direction, coaching and inspiration to the school community with a view to giving learners a holistic education, not limited to grades. It is also about giving learners an inner compass that will provide the anchorage for all the actions they make in school, in the workplace and in life. Schools have the capacity to nurture academic and life skills and to serve boarding students as well as day students. They have done it before. Buhere is a communications officer at the Ministry of Education