The Law Society of Kenya has thrown its weight behind the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) bid to ensure members of parliament take pay cuts. LSK says attempts by MPS reverse a decision that was reached following extensive consultations is not only an abuse of the court process but also hopelessly misconceived. The society further says it has gone through documents filed in court and is of clear mind that the salary agency took into account international best practices and the national wage bill before arriving at the decision. PSC took the Salary agency to court seeking to have a gazette notice which stipulates implementation of the pay cut quashed. This is after the commission slashed their salaries from Sh 710,000 to Sh 621, 250 per month. The LSK council’s shares the view that the SRC acted within its constitutional and statutory mandate in arriving at the remuneration structure. Thus, it states in its response that the case by the PSC has no merits. “The applicant (PSC) is splitting hairs in differentiating what it calls salaries and facilitate allowances. Theses in fact constitute remuneration and are within the sole constitutional mandate of the respondent” adds Wambua The Society’s Chief Executive Officer Mercy Wambua argues that it is evidence that parties fully engaged each other for a long time before the salary structure was gazetted. “I am of the view that there were extensive consultation between the parties and the right to fair hearing was observed at all times,” states Wambua in documents. Her sentiments being echoed by SRC which accuses PSC of misrepresenting facts in court regarding the pay cuts. The salaries agency says MPs now stand to earn salaries and allowances in the initial amounts that stood before a review was done by the commission. Through lawyer Andrew Wandabwa, the agency claims that in a December 11, 2017 letter, PSC agreed to some of the issues, yet they have failed to disclose the same to the court. “PSC has not been candid in this matter and has concealed the fact that it received a letter dated December 11, 2017 from SRC in which it acceded to some of the matters they are aggrieved with and which form the basis of this case,” said Margaret Njoka, SRC’s acting chief executive officer. The case will come up again on March 28. Read:SRC slashes President and Governor salaries, abolishes MPs sitting, mileage allowance More on this Read:I will not approve MPs' greed, Uhuru says on SRC salary cuts  