Coast leaders and activists are divided over the changes made by Transport CS James Macharia at the Mombasa port last week. Macharia redeployed 14 top general managers last Tuesday “to enhance efficiency”. Some stakeholders see this as a bid to force clients to use the SGR in transporting cargo to Nairobi and other parts of the country. On Tuesday, Coast Women’s Power said they are happy with the changes, but only because managing director Catherine Mturi-Wairi was not among the 14. Former nominated Senator Emma Mbura said there was pressure from some leaders at the Coast to replace Mturi with a man. “This is a show of confidence with women’s leadership. We know there was intense lobbying for a former senator to take over as MD,” the Coast Women’s Power founder said yesterday. “But the government stood firm because it believes in women’s leadership. Mturi is making Coast women proud and all other women in high places should follow her example.” She spoke to the Star on the phone. Jubilee’s Ali Mwatsahu said although leaders are generally happy with the changes, they may hurt the party’s standing at the Coast. He said some managers had overstayed in some sections and were making poor decisions. However, they should have been replaced by individuals from the Coast who are equally productive, Mwatsahu said. “[Moving] some of the people to other areas has been a blow to the people at the Coast,” he said on the phone. Some demoted Last Tuesday, Macharia transferred general manager infrastructure Abdillahi Samatar and head of operations Sudi Mwasingo to Kisumu port, and replaced them with Dan Amadi and Capt William Ruto. Amadi was head of projects development while Ruto headed marine operations. Kennedy Nyaga takes over from Amadi while Moses Muthama takes over from Ruto. General manager engineering services Joseph Atonga has proceeded on leave, pending retirement in April. His position has been taken over by Rashid Salim. Yobesh Oyaro, who was head of procurement, has been transferred to Kisumu port, with Anthony Nyamancha taking over. Head of port electrical Joseph Birir has proceeded on leave, pending retirement as Mathew Amuti assumes his office. Ahmed Abdirahim, who was head of conventional cargo, has been redeployed to Kisumu port. Paul Bor will now be in charge of conventional cargo. Evelyne Chibule, head of container terminal, has been demoted. She will be redeployed within the port and her position taken over by Edward Opiyo. Head of human resources Boaz Ouko and principal procurement officer in charge of tenders Johnson Gachanja have been demoted. Ouko will be redeployed internally whereas Gachanja will be outside the port. Ouko’s position has been taken over by Catherine Wangari and Gachanja’s Everlyne Shigoli. Shigoli was previously in charge of stores and disposal, which is now headed by Stephen Chepkangor. Cosmas Makori, principal procurement officer, has been redeployed to Kisumu. His position will now be assumed by Aza Dzengo, who prior to Tuesday’s announcement was in charge of stock control. Johnson Ngure will now be in charge of stock control. Caroline Kodo and Gome Lenga, heads of pensions and medical services respectively, remain in their current positions. So does the managing director, security and corporate communications.