Private sector performance was highest in 22 months in February following increased business activities. This is an indication Kenya is back to business after a prolonged election cycle last year. The HIS Markit Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI) by Stanbic Bank attributes the growth to a survey record increase in output and the sharpest rise in new orders since January 2017. “Kenya’s private sector observed the greatest improvement in operating conditions since April 2016 during February,” regional economist for global markets at Stanbic, Jibran Quresh, said. Purchasing managers index The seasonally adjusted Purchasing Manager’s Index rose to 54.7 in February from 52.9 in January, jumping above the neutral 50 threshold for three consecutive months after crawling below par since July last year. It, however, hit a survey-record low of 34.4 in November last year. PMI is an indicator of the economic health of the manufacturing sector based on five major indicators - new orders, inventory levels, production, supplier and the employment environment. A PMI score of below 50 points is an indicator of poor performance. The monthly survey shows new business placed at Kenyan private sector firms increased for the third consecutive month during February to hit 55 up from slightly above 50 in January. Moreover, the pace of growth accelerated the sharpest since January 2017. In response to greater output requirements, firms were encouraged to increase their staffing levels at the strongest pace in nine months. There was greater demand, not only from the domestic market, but also overseas. New export orders rose for the third month in succession during February. Furthermore, the rate of expansion was the fastest since November 2016 and sharp overall. More than half the survey panel registered stronger overseas demand for Kenyan goods and services, while nine per cent noted a decline. Some firms cited Ghana as a source of new client wins. According to the survey, pending work decreased in February, thereby ending a two-month period of expansion. Even so, the rate of contraction was modest. Outstanding business decreased at 19 per cent of panelists, while 17 per cent posted an increase.The average lead times shortened during February with the rate of improvement in vendor performance sharpening to remain above the series trend. The faster delivery times were linked to competition among suppliers.