Francis Atwoli says Kenyans should learn to listen to him when he raises matters affecting workers. The Cotu Secretary General issued a statement on Saturday saying he has been calling for meaningful dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga since the August 8, 2017 general election. Atwoli noted his calls have always been for meetings by political leaders so street demonstrations are prevented. He said the peace and stability the country has experienced in the last one week could have started much earlier had the leaders heeded his calls. "Cotu holds that if the two leaders had met earlier, the country could be more stable. Thus Kenyans and leaders should learn to listen to the workers' voice and reason with the appeals that Cotu demands," he said. "I call upon Kenyans to learn to listen to bro Francis Atwoli and Cotu-K. I thank God that our appeal has come to pass. The two leaders have to continue uniting Kenyans and lead them in one right direction." Uhuru and Raila's handshake signalled a new dawn for Kenya through a plan aimed at peace, unity and countrywide development. More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya While speaking of the stagnation Kenya experienced in 2017, the Secretary General noted drastic changes since the handshake. Based on the new political atmosphere, he said, the economy is growing and there is an overall upward trajectory. "The meeting increased confidence in the economy. This will translate into an increased number of tourists and a rise in direct foreign investment hence job creation. The workers' union boss also cited new employment opportunities. "The over 100,000 jobs lost last year could be recovered, which eventually will see the cost of living go down." Further terming the pact is a key driver to kick-starting the national healing and conciliation process, Atwoli called on all politicians to support the deal between the two leaders. He said they must all learn to tame their ambitions especially on issues that culminate into the disintegration of society. "The two leaders must now promise to never again go back to where we are coming from," he added. Related: Wetang'ula a casualty of Uhuru-Raila deal, Ruto safe, says Murkomen Also read: Thank you for 'strongly endorsing' my deal with Uhuru, Raila tells Kisumu Click here for the latest political news