Four tea factories in Murang’a county are jointly reviving a Sh2.2 billion hydro power plant to eliminate reliance on firewood and the national power grid. This comes at a time when the national government has suspended logging for 90 days to allow assessment of forest destruction and draw up conservation plans. Tea factories use firewood to dry the tea. Equipment has been installed and the plant is expected to start operation in four months, project engineer Patrick Ndumia said yesterday. Githambo, Kiru, Gatunguru and Kanyenya-ini tea factories have pooled resources to finish the project and produce 5.6MW. Construction started in 2014 but stalled. The project on the Mathioya River will significantly reduce tea production costs. The factories have 70,000 farmers each. They deduct Sh2 per kilogramme of tea from each farmer to cater for firewood. The plant will help farmers save about Sh2.1 billion annually. They also pay about Sh44 million to Kenya Power and Light Company annually. Engineer Ndumia yesterday said the hydroelectric power plant will run three turbines. Builders had expected the project to be complete by 2016, but some residents refused to allow pipes to pass through their farms, he said. “This unexpected challenge delayed the construction. We embarked on negotiations that took a long time,” Ndumia said. KTDA regional board member Francis Macharia said the factories have set an example to other tea factories to shift from firewood as their source of energy. “For a long time, tea factories have depended on firewood to process tea. These four factories have broken the mould,” he said. The plant will be a source of income for the factories. They will sell the power surplus. “Our factories will only consume one megawatt and the rest will be connected to the national grid,” Macharia said. He said completion will be a major achievement for farmers. The expenses they incur in fuel costs will no longer be deducted from their payments, Macharia said. Besides the financial benefits, the use of electric power would help protect the environment. Most tea factories in Kenya use firewood to fuel the dryers for tea processing because it is significantly cheaper than electricity and oil. The use of firewood destroys forests and the smoke pollutes the air and predisposes people to disease infections. The shift to clean energy will conserve the environment. Such ‘green’ practices help organisations become more efficient, competitive and profitable. The ‘greening’ of tea manufacturing augurs well for national government’s efforts to increase countrywide forest cover and mitigate against the adverse effects of climate change. Early this month, the government, through the Environment ministry, imposed the 90-day moratorium on logging