Former Minister Morris Dzoro has joined the league of prominent professionals and world leaders recognised for their contributions to society. Dzoro is currently a commissioner at the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. He received an honorary Doctorate Degree in Public Administration by the Commonwealth University and a Master Class certificate in Business Management and Leadership by the London Graduate School, during a business leadership summit held in Cotonou late February. The letter from the Commonwealth University stated: "He was a university lecturer between 2008-2009, in project management, and optimally utilised his achieved knowledge to transform the lives of others. He has also played a role in discussing violence extremism, conflict resolution, justice and reconciliation." It was noted that Dzoro's working experience and exposure in leadership and development, at both national and international level, have given him skills that have made him keen to empower local communities. Professor Michael Addison, the Commonwealth University chancellor, added: “The dynamic nature of the world's operational environment, coupled with frequent changes in technology, demands continuous learning. "Thus the university is responding by creating opportunities to meet the need through empowering leaders, managers, entrepreneurs and professionals in order to make them effective in their jobs and be responsive to national and community needs,” Dzoro was feted alongside former presidential candidates, former ministers, lawyers and businessmen including Dr Gervais Koffi Djondo, the 85-year-old founder of Ecobank and Sky Airline. Former US president Barack Obama,, IT guru Bill Gates, former Indian prime minister Indira Gadhi and billionaire Aliko Dangote, are some of the world leaders previously been recognised as models. “I was humbled to receive the awards and I thank the authorities for recognising my contributions and achievements in the society,” he said when he jetted back into the country last weekend. The former Kaloleni MP has been community development, management and peace strategist for over 25 years. While Minister for Tourism and Wildlife from 2004 to 2007, he was recognised for being instrumental in enacting policies which promoted tourism. Dzoro is waiting to graduate with a PhD in Tourism Management from Moi University and a Master of Arts degree in Justice, Peace and Cohesion from Catholic University of Eastern Africa. He has a Master of Arts degree in Theology and Development from the University of Leeds, UK and a diploma in Communication Arts from Daystar University, Nairobi. He also has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Community Development from Messiah College in the USA. Dzoro served as an Assistant Minister for Public Service between 2002 and 2003 and was a Member of Parliament from 2002 to 2007. Prior to that, he worked as the Programme Manager for the World Vision – Kenya, in different counties and regions. According to the NCIC, Dzoro has attended training in different fields such as Strategic Planning and Management at CORAT; Proposal Writing and Health Management at AMREF; Cross-Cultural and Peace Keeping at the London Institute and Advanced Leadership Course from Singapore. He has also attended several seminars and conferences, including the World Tourism Organization in Malaysia; Public Service Conference in South Africa and International Urban Ministry in Chicago, USA. Read: Don’t divide Kenya into tribal blocs, politicians told Click here for the latest political news