Nekesa’s husband Robert Sitati said his wife was improperly operated on and a small portion of her intestine, about 50 centimetres, left outside the enclosing chamber. Michoma said there were no complications. Nekesa complained of abdominal pains, swelling and vomiting four days later, he said. “At this point, the patient had to be reviewed by a team of surgeons who diagnosed her to have intestinal obstruction, which is a surgical emergency that required surgery,” he said. Nekesa was then prepared for theatre and surgery was carried out, but no injury to the intestines or other internal organs were observed, surgeons said. The surgeons found a section of her small intestines had herniated through a defect of the rectus sheath, which they said was not in any way linked to the C-section. “That section of the small intestines had been trapped and this impaired blood flow, leading to death of tissues in the section. The tissues were removed and an artificial passage was created to the outside of the abdominal wall through which the patient had to pass waste,” Dr Mutoma said. The passage was created to allow healing and recovery of the intestines, Michoma said. “Once we confirm the intestines have recovered and the patient’s condition has improved, we’ll close the Ileostomy, probably on Monday next week,” he said. One of the twins weighed 1.91 kgs. Doctors established she had an abnormal heart sound. She later developed jaundice. Her conditioned worsened on Tuesday an she died. The other baby was discharged from the Newborn Unit in stable condition. The doctors rejected claims they refused to allow Nekesa’s husband to check on the twins. Dr Nyamu said it’s not the hospital’s policy to conceal information from patients “Our patients remain our primary priority and we are committed to delivering the highest standards of healthcare to all. We urge all to remain objective and balanced in public discourse about KNH,” Dr Peter Masinde said. Recently KNH has been in the spotlight for brain surgery on the wrong patient, being the site of a newborn baby’s theft and being at the centre of claims that nursing mothers were sexually harassed. The CEO was sent on leave and parliamentary hearings have been held.