Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's Finance Executive Danvas Makori and Chief Officer Ekaya Alumasi have been sent home for investigations into their conduct. Makori, who held the Agriculture docket before he was transferred to head Finance, is alleged to be working for people fighting Sonko. It was established on Wednesday evening that he had been giving out information to people mentioned in the Sh21 billion syndicate unearthed during former Governor Evans Kidero's regime. According to a KPMG report released in March and commissioned by Sonko, Nairobi lost at least this amount between 2013 and 2017. Kidero was blamed while his successor has vowed to go after all implicated people. On Wednesday, while chairing a committee on the construction of a fire station in Kangudo which has stalled over corruption claims, Sonko said anyone linked to the syndicate will go home to allow probes. "It does not matter who you are, where you come from or what you have done. This is serious business and we must all deliver and serve Nairobians as we promised during campaigns," he said. Makori has been accused of going behind Sonko's back and taking actions that could affect investigations, such as being in constant communication with Kidero and his team. An investigator who requested anonymity said: "The KPMG report is not a joke. It's only a matter of time before people are prosecuted. Makori cannot go behind his boss and start leaking crucial information to key people who were mentioned in that report, especially not Sonko’s enemies." Makori is the first executive to fall out with Sonko. Elkana Jacob, who is Deputy Director of Communication, said the public will be briefed once investigations are completed. “My boss just received the preliminary report. I cannot give more information as this will jeopardise investigations," he said. Read: City Hall can’t account for Sh21bn from Kidero term – KPMG audit More on this: Senators tell Kidero to explain county’s Sh21.9bn spending Click here for the latest political news