Dr Thomas Mutie has been appointed acting Kenyatta National Hospital Chief Executive Officer. Mutie replaces Lily Koros who was sent on compulsory leave on Friday after doctors conducted a brain surgery on a wrong patient. Mutie has been serving at the hospital as the Deputy Director Medical Services. According to the KNH's board, Dr Peter Masinde will serve as the acting director of clinical services after Dr John Onge'ch declined to take up the role. The appointments come after the board held a closed-door sitting on Saturday as directed by Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki. Koros was suspended alongside Clinical Services director Bernard Githae. This comes as health professionals speculated about who was responsible for one of the worst reported cases of medical negligence. “I apologise to the two patients and their families and especially the patient who was mistakenly operated on,” Kariuki said on Friday. This is the third huge problem for the hospital in about a month and a half. A baby was kidnapped at the facility just two weeks ago. On January 20 some nursing mothers complained they had been assaulted and sexually harassed on their way to breastfeed their infants. Read:KNH boss on leave in brain surgery mix-up The move to suspend Koros has however sparked mixed reactions with a section of Rift Valley MPs demanding her immediate reinstatement. The MPs led by senator Aron Cheruyoit claim that the events that have been happening at the facility are a well-choreographed wider scheme to remove Koross. Cheruyoit said they have reliable information that Koross has on several occasions refused to dance to the tune of cartels seeking to get tenders at the facility and who have now embarked on schemes to taint her image. "We all know that KNH is one of the implementing agents of president Uhuru Kenyatta's Big4. We are told Koross is one of the hardest nuts to crack who has made it difficult for cartels to operate at the facility. All these scandals we are seeing are aimed at spearheading her ouster," Cheruyoit said. He said it is wrong for Health CS Sicily Kariuki to sent Koross on leave without giving her a chance to tell her story. See:Rift Valley leaders want KNH CEO Lily Koross reinstated, read malice Also Read:KNH suspends surgical staff after brain operation on wrong patient  Click here for the latest political news  