Stanlib Fahari-I-Reit has identified a property valued at Sh850 million for acquisition in effort to meet Capital Markets Authority requirements for listed REITs. The property whose acquisition is subject to approval by CMA is an office building of about 41,300 square feet located along Gitanga road in Lavington. Speaking during the release of 2017 financial results, chief executive Kenneth Masika said they are looking at a rental income of Sh73.8 million from the property. “A legal agreement has been signed and we are in the process of making the deposit before getting on board by April 30. We will escalate its rental space at a rate of 15 per cent every two years,” Masika said. In September, the REIT was given a regulatory exemption by the CMA to extend their deadline of acquiring the assets after failing to utilise their investments funds in 24 months which lapsed on September 30 after listing. After seeking time extension from the regulator, CMA further extended the compliance period to today. Masika attributed the delay in identifying the property by the set deadline to uncompetitive prices of property whose proposal they received. “Most of the property acquisition proposals we received did not meet the funds portfolio,” he said. Chief financial officer Nozipho Makhoba said they had to exit some of their cash instruments in order to get money to acquire the property. “We invested most of our cash to fixed deposits, call deposits, and treasury bills. By mid-July 2017 we exited our treasury bills which were ranging from six months and above because we wanted to ensure that money was available before acquiring any authority,” Makhoba said. The fund also announced a 61 per cent rise in its net profit to Sh171 million for the 12 month period ending December 31. Their total net investment portfolio stood at Sh2.46 billion while their total assets was reported at Sh3.76 billion within the period under review. Launched in the market in November 2015 the Reit traded at Sh11.40 on Wednesday. Its initial public offer price stood at Sh20.  