Education International has written to Education CS Amina Mohamed urging her to expedite negotiations for the 2017-2021 CBA for lecturers. The entity is the global federation of teachers representing over 400 education unions in 177 countries, including KNUT, KUPPET and the Universities’ Academic Staff Union, UASU. In a letter dated March 26, EI Secretary General David Edwards asked the CS to facilitate the Inter-Public Universities Councils’ Consultative Forum to reach a deal with the striking lecturers. "The lack of any review of terms and conditions of employment including basic salaries, pension arrears, allowances and other schemes is a form of discrimination against university staff in Kenya," he said. The lecturers’ strike entered its first month on Tuesday with little signs from the government to resolve it. Related: Varsity dons on strike over delayed pay rise Their grievances range from a distorted pay structure, career stagnation, pension, car loans, mortgages and lack of health schemes. Twenty-five public universities are also yet to negotiate and sign internal CBAs citing lack of funds. Edwards expressed concerns that various governmental institutions are undermining labour relations in the higher education sector. "Education International, therefore, calls on the Kenyan government to ensure that collective bargaining takes place without delay and appropriate funds are set aside to enable the implementation of a 2017-2021 CBA for public universities academic staff," he said. The dons filed an appeal stopping a High court ruling that ordered them to go back to work pending the tabling of a counter offer by IPUCCF. They are demanding Sh38 billion for the CBA in their proposal filed on March 30, 2017. UASU has made concerted efforts since then to negotiate the new CBA but IPUCCF has defaulted on five deadlines to table a counteroffer. While appearing before the Parliamentary Committee of Education on March 15, Amina blamed the delays on a case filed by UASU against the Salaries and Remuneration Commission objecting to a job evaluation exercise. "We are hoping Uasu will withdraw the case they filed against the SRC [so] the job evaluation [is] completed," she said. She said job evaluation will provide a strong reference point for CBA talks and ensure harmonious remuneration for all university staff. Lecturers rejected the evaluation exercise saying it offers better rewards for administrative staff at the expense of those in academic section despite their high qualifications. Meanwhile, the University of Nairobi Vice Chancellor Peter Mbithi has written to acting principal, college of health sciences Prof Fredrick Were to showcause why he should not be disciplined for failing to submit a list of striking lecturers. "It is noted that you have failed to do so while no substantive teaching and service is going on in your college. I find that you have failed to perform your duties as expected as the administration and academic head in the college," Mbithi said. According to the letter dated March 23, Were was supposed to submit the list by Friday last week together with a list of students who will participate in the election of new student association officials. "I caution you that failure to comply will lead to your suspension from duty pending appearance before Council," Mbithi said. Read: Striking lecturers to hold street protests over lack of CBA offer Also read: Lecturers reject government's Sh6.8 billion offer to end strike Click here for the latest political news  