Communities living in and on the outskirts of national parks should get a fraction of tourism revenue, a World Bank report has suggested. The ‘Supporting sustainable livelihoods public disclosure authorised through wildlife tourism’ report reveals most communities living around national parks do not benefit from tourism. “Inhabitants that live in national parks or at their periphery are usually extremely poor. If the benefits of tourism flow to the local communities, they will value the parks much more,” World Bank lead economist Richard Damania said. Sustainability of wildlife tourism is determined by whether or not the local communities benefit from tourism activities, the report says. Some of the models suggested in the report include the public-community initiative, public-private partnership, community owned-and-run enterprise, communit-private partnership as well as public-private-community partnership. “Success factors include factors likely to contribute to success in sustainable wildlife tourism include context, the management, the assets, and the type of engagement and the approaches that facilitate them,” the report stated. laikipia lodges closed Approaches include passive engagement where communities own the asset and lease to a private or public-sector partner, or the government owns the asset and provides revenue sharing to communities. In active engagement, communities are empowered economically and socially through employment in tourism activities either independently or with a public, private, or NGO partner whereas in co-management communities have an equal decision-making role in the management of the asset with the owner. Over the years, ranches in parts of Laikipia county have been invaded as herders and owners engaged in violent confrontations over land ownership. This has led to the closing of at least seven of the 30 tourism lodges including Suyian lodge, Segera and Mugie conservancies. This has lowered tourism sustainability in the region with invaders shooting elephants, buffaloes, elands and zebras, tarnishing the region’s attractiveness and in turn lowering tourism receipts. building schools “Studies have shown that community apathy, disengagement, or hostility can cause tourism initiatives to fail; conversely, where communities are engaged and benefiting, sustainable wildlife tourism can be a win-win,” the report stated. Insecurity in Laikipia spiked last year as armed cattle herders searched for scarce grazing land amid drought. They drove cattle onto private farms and ranches and people, including former British army officer Tristan Voorspuy, were killed. Gunmen wounded Italian-born conservationist Kuki Gallmann at her conservation park in Laikipia and on New Year’s Eve, six Dutch holidaymakers were attacked by Pokot in the Laikipia Nature Conservancy. Most conservancies in Laikipia combine cattle ranching, tourism and wild conservation. Ranchers help local communities by offering scholarships and building schools. 