Dennis Itumbi has praised police for assaulting journalists at the JKIA as they covered events around lawyer Miguna Miguna's return. There was a stand-off at the airport after the self-declared NRMKe General declined to board a Dubai-bound plane where he was put by police "as an undocumented person". Several journalists were roughed up by a bevy of armed police officers before Miguna was whisked away and put on the waiting Emirates flight. Itumbi, who is State House senior digital communications director, says police did well as "journalism is not an absolute right". "If a police order is lawfully given, you leave and if you believe it was wrong, challenge it in court," he wrote on his Facebook page on Monday night. Itumbi went on to note that "ugly scenes" cannot be showed at international airports anywhere in the world. "You cannot openly defy a police order on live TV. On that I must say police did well. You will never see such stuff in other airports. It took a bit long but great decision [sic]," he said. Itumbi further said Kenya's economy is far more important than a news item. "We cannot allow the broadcast of our airport in such terms. Strict filming, photography and filming procedures as contained in airport guidelines should be enforced." Miguna spent his night at the JKIA departure lounge after the Emirates pilots refused to fly him to Dubai as planned. After he was forced into the plane by police who tore his clothes, the pilots declared him a hostile passenger and ordered him to leave. They had waited one and a half hours, jeopardising many passengers who were to connect to other destinations. The stand-off followed Miguna's adamant refusal to apply for a Kenyan Visa soon after he landed at the JKIA at around 2 pm. At some point, police dragged the General away as Nasa leader Raila Odinga watched. Earlier, Opposition lawyer and Siaya Senator James Orengo told journalists that intelligence officers, dressed as if they were employees of Emirates Airlines, told them they had instructions to take Miguna to the aircraft. Orengo said it was unfortunate that the episode played out in the full glare of international visitors. He said Miguna might be deported again. More on this: [VIDEO] I won't apply for tourist visa, adamant Miguna says after JKIA blockade Also see: Raila intervenes in Miguna airport standoff, cops harass journalists Click here for the latest political news 