With the NASA Opposition coalition falling apart, some leaders are saying the unfolding dialogue between President Uhuru and Raila Odinga should be a conversation between ODM and Jubilee and not among Kenyans. This would mean talks to share the benefits of power and the loot of corruption. But if I remember well, when NASA was busy calling for secession and forming the People’s Assemblies in its strongholds, it was other people such as the Church and independent leaders, who called for dialogue between Jubilee and NASA/ Uhuru and Raila as a means of defusing political tensions and resolving the national crisis amicably and peaceably. Given NASA was an ethnic coalition, when it falls apart and ceases to be the Opposition by the Luo, the Kamba, the Luhya and the Coast communities, whatever will be left of it will be ODM and the Luo community, engaging the Kikuyu, the Kalenjin, the Somali and Jubilee in dialogue. The resulting conversation will hardly be a national dialogue in an attempt to resolve Kenyans’ problems. That this is the intended dialogue and not a national one, as proven by Senator James Orengo’s insistence in an interview on Citizen TV that only those who were at the swearing-in of Raila Odinga as ‘People’s President’ should be allowed on this stage of the Raila-Uhuru talks, which he claims was a consequence of that event. As a result, he opines only the attendees should be its exclusive beneficiaries. But Raila has so far not said he and NASA were fighting only for their own inclusion in a national dialogue with Uhuru and Jubilee, which they mostly rejected; personal rewards they may get from participation in government, nor has he said the benefits of these talks are exclusive to themselves. However, while this may not be so, that is the impression left by the unfolding exclusion of the three NASA principals. From this, it would seem what is intended to come from the up-coming dialogue may not be furtherance or completion of the reform agenda, more reforms of the Constitution or pursuance of the public interest for all Kenyans, but mere inclusion of the ODM elites in government, even if the public interest and electoral justice were announced as the only motivation for struggle by the Opposition. It is interesting that the much-talked-about dialogue has a hierarchy that puts the three NASA principals and Deputy President William Ruto in a latter inclusion. But the current inclusion and exclusion suggest President Uhuru and Raila are the top dogs of the conversation — and maybe tomorrow’s government — while Ruto, Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula are its complaining under dogs. This then makes one ask, what is the gain of winning Raila and losing three NASA principals with their communities? Wouldn’t the inclusion of all the principals and everybody else interested in the dialogue make more sense? For dialogue to be of public good, it must not be hijacked or used for wrong purposes. I believe it can be useful when elites are not allowed to use it for their individual and personal interests. So far, we are told the handshake is for uniting the country, fighting corruption and negative ethnicity, saving the country from ethnic exclusion, while promoting inclusion of all marginalised groups — small ethnic communities, the poor, women and youths. The truth is, if these are the true aims of the coming dialogue, many people and communities should easily be invited into this dialogue to contribute their sweat, tears and blood to national unity. However, few will be welcome to the dialogue if its purpose is to provide yet another avenue of scheming and fleecing the country by those who are invited to drive, or eat, from it. While Raila is planning to take Uhuru to all bastions of ODM and NASA, the President should also plan to take Raila to all his political strongholds in Central Kenya. Negative ethnicity that excludes Uhuru from Nyanza is the same that bars Raila from the Mt Kenya region. Ultimately, the two must also shake hands with all the other Kenyan leaders, with whom they should tour the whole country with to promote unity. All our people and leaders are suffering from negative ethnicity and must exorcise themselves from its demons that will otherwise never allow us to unite or develop.   Koigi is as political activist and former Subukia MP