As Easter nears, people have different plans on how to celebrate the day, which will also serve as a long weekend. Many people think Easter is about eating, drinking and making merry. But Father Wilbard Lagho, vicar general of the Catholic archdiocese of Mombasa, said there is more to Easter than just celebrations. Father Lagho describes Easter as a season of penance, reflection, prayers and forgiveness, doing good deeds and helping those in need of our assistance. “Many people focus on celebrating Easter humanly instead of spiritually. This is the period to rethink your spiritual needs,” he said. Forty days earlier, Catholic and Anglican churches start the lent season on Ash Wednesday, which later culminates in Easter. The lent season symbolises the journey of Jesus before his crucification. Father Lagho said in these four weeks, the faithful are expected to fast, pray and help the needy. He said Christians are also encouraged to sacrifice some of the things they love and instead give them to poor people. “In this period, most people sacrifice a lot and then channel the funds to helping people. Some people sacrifice eating what they love most, drinking, smoking and many other things,”he said. The priest said when it comes to repentance, it is not only about someone repenting his sins, but also asking for forgiveness from those they wronged and seeking reconciliation. “You cannot say you want to repent, yet you have not talked to your neighbour, or hate your brother yet the commandment say love your brother,”he said. In Mombasa, the county government is set to host its annual festive “Tukutane Mombasa” on the Easter weekend. The carnival, which will be hosted at Fort Jesus, will allow residents and visitors to experience the diversity of Mombasa. Visitors will be able to taste Coastal dishes and also get a chance to shop. Hotels in Mombasa expect to have at least 60 per cent occupation.Pride Inn Paradise beach resort MD Hasnain Nooran said the hotel is at the 67 per cent occupation. He said the numbers will rise as there have been bookings for the short holiday.  BIBLICAL ORIGINS The vicar general traces back the season to the Old Testament, when Israelites were slaves in Egypt and were suffering. They pleaded with God to come to their assistance and rescue them from the jaws of slavery. God anointed Moses to go to Egypt and rescue the Israelites and lead them to Canaan, where there was plenty of milk and manna, with no pain or suffering. Before the Israelites left their captor’s country, God wanted to punish their oppressors. He sent his angel to carry out the punishment in the households of the Egyptians. So as to differentiate the Israelites’ houses from the Egyptians’, God ordered the Israelites to slaughter a lamb and smear its blood on the doors of their houses. They also ate the meat of the lamb while standing with their luggage ready, to symbolise that they were in a hurry to leave. The Israelites were saved from slavery and sins, which paved way to celebrate Easter. Father Lagho said in the current context, the celebration does not rescue people from slavery but from their own self-destruction and sins. He said Jesus was sacrificed in place of the lamb to show that sins of the human beings were taken away and cleansed by the blood of Jesus, which spilled during the crucification. A week before Easter, Christians mark Palm Sunday, which commemorates the triumphant arrival of Jesus in Jerusalem, riding a small donkey. Palm branches are widely recognised as a symbol of peace and victory, hence their preferred use on Palm Sunday. The use of a donkey instead of a horse is highly symbolic. It represents the humble arrival of someone in peace, as opposed to arriving on a steed in war. On Holy Thursday, Jesus started his last days on earth before he was crucified and resurrected after three days. He had the last supper as a passover feast with his disciples, which was also a farewell to his disciples. This showed that he had taken in the place of the lamb in the Old Testament. Christ washed the feet of his disciples before going to mount Olives, where he was betrayed by Judas Iscariot. Catholics hold a special mass, ‘Chrism Mass’, where the bishop blesses the Oil of Chrism used for baptism and confirmation. The bishop can also wash 12 feet of the priests. On Friday, which is a public holiday for most countries, the world commemorates crucification of Jesus Christ before he rises on Easter Monday.  CULTURAL RITUALS The Coptic Orthodox Church originates from Egypt and has at least 250 million followers worldwide. It bases its Easter date on the Julian calendar, contrary to the Gregorian calendar commonly used worldwide. Their Easter comes a week after the world celebrates it, and this year, they will be commemorating Easter on April 8. On Easter Sunday, families hold lunch, which consist of chicken or turkey stuffed with nuts and served with rice. This is also a day to visit friends and families, where they share food such as cookies. This culture is traced back to AD 325, and is still observed to date. But in Island of Crete, they believe in punishing betrayers, which includes Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Jesus Christ in exchange for 30 pieces of silver. They light a huge bonfire and burn the effigy of Judas. Hungarians sprinkle perfume and cologne or water over young women’s heads and ask for a kiss, while in France, Easter brings together thousands of people, who share a meal. A big omelette, made of 4,500 eggs, is prepared and fed to 1,000 people. In Brazil, the day is only fully celebrated if they punish the betrayer.Residents parade in the streets, hang straw dolls representing Judas Iscariot and beat them. If you think some of the ways of commemorating the day are weird, you have not heard of Greece celebrate and Republic of Czech. Greeks indulge in throwing pots, pans and any earthenware out through the window, smashing them on the streets. This symbolises the welcoming of new crops and also the beginning of spring season. At the republic of Czech,men spank women using handmade wipes made of willow and decorated with ribbon. They believe the willow tree is so fertile and, therefore, the spanking will transfer the fertility to women. Bulgarians engage in an eggs fight, and whoever comes out of the competition with an unbroken egg is always declared the winner, while old women rub faces of the young ones with eggs. In the US, the President always hosts the annual egg roll festivities, where children roll a coloured, hard-boiled egg with a large serving spoon. In Queen Elizabeth’s land, Britons eat large quantities of egg-shaped chocolates to mark the day.