CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge has exuded the confidence Kenya's economy is headed for a positive turnaround despite the effects of the prolonged political atmosphere. He said in an interview with CNN’s Richard Quest on Tuesday that the lengthened poll period affected the country's economy, especially on the manufacturing sector. Njoroge added that a number of businesses took a tumble as most investors assumed a wait-and-see approach during the political upheaval. "Secondly, we also had a lot of other consumers private consumers also adopted a wait and see attitude. Manufacturing sector, for instance, was at standstill yet it is a significant contributor to our economy," he said. The governor, however, said "the economy has turned a corner" with growth forecast set to be much higher than last year. In 2017, he said, prolonged drought and the election had a significant downward pressure on the economy. "We are forecasting growth in the order of 6.2 per cent, much higher than last year where we expected growth rate to be around 5 per cent." Read: Kenya economy survives election storm, investments to improve Also read: Kenya missed 2017 economic growth target due to election - Rotich Njoroge said, going forward, strong fiscal policies in the macro-environments will play a key role in resuscitating the economy that has in the recent past suffered from terror attacks and negative effects of the economy. He said the government will be more keen on strengthening existing economic generating sectors as opposed to creating difficult economic conditions to reduce public expenditure. "The reason there is that there is scope for reducing expenditures and increasing maybe revenues appropriately…the other thing is strengthening institutions, including the Central Bank, and improving the environment for doing business," Njoroge said. In this month's review, CBK lowered its lending rates to 9.5 per cent up from 10 per cent, effectively capping interest rates at 14.5 percent for commercial banks. Njoroge said the strengthening of institutions will also go a long way in dealing with corruption, bureaucracy and red tape which have for long been blamed for providing bad business environments. He said he expects things to get even better once national carrier Kenya Airways starts direct flights to New York in October. The CBK boss said the world, particularly the US, has a lot to look forward to from Kenya after the October 28 inaugural flight. He said among Kenya's business masterpieces are a vibrant private sector and an economy that is diverse. "Actually Kenya is running on the private sector and that is really quite varied," Njoroge said, adding that Kenya also boasts of young innovative people. Read: Kenya's economic growth to rebound in 2018, says Treasury CS Henry Rotich Click here for the latest political news