There is no NASA at the moment. Things have changed. NASA was Raila Odinga and NASA is Raila. Nobody else has the authority to say he owns NASA. It belongs to Raila, simple as that. How can Kalonzo Musyoka say he wants NASA to be registered as a party, and yet he is the leader of Wiper? Will he belong to two parties? Does the law allow this? Kalonzo is a good lawyer. There are two things: he either kills Wiper, then he registers NASA and becomes the party leader. The issue of coalition is not there, it's dead and it went with the owner, Raila — that is the end. So Kalonzo needs to rethink his future and join jubilee. For Musalia Mudavadi to survive, he needs board a bus, otherwise he has no value. What can he do on his own? What can the two do on their own? Same for Moses Wetang'ula. There is nothing the three can do on their own. Wetang'ula+ Mudavadi+Kalonzo=0. All of them have the same value. None can add value to the other in the country's political discourse. They need to invite someone to replace Raila so they can gain momentum. They need a political heavyweight.And when you look around, that political heavyweight for now is the Deputy President William Ruto. He is the only person left and if they join him, they get good mileage. For them being lone rangers and cheating Kenyans that they will win the presidential race is like telling us they will be President tomorrow. Kalonzo insists NASA is still holding together but even a toddler will tell you that opposition outfit is no more. It died the day Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta shook hands. This is clear. Kalonzo and Mudavadi have an opportunity to see ahead and chart their future either as individuals or form a coalition. When you look at ODM, it has embraced the unity so far. Both Uhuru and the DP have embraced the opposition — a good thing not just for the economy but also the country's well-being. Recently the DP has extended his friendship not only to Jubilee leaders but also those from opposition zones. And this is the way to go in ensuring we have development countrywide. It's not too late for Kalonzo and Mudavadi to come into the fold. The writer in the immediate former MP for Mwingi Central