World Health Organisation has put the number of deaths in Kenya on Tuberculosis at approximately 29,000 in 2017. WHO said more than half of persons estimated to have TB were not diagnosed or treated. Kenya put the actual number of people who contract the disease every year at 138,105. As the world celebrates TB day on March 24 with the theme being "Wanted: Leaders for a TB-free World", WHO urged leaders to join hands and fight the disease. WHO called on the government and leaders to ensure that the patients are treated to eradicate more deaths. More than 2.4 billion people are infected with tuberculosis. "World leaders must show their commitment to ensure that everyone affected by TB gets the right diagnosis, treatment and care," it said in Saturday via Twitter. WHO noted that many people suffering from TB do not know it as it continues to be the top infectious killer worldwide, claiming over 4,500 lives a day. Every day there are 28,500 new cases, 4, 600 deaths and 11,100 missed cases. People living with HIV-Aids could be placed on a shorter, more bearable treatment plan to prevent tuberculosis. This is after a study in Kenya and nine other countries showed that a one-month antibiotic regimen to prevent the disease is safer and more effective than the standard nine-month therapy. Those living with HIV-Aids currently take drugs daily, for nine months every three years, to prevent the disease. The anti-TB drugs are taken alongside ARVs, making it difficult cumbersome to adhere to the treatment regimen. More on this: Shorter, safer TB regimen found for HIV-Aids patients While anyone can contract TB, the disease thrives among people living in poverty, communities and groups that are marginalized, and other vulnerable populations. Factors such as malnutrition, poor housing and sanitation, compounded by other risk factors such as tobacco and alcohol use and diabetes, affect vulnerability to TB and access to care. This access is often hindered by catastrophic costs associated with illness, seeking and staying in care, and lack of social protection, resulting in a vicious cycle of poverty and ill-health. The transmission of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) adds great urgency to these concerns. In 2017, WHO reported that 10.4 million people fell ill with TB and there were 1.8 million TB deaths in 2016, making it the top infectious killer worldwide. Director-General of the WHO Tedros Ghebreyesus said the “devastating” social and economic impacts of TB has caused many drugs to lose their efficacy in combatting the disease. “While the world has committed to ending the TB epidemic by 2030, as part of the Sustainable Development Goals, actions and investments do not match the political reality,” he said in a video message. The UN is calling on all partners to take unprecedented and bold action to advance efforts to end TB and AIDS by 2030.  Click here for the latest political news 