Njuri Ncheke elders have given a three-day ultimatum for Meru University students’ secretary general Evans Njoroge’s killers to be taken to court or they’ll intervene. Speaking on Saturday at their headquarters shrine adjacent to the university, they called for the resignation of VC Japheth Magambo. They want Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to order the immediate arrest of the officer who shot Njoroge dead. “It is sad that a student leader who was fighting for the rights of others was killed in cold blood, yet no one has been arrested,” Njuri Nceke secretary general Josphat Murangiri said. If the killer is not arrested, we will look for him and take action according to Njuri Ncheke rules, he said. Murangiri said the police officer who killed Njoroge fled the scene, and may have been “hired” to finish him. DISAND MANAGEMENT We might even lynch him if the government does not act. Njuri Ncheke gave out 600 acres for construction of the university in 2012. We did not donate land for people to be killed here,” Murangiri said. “We want the entire university management disbanded. It has failed to address students’ grievances. Funds meant for development have been misused,” he said. Murangiri said they won’t rest until Njoroge’s killers are brought to book. He urged students not to cause chaos again, as the elders have taken over the matter. He said Magambo, who is a Njuri Ncheke elder, was summoned but failed to appear. “According to our customs and norms, if one is summoned and they do not show up, they are deemed as guilty,” Murangiri said. VARSITY GROWTH SLOW Former Tigania West MP Kilemi Mwiria said Magambo, who has stayed at the university for 10 years, has done little compared to other universities that started at the same time. “The institution has stagnated. The VC is dragging sub-tribes politics into the matter to cover up for his failure. He has stayed for 10 years already, what will he do that he has not done for all those years? Chuka, Laikipia and Embu universities that started almost at the same time with Meru University are far much ahead,” he said. DOESN'T CONSULT Mwiria said Magambo does noy have a consultative approach in his leadership. “You cannot take an institution far if you do not consult, that is why the students are striking,” he said. Kilemi said elders, two from each subcounty,will go to the Universty Council, Commision of University Education and the Ministry of Education to report the mismanagement.