International political dynamics always have impacts on the local and regional processes. Power play on the global arena is driven by the actions and interests of the dominant actors, normally led by a superpower. After the end of the Cold War, the United States became the superpower and thus presided over a unipolar political system. It was thus able to single-handedly push its agenda based on their selfish but strategic interests without much hindrance or opposition. The collapse of the Soviet Union enabled the US to arm-twist the Bretton Woods Institutions to do their bidding in extending financial assistance to the Third World countries. Global politics took the cue from the US diplomatic engagements and unwillingly got entangled with the White House agenda. However, as scholars and pundits predicted at the onset of the US hegemony in the early 1990s, a unipolar political system is unsustainable and was bound to collapse. Three decades later, the chickens have come home to roost and the US is no longer capable and willing to patronise and superintend world politics. As the Soviet empire disintegrated and Russia took time to rise and organise itself as the alternative, China emerged as the alternative to the US hegemony. China had been on the same side of the world political divide with the USSR, and was blessed with huge population. It was able to secure a permanent seat at the Security Council upon the establishment of the United Nations. From this perch, China was able to leverage its influence and expanded her networks and build new allies across the globe. The emerging African independent states became the new frontiers for global politics, and China became a more reliable partner for the developing nations. The frontline states that had not been earlier colonized by Britain or France, and under the patronage of Tanzania developed closer ties with China. China seized the opportunity presented by the decline of Russia as a world power by taking some strategic steps in its development programme. These steps have borne fruits in unimaginable folds as China celebrates its New Year also known as the Spring Festival. This year is called the Dog Year, according to the Chinese Zordiac, and will fall fell on February 16, two days after the dual celebration of Ash Wednesday and the Valentine. Some of the factors that make a nation a super power include economic muscle, cultural influence, military might and technological advancement. These steps required huge investments and change of direction in the management of its political affairs. The changes brought some pain and resistance from the local communities and external allies but the Chinese leadership maintained focus and soldered on. Today, no one can ignore the red star and even US President Donald Trump has expressed his worries about the loss of dominance of American power to China. One of the strategic moves China made was to invest in technology and innovation. The country set aside huge amounts of funds to finance university education in some of world’s best universities. Chinese students were given government scholarships beginning the mid-1980s to pursue choice courses in engineering and technology in the US and Europe. Today some nine million Chinese have since graduated from these elite universities and returned home to be the champions of research and innovation. These top-range innovators have put China on high pedestal of technological advancement, and given it leverage in trade over its traditional western power competitors. Using technology, they were able to penetrate the world market by manufacturing for every segment of the market. Therefore, the uniqueness of Chinese products is such that they exist as a range. For example if it is a phone handset, there will be a Tecno for Sh1,500 to serve the lower market segment and another one at Sh 100,000 to serve the high end, both of which will be of smart technology. The other step taken by the Chinese leadership was to review their politics and business at the world trade. Until the collapse of the Berlin Wall, China was strongly a socialist nation, with inward looking diplomacy. This limited their participation in the global political stage. It also diminished their business opportunities. They thus chose open up China’s outlook and internal society to external interests. This was in line with the new Communist Party of China leader Xi Jinping’s vision and guidance published under the tittle “Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”. The underpinning philosophy was commitment to open, inclusive and clean world, enjoying lasting peace, security and prosperity. With this vision, China moved from a closed society under the tight grips of Communist ideology to an externally liberal nation keen on dominating the world arena by making its citizens rich through trade. The leadership deliberately established networks to create unfettered access to the world for Chinese goods and businessmen. During this period, the western powers were pegging their trade and development aid on values such as democracy, human rights and gender equality and such other mundane issues as same sex unions. China on the other hand, promoted trade ties with developing nations and extended bilateral development assistance without conditions. However, the country remains one of the most autocratic governments, and state control is still the order of the day. Where they gave development aid, they brought in Chinese equipment, money and labour. The labour they brought in the oriental work ethic that enabled the projects to be completed on record scheduled times. Before long, there were more Chinese digging trenches on our roads, we had more Chinese trucks doing construction and, in most circumstances, the consumables were imported from Beijing. Today, the total value of China trade stands at $4.4 trillion with a GDP of $12.3 trillion. Science and technology have contributed about 57 per cent of economic growth. The country has gone a notch higher by penetrating the market in the West by offering favourable trade incentives to her exporters as well as importers of her industrial finished goods. China has also made considerable success in exporting its cultural heritage and influencing the developing world’s view about the East. It is safe to argue that currently, the oriental philosophy competes favourably with the occidental thought process. Where oriental thinking had been frowned upon, China has made investments in supporting Africans and people from the developing world to attend training in its universities and colleges. Partnerships have been by local universities to teach Chinese language and some courses tailor-made for the Chinese market. Chinese government has been quite generous with scholarship support to African students interested in technology training, especially at lower levels. This is cadre that will be deployed to maintain the huge investment China is making in supplying equipment and electronics, especially for construction and communication. Chinese-trained technicians will soon be the majority of Kenya’s machinists and artisans. The local Technical and Vocational Education and Training or TVET landscape is dotted with numerous Chinese workshop equipment, churning out more Chinese-oriented technical personnel than the West. While the western powers are still flat-footed in the old mantra of civil rights and anti-corruption crusade, China has penetrated the fabric of our society and is now exerting more influence than before. Our politicians, many of whom are young and did not benefit from the Western imperial influence, relate their daily lives more with China. These are the policymakers in this country, and they determine the direction the state takes in international relations. They see more Chinese in the development projects in their local constituencies than any other foreign investments. As such, they are likely to listen to China more. There are more Kenyans speaking Chinese than say Swedish. The implementation of Belt and Road Initiative, together with the Summit on China-Africa Cooperation to be held in Beijing this September, will cement this alliance and enhance Chinese influence on Africa and third world. These two programmes are aimed at keeping Kenya and the rest of the third world closer to China. During the Cold War era, China was eclipsed by the Western powers in the country, and the two countries always treated each other with mutual suspicion. While Kenya espoused liberal western political ideology, China was one of the two major patrons of communist ideology. The US and Britain ensured the interests of the Communist agents, as represented by the USSR and China, were frustrated effectively. This was to protect the strategic interests of the West in the region, which could only be secured by having strong bases in Kenya. China was thus pushed to Tanzania, from where it gained a foothold in Angola and Mozambique. It is in these frontline states that it exercised its military might and assistance. As has been noted, the military capacity of a nation is crucial in its diplomatic activities at the world stage. Being a member of the all-important Security Council allowed China to develop nuclear arsenal. But nuclear firepower without political alliances erodes a nation’s stature in the global diplomatic arena. China, therefore, needed states that would depend on its military hardware to sustain its claim to superpower status. By use of modern technology and innovation, it has amassed some of the deadliest weaponry among its peers. Through state-directed trade, it has been able to sell their armoury to their allies at the best prices and thus enhance its influence and dominance in these armies. The Chinese military artifacts and training modules pervade and permeate the structure of many African and third world defense forces. With the military control, China has completed the cycle of necessary factors to operate as world super power. This status has enabled it to exert more influence in this country, and ensured its place as the preferred partner for development collaboration. The US is unlikely to recover lost ground since the Trump administration has fashioned the America First policy, while Britain is still smarting from the Brexit fiasco. The recent political events in the country and development vision contained in the Big Four Agenda should be seen in the context of a strong Chinese influence on Kenya’s social fabric.  Kanyadudi is a public policy analyst