In March 24, 2016, the High Court declared that it is unconstitutional to confine TB patients who are unwilling to take their medication. Justice Mumbi Ngugi also ordered the Health ministry to publish new policy guidelines within 90 days on how patients with infectious diseases should be handled. Since the ruling, the ministry is yet to release a policy on the construction of isolation wards and also ensure that future isolations will be handled in a patient-centeric manner that respects human rights. At the Kenyatta National Hospital’s isolation ward, one step inside and you feel like you are in a different world. The sound of the extractor fans on the corridors give you the impression that you are walking in a vacuum. However, all these measure are put in place to protect further spread of the disease. One has to pass through four doors before getting access inside. The ward has a total of 15 cubicles: eight for men, seven for women. Currently there are six drug-resistant TB patients in the ward. Chest specialist Andrew Owuor said all the cubicles that are under negative pressure have two extractor fan and ultraviolet light to prevent the spread of TB. “The extractor fans suck air outside. Bad air goes out through the vents and clean air comes in. The lights kill any germs in the air,” Owuor said. All the windows inside the ward are closed. However, in an earlier interview, Samuel Misoi said the structure of the ward in Kenyatta should be reviewed because the rooms are air-tight and are also under negative pressure. Misoi is the assistant director of the National Tuberculosis, Leprosy and Lung Disease Programme. “We have a problem with this ward because the windows are not opened. Air is forced in and out. We prefer wards where the air is moving freely and the ward constructed a distance from the main hospital,” Misoi said. He said the draft policy is yet to be finalised but is at an advanced stage. Once ready, it will be forwarded to Health CS Sicily Kariuki for approval. The isolation policy wants the wards to be constructed at a distance from the hospital, where there will be free flow of air to avoid infecting other patients. It also wants the ward and all its rooms to have ultraviolet light that is germicidal and can kill bacteria. “For others, we shall use natural ventilation. Good cross-ventilation because this, together with the UV lights, will help in killing the bacteria,” Misoi said. Hospitals with isolation wards for patients with infectious diseases are KNH, the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and the Homa Bay County Referral Hospital. Data from the Health ministry shows that close to 10,000 people die annually from TB in the country. It also showed that there are about 600 patients with drug-resistant TB. According to WHO, poor drug usage, interruption of treatment and infection by MDR-TB patients are some of the major causes of the strain. Drug-resistant TB occurs when patients develop resistance to Rifampicin and Isoniazid, the two most powerful anti-TB drugs. Since it’s highly infectious, patients and staff have to wear protective respiratory masks for the duration of the treatment. Some patients have to wear them in public to avoid further spread of the disease. Even as the government tries its best to come up with an isolation policy two years after a court ruling, the Kenya Legal and Ethical Issues Network on HIV and Aids, wants the government to amend sections of the law that violate the rights of persons diagnosed with tuberculosis. Kelin programme officer Timothy Wasuna said sections of the Employment, Prisons and Public Health acts are unconstitutional, as they do not protect patients and act as a barrier to accessing health services. Since the ruling started a conversation on how to achieve a rights-based approach to TB prevention, treatment, and management, once Kenya finishes drafting the policy, it could act as a model for the region and beyond in the fight against TB.  IN A NUTSHELL What is TB? Tuberculosis is a disease that affects the young and the old, men and women, rich and poor. It is caused by a germ that destroys the lungs, but any organ such as the heart, intestines, liver or bladder can be affected.  How does someone get TB? When someone with TB does not get treatment, and coughs or spits, he or she sends thousands of germs into the air that are breathed in by other people.  Symptoms Cough lasting more than two weeks Blood-stained sputum Shortness of breath Chest pains Fever Loss of appetite Weight loss Night sweats Neck or joint stiffness Bloating  Prevention? When coughing or sneezing, cover your mouth or nose with a tissue paper  or a cloth Spit into a can with sand cover and bury it deep when full Leave windows open to let in sunlight and keep house well-ventilated Ensure you are tested and treated as soon as possible  Cure? TB is curable if the disease is discovered early enough and the patient receives regular treatment for 6 to 8 months without interruption. The treatment is free in all public health centres. Source : Ministry of Health