Former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti at the weekend met another of Governor Martin Wambora’s arch-rivals amid speculation the two might gang up against the county chief. Kivuti was the chief guest at the Embu College graduation ceremony on Saturday attended by Kithinji Kiragu, who owns the institution. The meeting led to speculation the two may have reconciled. There have been rumours that Kivuti and Kiragu made a deal for the latter to step aside for the former in case a fresh election is ordered. The two have not been seen in public together for many months before and after the General Election. But addressing the press later, Kiragu, who was third in the August 8 election, said he had not made any deal with Kivuti to step aside for him. He said their rivalry is only political and they are friends. “It’s too early to talk about the election since the governor has appealed and it is not known whether he will succeed or not. I’ll decide on the issue when the right time comes,” he said. Some 510 students were awarded diplomas in the graduation ceremony. Kivuti called Kiragu his brother and a good friend. He praised Kiragu for investing in the college, which he said has equipped thousands with skills to earn a decent living. leaders back governor Last month Wambora’s August 8 election win was nullified by a court following a successful petition by Kivuti. Justice William Musyoka on February 22 ruled that the election was marred by massive inflation, swapping, doctoring and vote theft. The judge said he concurred with the petitioner that there were a substantial number of polling stations where votes were unverifiable. Wambora has appealed. After the ruling Kivuti urged Wambora not to appeal but to face another election. “He should be man enough and agree to face the people,” he said. Wambora, who defended his seat on the Jubilee Party ticket, beat Kivuti (Maendeleo Chap Chap) with 985 votes. Wambora got 97,760 votes, Kivuti got 96,775, while Kiragu of PNU garnered 50,440 votes. Entrepreneur Leonard Muriuki of Narc Kenya got 2,022 votes, former Transport PS Cyrus Njiru (independent) 2,352, and psychiatrist Njagih Kumantha (DP) 981. Three weeks ago a number of Embu leaders supported Wambora. They included Senator Njeru Ndwiga, Runyenjes MP Erick Muchangi, speaker Josiah Thiriku, Deputy Governor David Kariuki and MCAs. 