Women in Bungoma said they had nothing to smile about due to rampant insecurity as others marked International Women's Day on Thursday. County woman representative Catherine Wambilianga said killing and injuries in parts such as Mt Elgon have left them with sleepless nights. Wambilianga added that many of the women in the county have horrific memories of the loss of their loved ones in attacks. "Some have been raped in front of their kids, their husbands have been killed and others who had to flee their homes are spending nights in the cold in schools, for fear of attacks." Reports indicate that about 30 people have been killed while several women and school girls have been raped. Animals have also been killed and cash and property stolen. The parliamentarian asked the government to quickly improve security, and police officers enforcing a 90-day curfew not to harass women. Interior Minister Fred Matiang'i ordered the 6pm to 6am restriction on March 6, following deadly attacks that have put residents on edge. He also ordered IG Joseph Boinnet to carry out a "total reshuffle" of police in the region. But some, including HRW's Western Kenya Executive Director Job Bwonya, are of the view that a curfew is not the best step in ending the wave of crimes. More on this: Matiang'i declares 90-day curfew in 'disturbed' Mt Elgon Read: Disturbed Mt Elgon needs special police unit, not curfew - HRW official The government has placed a Sh1 million bounty on Timothy Kitai alias Cheparakac, the suspected mastermind of the attacks in the county. Details: Wanted! Sh1m bounty placed on Mt Elgon clashes mastermind Timothy Kitai Wamblianga, who is a Ford Kenya politician, addressed women from Bungoma's nine constituencies who gathered in Bumula to mark International Women's Day. She assured them that her office will give several women group’s hatcheries, tractors, tents and brick-making machines as part of efforts to improve their lives. "Our office does not give loans but but we have grants for projects," she said and thanked Governor Wycliffe Wangamati for ensuring their representation in the appointment of ministers. Wambilianga further said that an office for gender-based violence cases will soon be opened at Ndegelwa area in Kanduyi as construction has been completed. "We have two cases from Mt Elgon ... we have counselled the girls and transferred them to other schools for fear of stigmatisation," she said, adding a student who was six months pregnant was taken back to school. The MP also spoke of bursary funds for needy girls across the county. Wangamati, who attended the meeting, noted women bear the brunt of attacks by gangsters. He thanked Matiang'i for touring Mt Elgon and declaring a crackdown on the criminals "We want the government to address this thorn in the flesh once and for all to prevent more deaths," he said, noting negative effects on the national examinations should actions not be taken. "Today we woke up to the shocking news that a security guard at Members Club, that is directly opposite a police station, was killed in cold blood. Yesterday, a boda boda rider was killed ... we want the County Commissioner and his men to act." Read: Private guard killed meters from Bungoma police headquarters The Governor asked Boinnet to ensure the overhaul of security chiefs and officers in Bungoma, particularly those who have served at their stations for too long. Jane Mbatiany, the county's former gender and culture director, said the government should address the plight of marginalised women in Mt Elgon. "We in Mt Elgon do not have anything to smile about due to what insecurity has forced us to go through. We need the government's help," she the meeting that MCAs and county employees also attended. Click here for the latest political stories