Two officials of Wilson Mitumba Women Group who are facing charges of forging title deeds of a 70-acre police land have been ordered to file their submissions. The land, known as West Park Estate near Wilson Airport, is valued at Sh4.5 billion. Milimani trial magistrate Martha Mutuku made the order after the prosecution closed its case. Mutuku directed both parties to file written submissions by April 4 before ruling whether the two - the chairman and secretary general,  have a case to answer. Read: 2 Mitumba women’s group officials want to be cleared in Sh4.5bn West Park police land dispute In the case, Joseph Gitau and Isaak Mburu have been accused of conspiring to forge the documents of the land in Lang’ata. They have denied fraudulently acquiring the land documents from the Lands ministry between May 14 and 25, 2005. Group members claim that former President Daniel Arap Moi gave them the land in 1990. The accused have been out on a cash bail of Sh400,000 pending the determination of the suit. Gitau and Mburu face 11 counts of forgery of allotment letters and a title deed. During the hearing, director of Planning National Police Service Mac Opiyo -a prosecution witness, informed the court that the disputed land belongs to the government. "That the records in my possession indicate that plot No. 209/106110 situated next to Wilson Airport, Nairobi belongs to the government. The government initiated a massive housing project comprising of 595 units of different categories for security personnel," he said. "It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Lands to clarify who gave the group the title deeds since the records at the Ministry show that show plot title was superimposed documents," Opiyo said. December 2010, Gitau and Mburu sued the government seeking orders to have police officers evicted from the estate. Earlier Justice Mohammed Warsame visited the disputed land on December 15, 2010, to see the houses allegedly developed by Goal Organisation of Ireland between 1990-1992 for the women’s group. Also read: Disputed Sh4.5 billion West Park estate belongs to state, a witness tells court Click here for the latest political news