Lack of funds has hurt Nakuru Public Health department’s efforts to fight cholera outbreak. Four cases of cholera have been confirmed in the county. Details have emerged that the Department of Public Health in all the 11 subcounties have not received any budgetary allocation. Three children from Kihoto estate are being treated at the Naivasha Subcounty Hospital for cholera. The fourth patient is a woman. She comes from Kayole estate. A source said the county government has failed to release funds to the department to deal with the outbreak. “We are only dealing with confirmed cases, mainly due to lack of facilitation. This has killed the morale of the workers,” the source, who did not want to be named, said. The source said in many cases, they have been forced to rely on well-wishers to fuel vehicles so they can reach areas where possible cholera cases have been reported. Efforts to get a comment from Health executive Jonah Maina over the funding crisis were unsuccessful as his phone had been switched off. Lakeview MCA Karanja Mburu said there is a major crisis in funding for the Public Health department. He said the department has not received any funding in the last couple of years. Karanja, a member of the Health Committee in the county assembly, pointed an accusing finger at the county government for failing to fund the department. “We shall be meeting the Health CEC in the coming week so he can tell us what the problem is,” he said. On the recent outbreak, Karanja praised officers from the Health department for containing the outbreak, despite the challenges. He said they visited the affected estates and gave out water treatment tablets. In Kihoto estate, some shallow latrines are located near wells. For years, the estate that is home to hundreds of flower farm workers has recorded cholera cases that have been linked to the proximity of the wells to the latrines. Naivasha sub-county commissioner Isaac Masinde cited the water issue in Kihoto and Karagita estates as the major challenge and cause of the outbreak every year. “Residents of the two estates rely on the water from the shallow wells,” he said.