Mike
is amazing. I don’t know how many times I came that night. All
I know is that after he was done, he very gently and softly blew at my clit,
ostensibly to cool it down after what it had just gone
through. When I left the club with him that night, it was to
make Eric jealous. By the end of that amazing session, all I can say is... Eric
who? We
are still on the couch. I am sated. If I were a cat, I’d
be purring. “What are you doing tomorrow?” he asks. I
shrug. The next day is Sunday and I have no plans. “Would you like to go away
with me? I’ll take you anywhere you want to go. Just name the place,” he
continues. “Why would I go anywhere with you? We
just met,” I say. “That’s exactly why, so we can get to
know each other,” he responds. “No better way to do that than spending every waking moment together.” Ok. This is intense. He needs to slow
down. “Let’s
talk about it tomorrow,” I deflect. “Let’s
go to bed,” he says. I
had had quite a lot to drink that night so I acquiesced easily. What was the
point of leaving in the middle of the night? When we went into his bedroom, he
didn’t touch me again. He let me sleep. I woke up
the next morning before him. The room was flooded with sunlight. I didn’t
know where I was for a moment. I was naked. I turned to see who I was in bed
with and the memories came flooding back. Why is it so bright in here? I wondered, and then realised he didn’t draw the curtains.
My dress was still in the living room. I have to get out of here, I thought to myself. Which, of course,
is the first thought one has after sleeping with a stranger. Fine, we didn’t
have sex but I’m pretty sure oral sex counts as well. I
slowly pull the covers back and gingerly step on his carpet, trying my best not
to wake him up. If I make it to the living room, I can get dressed there and
bolt before he wakes up. I’m almost at the
door when I hear his deep drawl. “Hey, where you going?”
he asks. Shit.
And it’s so freaking bright in here and I’m
standing butt naked in the unflattering light of the sun. I don’t
have anything to cover up with, so I just stand there feeling foolish. “Um… I
was just going to look for my clothes,” I say. “You
don’t need them,” he says. “Come back to bed.” I
hesitate then make my way back to him. The distance to the door is further than
the bed, and I don’t want him checking out my naked body for a second longer
than necessary. I crawl back under the sheets and he immediately goes under
them in search of my secret garden. Should I let him? Last night was great and
all, but now with the sun in my eyes, and let’s not forget I haven’t taken a
shower yet, what the hell? I need to freshen up before this goes any further. I
pull away from him and get out of bed. “I
really have to go,” I tell him and hurry to the living room. He follows me. “I
thought we were going away today?” he asks. Now
am I trying to get dressed and he’s watching my every move. “Which
is why I should leave and get some clothes,” I say, thinking quickly on my feet.