The Sacco and the more than 1,000 squatters living on it are claiming ownership of the land. The officials said rich and powerful politicians in Mombasa are
using ‘professional squatters’ to grab the land, and are responsible for the
demolition of the wall, they said, cost them about Sh30 million. “This
poses a threat to national security and democracy and the government should help
us in this,”  Sacco chair Kenneth Sungu said. The
Sacco alleges a dangerous land cartel involving politicians has been eying the
piece of land for quite some time. Sungu
said they intend to put up a Sh4 billion complex  to
help address the housing unit deficiency in the country. He
said they will fight tooth and nail to protect their investment. He
spoke after he led officials and members of the Sacco in visiting Nguu Tatu where
the purported squatters brought down a Sh30-million-wall they put up around
their piece of land. The
squatters say they have been living on the land for over seven years. Sungu
told journalists they bought the land in 2011 at Sh385 million ‘when there was
nothing on it’. Kisauni
Squatters CBO chair Hashim Mwakazi denied the squatters are responsible for the
demolition of the wall. He
said an investigation should be launched to ascertain who pulled sown the wall. “They
could be normal thieves,” Mwakazi said. An
official of the construction company responsible for the construction of the
wall said they spent Sh700,000 daily for 45 days to put up the wall. The
official, who did not want to be named, said they used at least 69,000 building
blocks and metal roads worth Sh4.8 million to put up the wall. On
Monday, the contractor said at least 40,000 block and metal roads worth Sh4
million were stolen after the wall was brought down.  One
of the squatters, Bakari Chizi, denied they were responsible for the demolition
of the wall. “They
(the Sacco) could be the ones who did that so as to convince the courts to
order us out of this place. These people come with all sorts of methods to try
and evict us,” Chizi said. A
court in Mombasa allowed the Sacco to fence the land but warned against
demolishing any of the structures on it. The
court also warned squatters against destroying the wall. Omar
Hamisi, a member of the Sacco, said a probe must be initiated to unmask the
politicians using land invaders to grab the land. One
of the squatters was arrested to help police in investigations. The
demolition of the wall escalates the dispute between the Sacco and the
squatters. In
February last year, a man was shot in the leg as the squatters engaged police
in running battles as they (squatters) prevented hired youth from demolishing
their structures. Tension
was high in the area on Monday as the Sacco officials visited to assess the
damage. Groups
of youth were seen watching from afar as the officials toured the piece of
land. Some,
hiding in strategic areas, were seen carrying crude weapons. Chizi
said the police usually intimidate them by turning up in large numbers whenever
they visit. “This
is what angers us. Sometimes this is why people get angry and decided to
resist,” said Chizi. The
dispute over the ownership of the land started in 2011. This
is when the Sacco says it bought the land from the Hussein Dairy farm. Sungu
said the squatters living on the land are not genuine. “Our
land has been damaged by hired hooligans, some purporting to be squatters while
we know most of them are hired just to do this kind of damage,” said Sungu. “This
land, ideally, was acquired by Bandari Sacco in 2011 through the sweat of
members. So far we have spent about Sh30 million so far to fence this land and
we are still going on,” said Sungu. He
said they have provided all documentation, including the title deed, to show
legality of their stake in court. “We
are asking the government and the security apparatus of this country to step in
because it will be unfair for us to acquire land, prove ownership, get it back
through the court and someone damages demolishes the wall,” Sungu said. One
of the Sacco directors Marcella Alela said the squatters failed to prove
ownership of the land in court. “This
plot is ours. We will possess it through the legal means. They must name the
politicians who send them to invade such lands,” said Hamisi.    