The Kenya National Union of Nurses (KNUN) wants investigators from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to move with speed and arrest a former and three other members they accused of siphoning Sh9.6 million from the union. The four members allegedly diverted union funds for the past 10 months and crippled the unions finances. Documents obtained by the Star show the account in question was illegally opened in April last year at Eco Bank under account number 0073205026433901. The four include; former chairman John Bi, Uasin Gishu branch chair Simon Kibii, nurses Alice Yahuma and Lydia Tanui. When contacted John Bi said that he had no comment to make. “We are disappointed with the pace that investigators at the DCI headquarters are handling this matter. We expected the four to be arrested by now.” union secretary general Seth Panyako said. Related content : Nurses’ union chairman Bii wants Panyako to quit Panyako also accused top officials from the Ministry of Health of working in cahoots with the four members in diverting the cash. According to documents obtained by the Star, eighteen counties including the Ministry of Health were diverting union dues to this account which had not been gazetted as the union’s official account. The counties include; Migori, Uasin Gishu, Baringo, Kwale, Elegyo Marakwet, Trans Nzoia, Isiolo, Nyamira,Nyandarua, Samburu Homa Bay, Siaya, Vihiga, Bomet, Nakuru, Kirinyaga, Nandi and the Ministry of Health. “While we were fighting for the rights of nurses against the government last year, Bii opened the account with the sole aim of making the union weak. I do not think that he [Bii] has the power to tell the counties to divert union dues from one account to another. I have every reason to believe that he was being assisted by senior government officials and this is a clear violation of labour law.” Panyako said. Also read : End nurses’ strike or we down tools -KNH staff He added: "The instructions for opening union accounts can only be issued by the general secretary and nobody else. We never gave any instruction to Eco Bank to open the said account." The union has only two accounts where its members can deposit dues; at the Co-operative Bank Aga Khan Branch under the number 01120309575200. The other account was opened at Barclays BANK, Queensway Branch using account number 2027765079. The union moved to court on January 22, 2018 seeking an order to freeze the illegal account. "By the time we got the order, we discovered the four had already withdrawn Sh9.5 million from the account." Panyako Section 50 of the Labour Relations Act states that any sum deducted in accordance with the provisions of this part shall be paid into the designated trade union or employers’ organisation within 10 days of the deduction. “They opened account purporting that they were going to get rebates from the head office. We want anyone involved in this criminal act to be arrested and pay for the offence they have committed. ” Panyako added. Section 4 of the nurse’s union constitution states that all monies collected by branches shall be the property of the union. Ordinary branch expenditure shall be paid from branch funds allocated to it by the national executive council. It further states that all cheques from check-off systems shall be crossed and shall be neither paid in cash nor be paid into the branch account, but shall be sent to the national headquarters bank account. Click here for the latest political news