Laywer Miguna Miguna cannot walk into a plane to London as he fell sick following his deportation to Dubai on Wednesday night. MIguna says this in a video shared by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and adds he was brutalised in Kenya but that he thought things would be different in Dubai. "This is an international airline and airport ... I know the rules ... I am following the rules ... I am sick... I am allowed to say if I am sick ... you cannot force me to walk if I cannot walk ..." he says as his voice breaks. "They have brutalised me like they did in Kenya. You can try [to] but I am going to speak about it. You will not prevent me from speaking about it." At a lounge at the airport, the General of the National Resistance Movement does not have his trademark hat on and appears tired. He was accosted by some Dubai security agents when he refused to stand up and board the plane. By press time, it was not clear whether he had gotten into the aircraft. "Do whatever you want to do. Kill me if you want to; I don't fear death. They are threatening me. Do whatever you want," he said.  Lawyer and NRMKe General Miguna Miguna is pictured at a Dubai airport following his deportation, March 28, 2018. /COURTESY  Lawyer and NRMKe General Miguna Miguna is pictured in a plane following his deportation to Dubai, March 28, 2018. /COURTESY The officers said they could get him a wheelchair to an office where he would get the medical attention he needed. He was later escorted to this office. Earlier, Miguna reported being "dragged, assaulted and drugged" before being forced to leave the JKIA in Nairobi for Dubai on Wednesday night. In messages he sent early on Thursday morning, he said: "I woke up in Dubai and the despots are here insisting that I must travel on to London." He continued: "I’m sick. I need medical treatment ... I need urgent help here. I want to take a flight only to Nairobi ..."I'm sick. My ribs and body are hurting all over. This is a travesty of justice." More on this: I woke up in Dubai, despots forcing me to go to London - Miguna Related: Police must stop brutalising Kenyans, Nation says after journalists attacked  Lawyer Miguna Miguna at the toilet in the JKIA where he was held since returning to Kenya from Canada on March 26, 2018. /KAMANDA MUCHEKE  A view of the toilet in the JKIA where lawyer Miguna Miguna was held since returning to Kenya from Canada on March 26, 2018. /KAMANDA MUCHEKE ENFORCE ORDERS Meanwhile, Human Rights Watch researcher Otsieno Namwaya said Kenyan authorities should comply with court orders to produce Miguna. “Holding him without any form of judicial review, in violation of court orders, is a blatant example of arbitrary detention," he said in a statement on Thursday. In a statement to the media on Wednesday, Chief Justice David Maraga said the “courts will have no option but to suspend proceedings countrywide until the state shows respect for them. Miguna is among three people, including two MPs, who were arrested in February in a crackdown against those who participated in a parallel swearing in ceremony on January 30 for Nasa leader Raila Odinga. Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta have since agreed to cooperate and de-escalate the political tension, including ending a government crackdown on Opposition leaders. On March 16, Raila told his supporters that, as part of the agreement with Uhuru, Miguna would be allowed back into the country unconditionally. Miguna returned to Kenya on Monday but he was held at the airport after refusing to apply for a Visa. He said he was detained in a filthy toilet and that he was denied access to his lawyers, food and water. He was deported to Dubai despite a court order requiring that he be released and produced in court on Thursday. Details: Miguna deported, put on Dubai-bound plane - lawyers Also read: [Statement] I won't let Kenya abuse my rights, Miguna says from 'tiny, filthy' toilet Click here for the latest political news Laywer Miguna Miguna cannot walk into a plane to London as he fell sick following his deportation to Dubai on Wednesday night. In a video shared by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Miguna says he was brutalised in Kenya but that he through things would be different in Dubai. "This is an international airline and airport ... I know the rules ... I am following the rules ... I am sick... I am allowed to say if I am sick ... you cannot force me to walk if I cannot walk ..." he says as his voice breaks. "They have brutalised me like they did in Kenya. You can try [to] but Iam going to speak about it. You will not prevent me from speaking about it." At a lounge at the airport, the General of the National Resistance Movement does not have his trademark hat on and appears tired. He was accosted by some Dubai security agents when he refused to stand up and board the plane. By press time, it was not clear whether he had gotten into the aircraft. Earlier, Miguna reported being "dragged, assaulted and drugged" before being forced to leave the JKIA in Nairobi for Dubai on Wednesday night. In messages he sent early on Thursday morning, he said: "I woke up in Dubai and the despots are here insisting that I must travel on to London." He continued: "I’m sick. I need medical treatment ... I need urgent help here. I want to take a flight only to Nairobi ..."I'm sick. My ribs and body are hurting all over. This is a travesty of justice." More on this: I woke up in Dubai, despots forcing me to go to London - Miguna Related: ENFORCE ORDERS Meanwhile, Human Rights Watch researcher Otsieno Namwaya said Kenyan authorities should comply with court orders to produce Miguna. “Holding him without any form of judicial review, in violation of court orders, is a blatant example of arbitrary detention," he said in a statement on Thursday. In a statement to the media on Wednesday, Chief Justice David Maraga said the “courts will have no option but to suspend proceedings countrywide until the state shows respect for them. Miguna is among three people, including two MPs, who were arrested in February in a crackdown against those who participated in a parallel swearing in ceremony on January 30 for Nasa leader Raila Odinga. Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta have since agreed to cooperate and de-escalate the political tension, including ending a government crackdown on Opposition leaders. On March 16, Raila told his supporters that, as part of the agreement with Uhuru, Miguna would be allowed back into the country unconditionally. Miguna returned to Kenya on Monday but he was held at the airport after refusing to apply for a Visa. He said he was detained in a filthy toilet and that he was denied access to his lawyers, food and water. He was deported to Dubai despite a court order requiring that he be released and produced in court on Thursday. Details: Miguna deported, put on Dubai-bound plane - lawyers Also read: [Statement] I won't let Kenya abuse my rights, Miguna says from 'tiny, filthy' toilet Click here for the latest political news