Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa and Interior CS Fred Matiang'i
have opposed an application by a Danish investor embroiled in an estate ownership feud to renew his permit. Peter Nielsen is part of a Danish family at the centre of a vicious
battle over the 67,000-acre Ol Donyo Laro Estate. He and his
father, Jan Bonde Nielsen, own Ol Donyo Laro Limited, which has since
2009 been involved in a three way fight with former business partner
Hermannus Steyn and local herders. Local herders had
accused the Nielsens of forcibly occupying part of their Nguruman Ranch near the Masai Mara Game Reserve. After several
battles in and out of court, the local herders in 2014 marched into
the disputed land and torched a high end resort the Nielsens were
running on the land before evicting them. Peter Bonde Nielsen moved to court after Kihalangwa declined to renew his permit in
February last year, saying his presence in Kenya was
“contrary to national interests”. He did not give reasons. In September, High Court judge Chacha Mwita ordered Kihalangwa to issue Nielsen with a
special pass pending the court's determination of his petition. The judge later extended the special pass by 90
days. Matiang'i and
Kihalangwa argue the Dane should first have challenged the
rejection to the Interior CS before moving to court if it did not go his way. They argue that a
constitutional petition, such as Nielsen's, is
contrary to appeal mechanisms provided for in section 40 of the Kenya
Citizenship and Immigration Act, as well as the Kenya Citizens and
Foreign Nationals Management Service Act. “Even if the
constitutional petition is meritorious, if the court were to consider
the factual basis of Nielsen's allegations, the same should be
dismissed for want of compliance with provisions of the above
statutes to pursue an alternative remedy before seeking judicial
intervention,” The Attorney General's office submitted on behalf of
Matiang'i and Kihalangwa. But Nielsen argues
that his petition counts as an appeal and is in line with the Kenya
Citizenship and Immigration Act. “The petition
filed at the High Court is sufficient compliance with provisions of
the Act. Within the petitioner, Nielsen has made prayers for review
and appeal. If a wolf remains so even in sheep's clothing, then a
prayer for review or an appeal cloaked by a petition remains the
same,” the Danish national's lawyers LJA Associates argued. Nielsen argues that
his listing as “contrary to national interests” was a result of
one sided claims by his business rivals. Judge Mwita on
Monday asked the parties to return before him on May 18 when he will
rule on the objection to the petition that Matiang'i and Kihalangwa
raised.