Debutante Mohit Mediratta was the local attraction on a day Kenyans stumbled on the European Challenge Tour season-opener at the Par 71 Muthaiga golf course. The young Sigona professional was among the two Kenyans, who made the cut in the second round of the prestigious Barclays Kenya Open Championship as German Max Schmidt took control of the day’s proceedings in the late afternoon drama which left spectators yearning for more. Norwegian Kristian Krogh Johannessen led the pack for the better part of the afternoon with a cumulative score of 8 under but watched helplessly when the lead slipped through his fingers on Day Two standings when Schmidt’s round of 6 under catapulted him to the summit on 10 under par 132. On his way up, Schmidt, sunk in seven birdies and parred 10 holes. Mediratta was all smiles after making his first ever cut on the Open. “The back-to-back PGK qualifiers came in handy for this tournament although the course played really hard. But I’m glad I made it through to the money bracket. I will not be competing with anyone but will just take the situation as it comes,” said Mediratta, who is lying joint 18th on 3 under par 139. It was another bad day in the office for the most of the Kenyans. Alfred Nandwa was well within the projected cut on 2 under in the second nine but dipped further below the leader board with two double bogeys when he wrapped up his day in the first nine. Charania made the cut with level par 142 in joint 48th position. Eric Ooko who looked promising in the local qualifiers wrapped up his two days on a disappointing 2 over par 144 in joint 79th position. Local hero Dismas Indiza finished on a disappointing gross total of 7 over par 150 to finish joint 123rd. Johannessen was all smiles despite dropping to second and said “It was definitely a round of two halves. I teed off really early this morning so I was playing my first couple of shots in the dark, but that seemed to work well as I managed to eagle my first hole. I could barely see the ball— maybe I should play more in the dark. “I kept that momentum going throughout my first nine but I did find it a lot tougher over the next nine. There was a break of about 20 minutes between each nine holes where I did lose a bit of rhythm.”