Former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel was arrested on Wednesday evening for alleged incitement to violence. Laikipia county police commander Simon Kipkeu yesterday said he was picked up at a bar in Rumuruti town. He did not say to which police station he was taken. This comes after bandits suspected to be from Baringo killed several people, including a Kenya Assemblies of God pastor. Lempurkel has seven pending cases, mostly over incitement and one over assault. “Lempurkel was on Monday heard inciting members of two communities to evict other communities and invade private ranches at a meeting in Mouwarak in Laikipia North constituency,” Kipkeu told the Star on the phone. allegedly hit Lekorere Lempurkel has three cases in a Nanyuki court related to incitement to violence. Two cases are under investigation by the Director of Public Prosecutions and two more cases are in a Nairobi court. The former ODM MP, who lost his seat to Jubilee’s Sarah Lekorere, is also facing an assault case. He allegedly slapped and kicked her belly during a meeting at Harambee House last year. If Lempurkel is charged over the current incident, in total he will be facing eight charges of incitement. On Tuesday, four people from Laikipia county were attacked and killed at Amaiya trading centre. They had gone to the weekly livestock market. Sources indicated police are contemplating swearing an affidavit to have the former lawmaker detained for several days, pending investigations. banditry is back Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru and Laikipia Senator John Kinyua want the government to hunt heavily armed criminals terrorising residents. Since the four killings on Tuesday, no arrests have been made. “This is a serious matter, the state must take action. We cannot be losing lives every day to bandits. So far, six people have been killed, and yet no one has been arrested. Residents are living in fear along the Laikipia-Baringo border,” Mariru said. The government should protect people by deploying more officers along the border. People have started running away from their homes over insecurity, he said. Mariru said banditry has returned after the region had been peaceful for five months. He urged security personnel to disarm anyone with illegal firearms in th region bristling with guns. Senator Kinyua called on the state to investigate politicians inciting communities against each another. “Reports indicate some leaders are holding night meetings to incite communities. It is high time the government takes action against such leaders,” Kinyua said. Police commander Kipkeu said the violence returning to parts of Laikipia North and Laikipia West followsmeetings convened by Lempurkel. Last month, a police officer narrated to a Nanyuki court how Lempurkel stormed Rumuruti police station and threatened to set it ablaze close to two years ago. He was with supporters. ‘threats to burn station’ Lawrence Waweru told the court that on July 31, 2016, Lempurkel went to the station accompanied by 10 supporters, demanding release of Dominic Lenyamile. He had been arrested in connection with malicious property damage. Lempurkel faces two counts of incitement to violence, allegedly threatening to burn down the police station and set free a suspect in custody. He is accused of threateningto harm police officer Nicholas Kipruto who was manning the report desk at the station. Waweru was testifying in the case in which the former MP is accused of incitement to violence on July 31, 2016. He told chief magistrate Lucy Mutai he found Lempurkel telling duty officer Nicholus Kipruto to release Lenyamile, otherise, they would torch the station. “The OCS arrived with area DCIO and talked to the MP. I was asked to escort the prisoner to Nyahururu police station,” Waweru said.