A Human Rights Watch official does not think a curfew is the way to go in Mt Elgon, which was declared disturbed after many fatal attacks. Interior CS Fred Matiangi announced a 90-day 6pm to 6am curfew on Tuesday following public outcry about killings and severe injuries. Details: Matiang'i declares 90-day curfew in 'disturbed' Mt Elgon But HRW's Western Kenya Executive Director Job Bwonya said the Cabinet Secretary was misled by his men on the ground. “Unlike the SLDF militia, the group that has been terrorising people is not widespread. Police say they are only 17 in number and have already released their identities. The best approach is to deal with them directly without affecting other peoples lives,” he said. "We don't want a curfew. A special police unit should just be assigned to track down the group." Bwonya further said the curfew will only cause residents to be more afraid and flee. Police say one Timothy Kitai alias Cheparkach and his brother Ngeywa are the masterminds of the attacks. But on February 23, a killed gangster was identified as Isaac Mukwawa, who was said to have been a former commander of the Sabaot Land Defence Force. He was shot dead in a heavy exchange of fire with APs from Kamagul camp at Kamuneru Forest. The RDU and General Service Unit are also taking part in the operation that has seen them fire shots at Kamuneru, Sambojo, Masaek and Land B areas. Read: Serut says Mt Elgon killings revenge by two brothers More on this: Man killed, three raped, SLDF ex-commander shot dead in Mt Elgon Area MP Fred Kapondi, however, differed with Bwonya saying the curfew was "very much in order" and will help restore peace in the volatile region. “I think the curfew is a step in the right direction, Nobody should claim it will affect business," he said. "This gang had already scared residents from their homes." Also read: Mt Elgon man beheaded, one shot in crime wave Kapondi said the gang has been operating at night so with the curfew, it will be easier for security agents to track the criminals down. Some residents of the Bungoma constituency believe the curfew will help security agencies deal firmly with the criminals while others say it was uncalled for. Resident Kipkorir Kigai said the success of the regulation will only be felt if police are deployed to every location. “We were not staying in our houses because of fear of being attacked. With the curfew we have no option but to sleep in the houses. We expect protection with heavy police presence." Click here for the latest political news