Doctors have faulted the decision by the government to hire 100 Cuban doctors. The medics said the move was uncalled-for, as more than 1,000 local doctors have yet to be employed. Secretary General of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists’ Union Ouma Oluga said the plan is unfair and unwarranted. KMPDU has more than 4,000 members. “We have a serious shortage of doctors in the country. The government should consider employing the 1,400 Kenyan doctors who have been waiting for employment since May last year,” he said in an interview. Data from the medical board shows 2,400 foreign doctors serve in the country — a majority are not specialists. Most of these expatriate doctors are Egyptians, Indians and Pakistanis. “We have also noticed an influx of Congolese, Ugandan and Rwandese doctors. With these figures, we are questioning why the government imports doctors who are general practitioners, yet the same service they are offering is available in the country,” Oluga said. Uhuru’s tour of cuba During his tour of Cuba, President Uhuru Kenya said the Caribbean doctors will help fill gaps in county hospitals to reduce the doctor-to-patient ratio. In the deal, each county will get at least two doctors. Read:Kenya to import 100 doctors from Cuba, send 50 for special training Kenya has a shortage of 34,445 doctors. Only 4,344 doctors have been registered by the medical board to serve about 38 million people public facilities. The WHO recommends a ratio of 44-45 nurses, physicians and doctors to take care of 10,000 patients. Data from the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists’ Board shows 600 health facilities are in dire need of doctors and about two-thirds have none. Nairobi with a population of 3.1 million people is served by 299 doctors, creating a shortfall of 2,839. Kisumu county with 968,909 residents has 163 doctors — needs 806 more. Trainee doctors commonly referred to as registrars account for more than 70 per cent of the workforce in county hospitals. Kenya Medical Association CEO Stella Bosire said the President should stop putting in place temporary measures to fix an overdue systemic problem. “Why is the government undermining the specialists in the country? Are our universities not doing enough? Why are we not being valued for the professionals that we are?” she asked. See:Doctors fault plan to import health workers from Cuba postgraduate training Oluga said 700 doctors resigned while others left the country for further studies in 2016-17. “This is because Kenya does not have proper postgraduate training. If you want to continue studying, you have to stop employment, offer free services to state hospitals like Kenyatta and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital then work,” he said. “This is too costly for a doctor. That is why you find so many of them doing their postgraduate training in private hospitals.” A study carried out in 2015 showed that Kenya had only 2,089 specialist doctors. The 2015 Kenya Health Workforce Report: The Status of Health Care Professionals in Kenya showed that there were 5,660 medical doctors, with 387 specialising in gynaecology field. Experts in general surgery stood at 338, while internal medicine experts were 296. Specialties such as psychiatry, radiology, anaesthesia have less than 100 specialists with glaucoma having only two specialist in the entire country. Read:Cuba deal: Does Kenya need to import doctors?