ODM is firmly in the opposition even after President Uhuru Kenyatta- Raila Odinga handshake, Senator James Orengo has said. The lawmker said the party still occupies the opposition leadership in both Houses and will continue to question and hold the government accountable. "We are still in opposition. I see the meeting between the two leaders as creating an environment to talk to each other and chat the way forward. Not just sharing power," Orengo said during an interview with Citizen TV. On why other NASA principals were not invited to the meeting, Orengo said Uhuru and Raila are the leaders and had to take the initiative to set the stage for dialogue. "The project is too big. It's not just for Uhuru and Raila. There will be more discussions and dialogue. The other principals; Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya), and ANC's Musalia Mudavadi will be involved," Orengo said. The newly-elected Minority leader said that Raila called the three to brief them immediately after the meeting with Uhuru at Harambee House on March 9. Read: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Orengo also said failure by the three co-principals to turn out at Uhuru Park on January 30 for Raila's swearing in was a big let-down to Nasa. "If they had turned up at Uhuru Park, that would have created a different momentum. That was a disappointment. I can't escape from saying so," Orengo said. He said this might be another reason why Raila did not want to carry the three along as he met the president. Orengo said on the material day (January 30), the Raila team was in communication with the three principals and they gave indications that they will come. "All these stories about a Nigeria number, that's all lies. We had agreed they will drive from a particular direction, then we will converge at Serena hotel. From where we were, it was about five minutes to Serena but they were a bit far, like 20 minutes away. It was when we got to Serena that our colleagues said they will not turn up," Orengo said. More on this read: Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth Click here for the latest political news    