A high-ranking Jubilee politician from the Mt Kenya region is drawing the ire of colleagues over his insistence to become DP William Ruto’s 2022 running mate at the expense of the unity of the country. The seasoned politician was over the weekend breathing fire, following the Uhuru-Raila unity talks, but a colleague critical of his leadership style has questioned his sincerity. “This is just a political broker, he wants to be seen all over as Ruto’s man, but we know he has been wrecking Jubilee from within,” one MP said. Only time will tell if Mt Kenya will supply Ruto’s Number Two, in the wake of ongoing political realignments that have seen the DP cast his net wider. ***** A certain CS has taken his war with a former MP from Nyanza too far. The influential CS who is said to have successfully used the State apparatus to ensure the ex-lawmaker lost his seat is not done with his nemesis even in political oblivion. The worried former MP recently overheard a group of six henchmen associated with the CS discuss how they will deal with him. One of them even offered and confided in him details of the scheme, inadvertently leaking the plot. So, when a ‘gang’ blocked the former MP’s path at a popular club along Waiyaki Way, the fingers pointed at the clear suspect-in-chief. ***** Call it political gymnastics. The decision to suspend the activities of the People’s Assembly has lifted the lid on the tension building within NASA and exposed the intricate ties between partner parties. A senior Wiper politician has questioned the decision to call off the anti-Uhuru rebellion before all NASA affiliates have been properly consulted. Coming days after Opposition chief Raila Odinga met President Uhuru Kenyatta, the move has raised fears that the People’s Assembly concept was purely an ODM affair all along. “We said it from the word go that it was not a decision of NASA but a one-man-driven show,” complained the Wiper MP. ***** A former ally of Raila Odinga who landed a Chief Administrative Secretary position can now breathe easy after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila struck a deal. The CAS, who was worried how his people would receive his appointment, can now go ahead and prepare for his homecoming that is long overdue. The vocal ex-MP, who has been delaying the fete over tense political moments, has reportedly decided to do the event next month and even invite Raila. He has already started collecting money from his friends and buddies to fund the ceremony, expected to be a spectacle to shake the small hometown.