Wednesday marked 10 years since the National Accord gifted Kenyans with a respite on the brink of civil war. The National Accord and Reconciliation Act obligated the then leadership to implement specific agenda to prevent a repeat of the 2007-08 post-election violence. With hindsight, it’s unfortunate that we’re in denial on two things — that the intensity of the civil conflict was more intense and reconciliation was going to take more than political settlement by two individuals. We lied that we didn’t equal the Rwanda Genocide record of over 800,000 deaths in eight months. In fact, new evidence shows the 1,300 deaths and 600,000 displacements reported didn’t occur over the two-month period of December 2007 to February 2008. Indeed, the intensity of the violence occurred only over a two-week period, running from Election Day, December 27 to mid-January 2008. This means we could’ve outperformed Rwanda had there been no immediate intervention. Ten years on, we’ve given reconciliation pep talk, but done nothing sustainable to hold the country together. Instead, the PEV scars ooze gangrenous ethnicity waiting to explode. In particular, the billions misappropriated in the name of compensating and resettling PEV victims, which is never done conclusively. In addition, a hidden schism between communities over this matter festers below the surface mainly among those who lost property and those penalised for accommodating the so-called integrated IDPs. The germane question remains: Who appropriated the properties of the thousands of displaced persons, and why were the culprits let to enjoy spoils of war? As late as the electioneering period last year, Jubilee wasn’t even embarrassed trying to mollify IDPs in Kisii and Nyamira counties with miniscule payments when it’s on record applauding itself for having no IDP in the camps. Part of the Jubilee hubris over reconciliation is the narrative that the political marriage between Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto in the 2013 General Election was to heal the country, and their contested victory last year is a demonstration that the country healed. Yet 10 years on, the country is in dire need of rescue from the capture of the Digital Duo. Isn’t it time we ask questions about this narrative? For instance, when was it that Uhuru and Ruto ever fought each other, even politically, and did the hostilities involve their families or their communities? And how about this irony: If, in retrospect, their union was to enable cessation of hostilities between their two communities, aren’t we allowed to ask if they weren’t pleading they were responsible for their communities’ PEV against each other in 2007-08? The question may seem mischievous and insensitive to a dark phase in the country’s history. However, the sooner we question empty political rhetoric that imprisons our ability to come to terms with the truth, the sooner we reconcile the nation. We could give the duo the benefit of the doubt and accept their lie for what it is. But we shouldn’t continue the charade of selling our country short. Sincerity, laced with facts, is the best antidote in speaking truth to power. Fact is, the duo has successfully manipulated their communities into a dangerous political duopoly that has fractured the country. The personal success of the two aside, at no time in our history has the country been so broken along ethnic lines like now. Analysts incorrectly refer to a two-half political divide in Kenya. But its fragmentation to the extent the tenuous ‘peace’ between the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin is extremely fragile. The contention over an unwritten agreement that the former will support the latter’s 2022 presidential bid heralds a violent end. The uncertainty, spoken of only in whispers, exploded when the Kalenjin elite loudly protested apparent Ruto exclusion in Cabinet formation. The Post-2013 experience shows what brought the duo together isn’t the reconciliation they proclaimed. It’s obvious the knot is the remote business elite with interests in land speculation and government tenders. This has jelled with the duo’s antipathy towards devolution, which translates into willing conspirators to abort the Constitution. We may live in denial, but the telltale signs are embedded in Jubilee’s current penchant for and descent into totalitarian rule. More dangerously, Kenyan politics hitherto based on covert ethnic mobilisation has been pierced open. The duo has successfully purveyed the ethnic duopoly as the hegemony underpinning government policy. This duopoly co-exists with other communities acting only as a salad coating. It’s been the breeding ground of ethnic exclusion. Hence, the vocabulary today is communities seek the Presidency rather than individuals. Violent conflict studies teach us that when a country reaches this level of discrepancy, the permutation for genocide is set in motion with simulations of secession and partition. I’m worried this could be the long-sought legacy.  Kabatesi is a communications and conflict management expert   