ODM has demanded that President Uhuru Kenyatta account for the billions of shillings he used in secret expenditures. A new audit report unearthed how the Presidency spent Sh1,106,009,855 in secret expenditures, slightly higher than the Sh937million and Sh685 million incurred in the previous two financial years, respectively. Details: Mystery of UhuRuto's secret account, Sh1 billion spending ODM, whose leader is Raila Odinga, issued a statement on these revelations on Tuesday through Secretary General Edwin Sifuna. "The Presidency, is blowing billions of shillings, without regard to the millions of Kenyans facing starvation, in so-called secret expenditures," said Sifuna who is also a lawyer. He asked Uhuru to take responsibility and tell Kenyans what the money was used for. "We demand that the dictatorship comes out clearly on these expenditures by State House and that Uhuru take personal responsibility for this obvious looting happening under his nose," he said. "It is obvious that this is euphemism for corruption, making a mockery of Uhuru's recent talk of zero tolerance to this vice. Indeed the fish rots from the head." Sifuna noted hat ever since Jubilee leaders "fraudulently forced themselves" on Kenyans, cases of corruption have been on the rise. "From the lost Eurobond 1 money (Sh250 billion), Ministry of Health scam (Sh5.3 billion), NYS theft (Sh1.6 billion) ...  name them ...like termites Jubilee is eating away our future." Related: Kenya secures Sh203 billion in new Eurobond Also read: Kenya doesn't borrow carelessly, no scandals in Sh203 billion Eurobond, says Ruto The Presidency brings together the executive offices of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Overall, the explosive report indicates that the Jubilee Party administration cannot account for Sh40.2 billion in the 2015/2016 financial year. It indicates that the government has over Sh20.5 billion in pending bills, signalling the troubles that government suppliers could be going through. The Interior ministry operated a mystery account —  No.1109896077 at KCB, Moi Avenue Branch — though which it transacted over Sh8.7 billion without the authority of the National Treasury as required by law. More on this: Kenya improves in corruption index but remains in red zone Click here for the latest political news