Kitui Governor Charity  Ngilu she is concerned that nearly three quarters of county workers are casuals. She said out of  8,332 employees, 5,560 do not have permanent employment. Ngilu was speaking to staff at Kitui Kefri Centre yesterday when she  launched a head count and audit  of the county workers  with the support of the Directorate of Public Service Management. The reason we needed this exercise is because I have never seen a place where casuals are more than the permanent workers, the pensionable and even those on contract. I was  given a figure of 5,560 casual workers, she said. “Is it because we do not want to pay our people? Is it because we want to misuse them? is it because we do not want to train them? This is something I find disturbing,” Ngilu said. She said once  the staff head county that we would simultaneously take place in all the  eight subcounties is complete, casual workers will be put on contracts. Ngilu asked the chairperson of Kitui County Pubic Service Board Rose Masya to explain how the county ended up with the high number of casuals. Ngilu told to promote deserve workers after conclusion of the headcount. She took staff the head count is not aimed out flushing out ghost workers, but to ensure that  people with certain skills were placed in their ideal job positions. Ngilu, however, cautioned any ghost workers or  hangers-on found would be kicked out. She said workers must be placed positions relevant to their skills and training so that they could help her achieve her five-pillar agenda for Kitui. The  governor  noted  that  she  desired a perfectly  qualified  team  that  will deliver change in line with her five manifest pillars of  sufficient food and water, quality health and  youth empowerment. She  said  she also  expected Kitui county  workers  help her  attain the other  two pillars of women empowerment and poverty reduction.”Please understand  that  we are doing this  so that we can streamline  and become more effective,” said Ngilu.