The national government has given KPA directors and Kenya Railways 48 hours to ensure all unnominated cargo destined for Nairobi and beyond is transported by the SGR. Unnominated cargo refers to goods whose importers or shippers have not selected or nominated preferred container freight stations for storage. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia yesterday said that within the next two days, all logistical problems affecting standard gauge railway freight services must be resolved. The cargo will be cleared in Embakasi, Nairobi. Transport players, including clearing agents, truck transporters and container freight stations owners, oppose the government directive to have Nairobi-bound unnominated cargo transported by rail. On Tuesday, during the second review of the Mombasa Port Community Charter at Pride Inn Hotel, Macharia accused trucking cartels he did not name of trying to frustrate SGR freight services. He said the SGR is a critical investment for the East and Central Africa. “We cannot allow people entrenching this project for their own personal businesses. The SGR is not an individual’s investment, hence, we need to come together and support it,” Macharia said. WE’LL BE DRACONIAN “The things being raised about the SGR are logistical issues. I’m therefore directing the directors responsible [Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Railways Corporation] to fix all the loose nuts and bolts within the next 48 hours.” Macharia said the government does not mean to force the SGR “down the people’s throats. “We do not mean to be draconian, but if need be, we shall be draconian,” he said. DON’T FORCE US This statement by the CS is expected to offend stakeholders opposing the decisions. Some who spoke to the Star on the sidelines of the meeting said the government should focus on marketing the SGR, rather than forcing importers to use it. However, in a separate interview with the Star, Macharia said only cartels who own CFSs have been against the SGR freight services. “The CFSs were established at the time when we had congestion at the port. Now that we have expanded the port and we have efficient transport, why do we need to continue storing cargo destined for Nairobi and beyond at local CFSs?” he asked. The minister said by June, the government wants six SGR freight trains to leave Mombasa daily. He said SGR’s uptake of cargo has been less than expected. By the end of last month, the government expected two trains to leave Mombasa daily, but this has been inconsistent because of problems, Macharia said. He emphasised, however, that all issues will be resolved and by June six cargo trains a day will be routine. Kenya Shippers Council chief executive officer Gilbert Langat told the Star on the sidelines of the meeting