Investigations into the Kariobangi building and three adjacent unsafe buildings are underway. At least 84 families are homeless since the collapse of the condemned building in Kariobangi South estate on Saturday and evacuation of three nearby buildings. All were said to be unsafe. The three buildings housed at least 62 families and the Kariobangi South building at least 22 families. About 330 buildings in Nairobi have been condemned but only a handful have been pulled down, largely due to court injunctions by landlords. The 35-room four-storey building crumbled at 3.30am on Saturday in Kariobangi. There were no casualties as tenants had been evacuated hours before it crumbled. “There were cracks all over walls and floors. At 10pm, police, county officers and Red Cross helped us get out,” resident Paul Mworia said. Authorities blamed poor workmanship and heavy rains. Yesterday, Housing PS Charles Mwaura ordered National Building Inspectorate secretary Moses Nyakiongora to investigate the collapse and weakened nearby structures — and report to him by tomorrow. Officials will be investigating who signed the building permits, who signed off on inspections and who signed occupancy permits. Nyakiongora chairs the committee auditing houses for safety in the city and in other areas. It includes the National Construction Authority and other agencies. The committee was formed in 2015 following a spate of Nairobi building collapses. On April 29, 2016, 51 people died after a six-storey building collapsed in Huruma in a downpour. The building was weak and the foundation was also undermined as it had been built too close to a river. It had been condemned. In 2015, 14 people, including five children, perished after a wall collapsed in Mukuru slums. Unscrupulous developers and corrupt city officials have been blamed for collapses. Some houses are built on riparian reserves, others are built above sewer lines. “The government is deeply dismayed at continued mushrooming of substandard buildings, endangering lives,” Mwaura said. “Despite efforts to enhance integrity of our construction sector, we still are faced with cases of gross incompetence leading to collapses,” he said. Click here for the latest political news