Self-proclaimed NRMKe 'general' Miguna Miguna has asked his supporters to contribute funds to enable him purchase an air ticket for his trip back home. The vocal lawyer is also seeking financial help to enable him repair his house in Runda that was destroyed during his arrest on February 2. In his appeal, he has also asked for money to enable him pay lawyers that have been representing him in court since his arrest and subsequent deportation to Canada. "Yes; I need an air ticket to return home. I also need funds to repair my destroyed house and to pay my advocates who have been working tirelessly without pay from February 2 up to now in order to protect my rights. Are you able to contribute? Feel free to do so. Viva!," he tweeted. Miguna was on February 6 deported to Canada and his Kenyan passport confiscated after the government said he was illegally in Kenya. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the lawyer renounced his Kenyan citizenship in the 1980s and acquired the Canadian one. The High court, however, on February 16 ordered the government to issue him with travel documents to enable his return on a day of his choice. Justice Chacha Mwita said Miguna was at "liberty to use his Canadian passport to come back" should the government fail to facilitate his return. Read: Court orders Matiang'i, Kihalangwa to facilitate Miguna's return Miguna's passport, which the government surrendered to court after several orders, was defaced and rendered useless. Miguna's post attracted varied responses with some Twitter users castigating him and others pledging support. ‏@Victorbettkip said: "Miguna you are not even ashamed to say so... Yaani I pay tax to cater for such nonsense please stay in yr country Canada." @brianod20444574 said: "Give us the pay bill number.... I'll contribute the little I have to facilitate your coming back.....The Ardent supporters of NRM needs you than before.... Pesa otas you must come back!!" @Johnny87jones felt that the appeal was too much for him to bear. He said: "‏Shame on you old folk, I am tax payer and you still need more money. Raila campaign was totally supported by kenyans via mpesa, now its paypal....is it a ticket you want to come back????" @penterz said: "Jimmy Wanjigi will paid all funds," to which Miguna replied: "You are silly!" ‏Yet @OkelloOuko said: "I've never used PayPal before. Guide me comrade." Miguna said: "Use Uncle @Google, my brother. Cheers." More on this: Miguna plans 'mother of liberation struggles' in Nairobi on March 26 Click here for the latest political news  