A family in Mombasa is looking for their son Raphael Onyimbo, 20, after he disappeared three weeks ago. Father Alexander Onyango told the Star yesterday they have for three weeks been looking for his firstborn son without a trace. He said they fear he might have been kidnapped and murdered. Onyango has unsuccessfully looked for his son in all morgues, police stations and prisons in Mombasa. Onyimbo was last seen by his family as he left for work on February 13. He was working as a salesman at DS-Max Vision. The company supplies perfumes. He got the job 19 days before he vanished. Company manager John Mumo yesterday said Onyimbo last reported to work on February 15. This was two days after he left home. “We are also looking for him,” Mumo said. He said he has reported the disappearance to Haki Africa. When he left home, Onyimbo left signals that he might be “departing forever”. He told his siblings if he would not find fare back home that day, he would spend the night at his workplace. His father said his colleagues said there were rooms where one can sleep, but denied Onyimbo has ever slept there. “All I want is to see my son. If he is dead, bring his body for burial,” the father said in tears. Onyango has reported the son’s disappearance to the Changamwe police station. He accused the authorities of treating the case “casually”. Onyango accused police of failing to follow crucial leads to find his son. The father said an unidentified woman is the only person who contacted mother Mary Atieno via an SMS and said she was looking for Onyimbo. This was two days after he went missing. He said he called her back but the woman denied knowing Onyimbo before she hung up. Lobby group’s analysis Onyimbo was born in Sakwa, Siaya county. He sat his KCSE exam in 2016, scoring D + (plus). Onyimbo first went to Mombasa last September. He has no close friends according to his father. “He was desperate for a job and when he was employed, he was so excited,” Onyango said. Onyimbo was to be paid on commission. The deal was not lucrative, Onyango said. He said Onyimbo would have earned a maximum of Sh2,000 in a good month. But a lobby group has said all patterns point to two possibilities. Haki Africa programme officer Francis Auma said Onyimbo’s case might involve forced disappearance. “We also suspect the might have been lured and taken to Somalia to join al Shabaab,” he said. The activist said desperate youths are gullible prey. “We have documented such cases and all had indications such as Onyimbo’s,” he said. “Alternatively, if police have a hand in this, then we fear the worst. Almost all those lost at their hands have never been traced.” Police have denied having a hand in the execution of youths as it steps up the war on terror. Last Thursday, Haki Africa executive director Khalid Hussein issued an alarming statement, detailing a return of “killings and disappearances at the Coast”.