AFC Leopards inexplicably seem not to be in a hurry to secure the services of assistant coach Dennis Kitambi on new improved terms despite the100 percent record he boasts of since he was elevated to the acting head coach role. While confirming that the club was not looking for a new coach, Leopards’ secretary general Oscar Igaida maintained that Kitambi has not been made head of the technical bench on a permanent basis. “Kitambi is still the acting head coach. We are not searching for another coach as the team is performing well and we want to maintain that level,” Igaida said. The Leopards’ spokesman confirmed that the club had severed ties with Robert Matano who was barely a year into the job and having led them to the Gotv Shield triumph last year. “We terminated Matano’s contract via notice. Our club constitution provides for that. mWe agreed to pay him for two months to end our deal with him,” Igaida revealed. Matano’s number two and now his temporary successor, Kitambi has completely altered the mood in the Leopards den. Whereas players kept within their shelves fearful of Matano’s abrasive management style, Kitambi’s easy going big brother nature has everyone looking forward to the next training session. The results, four league wins in a row, reflect the camaraderie between the technical bench and the playing unit. It is for this reason pundits and club fans are perplexed by the management not being overly keen to tie down the bespectacled Tanzania tactician on a permanent basis. Earlier this week, the Leopards were forced to release a fire fighting statement as reports emerged that a supposedly frustrated Kitambi was contemplating quitting his position. “AFC Leopards wishes to refute allegations to the extent that coach Dennis Kitambi has asked to leave the club. This position is not only untrue but also aimed at destabilizing the team which is performing very well at the moment. Kitambi remains our coach and any change to the technical bench will be communicated by the NEC and not any other person” read the statement signed by Igaida and chairman Dan Mule. It’s this possibility that Kitambi may be feeling under appreciated that leaves many wondering why the club hierarchy is not going out of their way to hand the Tanzanian the job permanently. After all, it was his compatriot Sunday Kayuni who coached Leopards to their last league title 20 years ago. The omens could not be better for Ingwe who are behind table topping arch-rivals Gor Mahia on goal difference.