Musalia Mudavadi's Amani National Congress party now claims Raila Odinga is not the NASA leader. In a statement signed by its Secretary General Kibisu Kabatesi on Friday, ANC said there is no such title in the MoU between the affiliate partners. "ANC has noted with concern that media coverage of NASA is dotted with erroneous attribution and discrete distortions.This is to clarify that NASA doesn’t have the title of “NASA Leader” in its salutations attributed to Hon. Raila Odinga by the media. The only honorary title shared by the Party Leaders of the four partner parties has been either 'NASA Principal' or NASA Co-Principal," read part of the statement. Kabatesi said granted NASA had a presidential candidate in the August 8, 2017 elections who happened to be Raila, his tenure candidate ended with his pull-out of the October 26th repeat presidential elections without consulting his Co-Principals. "The infamous Handshake wasn’t a NASA initiative but a personal cessation of hostilities between two individuals. We at NASA interpret the Handshake as a Jubilee ploy to split NASA and scuttle its stated inclusive and structured National Dialogue Agenda with connivance with our former partner," he said. Mudavadi had earlier on fallen out with Raila after he claimed that the NASA leader tricked his co-principals into
missing his controversial swearing-in ceremony on January 30. Read:Mudavadi to Atwoli: Raila betrayed us But he later denied saying Raila Odinga betrayed them on the day of his self-inauguration. Kabatesi further claimed the tribulations befalling the 'nag shake' by victimising Miguna are therefore self-inflicted by the ODM leader. "ODM understood the Handshake as political cooperation between Jubilee and ODM. ODM went ahead to operationalise this cooperation on its own volition without the prompting of Jubilee at all levels, especially Parliament. ODM turned its arsenal on NASA partners," he said. He said for all practical purposes ODM became part of the ruling Majority in Parliament thus ceding its claim on Minority status. "By the same token, ODM vacated its partnership in NASA. ODM therefore owes Kenyans some decency; it should vacate minority leadership seats in Parliament. ODM cannot eat the cooperation steak and the same time hold onto minority entails. That’s called double-standards, greed and dishonesty, which is are the operating manuals for Jubilee," agitated Kabatesi said. Read:We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say He added that ODM must take the bold step to officially vacate its membership in NASA since by promoting the Jubilee agenda at the expense of NASA stated objective to constitute a democratic government and not dictatorship. "ODM is in continued violation of the Political Parties Act,' Kabatesi said. Kabatesi hit at the media claiming they are  doing a disservice and confusing Kenyans by mislabeling a presser called by ODM MPs a NASA presser while belittling a presser of the actual NASA MPs as an ANC/FK presser. Also See:NASA fallout as partners cry foul over ODM tyranny Click here for the latest political news