Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi yesterday ruled out translocating elephants, saying they are a valuable natural resource. Residents had requested that the animals be moved to other counties following a rise in human-wildlife conflicts. But Ndiritu said they had made that a mistake before with an elephant called Kipchoge and will not repeat it. “During the translocation of Kipchoge, some people from Japan filmed the whole episode and a documentary ran in their home country television channel," he said. "From then on, all visitors from Japan headed to Meru to see Kipchoge, instead of coming to Laikipia.” Ndiritu spoke at Gatundia, Kapkures and Riron, when he handed over materials worth Sh4.2 million for repair of an electric fence built 10 years ago. He also launched a tree planting drive. Ndiritu said the county government will instead support communities living around Rumuruti Forest to venture into tourism to end human-wildlife conflicts. He concurred with farmers who border Marmanet and Rumuruti forests that the elephant population has increased, hence the need to relocate some of them. He said the few elephants that stray into private farms will be moved to conservancies in Laikipia. However, developing a way to generate revenue from the animals would be a long-lasting solution, Ndiritu added. He urged the community to invest in campsites for tourists to watch the elephants as these are not expensive to run. Ndiriru's administration has set aside Sh50 million for the County Enterprise Fund, which it lends to entrepreneurs. The governor said his administration will help in mapping out and marketing such tourism sites. “The major issue with the residents is that these jumbos do not benefit them. We must come up with ways of how we can benefit from these animals. If people start earning something from the elephants then the animals will stop being loathed,” he said. The county targets to plant 500,000 tree seedlings this year. Ndiritu said the Kenya Wildlife Service will build a sturdy fence to keep the animals in their territory. Click here for the latest political news