A report by auditor KPMG has revealed that City Hall cannot account for Sh21 billion spent during the tenure of former Governor Evans Kidero. The audit was commissioned by Governor Mike Sonko last year to ascertain the county’s financial position. It has not been released but its summary reveals that Kidero’s government operated 32 bank accounts; operating multiple bank accounts is contrary to the Public Finance Management Act. It requires all county government accounts to be opened at the Central Bank of Kenya, except for an imprest bank account. The report shows that 13 of the 32 commercial bank accounts were not declared in the handover report and five of the 13 accounts contained approximately Sh120 million on August 31 last year. KPMG audited procurement, revenue collection, human resources, land, assets and bank accounts. The report revealed the majority of cash books were maintained manually, making it impossible to obtain a trial balance or central view of the county’s financial position. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Sonko said, “It is a bulky report and very sensitive. My investigators are working round the clock, beat by beat. Once they are done and I’m issued a comprehensive brief, then the whole dossier will be relayed to the public.” Kidero did not respond to calls and texts requesting comment. Ghost workers are still present despite efforts by the county to clean up the payroll, the report said. When Sonko took office, the county had 12, 695 employees. However, 377 of 663 employees sampled in seven departments had not signed the departmental attendance register as a confirmation that they were reporting to work over an extended period of time. Forty-two individuals in the parking attendants’ staff list had not logged into the eJijiPay platform between March 2016 and November 2017. The county has not been remitting PAYE and statutory deductions for a long period and as at June 30 last year, the debt stood at Sh22.8 billion. Finance executive Danvas Makori received the report on Wednesday and said KPMG ihas provided detailed recommendations to improve accountability.