The Siaya county assembly has opened a battlefront with the executive after it refused to debate the remaining four Cabinet nominees. Governor Cornel Rasanga presented four names to the assembly for approval for the fourth time. The nominees will complete the list that he said should constitute 10 members. The four are Adrian Ouma (Water), Dismass Wakla (Lands), Dorothy Owino (Education) and George Rubiki (Governance). The MCAs say there is a High Court order from Kisumu stopping them from debating the names. Speaker George Okode said the assembly is following the law. Two Siaya residents moved to court to stop the House from approving or discussing the four. The court was expected to make a ruling on March 15, but the judge forwarded the matter to the Chief Justice. “We cannot deliberate on a matter before court. The Standing Orders stop us,” Okode said. “We are not rejecting the four nominees, we are only complying with the court order.” County legal officer Leonard Okada differed with Okode, saying the court did not bar the assembly from debating the names. Okada said the case does not stop the governor from resubmitting the same names to the assembly for approval or rejection. He said the four are qualified and fit for the portfolio they have been nominated for. Last week, Rasanga reshuffled his Cabinet to comply with the assembly’s previous concern that some of the nominees did not fit the portfolios.Mary Omondi was approved by the assembly to head Education. She was moved to head the Health docket to pave way for Dorothy Owino, who was rejected for Health. With the new changes, Omondi is now in charge of Health as Owino awaits her fate as she was nominated for the Education department. Rasanga has had a rough time with the assembly in getting half of his Cabinet. The governor has submitted the lists of his preferred executive nominees three times in six months before constituting half the Cabinet. In February, some Siaya MCAs accused the Executive of trying to bend the law and illegally recruit five department heads who had been rejected by the assembly. MCAs Ambrose Akuno (West Asembo), Susan Okwiri (West Gem) and David Audi (South Gem) said Rasanga wants the list of executive nominees who had been rejected passed. They threatened to sue if the list of those found culpable would be passed through intimidation and threats by a section of the executives. The trio said some MCAs have been compromised by the executive to pass the list of the CECs, saying it is against the Standing Orders and the County Governments Act. Akuno said Okode has received a backlash from some MPs.