The government has ordered all bars in Kiambu county to be closed as a crackdown on illicit brews and drugs starts. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said bar owners should apply for licences afresh and be vetted before being allowed back into the trade, in accordance to the Kiambu County Alcoholic Drinks Control Act. The CS made the announcement on Tuesday when he launched the national crackdown on illicit liquor, second generation brews and narcotics in Makwa village, Gatundu North. Matiang’i said Kiambu county has made history on alcohol, adding that it is the only county that has more licensed bars than schools. The county has 1,226 public primary and secondary schools while there are 3,062 liquor outlets. “We must sort this out. Illicit liquor has become the worst hiccup in the government’s Big Four Agenda,” the CS said. The outlawed brews have crept back to the market after the 2015 crackdown. The brew was linked to youths deaths and unproductivity. “We are burying between five and 10 young people from the same village every week because of illicit brews and drugs,” Matiang’i said. There are 17 other counties that are under watch from the national government regarding illcit brews. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu has taken practical measures to fight illicit brews and narcotics. “We will support you in the fight against this menace. The crackdown will only succeed through partnership between the counties and the national government,” he said. The CS warned Waititu that he must be ready to work with the local administration as well as other national government agencies including Nacada, Kebs, the Kenya Anti-Counterfeit Agency and the KRA in the crackdown and clearing alcohol traders for business. Waititu told the county commissioner, his deputies, chiefs, their assistants and the police not to participate in the crackdown. He accused them of corruption and colluding with brewers. Matiang’i criticised the Judiciary for issuing court orders which derail gains made in the war against illicit brews. The orders allow bar owners to stay in business. He urged the courts to join Parliament and the Executive in the fight. “Administrators are being served with court orders from right, left and centre. We are being put off by court orders when fighting illegalities,” he said. “We must work together for the good of the nation. I’m challenging the Judiciary to be part of the solution, not the problem.” He warned police officers, chiefs and subchiefs against abetting the illicit liquor trade by taking bribes. Those found will be sacked. The swoop will be rolled out in other counties as well. The CS urged other governors to follow Waititu’s footsteps. “I call Nacada to come up with a drunkenness index to tell the world which county is unable to fight the menace. Why should we value revenue at the expense of people’s lives,” Matiang’i said. Before licensing bars, residents will choose the number of bars that should be operating in their localities.