More than 2500 women from Pruko Ward in Kajiado will benefit from a Sh7.5 million poultry project to boost their incomes. The project is part of a programme to help local communities diversify their livelihoods. Maasais as mainly Pastoralists, but they have been forced to adopt other economic activities including farming and poultry keeping due to climate change. Latia Resource Center managing director Peter Muthee said the poultry project is a partnership with Monsanto Fund to address both food insecurity and income generation gaps. “We are adopted the Farmer Field School approach as an innovative organisational structure,” Muthee said during the launch of the Monsanto Fund-Latia Resource Centre poultry project in Isinya on Wednesday. Each field school will set up a demonstration enterprise and will receive 16 chicken to train members. “Each farmer will receive a start-up breeding stock of four chicken, feeds and vaccines for the initial three months,”Muthee said. The farmers are expected to give back four chicken to the project at the end of the first laying cycle. Farmers will be organised into production clusters and introduced to value chain players including buyers and suppliers of feed, ingredients and drugs. “Those with surplus eggs and chicken will be assisted to access markets," Muthee said. Monsato Fund head of corporate engagement Jimmy Kiberu said the project resonates with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals. “The project will encourage FFS groups to carry out visits to one another so as to facilitate knowledge exchange among different regions. As such, the project will catalyze a continuous learning process and exchange of good practices and innovations ultimately enhancing farmers knowledge, productivity and nutrition,” said Kiberu. Speaking during the official launch of Monsanto Fund-Latia Resource Centre poultry project for the women at Isinya town on Wednesday, Tony Gathungu said Monsanto Fund believes that when a woman is empowered, you have empowered a whole nation. Gathungu, who is the Monsanto’s East African Lead, said the fund works with partners around the world who are passionate about providing sustainable assistance and improved quality of life to communities in need of better educational opportunities and food choices. The 2, 500 women who will benefit from the Sh7.5 million-fund are all from Purko Ward in Kajiado Central. One of the beneficiaries of the past assistance from Latia program, Esther Shapshina, said gone are the days when community women depended entirely on their husbands to provide for all the family needs. “With this project, we are able to buy school uniforms for our children without bothering our husbands. We are grateful to Monsanto Fund/Latia programs,” said Shapashina. The function was attended by local leaders led by kaputiei Ward MCA, Joshua Olowuasa and his Purko ward counterpart, Daniel Naikuni.    