Ulinzi Stars’ defender Mohamed ‘Rio’ Hassan has urged his teammates to make their home ground at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru a fortress if they are to challenge for top domestic honours. Ulinzi have not lost at home so far in the current campaign and defender Hassan, who has had a great impact in the team for the last three matches, wants it to stay so. The defender scored the second goal in the 2– 2 draw with Tusker and though he will welcome the point picked, says it was a painful result but picks a positive in the fact the team did not lose. So far the team has drawn twice and won twice in the four home matches played and Rio says they should work on never letting points leak out of Afraha for the long term, and in the meantime work to seal the gap with the league leading pack. “It was a painful result for us with the manner in which we conceded. Had we conceded earlier in the match maybe we’d have fought and equalised. The most important thing, however, is that we have taken our lessons and we will work for an improvement next time. I am also happy that at least we did not lose and now we should work on making our home ground a fortress. Teams should not be getting points easily at Afraha,” he said on the club’s official portal. After the draw, the team is placed eighth on the standings with 11 points, five behind joint leaders Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards. Meanwhile after weeks on the sidelines with a metatarsal injury, midfielder Enosh Ochieng has fully recovered and is working for his return to the team. Enosh scored the first goal of the 2018 campaign as Ulinzi Stars beat Zoo FC 4–2 but he couldn’t finish the game after picking the injury and has gone on to miss the ensuing six matches—an experience he says has not been so pleasant. Now that he can train fully, he says it feels like he’s starting the season afresh and has vowed to lift himself to his team-mates’ levels and seeks to reap from the international break, with the team’s next game set for March 31 against Kariobangi Sharks. “I am now back to full training but of course the six weeks out have been tough for me. I am now facing a situation, where I have to start afresh but I am ready to go the extra mile. I will give my best to get my place back in the team. “The international break comes at a good time for me because I have the space to work harder and try to get back to the team,” he said.