Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo wants the number of MPs, senators, MCAs and constitutional commissions reduced to cut wastage of public resources. She made the recommendations before the National Assembly Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee on the social economic impact of the implementation of the Constitution last week. Odhiambo proposed a reduction of counties and constituencies. She said the taskforce tasked to gauge the social economic impact of the Constitution observed that the increase in the number of lawmakers has affected the economy. “Instead of abolishing the Senate, perhaps there should be a reduction of the number of county governments. The will reduce the number of senators, Constituencies and wards,” Odhiambo said. Currently, there are 349 members of the National Assembly and 60 senators. Odhiambo proposed the number of commissioners in in constitutional commissions to be reduced. “The Constitution stipulates commissions shall consist of at least three and not more than nine members. Parliament may consider reviewing the mandates of the commissions. It could merge some,” she said. Odhiambo suggested that Parliament formulate laws for commissioners and independent agencies to serve on part term basis. “This may not apply to holders of the Controller of Budget and Auditor General, as the responsibility of discharging the mandate is placed on the individual holding the office,” she said. Odhiambo proposed the establishment of a County Government Ward Development Fund to avoid duplication of roles between MCAs and avoid duplication of duties. Odhiambo suggested to the committee chaired by Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni that Parliament amends the law to allow Cabinet Secretaries and county executives appointed from among the elected legislators. “This is the system we had before. For the proposal to work, there may be need to change the governance structure,” she said. Appearing separately before the committee, Auditor General Edward Ouko said he would track down movement of billions of shillings proposed in the 2018/2019 budget policy statement presented by National Assembly Budget and Appropriations Committee. Ouko said his team will help Parliament in oversighting funds channeled to government agencies. Click here for the latest political news