Nasa leader Raila Odinga cannot be trusted, several Jubilee MPs have said concerning the peace and unity deal he and President Uhuru Kenyatta signed. They said that Raila, a veteran Opposition leader who has wanted to be President since 1997, has proven to be politically unpredictable. Raila shocked the public when he met Uhuru and later addressed a press conference with him on March 9. He had been leading the National Resistance Movement after refusing to recognise Uhuru as the legitimate President. on January 30, he had himself sworn-in as the People's President. More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Also read: Miguna left 'resisting' alone as NRM in limbo On Friday, lawmakers led by Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto and Nandi Senator Samson Cheregei cautioned their Jubilee counterparts about the ODM leader's moves. They distanced themselves from the unity talks that took place at Harambee House in Nairobi, Moroto saying Raila’s "entry into Jubilee could end up breaking the succession pact ahead of the 2022 race". Raila's co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) has said he is not 'jubilated' while Elgeyo Marwakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has said DP William Ruto's presidency ambition will not be affeced. Details: Nasa intact, Uhuru handshake doesn't mean Raila 'jubilated' - Kalonzo Read: Wetang'ula a casualty of Uhuru-Raila deal, Ruto safe, says Murkomen Cheregei said Raila's move to work with the government should be nothing short of supporting Ruto’s bid come the next general election. He castigated ODM leaders on their move to oust Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula as Minority leader, saying Nasa leaders should be open to criticism as it's a sign of democracy. The leaders spoke at Chemundu in Chesumei sub-county during an event to mark Education Day. "UHURU'S HOUSE BIG ENOUGH" Meanwhile, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi have joined calls for Uhuru to hold talks with Kalonzo, Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress). Kiraitu said the President's house is big enough to accommodate all the Jubilee and Nasa leaders "without much undo" so there shouldn't be worry about Ruto's fate. He told Nasa's former brigadier Mick Makarina to call Raila and tell him "we are pleased, commend his leadership and are happy he is leading us". "We will add another bedroom in our father's house to accommodate Raila, Ruto, Kalonzo, Wetang'ula and Mudavadi so that they are all in one house." This could mean a referendum. Kiraitu noted the three Nasa principals have been "crying" for talks since the handshake. "There has been a big storm in the country since the President shook hands with Raila. Allow the three [to have talks with you] because I pity them for their unending cry," he told Uhuru. More on this: Kalonzo, Wetangula and Mudavadi want to meet Uhuru for 'dialogue'  South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi with Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi at his office on March 16, 2018. /GERALD MUTETHIA Murungi said Meru leaders should entrench peace and unity to increase their bargaining power nationally. He noted the county does not have a shortage of leaders and can produce national leaders as it has the fourth highest population hence many voters. "We can build one leader through this unity ... we have the Governor as the most experienced, Cabinet secretary Peter Munya, Senator Mithika Linturi and North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood. I am also here," he said. Munya, who served one term as Meru Governor, had announced intentions to vie for president in 2022. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki says he would like to deputise Ruto and that he will go for the presidency should this not be the case. Dawood, John Paul (Igembe South), Moses Kirima (Imenti Central), John Mutunga (Tigania West) and Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri) urged election losers to accept defeat and all politicians to champion unity, peace and development in the county. The leaders spoke at Makutano town on Friday during the induction of the constituency's development coordination committee. Related: Learn to listen to me, Atwoli tells Kenyans on Uhuru-Raila handshake Click here for the latest political news