ODM leader Raila Odinga has said he has no personal differences with Rift Valley leaders as he nurtured most of them. The former Prime Minister mentioned Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and former IG David Kimaiyo. “Murkomen is my political child. I stayed with him and found out he is a brilliant political mind. I gave him a job to teach Kenyans about devolution,” he said during a burial in Marakwet West on Saturday. The Nasa principal said he advised Murkomen to contest in Elgeyo Marakwet through the defunct URP after he expressed interest in joining politics. “He told me he would not win if he vied on an ODM ticket so I told him to join URP." URP was one of at least 11 parties that folded up to join President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's Jubilee Party. On Kimaiyo, Raila said he and former President Mwai Kibaki agreed to give him the IG post under the Grand Coalition Government. He said Kimaiyo was a competent policeman who was forced to resign without proper reason. “Kimaiyo was among the most educated policemen in the country. I felt bad when he was hounded out of office before attaining retirement age,” he said. Read: Uhuru kicks out Ole Lenku and Kimaiyo Also see: [VIDEO] Only the corrupt work for Jubilee, says former IG Kimaiyo Raila further said Kimaiyo would have ended the perennial bandit attacks in Kerio Valley had he been given time to discharge his mandate. The Opposition leader said he will work with leaders from the region for the sake of development in line with his deal with the President. The former IG, who attended the burial, welcomed Raila's unity pact with Uhuru saying Kenyans are beginning to reconcile after the divisive 2017 elections. “I know you well and I have been telling people that it was wise that you dialogued with the President. Many people were relieved when the two of you met," he said. Murkomen told Raila to respect the deal and said an office should be created for the ODM chief to enable him serve Kenyans better. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna urged Murkomen to start saying kind words about the former PM now that he has decided to work with Uhuru. Sifuna dismissed critics who have said the handshake is a scheme to contain Deputy President William Ruto and derail his 2022 presidential ambitions. Siaya Senator James Orengo said: “This is not the first time Raila is working with a head of state. He did it with Moi and Kibaki.” The leaders attended the burial of Willy Kalebus who was the father of ODM national deputy treasurer Ogla Karani, in Chebai. Click here for the latest political news