County and sub-county directors of eduction have been directed to ensure teachers faced with proven cases of insecurity are urgently transferred. Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia in a circular said the urgent transfers of teachers from the hostile working environment will prevent loss of life. Macharia further directed the education bosses to ensure teachers posted to their home or neighbouring counties are equitably distributed to lessen acute shortage. "Non-local teachers who secured employment in areas with incidents of insecurity should be posted to serve in schools near urban centres where they can conveniently access accommodation, transport facilities and emergency services," the circular reads in part. According to Macharia, the move will enhance the teachers' integration into host communities and ease the burden of travelling long distances to their work stations. She said the county and sub-county directors should also undertake a regular teacher rationalisation and re-distribution to ensure the safety of all teachers. "Teachers who require medical attention or psychological support are granted the requisite leave as per the Code of Regulations or transferred to schools where they can access the necessary attention," Macharia said. Macharia said all the TSC staff in the counties should further ensure the teachers are supported to settle at their new stations. Regretting an incident where teachers were teargassed outside the TSC offices in Nairobi, Macharia said it is imperative teachers are served with courtesy and dignity whenever they seek services. "While you are expected to strictly enforce the Code of Regulations for teachers and Code of Conduct and Ethics, you are reminded that as managers of the teaching service you should be mindful of the teachers welfare with a view to promoting productivity and the service delivery to learners," Macharia said. She said teachers have in the past experienced and undergone exceptional hardship in the performance of duty due to insecurity. She said insecurity cases occasioned by Intra/Inter communal conflicts, banditry, acts of terrorism and cattle rustling has adversely affected the general productivity of teachers. Her sentiments comes barely a day after Nominated MP and KNUT Sec General Wilson Sossion moved a motion in Parliament seeking to compel the teachers employer to employ local teachers in areas experiencing insecurity. In the motion, Sossion said the Teachers Service Commission can recruit school leavers in areas from where non-local teachers have fled. He says they can be trained during the April, August and October holidays. "If it is not possible for the TSC to get school leavers to absorb immediately, I propose it lowers the cutoff mark to D+ or C- in affected areas so more school leavers can be absorbed into the profession." The SG said teachers who fled insecure areas should not be forced to return but rather be redeployed to other areas, a step that will fast-track the stability of the education sector. Read: Sossion moves motion for TSC to hire locals in terror-prone areas 