Upper Hill beat longtime rivals Lenana School 37-8 to retain the Nairobi Region Secondary Schools Sports Association rugby 15s title at Nairobi School yesterday. Thomas Walgwe’s charges commanded the duel but they were met with tough resistance from Lenana whose push did not bear fruits. Nobert Okeny opened the rout with a try as Solomon Maleu added the second, which was converted by Abutwalib Wesonga for a 12-0 lead. Brian Kimani and Smith Rolf scored a try each while Wesonga added a conversion as they led 24-0 at the break. On resumption, Okeny completed his double, but Lenana’s Daniel Katerega replied to reduce the deficit at 29-5. Both sides were awarded penalties two minutes apart and once again Katerega stood in the gap for Lenana, raking in three points for 29-8 before Wesonga equally widened the range to 32-8. Pius Odera sealed Upper Hill’s victory with the last unconverted try at the final whistle. “Champions never rest. We are not going to rest because we are aware that other teams who will qualify for the national are already plotting to bring us down,” said Rolf. Walgwe said the Upper Hill lineup will only rest for three days before resuming training ahead of the national showpiece next month. An upset was staged in boys’ handball where the 2017 winners Dr. Ribeiro Parklands wre eliminated in the semifinals by Muhuri Muchiri. However, the latter faced unwaivering tough opposition from Lenana School, who thumped them 26-21 in the final. Muhuri Muchiri romped off to a 10-13 lead at the breather, but Lenana found their winning scheme on resumption, scoring 16 goals against their opponents’ eight. Lenana edged out Hospital Hill 20-8 in the second semis before proceeding to book a ticket too the national. New Jogoo Road Girls retained the regional gong when they beat neighbours Buruburu Girls 24-9 in the final. To advance to the final, New Jogoo Road narrowly edged Dagoretti Mixed 7-6 as Buruburu eliminated Olympic Secondary 12-8 in the semis. Sheryl Atieno, who hit 11 goals for the winning side, said they are now going to prepare for the nationals. “Competition at the nationals is always tough. We now retreat to intense training as we plot to grab the prestigious accolade,” she said.  