Studies shows that 46 per cent of Mombasa people are obese. This is according to the county’s Health department. This raised alarm, and the department organised a nutrition week event so they could educate people, and especially women, on proper nutrition to help reduce the percentage for a healthy Mombasa. Women were the target, since they are the meal preparers in a household, hence should be properly informed on the foods to be taken on a daily basis. Health director Shem Patta said education on the correct nutrition should be done in health facilities and schools so the information can be spread widely. He said obesity can trigger other health problems. “There are health problems like high blood pressure and diabetes, which we are trying to deal with. But we are giving out advice on health facilities to ensure people put into consideration healthy nutrition to reduce such diseases,” the Health director said.  DOs AND DON’Ts There are many things people do when preparing meals, which they are not aware would lead to health risks. For example, did you know that you should get rid of used oil within 24 hours of using it? After 24 hours of using, the oil becomes a health risk to the human body. Constant using of the oil might lead to cancer and other health problems, which would have adverse effects to a person. Health nutritionist Joseph Olingo says the oil usually gets oxidised and loses its value. When the oil becomes black due to constant using and reusing, Olingo said it would be a cause of cancer and other health problems. “When the oil becomes black, it means it contains carbon… When you use it repeatedly, it becomes black, so you should dispose of it,” he said. Well, if you thought you were saving money by using cooking oil over and over again until it gets dried up, then know that you are putting yourself at risk of getting cancer. You should also know that the vegetables we take and are advised to take everyday should have a safe way of ensuring you get all the required nutrition in them. For those women used to buying already cut vegetables from Mama Mboga, they are now told to ensure they go cut for themselves, so that they can follow the prompts to benefit from them. Nutritionist Teresia Nila advises using a very sharp knife to cut the vegetables. “When using a blunt knife, you lose the nutrients,” she said. Other don’ts advised by Nila when preparing vegetables are: you should not cook the vegetables for more than five minutes, ensure you cover it, do not cut and then wash, do not add water when cooking. If you do not follow the above prompts then you are guaranteed to lose a lot of nutrients in the vegetables. Fresh fruits are also to be put into a lot of consideration. A food pyramid will help ensure you get the correct balanced diet for a healthier life. According to safefood.eu, a food pyramid helps in getting healthier eating more easily. This is when foods that contain the same type of nutrients are grouped together on each of the shelves of the food pyramid. It, therefore, gives you a choice of different foods for a healthy diet.