While ordinary people wake up early to go to work, some people rise even earlier to go to drink. In the grip of a hangover, they stagger into ditches and doze off, sometimes urinating on themselves. This addiction to alcohol, especially cheap, unadulterated spirits and brews, has led to deaths, loss of eyesight, impotence, divorce and separation, with Central Kenya bearing the brunt. Such a menace was it that on July 4, 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared war on what he called “the business of death”. But after spirited efforts to wipe it out, illicit liquor is back with a bang. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i relaunched the war on March 1 this year, directing county commissioners, deputies and chiefs at the lowest rank to eradicate the second-generation alcohol. This begs the question why the first war failed, what is driving this plague to persist, and what can be done to end the scourge once and for all. Despite knowing that some illicit alcohol is contaminated and can kill, alcoholics go to great lengths to quench their thirst. They waste their energy on drinking instead of working, which makes them poor. Down-and-out alcoholics even steal to get funds for their next drink. Samuel Njogu, a recovering alcoholic from Wangige in Kabete constituency, told the Star: “I don’t know how I find myself looking for it, even after deciding to stop drinking. I take even liquor sold in drums. I don’t know the brands or where they come from,” he says. Njogu said locals watch on televisions and read in newspapers how liquor is distilled with unclean river water using drums and dirty equipment — but they can’t stop drinking. “I’m not sure if it’s my friends’ influence or what. We used to hear second-generation wines and spirits were brought to Central region to decimate our population because we have a lot of idle young people, but we keep drinking it,” Njogu says.  WIVES’ OUTCRY Women have demanded the government stop the sale of illicit liquor, saying it has left their husbands unable to support their families, satisfy them sexually and sire children. Nancy Wakonyo of Thigio village in Limuru constituency says most men cater for children they did not father, since they are unable to do so. “Most women have started looking for men to sire children because their men cannot perform sexually. They have been destroyed by alcoholic drinks,” Wakonyo says. “Every morning, they walk to shopping centres to idle. They come home, drunk, hungry, dirty and very weak. We eat early the little food we had with our children,” she said. Alcoholic men are not only a liability but a financial threat. Limuru salonist Naomi Wanjiku, who separated with her husband, says: “We hide coins, even notes. Men will steal them so they can have something to buy drinks. Some have even sold household items at throwaway prices.” Wanjiku says her husband sold a DVD player, television and other electronics in the house and used the money to buy cheap drinks. “When he came home, he would start insulting us, asking if we knew who is the owner of the house, and who do we think he is. After months of enduring this, I packed my belongings and carried our two children and we started living in a rented house,” Wanjiku says. Many young women are wary of marriage for fear of frustrations, but they would rather have a child and live independently, single. “This is why we have a lot of single young women. They are very active. They only look for a child and avoid a life full of stress from a drunkard husband,” Wakonyo says. Some women have not taken the menace lying down. They have raided and smashed drinking dens, dragging their men out. These protests forced bar owners and operators themselves to protest, urging the government to inspect wine and liquor manufacturers. They said some makers of second-generation alcohol use syringes to add alcohol to plastic bottles that have already been packed by legitimate manufacturers. The adulteration takes place at a plot in Kinoo village in Kikuyu constituency. FIRST WAR UPS, DOWNS While declaring the war on illicit liquor in 2015, Uhuru invited all MPs and county commissioners, and asked the MPs to head the war. The first battlefront was Central and the war was expanded. Uhuru ordered the destruction of all illegal dangerous alcoholic drinks, closing illegal drinking dens, arrest of producers, distributors — and police and chiefs who collude with criminals. A lot of alcohol dens were destroyed within the first two weeks, leaving grudges against rivals and legitimate bar operators. Some operators turned against legislators, with some in Kabete suing Waititu in the Kikuyu law court. But there were successes. Bar owners had to reapply for licences. Governors, MPs, MCAs, assistant and deputy county commissioners inspected bars. Public drunkenness declined drastically countrywide. After a year, cheap, second-generation brands and dangerous illicit brews were being sold together with the legal ones in licensed bars. Some counties opted to run the alcohol business on their own, leaving out Nacada and the national government. Trouble started with the formation of the County Alcohol Control and Licensing Boards, as counties recruited officials who were not fully informed about liquor. Some opted to leave out deputy county commissioners and Nacada officials in the boards. Political analyst Joseph Wainaina said some county governments ended up licensing bar owners they didn’t know well. So they started stocking illicit liquor. Some bars used to be denied licences by the Nacada, even after vetting, for breaking alcohol laws, selling illicit brews secretly and allowing drug peddlers to operate. “Deputy county commissioners and police were familiar with the culprits. Denying them a say in the boards was a recipe for failure. The war was lost, and that is why the dangerous drinks are back and sold openly,” Wainaina said. “Bar owners were happy once they saw the formation of the board, and they applied for licences in large numbers and were licensed.” Moreover, county askaris complained that when they arrested illegal distillers, distributors and bar owners and took them to police stations, the police didn’t take the cases seriously. They felt the county askaris didn’t do credible investigations and were not involved in the licensing board. WHAT LAW SAYS The alcohol boards required bars to operate between 5pm up to 11pm from Monday to Friday, while on Saturdays, they were allowed to open from 12pm. Restaurants are licensed to operate 24 hours but must meet requirements of the alcohol board, such as parking, hotel inside, hostel for workers and lodgings for customers. They are also not allowed to sell cheap drinks. However, in Kiambu, some bars were licensed to operate for 24 hours without meeting the requirements, and sold beers in cups that cost Sh25-Sh35. They also stock wines and spirits sold in half bottles, the cheapest being Sh100. Beth Wanja, Moonlight bar operator in Kimende town, criticised the move. “Such licences have killed our businesses. People take advantage of them to sell cheap alcohol in the morning, while we stock the same and we open at 5pm,” she said. “Bhang peddlers sells their rolls in those bars since they are opened all the time. They sell it secretly, though. This is bad and painful. Our business has been given a bad name.” Residents have called on Parliament to amend the Constitution and form a national board that controls alcohol trade and licensing countrywide. The board will also form committees to oversee the licensing of the bars in constituencies, which will be reporting to the national board. “We face a problem because everything is run with politics. There are issues that should be run independently. This is because alcohol has touched people’s lives, lifestyle and the government as a whole,” analyst Wainaina said.