The battle for Kirinyaga governor is now headed to the Supreme Court after Anne Waiguru rushed to the highest court in the land to challenge an order requiring a fresh hearing of Martha Karua’s petition. This follows a successful appeal by the Narc Kenya leader, who convinced a Bench of three judges she was not accorded a fair hearing by the High Court This is the first election petition from the August 8 2017 General Election to head to the Supreme Court. HIGH COST Justices Mohamed Warsame, Daniel Musinga and Otieno Odek faulted the High Court in Nyeri over its decision terminating Karua’s petition, citing failure to comply with election rules. THREE JUDGES In November, Justice Lucy Gitari said Karua’s petition was fatally defective as she omitted the disputed election results and dates declared by the IEBC, which is a mandatory requirement. The three judges said it was unfortunate the judge terminated the process on the strength of noncompliance without addressing her mind to the nature, extent and import of such a route. “In or view the construction assigned to Rule 8 (1) (C) and (d) by the trial judge was too artificial and absurd, the plain ordinary construction of the rule ought to have been in favour of sustaining the petition and determining it on merit,” the judges ruled. The judges said if the court had looked at the pleading before it, it would have concluded, from obvious facts, the petition was filed within time. They were also of the view that the Sh10 million costs slapped on the Narc Kenya leader were unreasonably excessive. They said the current trend in the capping of costs at inordinately high amounts shows “that we are going back to the era where costs in election petitions were very high. “It is clear from the record the date of declaration and tabulation of the results were available to the court. The court ignored that information.” Read:Uhuru parades Waiguru and Karua, says voters will decide but loser will get state job Also Read:Not yet! Waiguru moves to Supreme Court over Karua petition win