Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri has rubbished a proposal that the county contributes towards Embu Level Five Hospital. That’s beacuse many Kirinyaga patients seek treatment there. Speaking on Saturday at Kutus ACK Church during a free medical camp, Ndambiri said the remarks by Embu MCA Margaret Kariuki are meant to cause animosity between the two counties. He said every Kenyan has a right to seek treatment from any hospital. Last week, Kariuki said Kirinyaga should help foot the bills, since 60 per cent of patients treated at the hospital are residents of Kirinyaga. Ndambiri said Level Five hospitals are fully supported by the national government and Embu county cannot demand that Kirinyaga contributes funds. Counties are inter-dependent and county assemblies should not make laws that can cause animosity, he said. Ndambuki said that next month, Kirinyaga county will break ground for a six-storey building at Kerugoya Level Four Hospital. It will tincrease the capacity to 600 beds from the current 250. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, Kariuki said Embu spends Sh2 billion annually on hospitals and staff salaries. She urged Kirinyaga county to equip its own hospitals better so residents can be treated there instead of flocking to Embu Level Five Hospital. “Their seems to be a problem with healthcare in Kirinyaga. That is why residents from the county seek treatment in Embu. Let the county up its game and fix the problem,” She said. However, Ndambiri said hospitals in Kirinyaga are well equipped and plans are in the pipeline for Kerugoya Level Four Hospital to be upgraded to a Level Five Hospital. He said the county in partnership with the Catholic Church will construct a referral hospital in Kimbimbi town. “The MCA must be out of her mind. When we build a referral hospital, will people from Embu not seek treatment at the facility?’’ During the medical camp by the Dennis Itumbi Foundaiton, over 500 people were treated. The foundation’s medical director Maxwell Okoth said some patients were referred to various hospitals.