Kenya Reinsurance Corporation (Kenya Re) posted nine per cent growth in
full year net
profit, despite sacking managing director Jadiah Mwarania on poor
performance. The ex-MD who rose through
ranks in over 20 years in the firm to head the listed reinsurer has since obtained restraining orders to block the board from filling the
position. Although Kenya-Re chairman David Kamei yesterday
insisted that the former MD was sacked due to poor performance, however performance witnessed in its 2017 financial records show otherwise. The reinsurer for instance saw its net profits jump to Sh3.5 billion up
from Sh3.2 billion the previous year, a move attributed to growth in the
retakaful sector and expansion in the regional business to south and West African markets like Botswana and
Mozabique as well as French speaking West African states. The results are likely to strengthen
Mwarania’s
case at the Employment and
Labour Relations Court where he is challenging his sacking. On Wednesday, the sacked chief executive tabled an
affidavit in court, stating his sacking was as a result of constant feuds with
the board and not poor performance as indicated in the dismissal letter. Michael
Mbeshi is serving in acting capacity. Despite positive growth, Kenya-Re saw its claims
rise 14 per cent to Sh7.5 billion during the year under review on account of the earthquake in
Nepal and floods experienced in India. Natural occurrences in the two
Asian countries saw Kenya-Re settle claims up to Sh1.1 billion. Twin earthquakes in
Nepal saw the firm disburse Sh850 million while
floods in India took another Sh240 million. “Over
years the reinsurance market has become intensely competitive with more
reinsurers eyeing the piece of cake. We were also affected by the setting
up of National Reinsurance companies in neighboring countries such as
Uganda,Tanzania and Ethiopia that has led to a decline in our market share’’
said Kemei. “Over
years the reinsurance market has become intensely competitive with more
reinsurers eyeing the same piece of cake. We were also affected by the setting
up of National Reinsurance companies in neighboring countries such as Uganda,Tanzania and Ethiopia that has led to a decline in our
market share’’ said Kemei.