Kilifi bar owners want the county government to ban the sale of beer at funerals, saying it hurts their business. The traders are seeking the amendment of the Kilifi Liquor Licensing Act to ensure only those with permits operate within the designated clubs or bars. The bar owners cited harassment by multi-agency teams led by Nacada officials when conducting crackdowns on illicit brews. The issues emerged at a meeting on the Kilifi Liquor Control Act, 2015, at Stars and Garters Club. It aimed to address how best to safeguard investments from unregulated operators and ambiguous clauses. Attendants included owners of pubs, hotels and bars. They criticised raids that have led to the closure of two hotels. They say the raids are not conducted professionally. OFFICERS HARASSED Tourism executive Maureen Mwangovya, Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers’ chief executive Sam Ikwaye, and Pubs Entertainment and Restaurant Association of Kenya Kilifi chairman Eric Mwashigadi attended the meeting. The speakers said those leading the operation are from Nairobi. When they got into a pub or bar they harass owners struggling to run a business. The traders said those selling beer at funerals without permits affect their business since they evade tax and sell alcohol in an undesignated area. They proposed law changes that would ensure such traders are either banned or forced to pay tax. Mwangovya said the county government is committed to smoothening the work environment for bar owners. She assured them there would be no more harassment. The county will come up with ways of engaging its own Public Health officials and other officers during such crackdowns against illicit brew. “We shall work with the county administration to ensure our officers, including sub-county administrators and Public Health officers, work with the multi-agency team during crackdowns to avoid harassment,” Mwangovya said. WORKING IN HARMONY The county executive told the Pera chairman to collect views from members and write their proposed amendments of the law. The Hotelkeepers and Caterers chief executive said there is a serious problem between the entertainment industry and tourism, and they are looking for solutions.