On March 17 every year Ireland celebrates its national day, St Patrick’s Day. It is a time of celebration for all of those of Irish descent and affinity around the world. It is time to renew Irish links with the 70 million people around the world who claim Irish ancestry and with the many countries where Irish people have settled and the hand of welcome has been extended to them. This year Irish government ministers will visit 35 countries over St Patrick’s Day to meet the Irish diaspora, to promote Ireland’s political and economic interests abroad, and to deepen Ireland’s global footprint. This year Kenya is the only country in sub-Saharan Africa that is hosting an Irish minister over St Patrick’s Day. Ireland’s long history with Kenya spans over 100 years. Many Kenyans have benefitted from the Irish presence. Even before the foundation of the Irish state in 1922, missionaries and aid workers from Ireland travelled to Kenya to establish schools and hospitals. President Uhuru Kenyatta, for example, received his secondary education at St Mary’s College in Nairobi, a school founded and managed by the Irish Holy Ghost Fathers for many years. Other schools founded by Irish missionaries include St Patrick’s College in Iten, founded by the Irish Patrician Brothers and the Loreto Schools (such as Limuru and Msongari) founded by the Irish Loreto Sisters. The Mater Hospital and Strathmore College in Nairobi were also established with Irish support. The Government of Ireland reopened its embassy in Nairobi in 2014 in recognition of Kenya’s importance to the prosperity and stability of East Africa and the progress the country has made in advancing democracy and development. The excellent diplomatic relations that exist between the two governments were exemplified also by the opening of the Kenyan Embassy in Ireland in 2007. The presence of an Irish minister as up to 1,500 Irish citizens celebrate St Patrick’s Day is a reflection of the importance Ireland affords to relations between Kenya and Ireland. The embassy has been working on several initiatives to deepen bilateral relationships, including support to the Kenya Investment Authority to establish a One-Stop Centre; support to the potato value chain by funding technology and training to improve storage methods for smallholder farmers; the launch last year of the Young Scientist Exhibition, the premier national inter-schools science and technology competition, a joint Irish and Kenyan government initiative; and funding of several NGO-related programmes. Ireland also has a growing business presence in Kenya, working in close collaboration with Kenyan investors. A business network, Business Ireland Kenya, established with embassy support in 2014, now has over 70 members. BIK members are involved in a wide range of businesses, which include financial services, security, education, ICT services, tourism, construction and pharmaceuticals. During his visit to Kenya, as well as meeting the Irish community, the Irish Minister of Public Works, Kevin Boxer Moran, will travel to Nyandarua. With the governor and representatives of Irish and Kenyan business, he will launch a programme of cooperation to boost the incomes of smallholder farmers by introducing high-yielding varieties of seed potato. He will visit urban settlement programmes here in Nairobi that benefit from Irish Aid support and meet students who are competing in Young Scientists Kenya. The minister will also hold discussions with Kenyan government representatives about continued Irish government support to assist Kenya become, like Ireland, a leader in attracting Foreign Direct Investment. The minister will sign a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ireland and the Kenya Private Sector Alliance to support the emergence of women entrepreneurs in small- to medium-sized enterprises in agri-food. Irish ambassador