The Jubilee Party has welcomed Friday's political developments that saw President UHuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga pledge to unite Kenyans. Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the move has now paved the way for other political parties to follow suit and work together for the common good of the country. He said the party will abide by Uhuru and Raila's objectives "and constructively engage with the NASA affiliate parties with mutual respect and national interest." "We consider it to be a significant and bold political move that should usher in a new Kenya where different political parties with divergent points of views can put aside their differences and focus on what is in the best interest of our beloved people of Kenya," Tuju said in a statement. "We are after all brothers and sisters with shared destiny as Kenyans and we should embrace each other as such," he said. NASA principals Moses Wetangula, Kalonzo Musyoka  and Musalia Mudavadi said they were not privy to the the Harambee House meeting. They have scheduled to meet Raila next week over the development which has been viewed to bring to an end the bruising 2017 electoral cycle. The NASA leaders said the meeting came to them as a surprise as they only knew about it through media reports. The reconciliation efforts have been backed by various quarters including by politicians and union leaders. COTU's Francis Atwoli, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui are among leaders who have hailed the peace and unity bid. Kuria, who has been a critic of NASA's political machinations, described the move as
"statemanly". The MP said the two leaders have proven that they would like to leave a legacy worth emulating and are concerned
about their motherland. "I welcome that [meeting], it
is good for the country and especially the future of the country," Kuria said. Kinyanjui said the damage caused by prolonged political battles has finally been put to rest. "The economy remains weak due to the uncertainty that was created by the election aftermath," the Governor said. More on this: Moses Kuria, Nakuru's Lee Kinyanjui welcome Uhuru-Raila pact Atwoli, who has consistently been calling for the two political
nemeses to embrace dialogue since last year, said the pact was long
overdue. "If this meeting had happened as early as September last
year soon after the August 8 polls, we would not have lost over 100,000
jobs," Atwoli said. The COTU
Secretary-General called on Jubilee and NASA supporters to accept the
reconciliation deal. Read: Atwoli asks NASA backers to accept Uhuru-Raila reconciliation deal Click here for the latest political news 