A gnat flew over the grassland with much buzzing for so small a creature and settled on the tip of one of the horns of a bull. After he had rested a short time, he made ready to fly away. But before he left he begged the bull’s pardon for having used his horn for a resting place. “You must be very glad to have me go now,” he said. “It’s all the same to me,” replied the bull. “I did not even know you were there.” At times, people see themselves as an important pillar of a grouping until a time when the glue holding the pillars together loses its stickiness. This is what has happened to NASA after ODM leader Raila Odinga called a truce and shook hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta at the steps of Harambee House. Former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, former Deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula appear lost in all this. For long, we have argued that NASA was Raila and Raila was NASA and the rest of the principals were just escorting him in the aborted journey to Canaan. And if by now they have not realised this, then their political mastery is questionable. NASA is dead. NASA cannot exist without ODM. It is time Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC realised that the ship is leaving the dock and they must hurry to get in or miss out. Wetang’ula’s removal as Minority leader was a show by ODM that it calls the shots in the NASA arrangement. The three NASA co-principals have two options: Accept the fate drawn by Raila and work with him alongside Uhuru or continue politicking, which is something that Kenyans are no longer interested in. Kenyans will treat them as the gnat that perched on the bull’s horn and thought the larger animal could feel its weight. The statement of intent made by Uhuru and Raila is loud and clear. This country is a ship that must move forward united for the sake of peace, development and justice and requires all hands on deck to steer successfully. From the statement cosigned by Raila and Uhuru, it is not about political position or power, but this country’s future. Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula must therefore stop demanding their own meeting with the President, whom they have until now refused to recognise as head of state and government. The three principals are only interested in negotiating positions for themselves, hence, the push to meet the President. They had the chance before to push for this meeting but it’s too late now as Raila beat them to the punch. Even in Parliament, it is clear that ODM is calling the shots as the minority party. Oversight committees such as the Public Accounts Committee are already doing their work as required. Last week, ODM lawmakers joined the Committee on Appointments for the vetting of the new Attorney General, Justice Kihara Kariuki. We all remember that they boycotted joining the committee when Cabinet Secretaries were being vetted. Those still clinging to NASA’s backward notions such as boycotts and violence should realise that Kenyans are eager to move on with their lives and develop the nation. Over the last couple of weeks the economy has rebounded, the stock market has seen a resurgence and Kenyans have moved on and are eagerly forging ahead. Besides, there is no political party called NASA. NASA is a figment of the imagination that was created by the opposition to unite them against Jubilee. The Registrar of Political Parties does not recognise NASA, only its constituent parties. Just as ODM has retreated and started reenergising itself, Ford Kenya, ANC and Wiper should think of doing the same and stop behaving like the gnat. Machel Waikenda is a political and communications consultant