The high cost of living, lack of jobs and hunger are the most critical issues Kenyans face, a survey released by Ipsos yesterday said. Cost of living topped the list at 35 per cent, unemployment at 20 and hunger at 14. In cost of living, Nyanza and Western region recorded the highest at 41 per cent and Nairobi at 37. Rift Valley had the highest rating for hunger at 44 per cent, followed by Eastern and Coast at 40 each. Across the political divide, both Jubilee and NASA supporters cited the same problems with slight differences. The survey conducted on March 4-17 involved Kenyans aged 18 years and above, with a sample of 2,003 in urban and rural areas spread across 45 counties. Data collection was carried out through face-to-face interviews at the household level and the respondents engaged in three language options — English, Swahili or Somali. Read: Only 200,000 fewer Kenyans ‘poor’ today than a decade ago With 50 per cent saying they earn less than Sh10,000 and farming being their main source of livelihood, 14 per cent said the general economic conditions have improved during the last three months. Some 58 per cent said it has worsened, while 28 per cent said the situation is the same. Poor leadership, crime and the gap between the rich and the poor are some of the most serious problems cited. Jubilee and NASA supporters however tied when it came to tribalism and corruption at six and 10 per cent respectively. Sixty per cent of Kenyans said the county is headed in the wrong direction, citing high cost of living and corruption as some of their reasons. Twenty-four per cent said it is on the right path and attributed that to infrastructure development, education reform and leadership. The margin of error was +/- 2.16 with a 95 per cent confidence level. Last week, a report released by the Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey revealed that 1.4 million Kenyans who make up the country’s labour force are unemployed. This was the group desperately looking for jobs. The report painted a grim picture of the unemployment levels, but added the unemployment rate for the entire population had come down to 7.4 per cent from 9.7 per cent in 2009 and 12.7 per cent in 2005. Also read: Kenya's poverty rate drops sharply in 10 years -stats office  Click here for the latest political news