Glaucoma is an eye disease that causes progressive irreversible damage of the optic nerve and loss of vision field, leading to blindness. Anybody is at risk of this disease, which is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide and in Kenya, with over 20,000 cases being reported every year. Dr Sheila Marco, consultant ophthalmologist and glaucoma specialist at Nairobi's Aga Khan University Hospital, explained, “With the exception of babies born with congenital glaucoma, there is usually no warning, or obvious symptoms of the disease, which has led to glaucoma being described as the ‘sneak thief of sight’." She says a baby suffering from glaucoma at birth usually has bulging and swollen eyes. Approximately one in 10,000 babies have glaucoma, and parents noticing symptoms should have a check carried out by an ophthalmologist. Consultant ophthalmologist Dr Mukesh Joshi, of Nairobi's Laser Eye Centre, explains that there is a fluid in the front part of the eye known as the aqueous humor. The fluid is continuously formed and drained at the corner of the eye also known as the angle of anterior chamber.  EYE PRESSURE When there is an imbalance of the aqueous fluid either over production of the fluid or drainage channels are clogged, then pressure starts rising, once the pressure is high it damages the inner structure of the eye and the optic nerve. “Treatment of glaucoma aims to lower the internal pressure of the eye and prevent any loss of vision, or any further deterioration in the vision. Options include medicine given as eye drops, laser treatment and surgery,” explains Dr Joshi. Ophthalmologists are doctors trained to perform eye exams, diagnose and treat disease, prescribe medications and perform eye surgery. Early detection and appropriate therapy of glaucoma can significantly improve a child’s future life and vision. Treatment involves careful evaluation under general anaesthesia. The intra ocular pressure is measured and treatment by surgery can be carried out at the same time, which reduces subjecting the child to multiple sessions of general anaesthesia. “Although anybody is at risk of getting glaucoma, there are certain groups of people who are at a higher risk of contracting the disease. These include those with a history of glaucoma in the family, adults over 35 years of age, African race, high IOP, myopia (shortsightedness) and diabetes mellitus. If a member of a family has glaucoma, it is advisable for the other family members to see an ophthalmologist for eye checkups,” Dr Marco adds. She says the only way to detect and treat glaucoma early is by going for regular eye screening by an eye specialist, particularly for the people at higher risk. The doctor measures the pressure of the eye and examines the optic nerve in the eye. If necessary, a visual field test will be performed.  FREE CLINIC Aga Khan University Hospital runs a glaucoma clinic every Wednesday and Thursday from 9am to 5pm by a glaucoma specialist. Laser Eye Centre is also running a clinic daily until the end of this month. One of the signs of glaucoma is worsening of the peripheral vision or the appearance of “blind spots”. This can be realised by a patient when they are not able to see clearly as they walk down stairs, or bump into people as they are not able to see them. In some cases, a driver fails to notice vehicles on either side of his or her car, which indicates an advanced case of glaucoma. As the optic nerve is an extension of the brain, treatment by surgery is currently not available, but extensive research is being carried out to develop new treatments for glaucoma. Meanwhile, controlling IOP is the only way of slowing progressive blindness caused by glaucoma. The suffering caused by glaucoma highlights the importance of seeing an ophthalmologist in addition to regular eye screening for early detection of the condition and management. “Beware of ‘the sneak thief of sight,’” Dr Marco concludes.