MPs have amended the report by the Health Committee, compelling KNH to compensate the two patients involved in the infamous surgery mix-up. They unanimously supported the amendment moved by Majority leader Aden Duale which says the Ministry of Health should take responsibility and compensate Samuel Kimani and John Nderitu. Nderitu underwent the surgery instead of Kimani and a preliminary report found the doctors were not to blame. More on this: How wrong patient got under the knife, KNH medics tell MPs Also read: [Statement] KNH doctors not to blame for brain surgery error - report The lawmakers want Nderitu compensated for the risks he was exposed during the process and Kimani for the delayed surgery. They also want the ministry to ensure the two are treated well either at Kenyatta National Hospital or at another facility. “KNH is in a sad state of affairs. What happened is a criminal offence so the doctors who performed the surgery should be made to take responsibility,” Duale said. "There is a systematic failure in KNH – that we cannot run away from. It is a shambolic institution. Patients are treated for the wrong ailments. The board is reactionary." Emurua Dikir legislator Johana Ng'eno, who seconded the amendment, described the situation at Kenya's biggest referral hospital, as wanting and noted that it is not getting the attention it deserves. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed called for the immediate implementation of the report which has recommended the disbandment of the board and replacement with a competent one. “KNH should be the hospital setting standards for others in country and in the region. We should not reduce it into a village affair,” he said. The committee, which is chaired by Murang’a woman representative Sabina Chege, has also recommended the establishment of a board to appraise top level managers. “This is with a view to having the right personnel with the right qualifications,” states the report that was tabled on Tuesday. It further states that the Nursing Council of Kenya and the Clinical Officers Council should immediately review the conduct and practice of nurses involved in the mishap. Read: KNH brain surgery report skewed to favour doctors, nurses say Click here for the latest political news