Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu has taken his Kitui counterpart Charity Ngilu to court, accusing her of inciting residents. In a petition filed yesterday at the Milimani law courts, Waititu wants Ngilu restrained from issuing and making any inflammatory and inciting statements associated with the charcoal business or its transportation. The Kiambu governor also wants the court to order Ngilu not to unnecessarily harass motorists on the pretext of enforcing the charcoal management law. Waititu argues that Ngilu’s speech was directed at inciting or producing imminent lawless actions. He said it led to the torching of vehicles. Read: Ban on sand, charcoal trade to stay – Ngilu Through lawyer John Wanjohi, Waititu says that motorists and businesses have suffered as a result of the roads being blocked and vehicles tyres being deflated. “There is nowhere the Kitui County Charcoal Management Act says that a vehicle carrying charcoal should be burnt. This is a violation of Articles 39 and 47 of the Constitution,” the petition reads. Waititu further claims that Ngilu continues to issue incitement to violence statements. He says she has incited residents to take the law into their hands and literally burn vehicles and goods. Related: Youths block Waiyaki Way, deflate vehicles in anti-Ngilu protests Read also: Kaparo summons Ngilu after charcoal utterances Waititu says this threatens the lives of the businessmen, their property and also violates their fundamental rights. He says on February 8 this year, a lorry belonging to David Kariuki, a resident of Limuru town, was stopped by Ngilu, who was in the company of a group of youths and some officials from the county, in Kanyonyo near Matuu on the Mwingi-Garissa highway. He further says Ngilu accused the driver of carrying bags of charcoal and refused to listen to the driver’s explanation that the charcoal was from Tana River county, not Kitui as alleged. “The driver and the loaders were bundled into a Kitui county vehicle and Ngilu incited youths and officials from the county to burn the lorry,” court papers say. Read: No lorry was torched in Kitui charcoal crackdown, says Ngilu Last month, Ngilu appeared before the National Cohesion and Integration Commission for questioning over allegations that her remarks against charcoal burning incited youths to burn lorries transporting the commodity. The move to burn the vehicles triggered protests by Kiambu residents, especially in Limuru. They lit bonfires at Kwambira on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway and blocked the road with logs. The protesters deflated at least 200 vehicles’ tyres.  Click here for the latest political news