KNUT has dismissed claims by TSC that it turned up for a reconciliation meeting at the Ministry of Labour on Friday to resolve contentious issues raised by the union. Secretary-General Wilson Sossion said the meeting was scheduled to take place on the 7th floor of the NSSF building from 10 am but the commission never turned up. “We were in the boardroom of the Ministry of Labour on NSSF Building at the appointed time; waited for quite some time with no signs of TSC delegation honouring the meeting,” he said. Read: Teachers threaten strike after TSC snubs reconciliation meeting On Friday, the Teachers Service Commission said in a statement that it honoured the appointment. “Both the Conciliator and members of KNUT were not at the venue of the meeting at the appointed time. As a matter of fact, the boardroom where the meeting was scheduled to take place was locked,” read part of the statement signed by TSC head of communication Kamotho Kihumba. “The TSC team called the Conciliator and sent her text messages which all went unanswered. Efforts to trace the Conciliator, even in her office on the third floor of the NSSF building were unsuccessful,” added Kihumba. He said TSC's delegation left the venue at around 11.30 am having failed to meet both the Conciliator and the team from KNUT. But on Saturday, Sossion disputed Kihumba’s account of events. “We have learnt that TSC delegation, instead of attending the scheduled meeting at NSSF building 7th floor, was at a Kasarani hotel attending unrelated business.” However, statements from the two individuals indicate that the TSC delegation, if indeed honoured the meeting, turned up at the wrong venue. Whereas Sossion’s statement says the meeting was to take place on the 7th floor, Kihumba’s statement quotes 6th floor as the meeting point. “The TSC team led by the Kenya Federation of Employers (FKE) arrived at the Ministry of Labour offices boardroom situated at the 6th floor at exactly 9.30 am for the said meeting which was set to start at 10 am.” The reconciliation meeting was to be led by the Ministry of Labour appointed Reconciliator Hellen Maneno. She was to listen to both sides and file a report after 30 days. Among the issues raised by Knut are lack of promotion of teachers who have attained higher qualification, the appraisal system of grading teachers performance, and delocalization policy. Sossion said on Friday that about 30,000 teachers who have attained higher academic qualifications have not been promoted since 2014. He said the delocalization policy that saw over 500 head teachers transferred from their home counties early this year contravenes ILO, UNESCO and World Bank statutes. Sossion said the transfer policy leads to teacher intimidation, family separation, poor service delivery, workplace bullying, and poor performance of learners in national examinations. Further, the Knut boss said the Performance Contracting of head teachers and the Teacher Performance Appraisal and Development (TPAD) was unlawfully being conducted by TSC. According to Sossion, the two functions are a reserve of the Ministry of Education through the Directorate of Quality Assurance and Standards as provide for by both the Education and TSC Acts. “Nobody else, or institution is permitted to appraise teachers other than QAS. Hence, teacher appraisal being conducted by TSC is criminal in nature, and an abuse of the Constitution,” he said. “TSC has realised that it has committed all these mess, and now is avoiding meet Ministry of Labour and Union officials,” Sossion added. He further dismissed claims by the teachers’ employer that Knut was yet to furnish it with the documents on the dispute as required by the Labour Relations Act. Sossion said this was just an excuse by the commission to avoid discussing the issues at hand. “The true position is that the said documents were served to TSC Secretary Nancy Macharia as required under Section 62(2)(a) of the Labour Relations Act. “It is indeed, on the basis of these documents that Macharia invited KNUT for a meeting through a circular (CS/TSC/6B/VOL.X/87) dated March 2, only to cancel the same through a circular (CS/TSC/6B/VOL X/93) dated March 8,” Sossion said. He went on; “It is therefore total lies that KNUT failed to serve the Commission with the documents on the dispute. Dr Nancy Macharia has the documents.” Sossion said Knut has written to the ministry of Labour demanding for a certificate of disagreement which will then give them the leeway to call for a national strike. “The morale of Kenyan teachers is at its lowest ebb; unless the government intercedes, service delivery in public schools would be affected heavily,” he said. Read: Teachers threaten strike after TSC snubs reconciliation meeting  Click here for the latest political news