Birdlife
International, The Peregrine Fund, Nature Kenya and the Kenya Bird of
Prey Trust expressed their concerns yesterday in a joint statement saying poisoning has killed nearly 40 Critically Endangered vultures adjacent to the world
famous Masai Mara National Reserve. "Prolonged and
worsening poisoning activities in the country targeting predators,
means vultures are facing a severe threat of extinction,"they said. Read: Nairobi Park Diary: The endangered cranes Retaliatory poisoning usually
occurs when livestock is attacked by predators such as lions, hyenas
and leopards. Livestock farmers resort to lacing their dead livestock
with easily accessible agro-chemicals with the intention to kill
predators. However, vultures that scavenge gregariously on dead animals
succumb to the poison and hundreds die as a result. The
dead vultures were reported in some of the conservancies bordering
the areas north of the Masai Mara. These conservancies have been
instrumental in creating habitat for wildlife such as carnivores,
while also leading to increased tourism potential and income for
local Maasai communities. Maasai community have been benefiting through job
creation and revenue from leasing their land for wildlife and
tourism. The four organizations said about 40 vultures have been observed over two-week period along a radius of 15 kilometers from the village of
Kishermoruak since February 9 this year. This is about 30 km north-east of Masai Mara’s Sekenani Gate. Initial findings suggest that the vultures consumed a poisoned
livestock carcass outside the conservancies and flew in and were
found dead inside some of the conservancies. Read: Power project puts Hell's Gate birds in danger So far, a point source
of the Maasai Mara poisoning has not yet been identified. These vulture deaths
coincide with a spate of other retaliatory poisonings across Africa
where on February 15, six lions and 72 vultures were
reported to have been poisoned in the Ruaha-Katavi landscape,
Tanzania. On February 25, 103 vultures in Mbashene,
Southern Mozambique were killed after feeding on a poisoned elephant
carcass and 50 more were poisoned in Gorongosa National Park,
Mozambique. Program Coordinator of the Masai
Mara Wildlife and Conservancies Association Eric Ole Reson said the greatest challenge is that vultures travel vast distances and can transcend
borders into Tanzania, Ethiopia and Sudan. "But poisoning is happening
at our doorstep and we are losing our country’s natural heritage at
an alarming rate. The vulture problem is not really a vulture problem
but a predator problem and a handful of people are killing the
messenger (vultures) which does not bode well for a healthy
environment”,he said. Reson said there is need to appreciate
the vital ecosystem services that vultures provide – healthy
vulture populations mean healthy people, wildlife and livestock. Director of Global
Conservation Strategy of The Peregrine Fund Dr Munir Virani said people are
poisoning because they have grievances. We are listening to them
to help reduce poisoning levels and reverse the declining trend of
vulture populations,Virani said. Virani said they identify key poisoning hot spots, where they
focus their conservation interventions to create
champions and significantly reduce poisoning to zero levels. This
requires a drastic change in people’s attitudes and behavior and
will take time,” he said  . Vulture
populations globally are declining rapidly primarily due to
intentional and unintentional poisoning but also from habitat loss,
energy expansion and lack of food and as a result are considered one
of the most threatened groups of animals in the world. Africa has
eleven species of which six are found nowhere else. Six of the eight
species that occur in Kenya are highly threatened with extinction
according to the IUCN Red List of threatened species. This means that
without conservation intervention, these species have very little
chance of survival and may possibly go extinct within our lifetimes. Vultures
provide vital ecosystem services in African savannahs by recycling
nutrients, rapidly consuming carcasses and keeping diseases at bay.
Keeping nature clean is vital for human and environmental health, and
in doing so, they play a key role in sustaining the charismatic
animals that are vital in maintaining Kenya’s tourism industry.  Click here for the latest political news