Death is
stalking Baringo county again, as residents endure the double blow of
starvation and acute water shortage. There are over
30,000 people facing starvation and acute water crisis due to prolonged drought
in the county, which is 70 per cent arid. The last rains were in July last
year. Eleven women have lost their pregnancies after taking water fetched from contaminated boreholes and muddy pan dams. While the phenomenon has not yet been scientifically linked to the dirty water, previous research has shown that lead and nitrate in water can lead to miscarriage and spontaneous abortions. More than 200 schools are facing closures due to water shortage. The drought
forces residents to trek 15km to fetch water for drinking and domestic use
along Ng’inyang or Chemoling’ot rivers in Tiaty subcounty. Resident Chebokerial
Lokochel, 64, is a picture of hunger and thirst. She lives in Cheptaran village
and has finished the last portion of relief maize the government supplied her
three months ago. Lokochel never
got married, and she doesn’t have children, so she now stays lonely in a shaky,
grass-thatched house. “The
last meal I ate was ugali and sukuma wiki, which a neighbour served me last
evening,” Lokochel says. A widow in the
neighbourhood, Chebocheulo Nyangiro, is in the same boat. She lost her husband
eight years ago and has no livestock to sell. Nyangiro lost
one of her sons to a bandit attack, and the other one, who involved in cattle
rustling, disappeared two years ago.  SERIAL DEATHS It is in the
same Cheptaran village where six people, including a five-year old child, were
reported to have died of hunger between Wednesday and Sunday last week. In the first
instance, Chebokamuk Aitongi, 90, died at Cheptaran in Tiaty Subcounty Hospital
on Thursday last week. Ng’inyang
resident Yudah Losutan recalls her last moments. “She looked emaciated, weak
and complained of hunger and fierce abdominal pains that led to lack of
appetite before she finally succumbed,” he says. Immediately
after her burial on Friday, three others died of similar symptoms: Dungere
Makal, 70, Angor Lokwangole, 50, and Achukuran Abewet. They were all buried on
Sunday. The same day, the
lifeless body of a five-year old boy was found dumped by the roadside, covered
by stones at Cheptunoiyo area, near Ng’inyang junction. “His parents
from Naudo village, 30km away, refused to take the body for burial after noting
he died of hunger,” Losutan says, adding that it took police intervention to evacuate
the already decomposing body. The resident says
residents are going for days without food and water. He appeals to the government
and well-wishers to fast-track issuing of relief.  STATE IN DENIAL However, Tiaty
subcounty deputy commissioner Yussuf Huka denied that people died of hunger. “The deceased
were elderly people earning the government cash transfer fund, so they were
able to buy themselves food,” Huka said. County commissioner
Henry Wafula also defended the state, saying he and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i
had just donated 200 bags of relief rice to the hungry in Kolowa, Tiaty subcounty,
on Monday last week. “The deaths
must be as a result of either sickness or normal old age,” Wafula said. He said the
government is keen to supply more foodstuff beginning next week. “We are
always on our toes as the government to make sure nobody whatsoever dies of
hunger in the country,” the official said. Meanwhile, Governor
Stanley Kiptis said if nothing is done to tackle the drought and water crisis, it
will push residents to early graves. He spoke on
Friday in Kabarnet town at a Kenya Communication Authority event at the Kenya
School of Government. Silale MCA
Nelson Lotela urged the county and the national government to move faster to
supply food and water to avert more deaths and to retain children in schools. Lotela appealed
to NGOs such as the Kenya Red Cross, World Vision and Acted in Kenya to help address
the emergency. "It is
high time the county government headed by Governor Stanley Kiptis utilised the
emergency funds to supply water to the affected residents through water bowsers,”
he said. Nyumba Kumi
official William Yano said 10 people have lost their lives since last year due
to hunger, although the cases went unreported. Yano said
residents were forced to trek 10-15km to access health facilities, “of which
they also get poor services due to shortage of drugs and nurses,” he said. He said
according to Pokot culture, once a patient dies on the way, his body is
either buried instantly, or thrown away in the bush or by the roadside to be
eaten by wild animals. “Our
people have not been supplied with relief foods since May last year, yet numbers
of their livestock also died due to the harsh drought,” Ripko MCA Daniel Tuwit
said. Tuwit said
most Tugen, Ilchamus and Pokot residents are pastoralists whose livelihoods
depend wholly on livestock.  LAST DROP OF WATER Riongo
resident Chemket Nyangatiang told the Star she is on her last reserves.
 “In this five-litre container re the last drops of water I have. Once it
gets finish I will be forced to trek 10km to fetch some in the drying up river
Ng’inyang,” she said. She said the
entire place is no longer favourable for human living. She cited the abortions, which the area MCA confirmed. Nyangatiang said if the
government is unable to supply water and food, then they will migrate with
their schoolgoing children in search of water and pasture. Elsewhere in
Baringo North Subcounty, women and children are forced to spend their nights in
seasonal rivers searching for water amid harsh droughts More than
10,000 children are on the verge of dropping out of school due to water
scarcity and hunger in arid areas. “I have spent
here the whole night only to fetch two 20-litre jerrycans of water,” Gladys
Jebet said at the drying-up Cheptoriot river along Kerio Valley on Sunday. She said due
to water scarcity, she has had no humble time to spend with her family. “I am
always forced to leave my four-year-old child to sleep with his father every
night as I go lineup in the river with other people to fetch water,” she said. She said she
faces trouble preparing her three children every morning to go to school, as
she is always troubled in her mind about water crisis. She says she
has to drive the family livestock everyday some 15kilometres to drink water
along Kerio River. Another woman,
Sote Daniel, said, “I have also forfeited all other family chores to water
after the last drop got finished last evening.” The river also
serves some 350 students schooling at Kukui Day Secondary School and nurses at
Kukui dispensary also fetch the same dirty water to serve their patients. The residents appealed
to the county and national government and well-wishers to supply them with
enough water bowsers to quench their thirst. Last week on
Wednesday, Water PS Fred Segor supplied six water bowsers to serve Pokot
residents in Tiaty subcounty, riling residents of neighbouring Baringo North
and South subcounties. “How come the
government jumps us to supply water selectively to people in Tiaty, forgetting
us to suffer in this other arid side of Baringo?” Yatya resident Richard
Chepchomei said. Segor said the
water tankers shall remain with the locals in Tiaty until the rains fall
probably in April.  