In an endeavour to transform the agricultural sector, the Strathmore Business School hosted an annual Agribusiness Investors Summit. Present at the summit were farmers, medium to large agro-processors, policy makers, financiers and other stakeholders. The forum seeks to equip agribusiness investors with the right skills and knowledge to scale up their enterprises, and to provide world-class solutions in a local context towards increasing agricultural production and improving livelihoods. Speaking on the importance of soil preparation, FMD sales manager Lucy Mukuru said: “The initial and vital step is understanding the soil. Soil profile varies in different parts of the country. This plays a key role in increasing productivity, together with adoption of appropriate technology in land preparation.” Mukuru recommended soil preparation by vertical tillage to leave a uniform, unrestricted soil profile, promoting maximum root development and increased yields. She said plants raised in a vertical tillage system exhibit higher drought resistance, reach and utilise more nutrients and have greater stand ability due to healthier stalks and root systems. “Vertical tillage aims to improve soil health, increase water infiltration and decrease soil erosion and compaction. During low rainfall season, crops remain healthy. It also reduces runoff and loss of the top fertile layer of the soil,” Mukuru said. The other less practised is the strip-till system, which is a conservation system of cultivating that involves tilling narrow strips for crop establishment, while leaving areas between the strips with undisturbed crop residue. This method of tillage requires more investment in tracking systems to ensure, seeds and fertiliser are placed in the prepared seedbed. After the soil has been prepared, the method of planting is another determinant to maximising produce. “To give a crop maximum advantage, the seeds have to be planted at the correct depth and spacing to achieve the optimum plant population for maximum return,” Mukuru said. “There are planters available from different dealers that will enable the investor achieve this.” She concluded by saying, “Increasing agricultural productivity will increase incomes, especially for small-holder farmers. This can be achieved by applying appropriate technology”.