The Embu county government missed its half-year revenue collection target of Sh450 million by Sh348 million. Chairman of the county assembly Budget and Appropriation Committee Robert Ireri said on Thursday said according to records, the county had only managed to collect Sh102 million by December 31 last year. Ireri said there is uncertainty on whether the county would hit the annual mark Sh900 million revenue collection by the close of the 2017/2018 financial year by June 30th. He described the revenue deficit as extremely serious and called for concerted efforts to ensure more revenue is collected to fund county projects. Ireri, who is also the Kagaari South MCA, spoke at the assembly after the County Fiscal Strategy Paper was tabled in the house by deputy majority leader Murithi Kiura. Temporary speaker Nathan Mwari said the county government’s meagre collection of revenue painted a bleak picture on development project. During the budget-making process last year, Ireri said the county government gave its revenue target to supplement the allocation from the national government. He, however, acknowledged the target was ambitious, saying it would only be realised if loopholes for revenue leakages were sealed. Ireri said the budget committee had allocated Sh90 million for a fool proof electronic system for revenue collection that would curb public money theft. The system is yet to be operationalised, and county revenue collectors had reverted to the old outdated handwritten receipts, Ireri said. Gaturi North MCA Paul Muchangi recently cautioned there would be a budgetary deficit. He said this would be a big blow to development. Muchangi, who is also the Trade Committee chairman, said the county government was deceiving itself by thinking it could collect Sh900 million revenue this year. He said it has been unable to collect Sh500 million for the last five years and wondered how it would raise an additional Sh400 million. Muminji MCA Newton Kariuki claimed revenue collectors steal from the county because of lack of morale. However, Mwea MCA Harrison Mwaluko expressed confidence an additional Sh80 million, which had been set aside for the establishment of the Embu County Revenue Authority, would boost the county’s earnings. Mwaluko said enhancing the county’s revenue collection ability was the only way of ensuring growth in the county. He challenged the county executive to implement proposed revenue raising measures in order to achieve the campaign pledges made to the people of Meru.