Kakamega county has been accused of failing to develop a new County  Integrated Development Plan (CIDP) 2018-2022. The county treasury only replaced the cover of the 2013-2018 CIDP and presented it for adoption. This was revealed as MCAs begun a two day retreat yesterday to scrutinize the CIDP, Fiscal Strategy Paper and Annual Development Paper 2018. The ward reps a week ago declined to adopt the papers that should guide development of county citing ambush and arm-twisting by the executive in the budget making process. The county missed the March 7 deadline set by the Public Finance Management Act (PFM) Act and the County Governments Act on when county treasuries ought to publish and publicize their Fiscal Strategy Papers after approval by respective assemblies. County Treasuries are supposed to table the County Fiscal Strategy Paper (CFSP) before assemblies by February 28. MCAs extended the time line by 21 days to allow them scan the documents before adoption. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya’s ODM enjoy majority in the assembly but there appear to be a rebellion by the MCAs over what they term attempts by the executive to micromanage the assembly. Kakamega county has been accused of failing to develop a new County  Integrated Development Plan for 2018-2022. The treasury only replaced the cover of the 2013-2018 CIDP and presented it for adoption, MCAs allege. This emerged as MCAs began a two-day retreat yesterday to scrutinise the CIDP, the Fiscal Strategy Paper and Annual Development Paper 2018. Last week, ward reps declined to adopt the papers that are supposed to guide development. MCAs claimthey were “ambushed” and “arm-twisted” by the executive in the budget-making process. The county missed the March 7 deadline set by the Public Finance Management Act and the County Governments Act for county treasuries to publish and publicise their Fiscal Strategy Papers after approval by assemblies. The treasuries were to table the papers before their assemblies by February 28. MCAs extended the deadline by 21 days to allow them to scan the documents before adoption. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya’s ODM party has the majority in the assembly. But there is resistance by MCAs over what they term attempts by the executive to “micromanage” the assembly. The ward reps are said to be unhappy with Oparanya’s decision to scrap ward development and bursaries kitties. The kitties were the only links between them and the voters, they MCAs said. “The executive, through budget committee chair Lukas Radoli, wanted us to adopt a document we had not seen. We declined because through our own means we established that it did not contain ward projects,” Sheywe MCA Job Mwamto said. Mwamto said the executive had sneaked the documents in the house and wanted to “bulldoze” it through just as they did with the supplementary budget. Clerk Patrick Kamwesser said the executive presented a fresh CIDP, which MCAs will scrutinise during the retreat. “By scrapping the two kitties, effectively cutting off elected MCAs from the people, he wants to deal with the people and cut us out. This amounts to writing our political obituaries,” Mwamto said. Nominated MCA Linda Aseyo said budget committee members are being pushed to conduct public participation about a document whose content they don’t know. Aseyo said elected MCAs were asked to propose projects they needed captured in their wards in the 2018-2019 financial year, but they were not included in the document.