James Orengo is the new Minority leader after NASA senators on Tuesday voted out Moses Wetang'ula. At least 19 senators who attended the coalition's Parliamentary Group meeting unanimously voted to replace Wetang'ula with Siaya's James Orengo. Eight NASA senators, who failed to attend the meeting, sent apologies with some saying they are out of the country. Others said they had travelled out of Nairobi. "Some of us have been uneasy with Wetang'ula's style of leadership. He is arrogant, a bully and doesn't want to listen to us," a Senator who asked not to be named said. "That's why we want him out. We also don't want a principal in Senate matters," the senator added. More on this: Why Senators want Weta out of minority job The legislator disclosed that Kakamega Senator Cleopa Malala (ANC) is poised to replace Orengo as deputy minority leader. Nominated Senator Beatrice Kwamboka (ODM) is poised for deputy whip replacing nominated Senator Petronilla Were (ANC) due to the elevation of Malala from the Speaker's panel. Senator Judy Pareno (Nominated) has been proposed to the Speaker's panel to replace Malala. "We are waiting communication from the Speaker this afternoon on our PG decision. We want the proposed changes in Senate leadership to be made once Orengo is confirmed as Minority Leader," the senator said. Chief Whip and Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr chaired the PG. He is to forward the meeting's resolution to Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. The development come in the wake of upheavals in the coalition which brought together ODM, Wiper, Ford Kenya, and Amani National Congress ahead of last year's election. This was heightened following last week's truce between Opposition leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The two leaders reached a pact to work together in efforts to unite the country after the deep divisions which followed the August 8 and October 26, 2017 elections. Also read: ODM wants Wetang’ula kicked out of Minority More on this: Nasa united, ODM will revoke call for Wetangula's removal - Kalonzo Click here for the latest political news  