When Nyali MP Mohamed ‘Jicho Pevu’ Ali first spoke on the floor of the House about the status of healthcare in this country, it was with a passion. All politicians can afford to get cancer treatment outside the country, yet the people who elected them languish in pain at the mercy of other Kenyans to fund their trips overseas in search of the same treatment. Many non-prominent Kenyans come out and allow themselves to be vulnerable in search of help and for the government to do something about cancer care and management in the country. A few prominent leaders bravely fought the disease and continue to lead their lives as public figures. Some desperately struggled to hide their diagnosis from the media, but in the end came out and helped shape the conversation on the burden of cancer in Kenya. Despite some of them having died as they battled the disease, they are still considered victors.  NDERITU GACHAGUA He was the first Kenyan governor to die in office. He died aged 64 at a London hospital from pancreatic cancer.  JANET KANINI IKUA She was a former NTV presenter and died of lung cancer. She was identified as one of the strongest of patients in Kenya for putting up a brave fight against the disease and also encouraging those undergoing treatment not to lose hope.  ANYANG’ NYONG’O Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o is a survivor of prostate cancer. He was diagnosed with the disease in July 2010. Despite him receiving treatment overseas, he has always emphasised the need for Kenyans to go for early screening so as to avoid any late detection.  WANGARI MAATHAI She was an environmentalist and a Nobel Peace Prize winner. She died at the age of 71 on November 25, 2011, after a long battle with ovarian cancer. Her death was received with shock across the world because it was not widely known that she was ailing.  BETH MUGO She is a survivor of breast cancer. She was diagnosed with the disease at 73 when she served as the country's Public Health Cabinet Minster. She has since opened a foundation, the Beth Mugo Foundation, to mobilise support for enhanced access to breast, cervical and prostate cancer information, screening and referral for improved prevention, early detection and treatment.  HARRISON KIPTOO Deputy president William Ruto’s brother died of kidney cancer. During his burial the Deputy President emphasised the need to visit the hospital more and get tested. This disease is curable if detected early. Doing screening regularly will go a long way in reducing deaths.