WHY did National Treasury
Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich
(pictured) change his statement yesterday? We are told that senior people in government
were unhappy with the minister for “making reckless statements” that were
likely to shake the confidence of investors.  The previous day, Rotich had
asked Senators to approve his recommendation to slash the counties' budget and
that he was also going to announce wide-ranging cost-cutting measures across
government. But those in the know whisper to Corridors that the remarks did not
go down well with some senior people in government. ***** CAN'T the Ethics and
Anti-Corruption Commission and DPP use the Auditor General's report to swing
into action against those who swindle the public out of billions? Well, this
was the subject of discussion of some lawyers as recruitment for the next DPP
kicked off yesterday. In his report Edward Ouko has, for instance, categorically
stated that records of the purchase of police footwear were falsified at Police
Headquarters in Nairobi. The Auditor General described the shoes being used by
the cops as pathetic. At the DCI, millions of shillings collected from certificates
of good conduct are missing. Is His Worship Eliud Wabukala listening to these frustrated Kenyans? ***** A governor from Western
Kenya known for his love of dancehalls — which has exposed him to online
ridicule from his constituents — has now changed tack. He used to frequent a
popular joint in Kisumu but has relocated to Nairobi, where he flies to every
Friday evening for a whole weekend. Our mole intimates that the governor
decided on Nairobi after realising his opponents were sending some people to
monitor his movements and record videos of him enjoying the good life. ***** THE management of a well-established
hotel in Nyanza is reeling from shock after two County Executive Committee
members locked in a steamy love affair left them with unpaid bills, including
lodging fees. It’s whispered that the two lovebirds now frequent Nairobi, much
to the chagrin of the hotel management. So strong is the love affair that even
in Cabinet meetings, they sit next to each other occasionally smiling. Sources
whisper to Corridors that the hotel has been pushing for what is due but the
man has been pleading for more time, saying the government is yet to disburse
funds for “recurrent expenditure”. Indeed. ***** AN influential Jubilee MP's
law firm has been put on the spot for failure to pay up millions to a client it
represented in an election petition almost 10 years ago. The amount was part of
the suit costs awarded to the client. The man is known to display affluence
wherever he goes.