ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru yesterday said the media shutdown during the “swearing-in” of Opposition leader Raila Odinga was a matter of national security. Raila was sworn in as the People’s President on January 30 in Uhuru Park. Four TV stations – Citizen TV, Inooro TV, NTV and KTN News – were switched off for attempting to cover the event live. Mucheru, who appeared before the Senate ICT Committee, linked the switch-off to the National Security Council, chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Read: 'Matter of national security': Mucheru refuses to explain media shutdown during Raila oath He refused to comment further on the matter on grounds it would jeorpadise national security. “I will not answer the who and the why of the shutdown. I’m not the one who did it. I’m also not authorised to discuss security matters in the glare of cameras,” Mucheru said. “When the National Security Council invokes its actions, I cannot respond.” Committee chairman Gideon Moi, also the Baringo Senator, criticised the CS and demanded answers. “I understand the position you are taking. We are representing Kenyans. We want to get to the bottom of this unfortunate and ugly situation,” Gideon said. “It is paramount that such a thing doesn’t occur again. If it does, it will reflect badly on you.” The CS said a pending court case bars him from discussing the issues the senators raised. He said the matter can only be discussed once it is disposed of in court. More: Nasa planned 'massacre' at Uhuru Park, media involved - Matiang'i “What I can assure you is the government’s commitment to the freedom of the press. After the court case, we can continue to have more discussions on the issue,” he said. Mucheru had skipped previous summons by the committee but denied he deliberately ignored them. Senators accused him of undermining Parliament after failing to appear to explain the shutdown of Citizen TV, Inooro TV, KTN News, and NTV. Mucheru had asked the team to reschedule a date for the questioning, saying he was engaged in a Cabinet meeting at the time he was expected at Parliament. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i had alleged that the Opposition planned a massacre in the park and some media houses were in on this. Just hours after declaring the National Resistance Movement a criminal group, the Interior CS on January 31 spoke of a “well-choreographed attempt to subvert or overthrow the legally constitutional government of Kenya”. He said criminal gangs masquerading as other bodies will not be tolerated. Also read: Kenya bows to pressure, restores KTN and NTV broadcast  Click here for the latest political news