In the colonial period, the District Commissioners were required to make annual reports for the areas they administered. They were supplied with an itemised list of the content expected in their reports. Such items as public works, human and animal health, population trends, taxation, courts cases and others formed the bulk of the reports. I came across an item titled “Government Prestige” in a 1909 annual report of a district in Western Kenya. The colonial government was deliberate about how it was viewed, particularly in the eyes of the governed. This was necessary in order to keep the governed looking up to it as a polity of might, thereby earning its right of place. Government was to be viewed in awe and held in high opinion — never mind what it took to achieve that. The administrators were under a strict professional code that covered everything from dress, speech, personal and professional relationships — all of which were aimed at maintaining government prestige. Government had to always be on top of things, regardless. Successive regimes after Independence went to great lengths to ensure they maintained government prestige. You could not speak or do anything deemed to threaten this prestige, and at times, this led to severe rights violations. Some clipped the media, directed what people heard on radio or watched on TV or read in the papers — all in the name of maintaining how government was viewed. Publications deemed to attack its prestige, were clamped and there was a specific social code that ensured people looked up to the might of government.  VINDU VICHENJANGA The 2010 Constitution pared away many such powers. Under the current regime, however, government is fast losing prestige. It has been the subject of lots of ridicule by individuals, who no longer regard it with much esteem or feel obliged to accord it much deference, particularly when they do not agree with its leadership. National holidays are now observed in empty stadia and in some counties, the presidential speech is even called off. In colonial days, public holidays were never skipped and you would never be caught dead doing your own things as the District Commissioner read the governor’s speech. Presidential orders are now considered more like suggestions and the President can hardly have his way anymore. We probably did not anticipate the office bearer would not wield much influence and government prestigewould suffer attrition. We probably created an amazing prestige gap, which is causing the government to behave erratically.  THE PRESTIGE GAP Analysts do not know whether it is the person of Uhuru Kenyatta or it is the system he operates in that’s to blame, but we can clearly see we have a problem. The reaction to the mock swearing-in of the ‘People’s President’ Raila Odinga and the way it has treated those associated with the exercise shows a government trying to plug a prestige deficit. Deporting Miguna Miguna and defying lawful court orders to produce him in court is only a sign of a government trying hard to maintain face. Every government has a strong survival instinct, and sometimes tramples on the rights of its citizens to save face. The enactment of the current Constitution was designed to cure this, but we may have just created another problem.  DANGER OF LOSING PRESTIGE Government prestige has its own advantages. Generally, the danger of government losing prestige is that we (collectively) lose our standing in the regional and international community. It makes it harder to be taken seriously when you negotiate such issues as trade deals, investment and infrastructure deals, among others. How a government is viewed determines success in such areas. Already, Kenya’s position in the regional bloc/continent is considered weak, and some of our people have lost contests for leadership of regional blocs because of this. The situation has been partly blamed for Kenya not being taken seriously in many issues, one of which is close to all of us — Migingo.  INVESTING IN PRESTIGE Governments worldwide invest greatly in prestige and guard it jealously. The head of state is housed in humongous mansions doted across the country and even has his face on the national currency. They invest in costly fuel-guzzlers, complete with outriders and chase cars, and of course, the national standard placed on the side or, as in the case of Jomo Kenyatta, the coat of arms in the roof of the car. Helicopters used for local travel (choppers are big prestige boosters) while their vehicles travel on the ground to await their arrival by air. And yes, there is Air Force One and the Kenyan version of the same used to travel internationally and arriving in style in any corner of the world. In fact there was a time when Daniel Moi’s plane would be escorted by Kenya Air Force jets, flanking it on both sides until he left the national airspace. They ensure they display their military hardware in national parades, including fly-by shows in national holidays complete with parades by uniformed forces. Governments also invest in intelligence, getting the latest information and also allowing the same information to be tweaked and leaked as propaganda, all of which is aimed at protecting its prestige. You will then be forgiven if you did not hear how Kenya was badly ridiculed in the Ugandan media when their military officers chased away Kenyan security officers off Migingo Island. Many other things passed you. It was deliberate.  DEFYING COURT ORDERS In defying court orders, the UhuRuto government is desperately trying to salvage some prestige. It is finding itself unable to stamp its own authority and is viewed as weak. We were treated to a high drama when they were unable to deport Miguna Miguna, who commanded the Captain not to fly him out of the country against his will. Then Miguna had to return to the airport and remained in the country as the government tried to save face by processing his papers. Then he refuses to sign papers and you can’t do anything about it. In the days of President Moi, government could not be seen as losing anything. It did everything to always come out on top and would never lose face in the eyes of the people. It never lost anything, not even court cases. To avoid this, it invested in judges it knew would never allow it to lose prestige, and prosecutors who ensured those who threatened government prestige, were packed behind bars.  REGRETTING MARAGA One of the deepest regrets of UhuRuto was offering the job of Chief Justice to David Maraga, who turned out to be independent-minded and keen to ensure the independence of the Judiciary, at the expense of Executive prestige. Maraga’s Supreme Court ruling that nullified Uhuru’s ‘win’ after the August 8 election had a deep attritional effect on government prestige. Their inability to tame the voices of dissenting civil servants, such as the Auditor General,has also led to further loss of this prestige. Shortly after losing the Supreme Court battle, Uhuru went on a ‘meet-the-people’ tour, where he described Maraga and the (dissenting) judges in less than honorable terms. Prestige gaps.  WHERE THE PROBLEM LIES There is clearly a serious problem between the two arms of government — the Executive and the Judiciary. I would blame both sides. It seems the Judiciary does not understand issuing Court orders that undermine the prestige of government. It is setting itself up for defiance. While I do not advocate government defying court orders, even under the blanket excuse of ‘security concerns’, there is a way in which the courts are also setting themselves up for being defied. Take for instance modern parenting of a defiant teen with esteem issues. Even if you have the right of might at your disposal as a parent, it may just be a good idea to change tack and still get what you want with your kid. Enforcing the law it seems, must also be moderated by a correct study of the prevalent mood. Already, there was a government official ‘jailed’ for contempt and he is yet to serve his term. There was nobody willing or able to jail him — save the government he worked for, which was in no mood of doing so.  UNDERMINING THE RULE OF LAW So, is the Judiciary encouraging the defiance of their orders by failing to understand or disregarding the Executive’s need to project itself as being in charge? Is it setting itself up for defiance of its own orders thereby undermining its own authority? Is the Executive also trying too hard to cover or plug gits prestige issues, thereby threatening the foundation of its own prestige — the rule of law? It is very clear that the symbiotic relationship between these arms of government means they must work together, even if they don’t feel like it.  Sang is a writer and biographer, researcher, publisher and commentator on leadership and social issues