It was tears, anger and regret for MPs whose August 2017 election victories were nullified. As winners were declared, losers were not content that the outcome of the elections was free and fair. This made them including some individual citizens to go to court to challenge the results. Last year, the Supreme Court in a historic ruling nullified the elections of Uhuru Kenyatta as the president of Kenya. Repeat elections were later held on October 26th as the Opposition chief Raila Odinga withdrew from the race citing irregularities and illegalities. Uhuru was later declared the winner with 7,483,895 million votes and Raila, who withdrew over lack of reforms, 73,228. The Opposition said Uhuru's presidency is illegitimate. More on this: Uhuru still illegitimate president, resistance on, Raila tells BBC The High Court then began hearing the petitions of 'losers' who disputed results of the Members of Parliament. So far, Six MPs have lost their seats after the High Court dismissed their elections for not being free and fair. They include; Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Chris Karani (Ugenya), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Mohamed Abdi(Wajir), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West) and Wanjiku Kibe (Gatundu North). KETER The Eldoret High court nullified his results citing poll malpractice. Justice George Kimondo said the elections were not held in a free and fair environment. After the ruling on Thursday, his supporters took to the streets protesting against it. No Keter! No Ruto!...Ruto must go! Ruto must go!...they said. Read: Alfred Keter loses Nandi Hills seat, court cites poll malpractices Also read: Ruto must go! Eldoret chants after court nullifies Alfred Keter's win KIBE The election of Kibe was nullified after the High Court Judge Joel Ngugi said the election was marred with massive irregularities by IEBC. The petition had been filed by Clement Waibara, a former MP. Read: Gatundu North MP Wanjiku Kibe election nullified ABDI The Wajir governor election was nullified on grounds that it was not conducted according to the law. Justice Alfred Mabeya said the governor Mohamed Abdi's academic papers were not complete since he doesn't have a genuine degree. Mabeya also said Abdi was not validly cleared to vie for the seat and noted many discrepancies in forms 37B. These were used to declare him winner after the August 8 general election. The court also found that some forms had alterations yet there were no counter-signatures as required by the law. AWITI Awiti's election was nullified and a fresh election ordered in 60 days. The High court threw out the election early this week after a petition by former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga. Making the ruling, Judge Joseph Karanja said IEBC did not conduct a free and fair election on August 8. Read:Court nullifies Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti's election, orders fresh polls MUTHAMA A Malindi court nullified the election of Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama. The court found that the election was marred by massive irregularities. Giving her ruling, Justice Weldon Korir ordered the IEBC and Muthama to pay Sh3 million in costs. The petition was filed by ODM candidate Rishad Amana. Stanley Muthama of Maendeleo Chap Chap was declared the winner in the August election after garnering 11,090 votes against the petitioner who got 10,950. Lamu West has 51,559 registered voters. More on this: Wajir governor Mohamed Abdi's election nullified KARANI The High court nullified Chris Karan's election as Ugenya MP after a petition by former MP David Ochieng' who held that the process was not free and fair. Justice Tripsisa Cherere held that Karan was not duly elected on August 8, 2017. They will have to go back to the drawing board after courts overturned their elections. Click here for the latest political news