Land registries and their banking halls will be out of bounds to the public from today for 10 days. Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri said the closure is to streamline the registries to ensure efficiency and reduce turnaround time. An online platform - the Land Information Management System - will be installed. “The ministry is entrusted with facilitating efficient land administration and management whose key objectives are to formulate and coordinate implementation of policies and legal framework for sustainable land management,” he said. Muraguri said in a newspaper advert business has to be changed for the ministry’s goals to be achieved. He said to achieve a fully digitised environment,the ministry has to ensure all records are scanned and data is clean in preparation for online services. DUPLICATE TITLE DEEDS The exercise will begin in Nairobi and will be cascaded to all other registries across the country. The closure comes against a backdrop of an audit reports by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The report released on Wednesday last week showed unauthorised people were handling sensitive land documents, leading to manipulation. The report showed there was a duplication of land records, including title deeds and certificates of lease. It was compiled by the EACC between September 2016 and February 2017. In some registries, there were interns, casuals and volunteers who were not closely supervised. They had unlimited access to the registries and other record storage. This, according to the EACC, exposed documents to unauthorised people and created room for alteration and destruction. It also provided an avenue for filing of illegitimate records, giving cartels a field day. The EACC report also unearthed instances where sensitive land records were poorly stored, with some piled up on floors, while others were on ceiling boards. Muraguri said the process of restoring the registries’ lost glory will start in both the Nairobi and Central registries. The closure is set to end on March 30 and normal business will resume on April 3. “During this period, all services offered at these registries will not be available at Ardhi House, Nairobi. However, all other registries will remain open,” Muraguri said. He said there will be no more manual processing of documents. All services will be offered through www.ecitizen.go.ke. Services include transfer of ownership and valuation requests.