The Environment ministry yesterday welcomed the latest plans by the Kenya Defence Forces to step up environmental conservation initiatives. This includes planting of more than three million trees in Kibiku and Ololua forests. The ministry said it targets to have one million trees planted in every county annually. KDF officers, under the Environmental Soldier Programme, have been undertaking key environmental conservation efforts. “As part of the KDF’s commitment to protecting our natural resources, the military officers have undertaken to plant and nurture two million indigenous trees in Kibiku Forest and a further one million indigenous trees in Ololua Forest,” Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said during International Day of Forests celebrations marked in the Karura Forest yesterday. The late Nobel Peace laureate Wangari Maathai vigorously campaigned to protect the forest. The involvement of military officers in the restoration of depleted Kibiku and Ololua forests comes hot on the heels of the recent replacement of Kenya Forest Service officers previously deployed to the Kibiku, Ololua, Thogoto and Ngong Road forest stations. The replacement was undertaken due to widespread destruction of trees, which was blamed on the KFS officers. Tobiko welcomed the KDF officers’ participation in environmental regeneration. He said the ministry has launched plans to integrate the counties, disciplined forces, the public and the private sector in the ongoing national tree-planting campaign. cleanup of rivers The soldiers joined Tobiko in planting trees to mark the day, whose theme was Forests and Sustainable Cities. This augured well for the government’s efforts to foster sustainable environmental conservation through increased forest cover and urban greening programmes. Tobiko said the ministry will also focus on river cleanups and enforce proper solid waste management programmes. The Nairobi River is once again a target. He faulted Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko for the garbage mess in the city. “Protecting our environment and forests is a shared responsibility. We shall relentlessly pursue it to make our cities, among other urban and rural towns, environmental centres of excellence,” Tobiko said. “In partnership with the county leadership teams and other partners, we intend to achieve a 10 per cent tree cover by 2022. I’m glad various groups, including the disciplined forces, public agencies, educational institutions and corporate organisations, are taking the lead.” Tobiko warned officers with wayward behaviours that they will be dealt with firmly. But hardworking officers will be protected, he sai