Nairobi matatu owners have objected a move by the National Youth Service to introduce commuter buses with flat rate of Sh50. Chairman Simon Kimutai (Matatu Owners Association) and Dickson Mbugua (Matatu Welfare Association) told the Star on Thursday that they will "frustrate the initiative until it fails". In a statement on Thursday, the service said it will deploy 27 buses on Friday to help alleviate the commuter crisis worsened by heavy rains. Director General Richard Ndubai said commuters will pay Sh50 regardless of the distance covered. "The decision to deploy the NYS buses has also been made to save commuters the high fares they are charged by PSVs in the current season," he said. The official said the buses will operate on routes used by commuters from high population areas of Nairobi. These include Kibera, Githurai, Mwiki, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Dandora, Kariobangi and Kawangware, he said, adding more vehicles will be introduced later. “We have witnessed people in Nairobi walking long distances in the rain and most of the time due to high fares charged by commuter vehicles. We shall do the much we can to alleviate the suffering,” he said. But Kimutai said the move will not see the light of day as players were not consulted. "We have to question their intention. We don't fear competition but we perceive such a move as a deliberate action by the government to spoil our business," he said by phone. The chairman also noted the NYS must make an application to the National Transport and Safety Authority on routes to cover as part of compliance. "The NTSA announced that it had stopped enrolling new players in the business so what criteria did the NYS use to get into the business?" Kimutai maintained if the buses are imposed on the sector, unfair competition will be the result. He noted over-supply of transport services and the cutting of deals so matters will be worse with the NYS. Mbugua said the move is not welcome on grounds that it violates statutes. "The government cannot compete with subjects it wants to sustain operations through taxes. It directed us to upgrade our matatus by phasing out 14-seaters yet we had invested heavily in them.' The chairman added that the government cannot purport to evade tax and VAT charges by imposing itself on a business that is already so competitive. "They cannot just undercut us like this. This government is bad for any business. They tried it before between 1988 and 1993 ... it fell flat on their faces. This will not work due to vested interests." Noting government businesses have no returns, he said matatu operators and owners will collaborate to frustrate the move. Click here for the latest political news