A primary school in Trans Nzoia has appealed to the government to help end rampant alcohol abuse, cases of girl prostitutes and a gang of 19 boys engaging in sodomy. Teachers say the situation is out of control and seriously injuring children and their academic performance. The school has written to the municipality and education department for help. Most of the pupils come from Kipsongo and Shanty slums. Absenteeism is high and most students sleep in class, teachers said. The deputy head teacher said the situation is so bad that several Standard One and Two girls are undergoing counseling for alcohol addiction. “Last year we had a Standard One pupil who used to come to school drunk. She was so addicted she couldn’t stay in class for a whole day without drinking,” she said. When the Star visited the school on Monday, a seven-year-old girl said she is slowly reforming after counselling by her teachers. She said her mother brews chang’aa and she started drinking at age five. “I have stopped drinking now, because my teachers said if I didn’t stop I’d die,” she said. Some pupils interviewed said their parents give them a “tin of busaa as a meal for lunch”. They said when they go home, they help their parents sell the brew and bhang in the slums. The head teacher said some pupils are family breadwinners and they must fend for their siblings. One Standard Six girl said some parents encourage them to have sex to raise money for food. She said her friend’s mother encouraged her to find a boyfriend from a better-off family so he can provide food money. A Standard Eight boy was attacked and pricked with nails on his back, thighs and arm by an adult male friend at the weekend. The boy, 17, said his “friend” was jealous when he found him with another man. “I started this practice in 2015. A boy in Standard Eight last year recruited me,” he said. A local man is said to have ‘recruited’ several pupils, giving them Sh50-Sh100 for sexual contact. Several boys said they have been instructed to walk, talk and behave like girls. “We are a team of 19 boys who have anal sex and there are several others from other schools,” he told the Star. The boy said after he was assaulted, he told the deputy head teacher who took him to hospital. The medical report seen by the Star shows the boy had been having anal sex. The school set up a guidance and counselling department after they were shocked by students’ lives. The head teacher said they should spend more time at school than at home.