Title: Rendezvous Artist: MI Abaga Genre: Hip hop/Rap Release: February 9  Jude Abaga, or better yet MI (as he would preferably love to referred to as), is one of the most progressive African rappers. It wouldn’t be specious to assert that he has shaped the rap game in his own amazing way. He understands how to spit over a proper beat — and over the years, he has demonstrated the will to patiently hone his craft. In the ways of his label, perhaps, MI Abaga has created his niche with his captivating delivery — a skill that informs his identity. Building on the themes of his previous releases, MI released his fourth album — an effort packed with collaborations. “Rendevous” gives us something we never got to experience on his 2014 release “Chairman”: diversity. Four months ago, he gave a stern warning to his rivals when he dropped the music video “You Rappers Should Fix Up Your Lives”. Hard-hitting punchlines were served in preparation for this new 15-track release - and surely it’s something the Nigerian rapper will always look back on with an endless smirk on his face. The fan favourites will certainly be “Soup” featuring Cassper Nyovest, “On Code” featuring AKA, “Jungle” featuring Tomi Thomas and “Santi and Lekki” featuring Odunsi, Ajebutter22 & Falz. Nonso Amadi offers his soulful vocals on the romantic “Playlist” and Dice Ailes joins on the trap-inflected tune “You Father”. Throughout the album, listeners are granted an opportunity to experience the various forms of MI, without the rapper necessarily varying his flow. This could be the case considering his endless stellar guest list that also includes Chillz, Ckay, Joules Da Kid, Wande Coal, Moelogo, Ghost(SDC), Terry Apala, Straffiti, Blaqbones, Yung l, U.ax and Trigga Madtonic. It’s tracks like his 2014 drop Bad Belle that exhibited the rapper’s influence in the hip hop scene, but it is his effort on “Rendezvous” that confirms and solidifies MI’s creative and recording weight. Thanks to his collaborative considerations and faultless lyricism, he offered a refreshed taste in an era where African tunes are quite the big deal.  Star Rating: 4 out of 5