The counties should never and must never be blamed over challenges that are purely of the Treasury’s making. As the county government, we know why we exist as developed units and daily we endeavour to fund projects that can turnaround the livelihoods of our people. The biggest challenge we face as devolved units is the inaction by the national government to ensure that the Treasury is real-time in the disbursement of money to the counties. The funds that we receive from the National government belong to the counties by right as stipulated in the Constitution. They are not a favour. The Constitution has made it very clear as to what belongs to the two levels of government. However, the Treasury has continued to delay the release of these monies to the counties. The end result is that the effective implementation of the budgets by the counties is adversely affected. We plan for the development projects we want to put up for our people, but then because we rely on the National Treasury for funds, we have had serious operational challenges. We are then left wondering if the delays are stage-managed and deliberately occasioned so that the counties are seen as ineffective. We refuse to take this blame and strongly urge the national government to do its part on time to avoid costly inconveniences. It is a fact that delay by the National Treasury in disbursing funds to the counties is the main reason for problems in absorption of development expenditure. For instance, in Kisii County, by the close of the financial year in June 2017, the County Government had not received its entitlement in development expenditure for several months. At that time, the County had Sh1.5 billion in unspent balances. The National Treasury was only releasing recurrent expenditure, which caters for salaries and office operations. This means it is impossible to pay contractors and other service providers for work done in various projects in time and often this led to conflicts. Many other counties are facing the same problems and cannot pay contractors and other service providers because the National Treasury is not prompt in the disbursement of funds. This is an issue we have raised several times with the Senate, but we are yet to see decisive action to ensure that the counties are not deliberately starved of funds. The writer is the Kisii County Governor