Garissa Township MP Aden Duale, has said they will fix any politician who tries to stand in the way of DP President William Ruto’s quest for the presidency. Speaking on Saturday during the homecoming of Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Achesa in Shibale, Duale said they have already dealt with Jubilee rebels in Parliament. “Ruto is a utility player like Manchester United’s Lukaku [Romelu]. We will not let him be injured before the 2022 poll. Anybody who tries to stand in front of him will be sorted out by us, the foot soldiers,” he said. Duale said immediate former Nandi Hills MP Charles Keter had tried to disturb Ruto and was fixed in Parliament. He faces an uphill task in the by-election, he said. “Keter has been disturbing us. He should prepare his political obituary,” Duale said. The High Court in Eldoret on Thursday last week nullified the election of Keter as Nandi Hills MP. Keter has blamed the Deputy President for his troubles. Duale said President Uhuru Kenyatta and the DP appointed Achesa as Sports CS because he is courageous and would deal with anyone opposing Ruto in Western Kenya. “Achesa you tackled those guys even when you were not in Cabinet. Now that you are in the government, be ruthless with them,” he said. Duale was referring to an incident that occurred during the campaigns for last year’s General Election when Achesa stopped a NASA rally in Kakamega. NASA leader Raila Odinga and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya were forced to flee.  RAILA 'WILL SUPPORT RUTO' The Leader of Majority in the National Assembly said Ruto’s bid for the top seat is unstoppable. The opposition is confused and will not win the election, he said. Duale said there are high chances of NASA leader Raila Odinga supporting Ruto in 2022 since other NASA principals have let him down. He said while in ODM, Ruto stood by Raila to the last minute until he was appointed Prime Minister. “Raila still has our debt because we delivered the premiership for him, unlike the cowards he is dealing with now,” Duale said.