NASA leader Raila Odinga has endorsed President Uhuru Kenyatta's cousin, Annah Nyokabi, to deputise Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. Raila yesterday said the former Kiambu Woman Representative is the best suit candidate to fill the position left vacant after Polycarp Igathe resigned. Raila spoke when Nyokabi paid him a courtesy call at his Capitol Hill office in Nairobi. The former Prime Minister said Nyokabi's record as the first Kiambu county MP was worth emulating. “I have known Nyokabi for a long time and her record as an MP speaks for itself, especially when it comes to promotion of gender equality, economic empowerment and wealth creation,” Raila said. Read: Anne Kiguta, Miguna among Sonko's top options for deputy governor Related: Igathe resigns as Deputy Governor, says Sonko doesn't trust him The ODM party leader urged Sonko to appoint his deputy to fill the vacuum and hasten development in the city. Nyokabi praised Raila for supporting women leadership. She pledged to support Raila in the national healing and reconciliation process they agreed on with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Igathe resigned in January, saying he had lost Sonko's trust. “Dear Nairobians, it is with a heavy heart that I resign my seat as elected Deputy Governor of Nairobi City County effective 1pm on 31st Jan 2018. I regret I have failed to earn the trust of the Governor to enable me to drive Administration and Management of the county,” he wrote on Twitter. Also read: Sonko likely to name Agnes Kagure as deputy governor Nyokabi has a degree in in political science from York University in Toronto Canada and a post graduate diploma in international business management from Seneca College, Canada. She has more than 25 years of experience both in private and public sector. She is credited with the building of a unique community centre with a public library, gender violence centre, a recording studio, an ICT centre and a hall with a capacity of 500 people during her term as MP. Effective  managed the national government affirmative to build unique community centre, a replica of Huduma centre that hosts a public library, gender violence rescue centre, a recording studio, ICT centre and a hall with a capacity of 500 persons during her stint as county MP. Sonko is due this week to make the major announcement of Deputy Governor’s choice. The race initially had attracted six candidates among them President Uhuru's Personal Assistant Jomo Gecaga, EALA MP Simon Mbugua, former MPs Dennis Waweru and Margaret Wanjiru, lawyer Karen Nyamu and insurer Agnes Kariuki were among the candidates.  Click here for the latest political news