The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has won a case against Meru County Government and will proceed to investigate procurement malpractices which occurred when Cabinet Secretary East African Community and Northern Corridor Development Peter Munya was the Governor. The judgment rendered by the Court of Appeal yesterday bring to an end a four-year legal battle between EACC and the County Government of Meru. Court of Appeal Judges, Philip Waki, Roselyne Nambuye and Patrick Kiage ruled against the County Government of Meru and gave the anti-graft agency the go ahead to continue with its investigations. The court held that the Meru County Government had no capacity to lodge a case for violation of rights with regard to itself. The County Government moved to the Court of Appeal after High Court Judge David Majanja ruled in favour of EACC in 2014. The County Government of Meru had in 2012 sought to stop the investigations by EACC citing violation of rights of some of its officers who were being investigated. The lawyer representing the County Government argued that the investigations were politically motivated against the Governor then Munya. The Meru County Government accused EACC of petition had been filed claiming that the Commission violated various rights and fundamental freedoms of its officers and also violated the Constitution in certain named respects on account of actions it took against the appellant between 20th March and 15th April 2014. The Commission was conducting investigations and took away documents from the procurement department of Meru County Government. EACC officers obtained court orders and carried away documents after the concerned officers of Meru County Government and the Governor Peter Munya refused to cooperate and accused the Commission’s officers of having a political agenda. The appellate judges ruled that they are persuaded that High Judge, Majanja was correct in holding as he did that the appellant is not a person who can petition the High Court for violation of own fundamental rights and freedoms under Article 22 of the Constitution by another State organ. They found that the case lacked merit and subsequently dismissed it.