Kenya’s former president and Patron of the Kenya Golf Union, H.E. Mwai Kibaki and former Central Bank of Kenya Governor, Duncan Ndegwa are among 12 individuals who were on Saturday night inducted into the Kenya Open Golf Limited Hall of Fame for their significant contribution to the tournament and golf in the country. The 12, who were honoured during at the 50th anniversary celebrations of the Kenya Open Golf Championship held at the Muthaiga Golf Club, include former President HE Mwai Kibaki — the Kenya Golf Union patron, former Central Bank of Kenya Governor and past Kenya Golf Union patron, Duncan Ndegwa, former KOGL chairmen — Ngugi Kiuna, Sam Kamau and Richard Kemoli, current KOGL chairman Peter Kanyago and long serving KOGL finance director Joe Wangai. Others feted included former Kenya Open tournament directors — Inder Talwar and Peter Coombes, veteran Kenyan amateur golfer and Kenya Open’s most successful amateur player — David Farrar, former East African Breweries Ltd chairman Jeremiah Kiereini and veteran golf reporter, Larry Ngala. The Hall of Fame Award is the highest honour in golf and is given to individuals who have distinguished themselves over a period of time in their service to the sport. Speaking at the event, Kanyago congratulated the inductees saying that their contribution to the Kenya Open had helped transform the tournament into the success it is today. The Kenya Open Golf Championship is this year marking its 50th anniversary since inception (despite a no-show in 1976 and 2003). Over the years the tournament has hosted some of the biggest names in the sport including Severiano Ballesteros, who won in 1978, 1986 winner Ian Woosnam and Vijay Singh who played in the 1989 edition. All went on to hold the title of World number 1 at different times in their careers. Locally, the tournament has provided a great hunting ground for the amateurs while providing a perfect opportunity for professionals to hone their skills. Throughout the history of the tournament, a Kenyan has lifted the Silver Salver 26 times, with veteran golfer, Farrar, winning the title seven times between 1968 and 1990. Other notable winners include John Mucheru, David Wandua and the father, son pair of Ben and Jacob Okello who won in 1983 and 1994 respectively. Kenya’s best chance of winning the overall title of the tournament came in 1998 when Jacob Okello lost to Argentina’s Ricardo Gonzalez in a sudden-death playoff.