The People’s President, Raila Odinga, made a good statement by saying the senators will retreat and have further deliberations on their issues. But as we speak our Minority Leader is none other than Senator James Aggrey Orengo and it remains like that. Yesterday's meeting with the principals was not to cede the decision that we made as senators but to canvass on issues pertaining to NASA. We met, we deliberated and agreed that the Senate is an independent institution and we made the decision of retaining Orengo as our elected leader. NASA collapsing as a result of our decision is a figment of the fertile imagination of the media. The NASA coalition is intact, we were there and leadership changes from time to time. We know we have this new Memorandum of Understanding between our leader and President Uhuru Kenyatta. It would be good for Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula to join his fellow principals in the alliance’s Summit for now to discuss issues. Let them engage. He might be too busy to handle both the House leadership and the MoU. We will handle the issue of House leadership ourselves. The removal of Wetang’ula is not to target a particular community. I am a Maasai and I would also like the interests of the Maasai to be protected. I think it is selfishness if someone claims that their community is targetted. When you look at the NASA Senate leadership, Vihiga Senator George Khaniri, a PSC commissioner, is a Luhya; Kakamega Senator Cleopa Malala, a leader on the Speaker’s Panel, is a Luhya; nominated Senator Petronilla Were, a Deputy Minority Whip, is a Luhya. How can one say that changing the Minority Leader is affecting, or targeting, the Luhya community? You cannot have one community holding almost all leadership positions. ODM is not trying to muzzle other parties. There is no political party that is more welcoming and caring than ODM. For example, ANC and Wiper members have leadership positions. We are 20 ODM members of the Senate, but only one of us had a leadership position. We need to realize that as far as we are fighting for inclusivity, other communities need to be taken into consideration. We are going to do further changes in House leadership to balance the regions. We have confidence in Orengo’s leadership. The writer is the Narok Senator.