Kirinyaga county on Thursday launched a crackdown on illicit and second-generation liquor. This is the second crackdown in more than two and a half years. On July 4, 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced war on the “business of death”. But brew is back. The latest crackdown in Kirinyaga was led by county commissioner Muhamed Birik, police commander David Kirui and his AP counterpart Daudi Mohamed. Sixty crates of second-generation brew were seized after roadblocks were mounted on main roads to seize vehicles ferrying illegal brew. One person was arrested. In Kirinyaga county, 12 people are reported to have died in two months after drinking Santa King second-generation alcohol. Its sale has been banned. Birik said the county will not allow illicit brew to enter the county. He said police have been given firm instructions to arrest and impound any vehicle ferrying illicit brew. Early this month, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i launched a nationwide crackdown on drugs and illicit brews. The drive aims to enforce the Mututho Laws that prohibit bars from operating 300 metres from schools.  Speaking at a workshop, Matiang’i said those bars must close, licensed or not. A 2016 national survey on drugs in secondary schools showed they are becoming centres of alcohol and drug abuse, the CS said. Regional and county commissioners and police commanders attended the workshop. “A society that does not care about its young people will disappear. It is time for us to have an honest and candid conversation on illicit brews and drug trafficking in our country,” Matiang’i said. He said any government official or police officer producing, transporting or taking illicit brew will be sacked. The CS said those in the trade “are not from a different planet” but people of sound mind who know what they are doing is wrong.  “In some urban areas at the Coast, drugs have almost decimated a generation. If you go there you will be shocked. Most of you who work in the field know what I’m talking about,” Matiang’i said.