Two more schools have been closed after suspected armed Pokot bandits raided Kasiela in Baringo South subcounty and stole 100 cows on Sunday. The raid was carried out at 3pm. No animal has been recovered. Ng’elecha and Arabal primary schools were indefinitely shut on Monday, disrupting learning for more than 300 pupils. Other schools that remain closed due to insecurity are Kapndasum, Kasiela, Lorumoru, Katilomwo, Karma, Partalo and Ramacha in Baringo South and Chepkesin and Kapng’etio in Baringo North subcounty. The raid comes as thousands of Pokot girls are said to be undergoing harmful FGM in Tiaty subcounty. “Maybe the hostile Pokot men want to pay dowry using the stolen cattle and marry the young girls once they are through with the cut,” Kasiela assistant chief Samuel Kibii told the Star yesterday. He said indicators show the bandits might carry out more raids in the area. Kibii wants more security officers sent to the area to secure the porous borders of Tiaty and Baringo South subcounty Kibii said attempts by residents, police and National Police Reservists to recover the animals have been unsuccessful. “There was a fierce shootout at the Arabal River before the bandits overpowered the officers and the residents. They then drove the cows towards Tangulbei in Tiaty subcounty,” he said. The stolen cattle belong to four herders - Wilson Solit, Wakari arap Bonde, Lokorima Chuliakamar and Haron Barkoton. Mochongoi MCA Kipruto Kimosop faulted the security forces for not responding quickly to the attacks. “Why is the government keen on responding to attacks in Laikipia or Mt Elgon, but leaves Baringo residents to fight the bandits on their own?” Kimosop asked. He said insecurity in the area is getting out of hand. On Monday, the Star carried a story about seven girls aged between nine and 12 years rescued from forced FGM in Tangulbei, Tiaty subcounty on Sunday. They are being sheltered at Tangulbei Boarding Primary School. “Three more girls also came to the school today [Tuesday]. This brings the total of rescued girls to 10,” head teacher Musa Terter said. Terter said he enrolled them in Standard One and Two. On Monday, the girls from Karoiwo, Kalabata and Kakaryakales said their parents and brothers have threatened to kill them if they failed to join their mates in undergoing the cut. “More girls are expected to undergo the female cut this rainy season in Tiaty. This is because there is a huge backlog owing to prolonged drought last year,” Tangulbei Women’s Network chairperson Mary Kuket said. She urged the government to intervene. Kuket said once the girls are cut, they are married off immediately in exchange for wealth in the form of livestock. Traditionally, a Pokot man is expected to part with 50 goats, 30 cows and 10 camels to marry a young circumcised girl as his wife. Tiaty East deputy subcounty commissioner Reuben Ratemo said the girls are in safe hands. He said some parents have threatened to storm the school and take away their daughters. Ratemo said they have alerted security officers to arrest anybody who goes to the school to claim any of the girls. Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula said the government will not accept such retrogressive cultures. “I have ordered my officers to recover all the stolen animals and carry out thorough investigations and arrest the culprits,” he said. Wafula also said those who force their girls to go through FGM will be arrested.   