We have in the recent passed witnessed some dramatic events connected to charcoal, which have in one way or the other taken a political twist. First, a lorry was razed in Kitui, and, later, some youths blocked the Nairobi-Nakuru highway and caused havoc on motorists to “revenge” on the truck. The pandemonium, however, is a manifest of deep running undercurrents in the informal energy sector. It’s a warning shot of dwindling resources and a pointer of ugly things to come if radical and practical solutions are not established immediately. As actors in the energy sector, we are keenly watching these developments with a lot of interest, and also pondering on the best strategy that would ensure sustainable and affordable development of energy resources. Charcoal, no doubt, is a multibillion-shilling lucrative enterprise, estimated at a staggering Sh40 billion per year. So profitable is it that efforts to tame it are easily frustrated by deeply entrenched interests and ignorance. We are conveniently forgetting charcoal is sourced from a finite resource. Our earth is shaven clean, faster than it can replenish itself. The golden age of charcoal and wood-fuel is behind us. But there is something more worrying – that energy poverty is a powdered keg. As resources run out, energy becomes premium, attracting territorial wars. That is why we need to enrich and strengthen our energy mix, especially that which is accessible to the masses. Indeed, it should not be lost on us that our population is exploding at a terrific rate such that reliance on charcoal is unsustainable. We thus need to design frameworks for renewable energy that will be abundantly available to every homestead. But that energy has to be affordable and of course clean. The Jubilee administration is aware of this reality and that is why, for the first time, we have a PS in charge of Renewables. I’ve no doubt in my mind that Professor Colleta Suda will reinvigorate the portfolio. To strengthen the mix, we need more geothermal energy that will provide affordable electricity. Currently, we are full steam, charging towards this ideal. More geothermal energy means more options for heating and cooking. With a future firmly focussed on enough electricity, we now need efficient cooking equipment that will consume less power. Such gadgets, suitable for our continent, should be accessible to the majority at very competitive prices, if need be even with government subsidies. This way, we are going to reduce reliance on charcoal, have a well-structured and streamlined energy regime and importantly, to save our forests. The heat from geothermal steam is fantastic for industrial processes. Heating boilers will be cheaper and will also reduce pressure on wood-fuel or heavy diesel, which is currently being used. But there are also umpteen opportunities at our disposal, especially for domestic purposes. We need more robust approaches towards the utilisation of solar energy, even for cooking, which is in abundance here. More families should gear towards biogas, which is clean. In rural areas, for instance, cow dung is in plenty and we should have programmes to encourage biogas digester uptake. Then there is the city and its waste. In Nairobi, of the 3,000 tonnes of municipal solid waste, about 50 per cent is organic. Such is a golden opportunity to capture the methane and supply to low-income earners. We already have a study indicating the methane from Dandora can generate up to 170 megawatts. Thankfully, a title for the land was recently secured and probably Nairobi will have its first methane-fired power plant of such a scale. In Ngong Town, the Keekonyokie Slaughter House is experimenting on packaging biogas for sale at subsidised cost. The same could be extrapolated across the country. Another great opportunity is in briquettes and wood palettes from waste biomass, which are prolific in cooking and heating and would help to ease pressure on charcoal. We are spoilt for choice, what we need to an attitudinal and behavioural change on our fuel. If taken on an industrial scale, the above solutions will also provide employment opportunities for many Kenyans, control pollution and save our trees. And the beauty of these different solutions is that they can be handled as cottage industry. What we need is more education to would be entrepreneurs, more financing and goodwill from the national and county governments. Never again should we witness energy wars. And indeed, we, in the green energy sector, are happy that Kenya ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change a move that binds us towards renewable energy. We are optimistic that geothermal will get its well deserved attention and funding to stem the cost of power and cut on carbon emissions.  The writer is the managing director and CEO, Geothermal Development Company