Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and the security committee have held a crisis security meeting at Karatina town. The MP and the security heads met at the Mathira East subcounty headquarters yesterday. They agreed to launch an intense operation to ensure those involved in petty crimes are convicted. Briefing the media after the three– hour meeting, the MP said nobody will be spared. He was with Mathira West deputy county commissioner Charles Monari and his Mathira East counterpart Pius Murugu. “We have measures in place to ensure those involved in the rising crime are arrested.” Gachagua urged the residents to give information on criminals, saying informants details will not be shared with the public to guard against victimisation. This was a follow up meeting after a similar one was held two months ago. It involved the business community and residents. Some of the crimes rampant in the area include robbery, mugging, burglary and pick pocketing. Murugu said boda bodas will only be allowed to work until 11pm since some operators have been accused of abetting crime. Thugs have also been known to hide in local bars that operate 24 hours. Several crime cases are reported daily in Mathira, which has led to residents appealing to the police to take action. The deputy county commissioner said, “We shall revive the Nyumba Kumi initiative which seems not to be working in some areas.” Murugu warned officers who collude with criminals that they will face the law. Monari warned criminals that operations will be conducted round the clock. The administrators urged politicians and other stakeholders to work together with the police to curb crime. In 2016, a man escaped with a bullet wound after a foiled robbery at the Mathira East OCPD’s home in Karatina town. Mathew Gwiyo said he was awakened by commotion in his house and found Patrick Maina, 26, stealing equipment from his sitting room. A scuffle ensued, Gwiyo said, adding: “I realised he was up to no good when he drew a dagger. I shot him once to immobilise, not kill him.” The police boss said the suspect, who did not realise he was an officer, escaped through a window with the bullet lodged in his body, but collapsed at a neighbour’s home. The neighbour informed the area chief who alerted police officers, he said, adding Maina may have been with accomplices.