At least 300 clinicians in Homa Bay went on strike on Friday in support of colleagues they claimed were fired by the county. Forty six clinical officers are feared sacked as they have not received their salaries for three months. The medics who are members of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers also claimed other members' pay had been delayed. Speaking to journalists at Homa Bay County Referral Hospital where they held demonstrations, branch Secretary Philip Mbom and Treasurer Felix Ouko said their employer has frustrated them. Mbom said the county did not notify the workers that their salary remittance had been stopped. “Affected members have failed to execute their responsibilities, including feeding their families and paying school fees, due to unpaid salaries," he noted. The Secretary said they started by writing a letter on their grievances and followed with a strike notice to the County Secretary, the health department and the Public Service Board. “Our employer has remained non-committal in addressing the issues we encounter while undertaking our duties. This is also the sector whose employees are paid last in the county." The clinicians said they will carry on with the strike until their problems are solved. Ouko said: “Let the names of the affected members be returned to payroll since there was no communication prior to the stoppage of their salaries. We'll not relent until the concerns raised are addressed." The medics further noted that a report on an employees' audit was not released before their colleagues were allegedly sacked. “The union wants the salaries paid and backdated since there is no genuine reason for their dismissal,” the Treasurer said. But PSB chairman Daniel Ogada denied firing any health workers, rubbished the strike and accused the two officials of misleading their colleagues as investigations into salary payments were ongoing. “They have been misled ... most health workers in the county have signed a recognition agreement,” he said. He added: “We’re waiting for the full audit report before we act." Click here for the latest political news  