Residents of Jomvu and other parts of the drought-stricken constituency have driven to take action by sexual harassment and attacks on girls fetching water. A girl recently was reported to have been sexually abused while searching for water. Police said they are not aware of the case. Women say the situation is worse when they menstruate as they have no water to clean up. The drought has persisted since July last year. According to health worker Nicholeta Odhiambo, patients have been forced to drink untreated water, at times less than two litres per day. Activist and university student Fredrick Ojiro on Monday said Ojiro said water has been expensive, with a 20-litre jerrycan going for Sh70. “A girl was raped last week as shelooked for water at night. Others have spent nights with their boyfriends, while saying they were searching for water,” he said. Chairwoman Domtila Juma of Kwa Ngombe slums said Muslims face difficulties in making tawadha, the purifying act that prepares one to meet God in the ritual prayer. She said her family of five needs a lot of water but her businesses fetches just Sh150 daily. Her husband is unemployed. “Furthermore, some of our neighbours living with HIV need to drink clean water regularly, but where is it?” she asked. Elizabeth Akanui from Mikindani area said the disabled have suffered most since they do not have easy access to water. Janet Masinde said there have been cases of typhoid and diarrhoea. “We have lost a resident because of this,” she said. NORWEGIAN DONOR Head of Nyumba Kumi in Bangladesh Emma Onyango said lack of water will limit economic growth. Residents of Aldina area have decided to raise money through a merry-go-round to connect water to solve the problem. The project is expected to cost Sh100,000, with a Norwegian donor paying half the amount. They have already set up a kiosk inside a community school and are waiting for water to flow. “On Monday we laid pipes that were connected from the main source. This will be the first time women in this area will be fetching water within a kilometre’s distance,” Ojiro said. Ojiro said a 20-litre of water will be sold at Sh5 and to ensure it is affordable. He said environmental degradation has affected groundwater, lowering the boreholes levels. A good established water system is needed, said acting deputy county commissioner in charge of Jomvu subcounty Florence Sitawa. “Water scarcity is a stress trigger. With good systems, families will have enough time to generate income. Kids will be looked after and won’t be defiled,” she said on Monday. Two weeks ago, area MP Badi Twalib told the National Assembly pipes connecting water to the constituency were destroyed by road engineers constructing Mombasa-Jomvu Superhighway. Water was never restored. The ruined water pipes compound the problems in the constituency that is already under water rationing. Click here for the latest political news