President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on the police to exercise high integrity values as they serve the country. He told nearly 4,000 police recruits, who graduated on Friday from Kiganjo police college, that their task is to guarantee Kenyans safety and protection from all security risks. "You are expected to maintain the highest standards of integrity and professionalism while performing your duties," the president said. "You have just taken your oath of allegiance and Kenyans will be watching every step as they expect to receive quality services from you," Uhuru said. The police service has been deemed one the most corrupt, inefficient, and easily compromised state institution in its efforts to fight crime. Read: Police, Lands ministry and Judiciary most corrupt in Kenya - bribery index He said in the spirit of building a united and cohesive nation, police officers should be ready to work anywhere in the country. The president further told the officers to know that "policing is the fulcrum on which shared prosperity of a nation rests". He urged the officers to put to use the knowledge instilled in them under a new police training curriculum that was deployed for the first time. Uhuru said the curriculum brought on board new tactics on dealing with national security and how to counter violent extremism. "Today, I urge you to go and apply this knowledge to safeguard the Kenyan people, our economy, and our democracy," the president said. He said the government has carried out radical changes in the police service and allocated a considerable amount of resources for better policing. The head of state said more resources are still being allocated for constructing new residential units for police officers to better their living standards. The graduation of the new batch of 3,971 officers now pushes the number of police to about 108, 000, a situation that has worsened the accommodation crisis. Uhuru urged Kenyans to volunteer information to the police so that terrorism, extremism, and violent radicalisation can be defeated. "Security agencies alone cannot effectively eliminate these challenges. Pass to the police any vital information that will help us successfully fight crime," he said. Click here for the latest political news