A total of 255 civil servants were charged with corruption-related offences last year, a report by the Public Service Commission says. The Values and Principle Report, 2017 says that 30 of these officers were convicted. Cases of graft were reported in  29 out of 164, or 18 per cent, of institutions evaluated. Most convictions (27 per cent) were recorded in state corporations - 99 cases were reported in 114 institutions and 75 people charged. State corporations were followed by ministries and state departments with almost twice the number of  corruption-related offences -178. But the conviction rate was only six per cent.  Figures by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption differed from those of the commission. The EACC put the figure of officers investigated at 995 and the number of those charged at 300. The anti-graft agency included the judiciary and counties, which fall outside the jurisdiction of the commission, in its submissions. On ministries and state departments, the EACC reported that 418 officers were investigated, 166 charged, 25 convicted and administrative action recommended for 19. In the state corporations category, 115 were investigated, 34 charged, seven convicted and administrative action advised for one per cent. Forty two officers were investigated at independent commissions and offices including that of the DPP. Nine were charged and four convicted, with no recommendations for administrative action. Four hundred and twenty officers at statutory commissions, authorities and agencies (the judiciary and counties) were probed. Out of this number, 91 officers were charged, 15 convicted and 10 subjected to administrative action RECOMMENDATIONS The commission advised the government to: (i) Undertake a governance audit in public organisations to confirm the veracity of compliance with Executive Order No.6 of 2015 on ethics and integrity in the public service; (ii) Fast-track finalisation of the draft National Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy; (iii) Review and harmonise corruption prevention laws; (iv) Support continuous monitoring and evaluation of management systems and processes to ensure good governance, transparency and accountability; (v) Fast-track implementation of the task force report on the legal, institutional and policy reforms on anti-corruption. 'DIVERSE ETHNICITY' The survey found that the Interior ministry had the highest number of communities - 39. The Directorate of Immigration and Registration of Persons followed with 36 and then came the Kenya Wildlife Service with 35, the State Department for Social Protection with 32, the Kenya Revenue Authority with 31 and the EACC wit 29. The National Youth Council had six, the Media Council of Kenya seven and the National Council for Law Reporting eight. At the bottom of the list was Kenya National Assurance Company Limited with four. The evaluation methodology entailed development of a road map to guide the process and a performance gap analysis of the 2011/12 to 2015/2016 value reports. Three hundred public institutions were targeted for the evaluation and two	 officer from each of the institutions invited for training. A total	of	424	officers	out	of the targeted 600  turned	up for the training on matter including the online tool that was used and the evaluation process. The evaluation targeted a total of 215 institutions which included 185 ministries/state departments, state corporations, independent commissions and offices, statutory commissions and authorities. Click here for the latest political news