Liverpool Vs Watford, Today 8:30pm, My Prediction: Reds..2 Watford..0 This is the only league match of the weekend worth mentioning though I anticipate that the Reds will pick off from where Arsenal left off last weekend. Liverpool lost to Manchester United last weekend but I wouldn’t judge them against that as it’s the biggest rivalry in England. But based on their form, they should make easy work of Watford. Watford had a false sense of security after beating Chelsea 4-1 a couple of weeks ago but Arsenal disciplined them last week. The Gunners beat them in an easy 3-0 victory at Emirates Stadium. Liverpool, however, will remember that they drew the return leg of this fixture 3-3 very early in the season and they’ll be wary of that, but that was when the Reds had a very porous defense. That has been relatively sealed by the arrival of Virgil Van Dijk and I don’t see the Reds leaking today. Their motivating facture today is staying in the top four and not giving Chelsea half a chance to catch up. Man United Vs Brighton, Today 10:45pm, My Prediction: Red Devils.. 3 Brighton...1 Manchester United were shockingly thrown out of the Champions League midweek. It was assumed that the Red Devils would beat Sevilla and qualify for the quarter finals and despite Jose Mourinho fronting arguably his strongest side, they failed to stop the Spanish club. Brighton won’t give them that much trouble though. Yes they beat Arsenal two weeks ago but that was a psychologically injured Gunners side. Things returned to normal for them though last weekend when they lost 2-0 to Everton in the league. This is the FA Cup though and every team in the tournament feels they stand a chance to upset the norm and continue to advance. I just think United are too wounded to slip up here, on the only chance of silverware this season. Brighton will be on the receiving end of their wrath and all the ridicule they’ve faced by crashing out of Europe. Leicester City Vs Chelsea, Tomorrow 7:30pm My Prediction: Foxes...1 Blues...3 Now Leicester beat Sheffield United in the FA Cup to get here but that isn’t saying much. In the league this season, they have been average although they sit at an impressive eighth though this season all teams apart from Man City have under-performed. However, the last time these two teams met was in the league in January and that game ended in a goal-less draw. These smaller teams tend to do better though in cup tournaments but I don’t see Chelsea taking a back seat. The Blues were knocked out of the Champions League in humiliating fashion by Barcelona midweek and they are struggling for a top four spot but Manager Antonio Conte can save face if he at least wins the oldest and most prestigious domestic cup competition. He will insist on 110% from his troops and throw everything including the kitchen sink at this tie. The Blues are in for a successful match.