Kenyatta National Hospital CEO Lily Koros was on Friday sent on compulsory leave. Health CS Sicily Kariuki announced the decision following the incident where doctors at the hospital performed a brain surgery on a wrong patient. "I apologise over patient mix-up at KNH, I have directed that KNH CEO be sent on compulsory leave until the probe is over," the Cabinet Secretary said. Koros and an officer in charge of clinical affairs were sent home to pave way for investigations. Sicily said a Dr Mutei and John Ong'ech will take over and run the institution as investigations continue. "I wish to pronounce myself that they are both competent professional and they will support the board," she said. 'BILLS PAID' Sicily admitted that there was a mix up and apologised to the families saying they have been enrolled on NHIF. "Yes there was a mix up...both patients did not have NHIF...we have now enrolled them and sorted their bill," the CS said. She said the mix up started at the point of dressing the patient. "They were in the casualty. But fortunately both of the patients are in stable condition.. and could be discharged on Monday," the health CS added. She said the government will put systems that will help the board audit the hospital for patients' safety. "We will ensure every Kenyan that we are called to serve is served efficiently, effectively and minimise confusion such as the one we have seen here," she said. KNH suspended the admission rights of the Neurosurgery Registrar and issued him with a show-cause letter. Koros said on Thursday that they took action following the incident in line with the hospital's procedures. More on this: KNH suspends surgical staff after brain operation on wrong patient Doctors have defended their KNH colleague who conducted the said operation. According to them, the nurses who prepared the patient for surgery are the ones at fault for wrongly labelling the two patients. More on this: Doctors defend KNH surgeon who operated on wrong patient Click here for the latest political news   