Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga is known for her political toughness and a staunch supporter and defender of NASA leader Raila Odinga. Wanga, who holds a BSc from Kenyatta University and MSc in Health Management from the same university, was a university students’ association secretary general, the first woman to hold the position. Wanga might be the first woman in the Nyanza to contest and win a governor’s post in 2022. A number of MCAs and top leaders have been pushing her to go for the seat. Wanga has kept off the topic in public events. DEVELOPMENT ORIENTED Analysts say from her speeches and hints from her close confidants, including county assembly speaker Elizabeth Ayoo and her deputy Evance Marieba, Wanga may go for the county top job. During a funds drive for businesswomen in Nyandiwa Beach in Suba South constituency, several MCAs urged the traders to support Wanga in 2022 for the governor’s seat. Ayoo said Wanga has shown exemplary work in her duties as Woman Rep and is suitable to govern the county. “You know what she has done, especially to improve women’s lives in the 10 years she has been an MP. This is someone who can actually change people’s lives for the better,” Ayoo said. She added, “Look at projects such as construction of modern stalls and the “Aswekra” fund for women in small businesses.” TOO EARLY Wanga kept off the topic but assured traders she is committed to improving the lives of women and other residents. “I have heard many talk about the 2022 governor contest, however it is still too early to make such decisions,” she said. “For now we want to commit ourselves to development, so that in 2022, a woman who used to sit under the tree to operate her business owns a stall and the one who had a stall owns a shop.” During the funds drive, slose to Sh500,000 was raised for the women. Wanga issued a personal donation of Sh275,000. Wanga’s opportunity to clinch the seat will depend on the outcome of the Homa Bay governor by-election. Cyprian Awiti lost his seat to former Kasipl MP Oyugi Magwanga in a case filed at the High Court. Homa Bay Bunge La Wananchi speaker Walter Opiyo said the road to Wanga’s victory in clinching the governor seat may not be as smooth. If Magwanga wins the by-election, he may be a tougher contestant to beat. But Wanga enjoys women’s support, which may win her the seat.