At the moment at least we don’t see that much of recent destruction of the forest. I think joint efforts between the community and Kenya Forest Service is slowly turning around the destruction trend. These efforts, as well as awareness creation on the need to protect the forest, is at least slowing down settlements and encroachment for agriculture. That has been the state for the last one or two years. We have worked closely with the local communities, empowering them to actively be involved in forest management; promoting what is commonly known as Participatory Forest Management (PFM). The communities have formed Community Forest Associations (CFAs) and some of them are actively implementing their own developed Forest Management Plans. The communities are involved in restoration activities, support the Kenya Forest Service, do surveillance and take pictures of those cutting down trees. It is a team of youths identifying and stopping illegal activities in the forest. Illegalities have somewhat gone down. Historically, destruction in the forests has generally resulted in low river levels, which is commonly attributed to drought. The last couple of months we have had very bad droughts, which are manifested in low water levels in most rivers in Kenya. But, of course, forest destruction means we are degrading very important catchments; water reservoirs that then maintain base flows. Even if it is not Mau, forest degradation impacts on water availability, especially those rivers that originate from water towers such as Mau Forest. Forest degradation has been reported everywhere in the country. It is replicated in other water catchment areas. There have been concerted efforts to restore some of these areas. Protected forests are doing better because stakeholders are involved directly. We really need to involve the communities in all natural resource management. There is need to allocate resources for watershed protection; protection of water towers. We need to support communities to implement sub-catchment management plans. There is a need to upscale benefits sharing arrangements that we have piloted in the Mau. They develop and honour forest grazing plans; get firewood as long as you can carry it on the head. The WWF has worked to empower the communities, form associations and understand the need to protect forests. We have also supported public schools around forests with energy saving stoves, but on condition that schools establish woodlots. The writer is the WWF Programme Manager for the Mau Mara Serengeti landscape