At least 1.4 million Kenyans who make up the country's labour force are unemployed, the 2015/16 Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey shows. At the time of the survey, the report indicates, Kenya had a labour force of 19.3 million with 17.9 million in gainful employment. The report suggests that the unemployment rate for the entire population has come down to 7.4 per cent from 9.7 per cent in 2009 and 12.7 per cent in 2005. According to the survey of those in employment, 63.2 per cent work full time, 12.6 per cent casually 13.9 per cent in seasons and 9.5 per cent part time. Related: Kenyan youths most worried about unemployment, corruption and poverty - Tifa The survey (KIHBS) was conducted over 12 months to obtain up-to-date data on socio-economic indicators used to monitor the implementation of development initiatives. Data was collected on household characteristics, housing conditions, education, general health characteristics, nutrition, household income and credit, household transfers, information communication technology, domestic tourism, shocks to household welfare and access to justice. On basic characteristics of the population, it was found that about 70 per cent of homes, with an average size of four members, are headed by males Relatively high average household sizes were recorded in the arid and semi-arid counties of Wajir (6.6), Garissa (5.5) and Mandera (6.4). Counties with smaller sizes included Nyeri (2.9), Nairobi City (3.0), and Mombasa (3.0). The report shows that nationally, 59.5 per cent of families owned the dwellings they were living in, with 85.2 per cent in rural areas and 26.1 per cent in urban areas. The findings show that 72.6 per cent of the homes had access to improved drinking water sources such as piped systems, wells, springs and boreholes. The report also says that six out of ten households had access to improved human waste disposal methods such as a flush toilets or VIP pit latrines. On education, the report says that nationally, 89.4 per cent of people aged three years and above had attended school. It adds that Nairobi City and Kisumu counties registered the highest figures in this category, with ratings of 97.5 per cent each. Garissa, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Turkana, and Samburu Counties reported low proportions - below 50 per cent - of school attendance. On health, the report says a majority of individuals with sicknesses or injuries (55.5 per cent) visited a medic at a health facility for diagnosis. Three out of then children were delivered at home, the researchers reported further, adding19 per cent of the population had health insurance cover On IC and mobile communications, the says that three out of four individuals aged at least 18 owned a phones and the most commonly used ICT equipment were radio and mobile phones. Nationally, 13.4 per cent of individuals reported travelling within Kenya in the three months preceding the survey. Most of them visited friends and relatives. Click here for the latest political stories