President Uhuru Kenyatta and his would-be political nemesis Raila Odinga's pact is not only continuing to elicit jitters in DP William Ruto's camp but also in ODM. Word has it that a section of ODM leaders, especially from the Nyanza region, have vowed not to welcome Ruto on their home turf. The MPs, Raila's lieutenants, are much concerned about Ruto's charm offensive political raids in NASA regions, especially his weekend tour at the Coast. Our mole tells Corridors that the Nyanza ODM lawmakers hold that Ruto seems to capitalise on the Raila-Uhuru deal to invade the opposition areas to advance his 2022 presidential bid. It is said they even warned that Ruto should not accompany Uhuru during his planned joint tour to Nyanza with Raila. ******** Do honourable Members of Parliament get the privilege to address church congregations according to the amount of cash they donate? Well, Corridors overheard a section of National Super Alliance and Jubilee Party lawmakers in Parliament Buildings recently discussing how they are mistreated in church harambees. One of them said: “Imagine, I was just given an opportunity to wave at the congregation instead of addressing them. I had even given out my contribution, but the treatment I received was not fair.” The conversation went on with every MP giving their side of the story on discrimination in church functions. ******* Why did Raila Odinga delay in making peace with President Uhuru Kenyatta? A NASA MP from Western was overheard asking this question of his two colleagues at a high-end city hotel. To him, the Opposition legislators in the National Assembly lost a lot during the period of grandstanding between the ruling Jubilee Party and National Super Alliance, which had vowed to boycott the vetting of Uhuru's appointees. He cited the vetting of Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and ambassadors, among other Uhuru appointees. To him, the vetting process would have given them an opportunity to interact with the appointees and 'possibly build contacts for business.' ******* The synergy witnessed between ODM and Jubilee after the historic handshake of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga has really left many people baffled as to whether the two sides were really not working together before? Some activists were yesterday overheard wondering how fast the ODM leaders and their counterparts in Jubilee have found a working chemistry. The human rights defenders cited Uhuru's recent visit to Cuba, where three prominent ODM leaders, including Raila's staunch supporter and Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Ny'ong'o, were part of the delegation. Some people, for instance, remained Doubting Thomases at first seeing Uhuru-Ny'ong'o photos in Cuba.