Tempers flared at the Oshwal Centre yesterday as a planned vote by struggling Nakumatt’s creditors aborted following questions over validity of the retailer’s Sh35.8 billion debt. The briefing, called by the newly appointed administrator Peter Kahi sought votes of creditors on whether to write off 25 per cent of their debts and convert the remaining 75 per cent to equity, or not. Nakumatt’s creditors are to vote on whether to adopt Kahi’s proposal as it is, accept it with modification or reject it. The proposal further sought to get a window period on their debt from banks , employees and the Kenya Revenue Authority to begin paying them at an unspecified date. But a section of creditors refused to take part in the poll before seeing the full list of what Nakumatt owes to who. Some of the creditors have claimed that the debt list may have been bloated. MEETING RESCHEDULED In an effort to calm creditors, Kahi agreed to adjourn the meeting, which will be held after two weeks after he provides the list. High Court judge Fred Ochieng had ordered Kahi to submit his proposal on the way forward and conduct a vote among creditors to find out their thoughts on what action to take. “I will now go to court and say the meeting was adjourned and no voting took place so that we consult further because the members feel there are certain issues that need to be addressed, like the list indicating values of each creditors,” Kahi said. As at Tuesday, the administrator said he had received creditor claims amounting to more than Sh26 billion against the Sh35.8 billion in Nakumatt books of account. In the proposal, the debts as attributed to by the management relate to theft, pilferage, stock shrinkage, losses because of stock obsolescence and that arise as a difference between stocks in the Point of Sale system and the stocks shown in the Books of accounts “With the adjournment of the meeting, it gives me more time to call for more claims to come through,” Kahi said. Some of the creditors have demanded documents, including the proposal, be shared on a Dropbox account that was opened in the first meeting between the retailer and its creditors. Kahi told the creditors each claim is supported by documents that prove goods were supplied to the retailer. The Nakumatt administrator told the Star he was up until 2am yesterday morning receiving claims. In his proposal, Kahi revealed Nakumatt owes suppliers Sh18.5 billion. Other creditors whose debts have been verified are banks (Sh12.8 billion), KRA (Sh1.3 billion), staff (Sh1.1 billion) and an uncategorised group (Sh1 billion). The Nakumatt administrator said that once the dust has settled on Nakumatt’s future, he will embark on finding out what sunk East and Central Africa’s largest retailer. He has expressed faith in Tuskys management of its collapsed rival Nakumatt. Tuskys will receive one per cent of all Nakumatt sales as its payment for management. The Nakumatt administrator appointed Tuskys as Nakumatt’s manager for the duration of his tenure. He wants to be allowed to continue monitoring Nakumatt until it gets back on its feet. “Tuskys is Nakumatt’s only hope,” Kahi added. Nakumatt’s assets have a book value of Sh9 billion, but Kahi projects that only Sh1.3 billion worth of the retailer’s property can be recovered. Some of Nakumatt’s biggest creditors include Diamond Trust Bank (Sh3.6 billion), KCB (Sh1.7 billion), Brookside Dairy (Sh457 million), New KCC (Sh290 million) and Redstar International (Sh261 million). Click here for the latest political news