Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has put on notice National Cereals Board staffs colluding with unscrupulous traders to sell subsidised fertiliser to farmers at exaggerated prices. The CS on Friday said stern action will be taken against such employees who are taking advantage of unsuspecting farmers to defraud them. "Nobody will be allowed to hide behind community name. If you are a kikuyu, there is another Kikuyu who is competent, if you are a Kalenjin there is another Kalenjin who is competent. We will replace you," Kiunjuri said. While addressing the press in his office in Nairobi, he ruled out the option of transferring corrupt staff to other stations. The CS said the government was taking adequate measures to seal loopholes being used by such unscrupulous traders. He said the government has intensified surveillance across the country and security teams have been put on high alert to deal with the concerned individuals. Kiunjuri confirmed that 900,000 bags of the intended 1.2 million bags of planting fertiliser have been distributed to farmers. "The remaining 300,000 bags are being transported to the designated stores and farmers should be able to collect by the end of next week." He asked farmers who are still hoarding stocks of maize to release them to the market. To this end, he directed the NCPB to review transport costs to ease transport expenses for farmers and enable them deliver their maize to the board. Kiunjuri said the government suspects some unscrupulous traders were importing maize at lower prices and selling them to the National Cereals Board. He said this has led to an overload of maize in most stores. The CS further advised farmers to register with the NCPB before the end of forthcoming harvest season in order to benefit from maize and fertiliser subsidies. He said those farmers whose maize is still on queue at cereal boards will be vetted to weed out unscrupulous traders disguised as genuine farmers. Farmers in the Rift Valley have over the recent days been turned away by NCPB saying the stores are full to capacity. Read: Subsidized fertilizer is available, says NCPB Click here for the latest political news