Thursday was no ordinary day. It was an occasion to mark the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women across the world. But for Bungoma women in Mt Elgon, there was no satisfaction or rejoicing. As they gathered in Bumula on Thursday to take stock of their lives, they said they endure sleepless nights to look after their families. “We in Mt Elgon don’t have anything to celebrate. Insecurity has made our lives miserable. We need state help,” former Bungoma gender and culture director Jane Mbatiany said. Murders, rape, assaults and fear are the norm. For many, the past three months marked a visit to hell. Insecurity in Mt Elgon has led to the death of about 30 residents. Women and schoolgirls have been raped, property has been destroyed, and livestock stolen and killed. On Thursday, a security guard at a club opposite a police station was murdered. On Wednesday, a boda boda rider was killed. All blamed on a dreaded gang. “Women have been defiled in front of their children. Some have had their husbands killed. Others had to flee and spend the nights in the cold in schools, where they camp,” Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga said at the Women’s Day meeting. She told the government to swiftly end the suffering. Some residents blame the attacks on resurgence of the outlawed Sabaot Land Defence Force. Police deny the SLDF is back and blame criminals. Politicians blame each other for the violence. On Tuesday, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i imposed a 90-day dusk-to-dawn curfew. The government has placed a Sh1 million bounty on the head of Timothy Kitai, alias Cheparakach, said to a ringleader. Wambilianga said most women in Mt Elgon and elsewhere have horrific memories. She urged officers enforcing the curfew not to harass women. transforming lives The legislator plans to distribute hatcheries, tractors, tents and brick moulds to women’s groups. “We have grants that we’ll give the groups to support their projects,” Wambilianga said. She thanked Governor Wycliffe Wangamati for appointing women to key positions in his administration. The office for gender violence cases that was set up in Ndegelwa, Kanduyi, is complete and will be opened soon, the Ford Kenya politician said. “Sexual abuse victims will be taken there and cared for,” she said. The county will support needy girls and pregnant girls who drop out of school, so they can complete their education, Wambilianga said. “We have two girls from Mt Elgon whom we have counselled and transferred to other schools to avoid stigma,” she said. A pregnant girl from Kibisi Secondary in Tongaren has been taken back to school. Wangamati said women suffer most when a region is unsecure. “Our women remain in the house to take care of the family and when they are attacked or defiled, families suffer,” he said. “For thee months, insecurity has been a thorn in the flesh. We want the national government to address it once and for all to prevent more deaths.” He said insecurity hurts education standards. 