Nominated MP Wilson Sossion has moved a motion to compel the TSC to employ local teachers in regions experiencing insecurity. Sossion, who doubles up as the Secretary General of the Kenya National Union of Teachers, told the house on Thursday that this short term remedy will play a key role in settling the current crisis. Following attacks by terror group al Shabaab in North Eastern counties, teachers have fled fearing for their lives. In the motion, Sossion says the Teachers Service Commission can recruit school leavers in areas from where non-local teachers have fled. He says they can be trained during the April, August and October holidays. "If it is not possible for the TSC to get school leavers to absorb immediately, I propose it lowers the cutoff mark to D+ or C- in affected areas so more school leavers can be absorbed into the profession." The SG said teachers who fled insecure areas should not be forced to return but rather be redeployed to other areas, a step that will fast-track the stability of the education sector. The untrained teachers programme was earlier proposed by Knut's Garissa branch, Secretary General Abdirizak Hussein saying  high school leavers interested in the profession should be allowed to join in this capacity. More on this: Let locals teach in North Eastern to curb al Shabaab attacks - Knut Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi, who supported the motion, noted the education sector is currently grappling with the security of teachers because the government has not prioritised the matter. If the commission and national government do not urgently look into issues raised by teachers, he said, the sector might land into a serious crisis. Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui castigated police for teargassing teachers camping outside the TSC headquarters. "It is wrong for the employer to ignore the seriousness of the issues being raised by the affected teachers." His sentiments were echoed by Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga who said the TSC has the capacity, through localised programmes, to find local teachers and redeploy them to areas facing the crisis. "The TSC can also find those willing to offer services in the affected areas, employ and train them," she said, Wanga further said terrorists bent on dividing the country along religious lines are attacking learning institutions in a country that boasts of modern technology and a superb intelligence system. Seme MP James Nyikal said the sector is troubled as the commission lacks a proper master plan on how to handle insecurity. Nyikal refuted claims that the mass transfer of teachers from insecure areas has furthered the objectives of the terrorists. He said the government should not hide behind isolated cases. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said: "I ask this government to move with speed and secure our teachers. The TSC must be reminded that extraordinary cases need extraordinary measures. [Officials] should not hide in their offices while teachers are mercilessly murdered." Emuhaya's Amboko Milemba noted the sector lost 28 teachers in al Shabaab attacks in 2015 so the employer should not ignore their magnitude. "Out of the 28 teachers who were murdered, 18 were from the larger Western region. We have not yet come out of the pain. National unity cannot be achieved at the expense of our teachers." Pokot South MP David Pkosing said that for the government to end insecurity in learning institutions, teachers should be allowed to join the military and learn combat tactics. Pkosing said this will lead to teacher-soldiers with proper understanding of how to deal with both learners and terrorists. Julius Melly, chairman of the Education Committee opposed the motion saying it will jeorpadise national unity. Melly noted all of Kenya's regions have unique challenges so motions should focus on how to restore law and order in affected areas. "Employing only local or untrained teachers as proposed would be a disservice to affected areas," he said, adding the commission advocates for quality education across the country and should not abet terrorism and other crimes. More on this: Schools becoming soft target of al Shabaab attacks, warns Amina Mohamed Click here for the latest political news