The
visit to Cuba by the delegation led by His Excellency President
Uhuru Kenyatta has been positively received at home. The little misunderstanding regarding
importing Cuban health specialists — under an agreement whereby
our doctors and students get post-graduate training in Cuba —
has been clarified and understood. Far more important is the
package agreed by the two governments
covering agriculture, health, sports and applied scientific research. In
the medical field, I am personally delighted that after initiating
discussions with Cuba in 2008 for collaboration in vector control to
eliminate malaria (as minister for
Medical Services), this initiative has now been agreed. Now comes the tremendous lesson we have to learn from Cuba in rolling
out Universal Healthcare. Cuba clearly leads
the world in primary healthcare, public health and
universal health coverage. Her referral system is the envy of many
nations.     But UHC cannot be implemented in isolation; other factors matter. For example, poor indices of poverty, low
literacy, poor governance, bureaucratic lethargy, the politics of
exclusion and the menace of corruption can undermine the
success of UHC. As a communist society, Cuba has slain most of
these dragons, creating a healthy societal environment for UHC as part
and parcel of her national development ethos.    I do not mean to
imply that Kenya should overnight become a communist
society to succeed in implementing UHC; nothing of the sort is
implied. What I do mean is that our UHC will succeed and
remain sustainable largely by implementing the developmental ethos our Constitution assumes and implies. Remember our
nationalists obtained independence on the promise that they would fight
three major enemies of development: poverty, ignorance and
disease. We have made major strides in fighting ignorance;
whether our
education is always relevant and applicable to development
needs will always be a healthy debate. We have made strides in
reducing poverty among certain social classes. But the bottom 50
per cent remain largely the wretched of the earth, hence, there's a
lot to do. When it comes to fighting disease, modern
knowledge and treatment by specialists remain beyond reach of most
Kenyans, hence, the need for access to quality and affordable
healthcare through UHC.     In
1958, the Cuban political and social system was established by
revolutionaries who overthrew the feudal system of Batista and
replaced it with the communist system led by Fidel Castro, president of
the Cuban Communist Party. In 1963, Kenyan nationalists 'won'
independence from Great Britain to establish a self-governing republic
under President Jomo Kenyatta, leader of the Kenya African
National Union. Apart from a vague belief in a laissez-faire capitalist system under a one-party state, Kenya has never clearly
defined her development ethos, nor pursued it systematically and
consistently, as Cuba has. Hence, models of commitment
to fight poverty, ignorance and disease have been eclectic and lacking
in historical coherence compared to Cuban models. Faced with a total
economic blockade by the US government, Cubans learnt to be
self-reliant in almost very field. The blockade also gave them a sense of collective purpose: "we either stick
together or be hanged separately by imperialism" must have been their
rallying cry.      As we begin rolling out UHC, we must understand
its success will depend on success in other areas of
socio-economic development. Thus the burden of financing healthcare will
be lighter if better-to-do citizens contribute more to the NHIF kitty than the less fortunate. In Cuba this is easy
since the wealth created by the collective endeavor of all citizens is
used by the government to provide access to healthcare to all citizens. The phenomenon of the rich having access to good private
health
facilities, while the poor suffer the indignity of attention from
ill-equipped and ill-resourced public facilities, is not there. Our
Constitution recognised this and declared that all Kenyans,
irrespective of class, race, tribe or sex must have access to affordable
quality healthcare. This means that before we
abolish social inequalities through development and equitable share of
developmental outcomes, it is the state's duty to take care of
indigents. But this should only be a transition phase; in the
long run poverty must be eliminated to make UHC sustainable.    
Indeed
the Cuban development model, so attractive in many ways — hence our
visit to learn and cooperate  — must be the model
of the future. For all my years on this earth, the
capitalist world has always castigated communism as a system that
curtails individual freedoms. The capitalist world even celebrates
the freedom of an employer to pay non-livable wages, arguing the free
market gives workers freedom to accept or reject
such servitude. Consider healthcare. In the US
there is tremendous knowledge and equipment to treat many ailments. But
this is only available to those who
can afford it. It is no wonder many Americans travel to India or Mexico
to receive the same services because
they are cheaper. In Cuba excellent services are available to all
in society. So what is wrong with communism if, in the final analysis,
being born a Cuban guarantees a man 80 years of life and a woman 82
years? Let every nation produce its figures and see how many people
would wish they were Cubans.     I was walking in Havana's Old Town when I stopped for a drink at La Floridita, the bar where
Earnest Hemingway used to enjoy his beer and Mojito. As I listened to
salsa music, a middle-aged Cuban joined me, curious about where I came
from. After the usual pleasantries we spoke at length about Cuba and why he was so proud of his
country.     "Are you a communist?" I asked.     "Yes I am," he replied, with a perfect sense of certitude.     "So what is the aim of you communists? I asked.     "Our
aim," he replied, "Is to organise society so every
member can develop and use all his capabilities and powers in
complete freedom and without infringing the basic conditions of
this society. These include, among other things, that the state must
guarantee the basic needs of all Cubans."     "How does the state get the resources?" I inquired.    
"For
example, I was born in the rural areas," he said. "My father is a
campesino, a simple peasant who works hard to produce vegetables to
sell. That money fed us while the state provided
education, housing and health. Now I am a doctor working in a
government hospital where people are treated for free. From the money
the
government earns in tourism, I am paid. Like that, like that the system
works. Nobody exploits the other. When our 16,000 doctors work in
Brazil, money is paid by Brazil to our government, which pays part of it
to our doctors. That foreign exchange builds
our economy to educate more people. Like that, like that,
like that. You see how communism works. We are all our neighbours'
keepers. It is humane. I like it. We are happy. Now we are
drinking and dancing salsa. This is freedom. Tomorrow
I
go to work. Next year I marry. I don't want to live in America, maybe
to visit. You see. Maybe this is your future too. It works."     I nodded, adding, "Yes. I have seen the future and it works."