The tenure of Robert Matano as coach of AFC Leopards will be put under the microscope next week when he meets the club’s National Executive Committee. The grapevine has been rife with speculation that the experienced tactician was set for a sack amid rumours hitting a crescendo last on Wednesday when Leopards tasted their first league defeat in this campaign, falling to a 2-1 loss to Sofapaka. Leopards’ secretary general, Oscar Igaida however, quelled any suggestions that the club was about to pull the plug on Matano’s less than a year stay in charge of the club. “I want to make it clear that the club has neither sacked nor suspended the coach,” Igaida sought to explain. “We have made it a policy to review the club’s performance after every five matches and that is why we (the executive committee) want to meet the coach for him to explain the club’s performance and what he needs to do to improve the results,” he added. Igaida’s revelation that Matano will not be in the dugout for tomorrow’s tricky trip to Awendo only served to add fuel to the simmering embers about the ‘Lion’s’ future in the den. “Dennis Kitambi will be in charge of the team for the Sony match but we expect Matano to resume his full responsibilities with the team after the performance review on Tuesday,” remarked Igaida. Despite helping Ingwe stave off relegation last season and leading them to the GOtv Shield triumph, Matano’s time at Leopards has not been smooth sailing. His foul mouth tirades have irked some of the club’s more experienced players. His public fallout with Ugandan Alan Katerega, who left for his native Uganda further brought into question his ability to handle this generation of prima donna fans who want to be treated with kids gloves. Results on the pitch, however, masked any misgivings the club’s rank and file had over his suitability for the job. Things, however, took a different turn at the start of this season with a loss to traditional nemesis Gor Mahia quickly followed by a league draw against Posta Rangers and another damaging one in the Caf Confederations Cup against Fosa. The 1-1 stalemate would cost them dearly against the Madagascan side 10 days later. Their ouster was assuaged by the club, picking their first league win at the expense of Ulinzi Stars six days ago. But Wednesday’s defeat to Sofapaka opened up the barely healed wounds, leaving Matano at pains to explain whether he is the right man to take Leopards forward.