Kenya’s Emmanuel Korir will not compete in the World Indoor Championships in Birmingham after failing to secure a British visa on time. Korir was favourite to win the men’s 800m race and was due to run his first heat yesterday. “Missing the World Indoor Championships ... because of #systemisdown!!!?” he posted on his Facebook account. “We must let go of the life we have planned, so as we accept the one that’s waiting for us. “When you work hard for your dreams some people don’t care but God is great. Isn’t the end of everything.” Korir confirmed he was still in New York, where he had applied for the visa. Elsewhere, Genzebe Dibaba of Ethiopia became the third athlete to win the women’s 3000m title at the IAAF World Indoor Championships on at least three occasions in an exciting climax to the first day which had a sparse but enthusiastic home crowd cheering the narrow but growing possibility of a home winner in Laura Muir on the last lap. Dibaba crossed the finish-line in 8:45.05, a finishing time made respectable courtesy of a scintillating final kilometer of 2:37.43. “I’m very happy to be indoor champion for the third time. This is a great competition and the race was fantastic. This day is for me and my country,” said Dibaba, who is due to contest the 1500m heats tomorrow evening. Dutchwoman Sifan Hassan moved off the rail and almost into lane three in an expedient bid to hold off Muir. The Dutchwoman claimed silver in 8:45.68 but bronze was still a milestone performance for Muir. After near misses at the last three major outdoor championships over 1500m, the double European indoor champion was rewarded with her first global medal in 8:45.78. Due to her final year university commitments, Muir could only travel down to Birmingham on the Wednesday, a task made difficult by unseasonal snow and sub-zero temperatures which immobilized large parts of the British transport system. After a series of cancelled flights, Muir eventually arrived into Birmingham at just before midnight on Wednesday but only after a treacherous six-hour taxi ride from Scotland. “This time yesterday I was in a taxi halfway down the M6. We couldn’t see the bonnet, the windscreen wipers were freezing and it took six hours,” she said. Unbeaten over 5000m outdoors in 2017, Obiri finished fourth in 8:49.66, one place ahead of reigning USA indoor 1500m and 3000m champion Shelby Houlihan, who ran a strong last lap to finish fifth in 8:50.38, overhauling Ethiopia’s Fantu Worku (8:50.54) and Konstanze Klosterhalfen (8:51.79) in the final 200m.