Life is considered the most precious gift every individual in the world can get from God. It is something significant that needs to be protected by all individuals. However, it is being discarded at an alarming rate in Homa Bay county, as more and more people kill themselves. Between September last year and February this year, more than 30 deaths related to suicide were recorded. In his report, Homa Bay police commander Marius Tum says the number could be bigger, since some cases are not reported. “The number on record belongs only to those who hang themselves. It excludes other forms like taking poison, self-drowning and others,” Tum says. Tum says their investigations reveal a number of problems associated with suicidal people. “Some of them leave behind suicide notes, which gives reasons why they decided to take their lives,” Tum says. CASE STUDIES In December, a man committed suicide after his relationship with a woman turned sour. Barrack Guya, 29, decided to kill himself after a woman he wanted to marry, Sharon, rejected him. Guya had fallen deeply in love with her. The two had developed a cordial sexual relationship at Kanyanja village, in Rachuonyo North subcounty. They lived together as lovers who would one day form a family. But dissatisfaction arose when Guya realised he loved Sharon more than Sharon loved him. He found out she had been in another marriage and could not proceed with him anymore. He resorted to hanging himself using a sisal rope at his elder brother’s house. His body was found dangling from the roof by a relative, who raised the alarm. Area assistant chief Michael Owino said: “We found a suicide note inside his pocket indicating he decided to take his life over frustrations he received from the woman over their love affair. He resorted to killing himself after the lady refused to marry him.” In January, another man committed suicide after he discovered he was suffering from a chronic illness. Esau Otieno, 32, hanged himself on a mango tree 30m from his house in Olasi village, Ndhiwa subcounty. Area assistant chief James Omondi said: “The man has been depressed since he discovered that he was suffering the illness.” The man had been sick for a while but stayed for a long time before undergoing a medical test. “He became weak and went to the health centre for checkup for illnesses. He failed to disclose to us what he was suffering from before I returned him later and discovered what he was suffering from,” a villager said. ‘THREAT TO POPULATION GROWTH’ Bunge la Wananchi speaker Walter Opiyo says the rate of suicides is likely to interfere with the county’s progress and population. “Homa Bay is likely to stagnate economically if the population of youths who are energetic and productive continues to dwindle,” he says. The speaker says most people who commit suicide disregard the law governing human life. He says suicidal people are breaking the constitution, as the Bill of Rights says every person has a right to life. “That is why a person is punished if they are arrested and proved beyond reasonable doubt that they were trying to kill themselves,” Opiyo says. Bishop James Ochiel says those who kill themselves undermine what God has given them. Ochiel is affiliated with the Anglican Diocese of Southern Nyanza. He says life is sacred and all mankind should strive to ensure they protect it, adding that it is important for people to die only after they have enjoyed life. “Man was created in God’s image, and God directed him to take care of earth, besides worshiping Him. The man was allowed to enjoy life in the world,” Ochiel says. He says Christians believe that God made death mandatory when He cursed man for disobeying His commandments, adding that nobody is allowed to take their life. The Bishop cites the Book of Galatians 3:13. “It is the supreme giver of life who says that those who hang themselves are cursed,” he says. Ochiel blames the rising suicide rate on lack of a support system for people who get disappointed in life. “Most suicidal people lose hope after failing to get any alternative way of solving their problems. They see death as the only possible solution,” he says. The cleric attributes it to failure by victims to share their problems with the church for counselling. He says most people want to keep their troubles to themselves. “The church is a social support system available for spiritual comfort, but the public perception of privacy makes it a barrier,” he says. Ochiel calls for churches to introduce real-life programmes to tackle the challenges. These would be teach people how to manage the problems they face. He says an ideal church should ensure it improves and assists people in diverse capacities, since churchgoers are a voluntary and captive audience. “The church shouldn’t be a place of collecting and telling people to run away from sin and going to heaven. It’s a vessel where people access knowledge, information and advice, which they cannot get anywhere else,” the bishop says. GODLESSNESS, UNEMPLOYMENT Catholic priest Fr Aloise Okumu of Asumbi Parish blames the suicide cases on failure to recognise the presence of God. “Many people have run away from God. They don’t embrace prayer when faced with difficulties in life. That is why they think suicide is the only way to solve their problems,” Aloise says. He says some people are driven to suicide by frustrations emanating from failure to meet certain needs in life. “Unemployment makes life unbearable for some people. That is why most of those who commit suicides are young people,” the priest says. He calls on his fellow religious leaders to talk to the community about the values of life. “We need to go back to God and recognise that He is the only one who can give human life and take it. This is the only way through which we can eradicate suicide,” he says. Social Services director Charles Onyancha says poor interaction by young people of various classes leads to suicide. Onyancha, a sociologist, says youths from poor families develop a desire to become wealthy quickly to compete with their counterparts from rich families. “When such young people are unable to make ends meet, they resort to taking their lives, thinking they will solve the problem,” he says, adding that drug abuse also contributes. He urges people to open up about their problems. “A problem shared is halfway solved. Let people share their problems when faced with difficulties in society,” Onyancha says.