Mumias Sugar’s Dismas Indiza, Riz Charania (Windsor) and Simon Ngige (Thika) are among top 19 Kenyan professional golfers confirmed for this year’s Barclays Kenya Open March 22-25 at Muthaiga. The 19 are part of a total of 22 Kenyan pros that the Professional Golfers of Kenya will submit to the Kenya Open. According to the tournament director, Patrick Obath, PGK carried out their qualification rounds and submitted the names. “The contingent of Kenyan professionals is selected by the PGK through their own criteria and they in turn send in the names,” he said. “So far the PGK has submitted 19 names and I am expecting another three names from them shortly.” Indiza, Ngige and Charania, automatically qualified for the 2018 Barclays Kenya Open by virtue of making the cut at the 2017 tournament while the remaining 16 have been selected through a series of qualification events that have been organised by the PGK over the last three months. Others, who have been confirmed, are Tom Omuli, David Wakhu and veteran golfer Jacob Okello (Golf Park), Greg Snow, Nicholas Rokoine, Kopan Timbe and Frank Matilo (Muthaiga), John Wangai (Sigona), Brian Njoroge, Nelson Simwa and Matthew Omondi (Vet Lab), Njuguna Ngugi (Nyali), Alfred Nandwa (Railways), Stefan Andersen (Els Club), Erick Obura (Royal) and Justus Madoya (Great Rift). Commenting on the Kenya Open Pre-qualification round slotted for Monday at Vet Lab, Obath said it is the Kenyan professionals who stand the best chance to grab the 3-slots on offer. “The Pre-qualifiers will be held at Vet Lab and on offer are an additional 3-slots in the 2018 Barclays Kenya Open. I believe our local golf pros are best suited to claim all these slots,” he said. “So in theory, we can expect to have 25 Kenyan professionals playing next week.” In addition to the pros, four Kenyan amateur players have been selected to play at this year’s Kenya Open with two others being invited from Uganda and Tanzania to complete the roster of six amateur players slots allocated to the Kenya Open Golf Limited. The four include Vet Lab’s Edwin Mudanyi, Muthaiga’s Bhavnish Chandaria, Royal’s Dennis Saikwa and Nyali’s Daniel Nduva. Tanzanian Victor Joseph and Ugandan Ronald Rugumayo complete the local amateurs list for this year’s tournament. Indiza, who made his Kenya Open debut in 1996 at the Muthaiga and whose best score came in 2008 when he finished T10 with a gross score of 5-under 279, will be a favourite going into this year’s tournament where expectations are high from local supporters. Click here for the latest political news