One of four suspected thugs shot dead by police yesterday was found with a note indicating his girlfriend should be blamed if he dies. The note in his pocket stated the man was looking for money to support the woman, whom police declined to name. The note was discovered in his back pocket moments after he was felled by bullets at Parklands 3rd Avenue yesterday at noon. “Should I die, ***** should be blamed for my death. I will have died finding money for her,” the note read. The four thugs are believed to be part of a network preying on customers leaving banks after making huge withdrawals. After they were killed police said they found a pistol and uniforms. The four were said to be on a crime mission. Their identities could not be established as they did not carry identification documents. They were killed by officers from the Special Crimes Prevention Unit. Nairobi DCI chief Ireri Kamwende said the suspects had attempted to carjack a customer leaving a bank in Westlands. A special team was established to track down the gang. The muggers had become so bold that there was a reign of terror in the CBD in broad daylight. The criminals were known for trailing traders inside banking halls and to the city streets, after which they would kidnap, carjack or rob them. Police are yet to solve most of the reported cases. Last month police arrested four men in Meru, where they attempted to rob a macadamia farmer of Sh800,000. The criminals disguise themselves as police and after spotting their prey, they produce guns and police pocket phones. They bundle the victims into an unmarked car and steal their money. In December, the same gang is alleged to have robbed Assistant Inspector General of Police Francis Njiru of close to Sh400,000. The same gang has been blamed for carjacking and the murder of 35-year-old businessman Frankline Mugambi in Kasarani on January 6. The criminals forced Mugambi into their car soon after he walked out of the banking hall where he had withdrawn Sh600,000 in Kasarani. Mugambi was the proprietor of three eateries in Nairobi, among them the prominent Red Office Restaurant in Kasarani.