Golf Park resident pro Jacob Okello and Muthaiga’s Greg Snow are among those named in the Kenya team for the prestigious Barclays Kenya Golf Open set for March 22 -25 in Nairobi. This follows the conclusion of the five-leg Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK) qualification series which concluded at Windsor. Also in the mix are Royal winner Eric Ooko, Nicholas Rokoine of Muthaiga, Sigona’s CJ Wangai, Nyali resident pro Njuguna Ngugi and Muthaiga’s Frank Matilo. “It’s quite a good feeling to make it back to the Kenya Open team especially when the event is celebrating its 50th anniversary. We are looking forward to some scintillating week of golf given the increase in prize money,” said Njuguna who qualified 12th. Those selected will join South Africa-based Stefan Andersen who landed a PGK wildcard and a trio of Dismas Indiza (Mumias), Rizwan Charania (Windsor) and Simon Ngige (Thika Sports Club) who made cuts at last year’s Kenya Open. PGK Captain CJ Wangai said three more slots for Kenyan pros will be up for grabs in the last qualification tournament to ascertain a full team of 22. Tournament director, Patrick Obath announced in Mombasa that the 50th edition will focus more on spectator value with plans already underway to erect a fan grand stand on hole number 13. Due to the increase in prize money and ongoing scrambled of invitational slots, Obath also announced that KOGL will run a pre-qualifier tournament at Vet-Lab on November 19 with which pros will have the opportunity to earn extra slots for the Open. “Due to the increase of the prize money, there has been considerable interest among those relegated from the main European Tour and as organisers, we have been compelled to run a pre-qualifier which is unprecedented and another first,” Obath said. The Kenya Open has become the European Challenge Tour’s most lucrative event after raising its prize fund to €500,000. First held in 1967, the Kenya Open is one of the longest-running African events on the European circuit, having hosted both the European and Challenge Tours over the last six decades. Over the years, the Nairobi tournament has been won by some of the game’s greatest players. Major champions Seve Ballesteros, Ian Woosnam and Trevor Immelman have all triumphed in East Africa while last year, Aaron Rai delighted the home crowds by lifting the famous trophy in front of his emotional Kenya-born mother.