Former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel was on Tuesday arrested outside a Nanyuki court and locked up at the Nanyuki police station. The former legislator had attended a hearing in which he is accused of threatening to burn the Rumuruti police station on July 3, 2016. Laikipia police boss Simon Kipkeu yesterday confirmed the arrest of the former legislator (ODM), saying he will be charged with conspiracy to commit murder. “The former MP was taken to the Nanyuki police station, where he spent the night. He will be charged in court tomorrow,” Kipkeu said on the phone. Lempurkel was given a police bond so he can attend another court case in Nairobi in which he is charged with assaulting former nominated MP Sarah Lekorere, who is now the Laikipia North legislator. If charged, he will be faced with nine cases pending in various courts. Kipkeu said Lempurkel is not a resident of Laikipia. He is from the Oldonyiro area in Isiolo county but managed to have the pastoralist community vote for him in the 2013 General Election, where he won. On Tuesday, Lempurkel took to the witness stand to defend himself. A Nanyuki court found he had a case to answer over charges of incitement to violence. The former MP presented witness Julius Elokomela as he denied he threatened to burn down the Rumuruti police station as he attempted to free a suspect from the cells on July 3, 2016. Earlier, chief magistrate Lucy Mutai ruled the prosecution had presented a strong case against him. Lempurkel said he is innocent and did not incite his supporters to burn down the police station. He also denied threatening a police officer manning the station. “I could not have called senior police officers to resolve the matter if my intention was to incite my supporters to burn the police station. I only went there to ask the officers to take an injured suspect to hospital,” Lempurkel said. He told the court people who had gathered at the police station on the day were relatives of Dominic Lenyamire, who had been arrested. Witness Elokomela said he had accompanied the MP to the police station to request that Lenyamire be taken for treatment. The matter will be mentioned on Monday, when his lawyer William Bwonwonga will make final submissions before judgment. Click here for the latest political news