You must have watched Nyali MP Mohamed
Ali’s passionate contribution in the National Assembly on the need for laws and policies on health that benefit ordinary
Kenyans, especially mothers. It is still doing the rounds on
social media. He says it is shameful that although the
MPs themselves have the privilege of seeking treatment in top hospitals in the
country and abroad, the majority of Kenyans can’t access basic healthcare. And
even when some of these MPs seek treatment abroad, some come back in coffins. This is actually the case. Vice President
KIjana Wamalwa died in a London hospital in 2003, as Mama Lucy Kibaki did in 2016. In August 2016, former President Mwai Kibaki was admitted at the
Netcare Sunninghill Hospital in
South Africa. He was Kenya’s President
for 10 years. And when former President Daniel Moi had flown to Israel for a knee treatment, activist Boniface Mwangi tweeted, “24
years as president and there is not a single public hospital in Kenya that is
well equipped to treat him. Shame on him for failing to improve our healthcare
to first world standards.” This is precisely what MP Ali spoke about
in Bunge. Admittedly, President Uhuru Kenyatta has
prioritised healthcare in his Big Four agenda and in what was last week seen as
the first attempt to get the ball rolling in this sector, he made the first
ever state visit to Cuba. However, I see gaps in this move because first, it is not sustainable. We need to train and retain more doctors. "We have a serious shortage of doctors in the country. The government
should consider employing the 1,400 Kenyan doctors who have been waiting
for employment since May last year,” secretary general of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists’ Union Ouma Oluga said last week. There is the issue of brain drain from our country but we must ask ourselves what incentivizes it. For so long, doctors and nurses have gone on strike citing poor working conditions. We have hospitals where doctors are overwhelmed, lack equipment and other facilitation. And when the government attempted to equip public hospitals through the Managed Equipment Services Programme, there were challenges that included resistance from the governors and two, and most importantly, some equipment didn't have qualified personnel to operate. It now happens that some of those equipment still lie idle in various hospitals. What is needed is capacity, and as President Uhuru once told Raila Odinga sometime back, "if we don't have the capacity, build the capacity, don't import it". What is needed is to have our doctors train in Cuba or further their studies there. There is no denying health diplomacy is key in ensuring national and international health for all. In any case, states need to work together for preventive measures, skills transfer and to support the necessary collective action to take advantage of opportunities and mitigate the risks for health. 