A storm is brewing at Meru's Mikinduri market over attacks by thugs who have killed boda boda riders and stolen their vehicles. Boda boda riders have asked Governor Kiraitu Murungi, Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea and institutions including the Interior ministry to improve security. James Mutwiri, chairman of the boda boda riders' association, said they can't work round the clock as their lives are in danger. Mutwiri noted rider Edwin Gikunda was brutally killed, his eyes gouged out and his motorcycle stolen about 200 metres from the market. A similar incident was reported in December last year but no arrests have been made. While responding to the plea, Kabeabea noted the need to reshuffle top security officers in the sub-county. "It can't be business as usual when people are being killed without culprits being brought to book," he said. "There are a lot of security hiccups in Tigania East. People have a right to be protected. How come two people were killed yet the criminals are yet to be arrested?. Our cattle were stolen by rustlers and have not been recovered several months later. We recommend a reshuffle." Area MCA Gabriel Chokera blamed traffic police officers saying their receipt of bribes has enhanced crime. "Security was good when Murugu was here but since he went, Mikinduri has been under criminal gangs. It is unsafe," he said. Tigania Central Deputy Commissioner Caroline Nzili said investigations were ongoing and that the boda boda stolen last year was found at Tsaikuru in Kitui county. Several people have been arrested, Nzili said, and asked riders to submit information that could be helpful to police. She advised them to put their safety first and form associations that will help improve their security and promote their businesses. "They should be reporting insecurity incidences rather than demonstrating on the streets," she said. "We have arrested the person who bought the motorcycle stolen in December." The Commissioner said the victim sold sacks at the market and had just bought the motorcycle. The culprits may have targeted him since the vehicle did not have number plates, she said. "We assure the culprits will be prosecuted," she said and asked business people to employ guards. Click here for the latest political news 