The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights has hit back at the self-proclaimed NRM general Miguna Miguna for refusing to present his travel documents for clearance at JKIA. Chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori on Thursday told reporters the commission was disappointed with the city lawyer. She said procedurally, these were the key documents that would have allowed Miguna's re-entry but instead he adamantly refused to cooperate. "The commission was disappointed with Miguna because the court orders had allowed him to use the Canadian papers he had traveled with to gain entry in the country." "He, however, adamantly refused to use the papers in a situation that boggled us," Mbogori said. "He rather became so boisterous at the immigration desk, pushed some of the immigration officers and forced his way to the luggage area which to us was a breach of the immigration rules." Related: Justice Odunga fines Matiang'i, Boinnet Sh200,000 for contempt of court Mbogori said if only Miguna would have presented the documents, the matter wouldn't have escalated to subject the country to unnecessary ridicule. "We tried to salvage the situation hopping that if he produced the papers, he would be granted entry on gratis basis until the hearing of the petition was concluded," she said. The rights commission boss said this would have been the easiest way to grant the lawyer entry since the state had refused to issue back the perforated passport. The Immigration department maintains that the outspoken city lawyer has to reapply for the Kenyan citizenship that he lost in 1998. In a statement, the department said Miguna automatically lost his Kenyan citizenship that year when he acquired that of Canada as the country did not allow dual citizenship. "To enable Miguna regularise his citizenship status, the department has this morning dispatched the requisite application forms to the JKIA for [him] to fill [them] for processing," the department said on Tuesday. Read: Miguna has to apply for Kenyan citizenship, Immigration department says But his lawyers, led by Cliff Ombeta, rejected the "plot" by the government to force him to sign forms to regain his Kenyan citizenship. Ombeta said the government is trying to validate the wrongs it committed by presenting the forms. "The court was clear when it declared directives by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and Immigration director Gordon Kihalangwa null and void. Thus, signing any readmission form is a violation of the same orders," he said. He added that the order directed unconditional entry and that a Visa application would subject his client to unnecessary timelines and conditions. See: Miguna won't sign any forms for Kenyan citizenship - Cliff Ombeta For his part, Miguna said Interior CS Fred Matiang'i had suspended visa requirements from visitors from western nations last month. "In other words, the despots are treating me far worse than they treat aliens. I will never negotiate over my inalienable rights," he said. The NRM general was put on a Dubai-bound plane and arrived in the Middle East country on Thursday morning. Click here for the latest political news