Every time parliamentary committees vet Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and envoys, they are required to declare their wealth. This is to enable Kenyans to know how much their leaders are worth as per the Public Officer Ethics Act. As nominees quote millions of shillings, some Kenyans are left wondering how they arrive at their figures. But questions that are always assumed are: Are they honest with the wealth declaration? Are they always telling the truth or a big, fat lie? Are the vetting teams doing enough to verify their financial status? When a CS is vetted into office, after some time, the net worth is expected to rise, rather than dip, as it is with some of them. cleopa mailu Net worth is the amount by which assets exceed liabilities. Another way to say this is, it’s the value of everything you own, minus all your debts. During last month’s vetting of envoys nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta, former Health CS Cleopa Mailu was rated the richest among the envoy nominees. Mailu, Kenya’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, told the parliamentary watchdog that he is worth Sh617 million. But when he faced the vetting committee in 2015, when he was appointed the Health CS, the former Nairobi Hospital CEO said his net worth was Sh615 million. Does it mean that during his three-year tenure in the Health ministry, the minister only accumulated Sh2 million in new wealth? Cabinet ministers’ salaries and allowances are set at around Sh1.2 million monthly. The nominee told the committee in 2015 that he did not envisage any deferred income or future benefits and did not have outside commitments to pursue outside employment. The CS said he earned Sh67 million in accumulated salaries in 2014, when he was the Nairobi Hospital boss. Dan kazungu During his vetting on February 28, former CS Dan Kazungu, who is heading to Tanzania as ambassador, disclosed to the committee that he was worth Sh32.7 million. When the former Mining CS faced the vetting panel in 2015, Kazungu, who was then Malindi MP, declared a net worth of Sh100 million. It means since becoming CS, his net worth shrunk by Sh67.3 million. But how is that possible? Willy bett Former Agriculture CS Willy Bett, who is now headed to be the Kenyan ambassador in India, last month said he was worth Sh125 million. He told the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee that the millions were mainly from employment, farming and rental income. This is less the amount he was worth when he appeared to be vetted in 2015 for the CS position by the vetting panel, when he said his net worth was Sh127 million. It means since Bett joined the Agriculture docket, his wealth dropped by Sh2 million. The government has sought to tighten the declaration of wealth requirement, amid accusations that political appointees use their positions to enrich themselves, leaving much richer than they were when they took the oaths of office. The government proposed that appointed and elected officials declare their wealth within 30 days of taking office. They will also be required to declare their wealth yearly. Also Read:Are Uhuru's nominees lying about their net worth? Click here for the latest political news