The Kenya National Union of Teachers yesterday denied it entered into an agreement with the teachers' employer on performance appraisals and teachers’ transfer. Yesterday, Teacher’s Service Commission chief executive Nancy Macharia said the two items were negotiated and signed by two teachers’ unions - Kuppet and Knut – and documented in the collective bargaining agreement. A reconciliation process initiated by the Labour ministry to mediate between the two failed to kickoff after the TSC failed to appear. The reconciliation process was expected to take part between March 13 and April 13. Read: We will reject new TSC, ministry rules, they are puntive, say Knut officials Yesterday, Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion accused the TSC of beginning implementation of the Teacher Performance Appraisal and Development that has been in operation for three years without consultation. “When the TSC rolled out the assessment tool it said it was piloting it. Since then, there has been no consultation, no update on the outcome of the pilot yet it’s being implemented,” Sossion said. He said Knut members will boycott work starting next term (May) after the union applied for a certificate of disagreement to initiate the process of calling a strike. “We will meet as the Knut National Executive Council on April 11,” Sossion said. Also read: Teachers threaten strike after TSC snubs reconciliation meeting In the CBA signed on October 26, 2016, the two parties agreed that the annual performance evaluation shall be undertaken by the employer, through tools to be developed with the participation of the two parties. “In recognition of the fundamental shift in policy in public employment and with a view to promote, enhance and maintain high performance standards in the teaching service, the parties hereby agree to ensure a continuous professional development and annual performance evaluation system,” the CBA reads. Sossion said the TSC has failed to address their issues, which include the use of a performance appraisal system, promotions of teachers and delocalisation. Read: Sossion tells teachers to trash performance contracts, threatens strike over CBA “You cannot gauge teachers using the performance appraisal system and the classroom environment is in pathetic condition. That is moving one step forward and several back. Appraisals should be used to fill gaps in teaching, not to victimise teachers and threaten them,” Sossion said. The UNESCO international standards require teachers to work closer to their locality so as to promote culture and strengthen community relations. “The new policies adopted by the TSC are against international standards,” Sossion said.  Click here for the latest political news 