Titus Musila Katitu, the popular ex-cop convicted last month for the death of a 27-year-old man in Githurai is hoping a probation report tabled in Court will persuade it to give a lighter sentence. Katitu, 45, returns to court on Wednesday to plead his case for the last time, before justice James Wakiaga pronounces his sentence. Read: Ex-Githurai cop Katitu found guilty of suspect's murder Katitu - of the famous Katitu band is remorseful for shooting Kenneth Kimani on March 14, 2013, at Githurai bus stage and pleads for leniency. "He prays for a non - custodial sentence to enable him to serve the community," concludes a probation officer. The pre-sentence report summarises views of his family, that of Kimani, local administration office as well as Githurai residents- who want the court to give him a second chance. Among those interviewed include matatus touts, shoe shiners, boda-boda riders, and other people who hails Katitu' policing work saying "he helped reduce crime in the area and we want him back to continue with his good work". "The deceased together with his brothers were known notorious thugs who would rob people in day broad light and at night," states the probation report. "He would board a Matatu and demand Mobile phones from unsuspecting motorist". Of those interviewed is a man who claims he and the deceased were classmates at Kenyatta University Primary School. Related: Sonko bails out cop in Githurai murder trial He told of how the deceased robbed him of his shoes as he waited to board a matatu at the bus station. "All those interviewed said they would want him released and posted back to continue fighting crime" the officer concludes. Kimani's mother - Purity Wanjiku, however, says Katitu ought to be harshly sentenced so that he can learn his mistakes. She says that she does not believe in a death sentence and therefore pleads with the court to send the ex-cop to a maximum custodial sentence allowed by law. "I have suffered grieve for the false accusation by the accused that my son was a thief" "He has distorted my family, we can never celebrate birthdays without tears of pain and Christmas is even worse," she says. She is more hurt because Katitu is yet to be tried for killing his other son Oscar Muchoki - who was shot in almost similar circumstances a year later. Also read: Githurai cop found guilty of murder Click here for the latest political news