High Court Judge David Majanja has faulted the Government Chemist for slowing down cases in the court that require DNA samples results. Majanja expressed displeasure in the Chemist’s speed in providing results of the samples submitted for investigations. This has seen cases related to defilement, sodomy, rape and murder lag behind. “We have several suspects who have overstayed in custody waiting for t heir reports to be brought back, a situation that is unfair and unlawful,” he said. When questioned in court why it took so long to process the results, the principal Government Chemist in Kisumu, Richard Kimutai, said the facility sometimes lacked key reagents needed in the tests. The reagents are supplied by one provider who runs out of stock sometimes. A DNA test could span for close to two weeks or a month, depending on the test and availability of reagents. Kimutai added that the facility handles numerous requests for DNA sample examinations, which he said cause the delayed results. “Some tests we run are complex and require us to re-conduct them for accurate results. We are overwhelmed as we serve all counties in Nyanza and Rift Valley.” But Majanja questioned why the facility director has not honoured summons to appear in court on the same issue. He directed the facility to ensure procurement of reagents is sped up to avoid delays. The facility director is expected in court today. Some of the national incidents that have required DNA tests include rape allegations during the 2007-08 post-election violence. In 2016, Physicians for Human Rights director Karen Naimer said justice continues to elude many victims of sexual violence in Kenya. Despite efforts to support legal redress for survivors of the 2007-08 post election sexual violence, including those that endured sexual violations, impunity still abounds in the management and response to grave crimes, making it difficult for survivors to get justice and compensation. She said failure to prosecute perpetrators, even in situations where they are known, and where circumstantial evidence is available, is perhaps the biggest headache that the authorities are grappling with. To a survivor who has endured a rape ordeal, the least she can expect is a working system right from the police station where she reports her case, to the hospital where evidence is gathered, all the way to the courts of law.