Kitui West residents will today go to the ballot to elect their MP.
The more than 52,000 voters will pick a replacement for immediate former MP Francis Nyenze, who died on December 6 last year. Nyenze died of colon cancer at the Nairobi Hospital.
There are 143 polling stations in the constituency.
Nyenze’s widow, Edith Vethi, is among the five candidates who will faceoff in the by-election. Vethi is the Wiper candidate. Wiper enjoys massive support not only in Kitui West, but also the whole of Kitui county.
The other candidates are Mutiso Leli of Narc Kenya, Elijah Ikonge of Chama Cha Uzalendo, Dennis Mulwa (independent) and Frida Mutui of the Kenya National Congress.
But Leli and Ikonge have cast aspersions on the independence and credibility of the IEBC officials in Kitui West. The duo claim the IEBC personnel are biased in favour of Vethi.
“The IEBC officials have been on Mrs Nyenze’s campaign trail and have held secret meetings in Kitui hotels. We have evidence and my lawyer has written two protest letters to the IEBC. The IEBC has not responded,” Leli said. He expressed fears that there are plans to deny him victory if he wins.
Kitui West returning officer James Mbai yesterday dismissed the allegations by the candidates as “false and unsubstantiated”. “When I received the allegations, I called a meeting of the candidates, but they had no proof,” he told the Star on the phone. Mbai said the allegations are largely meant to intimidate him. He also said preparations for today’s by-election are proceeding well.
Both Leli and Ikonge also accused Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka of interfering with the wishes of Kitui West residents by campaigning for Vethi.
“Kalonzo should not have stooped that low by campaigning for a candidate in a by-election. He should have allowed a level playing field for all the candidates,” Leli said on Saturday..
Ikonge said although Kalonzo showed open bias for a particular candidate, the final decision lies with the people of Kitui West. “Kalonzo has failed at the national level politics and I want to tell you that his forays in Kitui West will have little impact on the by-election results,” he said.
On Friday when they wrapped-up their campaigns, contestants promised goodies if elected.
Vethi said she is the most qualified candidate and she has the “records” of the constituency’s needs. “I am very well informed about what Kitui West needs. I will not let you down,” she said. Vethi said if elected, she would carry on with her husband’s legacy of selfless service.
Earlier this month, Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua promised to support Vethi to inherit her late husband’s seat. “I’m the senior-most elected member of Wiper in Kitui. The party has asked me to push hard to ensure Edith wins the by-election,” Wambua said. He said Edith, his sister, is capable of delivering services if she wins. “Being my sister is a non-issue, she’s a performer,” Wambua said.