A conflict is brewing between Watamu Association of Boat Operators and the Kenya Wildlife Service over management of funds deducted from marine park fees. The KWS froze cash meant for the association. The money is deducted when boats take tourists to the marine park. Watamu boat operators have accused Watamu Marine Park warden Dadley Kiluhula of favouring a splinter association, which he denies. Wabo members on Wednesday said Kiluhula is forcing them to obtain compliance documents for both the boat and the coxwain. Wabo chairman Abdi Mujahid said the warden brought in Kenya Maritime Authority officials to compell them to comply with the rules. Speaking at Blue Bay Beach in Watamu, Mujahid said the warden has resorted to witch-hunt to ensure the rival association is in the plan. “We have no faith in Kiluhula. We want the Tourism CS and director general to intervene. The warden is even telling the Kenya Maritime Autority that we are working illegally,” he claimed. Mujahid said they are not against compliance to ensure coxswains and boats are licensed, but the manner in which the matter is implemented is questionable. Wabo may be forced to pay half the park entry fees if funds withheld by the KWS are not released. Kiluhula said he is holding on to the funds because the association has not filed reports on how the cash is spent. The warden said he met Wabo members over the matter, but not all parties agreed. “We suspended the money because the association was not filing returns, and failed to account for the money spent. We cannot issue government funds to them if they cannot account for it,” he said. On compliance, Kiluhula said most of the commercial boat operators and hotels lack operation documents. That is why KWS engaged the maritime authority to ensure all boats and coxswains comply. In Watamu, only one hotel — Turtle Bay — has complied. The rest, which operate in the park, have no valid documents. “We brought in KMA to ensure all commercial boats and their coxswains follow the rules. It’s not witch-hunt as stated by Wabo,” he said. Mundhir Mohamed, a boat captain at Watamu Marine Park, said the funds which were suspended had developed the area. He urged the national government to transfer the warden for his inability to work with the boat operators. A letter seen by the Star shows only two commercial boats in Watamu have seaworthiness certificates from KMA. Most of the coxwains have no competency certificates. In January, boat owners and operators protested against what they called misuse of tourism funds by the Marine park. They demanded Kiluhula’s resignation and a top Coast KWS official, claiming they have not paid boat owners’ Sh1.5 million commission. Mujahid said they have an agreement with the KWS to get commissions from park entry fees. “For every 10 visitors who board their boats, cash for one ticket goes to the operators,” he said. Kiluhula accused Wabo of failing to account for funds they receive. He said a few boat owners dictate to members and impose decisions. “I received complaints that although every member contributes to the kitty, when it comes to sharing the money, some are locked out,” Kiluhula said. 