The National Transport and Safety Authority will train 11,000 drivers in the next three months under its new driving school curriculum. Speaking during the launch of the program at Kabete Technical Training Institute, NTSA deputy director in charge of road safety Dr Duncan Kibogong said the refresher course program will begin with long distance night drivers operating Public Service Vehicles (PSV). Saccos that are licensed to operate at night are also required to have their drivers go through refresher training. The exercise which began yesterday is aimed at curbing the high cases of road carnage countrywide. “We are targeting 54 Saccos across the country. Today 102 drivers at this institute will be undergoing the refresher training. We want to ensure we have standardized training for all drivers,” said Kibogong. Kobogong said that the development of the curriculum was necessitated by the fact that road traffic accidents kill more than 3,000 people in Kenya every year, with 80 per cent of these crashes being a result of human behavior-related factors. According to NTSA the biggest contributor of road fatalities remains to be the driver. The Authority believes that the new curriculum is best strategy to reduce the number of road crashes countrywide. The training which included theory and practical sessions will depend on which class of the vehicle one is driving determines the content and time upon which someone is to be trained. As part of the exercise, Kibogong said they will be checking driver’s medical assessment as different medical conditions predispose drivers to different challenges “If you realize you have an eye condition or ear condition, which is correctable, have it corrected. However, some cannot be corrected and as a regulator we advise that in such cases, drivers cannot be licensed,” said Kibogong. Twelve government institutions have been identified to offer the training countrywide. The same has already kick started in Siaya , Nakuru, Baringo, Meru and Nyeri. After the drivers have been trained they will be issued with certificates of compliance and later with a smart driver’s license. They are required to pay shs 1000 for the next three training days. The new categories of drivers are motorcycle rider, light vehicle drivers, professional light vehicle drivers (PLV), public service vehicle drivers (PSV), motorcycle and three-wheel drivers, truck drivers, special professional drivers (SPDL) and industrial construction and agricultural machine operators (ICA). Units to be covered under the curriculum include vehicle construction and controls, self-inspection of vehicles, vehicle control or maneuver yard, and communication on the road, space management, adverse driving conditions, emergency procedures and customer care.