The government will set up peace schools in regions prone to cattle rustling in the North Rift, Deputy President William Ruto said on Friday. He said the schools will help integrate communities that have been in conflict for many decades. The DP spoke when he laid a foundation stone for Katikomor Peace Primary School in Kapenguria. “It’s only through education that we shall end cattle rustling. We need to allow our children to integrate, forget the past and focus on development,” Ruto said. He said the schools will help change the people’s attitudes. The schools, said the DP, will be set up along the Pokot-Turkana, Pokot-Marakwet, Turkana-Baringo and Baringo-Samburu borders. He thanked the West Pokot county government for setting aside Sh20 million to construct the school. Ruto said the government will add Sh20 million to ensure the school has enough infrastructure to accommodate pupils from the region. Katikomor Primary School will host children from the Sebei community in Uganda, Trans Nzoia and West Pokot counties. The school has been set up in an area that has been a battlefield for cattle rustlers for many years. The DP said the President last week signed an agreement in Rwanda to remove trade barriers among African countries. “Africa has agreed to remove trade barriers. We are only going to have administrative boundaries, but we shall trade freely,” Ruto said. Ruto also directed Trans Nzoia county commissioner to ensure that land disputes at Chepchoina Settlement Scheme are resolved. He asked the commissioner to ensure rightful beneficiaries are taken care of. The DP warned government officers against fuelling conflicts. “Government officers are required to keep the peace. They are not allowed to oppress others because of the position they hold,” Ruto said. He asked politician to put aside their differences and focus on delivering services to Kenyans. “If we at the national level have decided to put our political differences aside and agreed to work together to ensure we deliver to Kenyans, you at the county level should also unite,” he said. He was accompanied by area leaders, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo, MPs David Pkossing (Pokot South), Mark Lomunakol (Kacheliba), Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria) and West Pokot Woman Representative Lilian Tomitom. Also present was a delegation from Uganda led by Bukwo MP Ruben Chelimo.