Africa Union member states must critically think about issues affecting trade and integration. Richard Ssewakiryanga, who is Economic, Social and Cultural Council (ECOSOCC) Presiding Officer, said this on Thursday noting the need for trade barriers to be removed if Africa is to advance. "Several issues need to be addressed in Africa. Some of them are trade barriers, migration,common passport and many others," he said at Laico Regency, Nairobi, during a consultative meeting with Civil Society Organisations. He added: "There is need for all member states to be engaged so that we have physical presence in all member states." The officer noted the ECOSOCC provides the best opportunity for CSOs to channel issues affecting them to AU heads of states. He added plans can only succeed if the organisations push for accountability by the government. Ssewakiryanga regretted that African leaders sign several policies during summits yet citizens from various AU membership remain clueless. He cited Agenda 2063 that has been adopted by several African heads of states and which he noted highlights several issues that need to be popularised. The officer urged civil society organisations to put more efforts into Agenda 2063. This is a strategic framework for the socio-economic transformation of the continent over the next 50 years. Kenya has proposed the Big Four plan agenda, that focuses on food security, affordable healthcare, and manufacturing, and President Uhuru Kenyatta has declared commitment to these goals. Ssewakiryanga challenged the Kenyan chapter of the organisation to be aggressive and increase numbers for promises to be kept. Related: How the free movement of people could benefit Africa Also read: Uhuru urges Africa to revitalise peer review, integrate mechanism into AU system GENDER EQUALITY PUSH On gender equality, the Presiding Officer said AU members including Rwanda and Uganda have done very well. Ssewakiryanga asked CSOs to take up the challenge and ensure gender parity is met. Regarding the role of the CSOs, Ssewakiryanga noted a misunderstanding yet they play a big role in various sectors of the economy and as such, they need good working environments. "We are working on a study to find out the working environment of CSOs in Africa,"he said. Thirty five civil society organizations and networks attended yesterday's meeting. African aspirations were derived through a consultative process with citizens. These are a prosperous Africa - based on inclusive growth, sustainable development, integration and political unity - based on the ideals of Pan Africanism and the vision of Africa’s Renaissance. The organisation also seeks an Africa with good governance, democracy and respect for human rights, justice and the rule of law. Other aspirations are peace, security, a strong cultural identity, common heritage, values and ethics and development that is driven by the people, women and youth in particular. The ECOSOCC was established in 2004 as an advisory organ to the AU and is composed of social and professional groups of AU member states. Its principle is for civil society to organise itself to work in partnership with the AU. Its mandate includes contributing, through advice, to the effective translation of the AU’s objectives, principles and policies into concrete programmes, as well as evaluating those programmes. The ECOSOCC also fosters and consolidates partnership between the AU and civil society organisations. The council is set to advice heads of state on the fight against corruption and issues surrounding migration. Ssewakiryanga said with the presence of avenues such as the ECOSOCC, most issues can be addressed easily. Click here for the latest political news