Trans Nzoia authorities have assured that their water sources are safe following tests necessitated by a cholera outbreak. They made the announcement on Friday following last week's testing of water in boreholes, springs, rivers and at homes. “We collected samples from water sources and discharge from water treatment works to check whether they might have been sources of contamination," Water Chief Officer John Meng'wa said after visiting Shanti Primary School. Samples were collected from the school from Monday to Wednesday. "We are glad to notify the public that the water they have been using is safe," Meng'wa added, and asked residents to continue using what Nzowasco supplies and ignore rumours that it is contaminated. ‎On boreholes, the Chief Officer cautioned residents against drilling near latrines. Meng'wa noted some of the boreholes are shallow, making it easy for water and waste to mix. He further warned contractors against damaging the sewer system and told them to consult relevant county officials. Early in the month, more than 100 people were admitted at Trans Nzoia Referral Hospital after complaining of severe stomach pains. More than 20 of them tested positive for cholera but were treated and discharged, Medical Superintendent Emmanuel Wanjala told the Star at his office on Friday. He confirmed that some of the patients were students of Kitale National Polytechnic. Wanjala noted: "Sewage treatment works in Kitale town have been defective for a long time, with filters failing and causing blockage and the bursting of pipes. The discharge of the waste leads to contamination." But he said the outbreak was tamed through efforts by the county administration and other stakeholders. He added public health officers were following leads on the hawking of food, especially in open air markets, and how it is packaged following the ban on plastic bags. “With the ban of plastic bags, we don’t know what these people are wrapping their foods and fruits in. This might cause disease outbreaks." Click here for the latest political news