The governors have faulted the national government for backtracking on a Sh8 billion road maintenance fuel levy deal. The government has published a Bill, which, if passed, will strip the counties of the powers to manage, develop and maintain county roads classified as Class D. The Bill is in the public participation phase. The governors want the deal honoured. They say the latest move is among many attempts by the national government to encroach on the roles of the counties using Parliament. Read: Of long but blunt knives: Counties’ revenue struggles The county chiefs have accused the national government of starving their administrations of cash to destabilise them. Documents obtained by the Star show that the contract was to ensure Class D roads — popularly known as county roads — are given ample attention. Instead, the national government has proposed the disbandment of the County Roads Agency. It wants Clause 2, which supports the creation of the agency, deleted from the Revenue Allocation Bill to strip the counties of the powers to maintain Class D roads. Read: Be patient, you'll soon get county funds, Eugene tells Governors The roads include those that connect county headquarters to other county towns. “We would like to request your office to follow up with the National Treasury to ensure the joint agreement is included in the Division of Revenue Bill, 2018, which is to be submitted to Parliament,” CoG chairman Josphat Nanok protested to Transport PS Julius Korir in a letter dated March 16. “The agreed position in this joint communiqué was to increase the allocation of the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy Fund to the counties for 2018 -19 from the current 15 per cent up to 20.” The letter was also copied to Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council special secretary Patrick Omutia. The contract between the national government and the counties was signed on February 15 after lengthy consultations. Transport CS James Macharia and Council of Governors vice chairperson Anne Waiguru represented the national and the county governments. “Article 6-2 of the Constitution provides that the levels of government are distinct but inter-dependent and shall conduct their mutual relations on the basis of consultation and cooperation,” Nanok says in the letter. The Division of Revenue Bill is meant to divide revenue raised by the national government among the national and county governments in line with the Constitution. Also read: Why county audit funds are withheld  Click here for the latest political news