The Chickengate case against former IEBC Chief Executive Officer James Oswago will be mentioned on April 23. The Anti-Corruption Court fixed the date on Tuesday to enable parties agree on the number of days the case will take to conclude. "l give you one month to agree on the issues of preliminaries and come back .. for the recording of a pretrial agreement and fixing of the hearing dates," Milimani Senior Principal Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi said. Deputy DPP Jacob Ondari informed the court that they have supplied the defence with all copies of witness statements and other documentary evidence the prosecution with rely on during the trial. Read; Former IEBC CEO Oswago, three others arrested over Chickengate Oswago is charged alongside former official Hamida Kibwana and Trevy Oyombra, who is an agent for UK printing firm Smith & Ouzman. The three are facing charges in relation to the Sh59 million that Smith & Ouzman paid as a bribe  for the award of a tender. The payment was to members of the defunct Commission and the Kenya National Examination Council. Oswago is facing an alternative charge of failing to comply with procurement laws. The prosecution said that on May 7, 2010 at the IEBC's offices, Oswago - being the accounting officer of the commission - awarded a contract for the supply of 57,000 ballot papers for the South Mugirango by-election to Smith & Ouzman. This was in contravention of public procurement and disposal regulations. Also read: Ex-IEBC boss Oswago granted Sh600,000 cash bail in ChickenGate scandal He faces another charge of receiving Sh2 million from Hamida Ali Kibwana as an inducement to have the IEBC award a contract for the printing of OMR corrections forms to the firm. Oswago and Hamida are out on a cash bail of Sh600,000 each while Oyombra is out on Sh1 million cash bail. Oyombra was charged with nine counts, among them soliciting and receiving a benefit. Oswago was arrested by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission detectives alongside agent Oyombra, who brokered the deal between the officials of IIEC, KNEC and the printing firm and Kibwana, a procurement officer at the then poll body. Kibwana, according to the prosecution, received Sh2.2 million from Oyombra, a local agent of Smith & Ouzman, as inducement to have the IEBC award a contract for the printing of OMR correction forms on June 21, 2010. Oswago had said that he should not be investigated over the Chickengate scandal, claiming the EACC was targeting him. In January 2016, Britain’s Serious Fraud Office (SFO) handed documents detailing the scandal. The dossier included data used by British authorities to jail and fine directors of the printing firm for bribery. Directors of the British firm - Christopher Smith and Nicholas Smith - were found guilty two years ago at the Southwark Crown Court. The particulars of the offence against the two were that between October 1, 2008, and December 2010, with Oyombra, Hamisi and Kibwana, they corruptly agreed to make payments to IIEC officials. Read: Isaack Hassan cleared as EACC wants Oswago, three others charged in Chickengate scandal Click here for the latest political news 