Director of Public Prosecutions nominee Noordin Haji yesterday promised to deal with corruption without sparing anyone. Responding to questions by the members of the Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs, he deplored the huge number of acquittal cases involving high-ranking members of society. “I have the energy and vision to serve this office. I will always be on your side if confirmed. I will strive to be the DPP that you deserve. I pledge to lead the DPP office with integrity,” he told the team led by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo. “The big fish have the money to hire experienced and good lawyers. My office, should this committee approve me, will ensure we have competent prosecutors to deal with those cases.” Read: Uhuru's pick of Noordin Haji for DPP job draws criticism [Statement] Why Noordin Haji wants to be Kenya's DPP Noordin, the son of Garissa Senator Yussuf Haji, said he would approach the Judiciary to discuss the issue of application for judicial review of cases touching on corruption, which he said has hampered the fight against the vice. The 45-year-old Intelligence officer said he would reform the Office of the DPP to instil public confidence. He said he would immediately start “recasting, retooling and relearning to ensure efficiency, effectiveness and accountability”. On recasting, he promised to seek collaboration, cooperation and coordination to reshape the way the office operates. “I intend to create synergies that will work seamlessly to bring about an efficient and accountable institution that is critical within the criminal justice system,” Noordin said. “I will enhance cooperation with the National Police Service, investigating agencies, the Judiciary and key stakeholders.” Under retooling, he would strengthen, enhance and grow the existing infrastructure by championing a holistic and integrated criminal justice system. “I envisage a system that will link the whole criminal justice chain from investigations, prosecutions, the Judiciary and the correctional services,” Noordin said. Read: Leaders praise Uhuru for naming Noordin as DPP He assured the MPs his father played no role in his nomination. Instead, he had the required qualifications, he said. Noordin promised to use Section 52 of the ODPP Act to establish a prosecution inspection team that will ensure quality assurances. The team will ensure best practices, and monitor and evaluate the prosecution services. He also plans to establish an internal affairs section that will enforce the code of conduct to ensure integrity and restore public confidence. He said his father, despite being a Jubilee politician, would not influence his work decisions. “Instead, the Constitution “will guide me.” Noordin promised integrity and servant leadership should he succeed Keriako Tobiko, who resigned to be the Environment CS. He will “not be a small god.” The committee did not receive any memoranda from members of the public touching on his suitability or otherwise. Part of his agenda will be to ensure ODPP employees, especially prosecutors, are properly remunerated. He said they are underpaid compared to other staffers in the justice system.  Click here for the latest political news