NASA co-principals plan to teach ODM leader Raila Odinga the lesson of his life, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula said on Saturday. In a brazen attack, he accused Raila of betraying them. Wetang’ula retreated to his Western backyard to marshall support. He, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi won’t accept to be sacrificed. They have reenergised to take Raila head-on, he said. He spoke in Chwele during Ng’arisha Sacco’s annual delegates’ meeting. The Ford-K leader said his ouster as the Senate Minority leader and Raila’s decision to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta without their knowledge amounted to “utter betrayal” and must not go unpunished. He was replaced in the Senate leadership post by Siaya Senator James Orengo, despite a NASA Summit decision to have him retain the seat. Wetang’ula yesterday said he is no longer interested in the seat and won’t attend the “useless” retreat proposed by Raila. He said he will instead fight Raila and ODM. “That’s like a goat going into a court of hyenas expecting justice,” he said. Wetang’ula told Raila to keep off NASA affairs. “Let him focus on his new relationship with Jubilee. We’re ready to move forward,” he said. “Despite NASA fighting relentlessly for justice and some people losing their lives, the subsequent conduct of our presidential candidate is not only shocking, but a betrayal of the highest order.” They will treat ODM harshly. “We’ll continue giving them small measured and calculated dosage to ensure they enjoy no comfort,” Wetang’ula said. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna told the Star on the phone that Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have failed to read the sign of the times. He  said Wetang’ula has no capacity to lead the Luhya community because he was unable to lead 27 NASA senators. Wetang’ula said they have advocated national dialogue, but the manner in which the Raila-Uhuru pact was made was improper and unacceptable. He said Raila must forget about the Luhya vote from now on because he only got the community’s support because of Mudavadi and him. Wetang’ula faulted ODM for propagating propaganda that they skipped the Raila swearing-in ceremony, yet Raila “had advised us to stay away so in case he was arrested we would fight for his release”. He went on: “It’s wrong for us to be labelled cowards for missing the ceremony. After all, it had no meaning.” He accused Raila of portraying the event’s no-shows in a bad light. “If a hyena wants to feast on it’s children, it first starts by accusing them of smelling like goats,” Wetang’ula said in apparent reference to the Orange party supremo. He castigated Raila for “bragging” about having many MPs.  Any NASA affiliate that would have produced the presidential candidate would have had many legislators, he said. “ODM has many MPs because my party, Wiper and ANC sacrificed their presidential candidates for Odinga,” Wetang’ula said The NASA agreement says if one principal walks out, the others continue the journey, he added. The legislator said Raila thought his greatest competitors were in Jubilee, but will be surprised the NASA principals will be the ones to “drive the final nail in his political coffin”. “The sheep had been worried about the wolf for many years, but ended up being eaten by the shepherd,” he said, referring to Jubilee as the wolf.   