The Institute of Certified Public Accountants has called for an overhaul of the country’s debt strategy to enhance sustainability and economic growth. ICPAK chairman Julius Mwatu said Kenya’s public debt, currently at Sh4.5 trillion, was not in tandem with the country’s economic growth. Mwatu said this was likely to affect the country’s economic development since 40 per cent of the annual budget will be spent on servicing public debt. “In Budget Policy Statement 2018, the National Treasury is proposing that out of the Sh1.68 trillion that is budgeted as ordinary revenue in the 2018/19 financial year, Sh688 billion shall be applied to service existing public debt. This translates to 40 per  cent of ordinary revenues going into debt servicing,” he said. The situation, he said, was further compounded by the fact that 50 per cent of the country’s debt is domestic making it difficult for ordinary Kenyans and local entrepreneurs to access loans from lending institutions. Mwatu said government’s overall spending deficit in the next financial year, shall be 7.2 per cent of GDP, which Treasury proposes to plug through additional borrowing, further exacerbating the public debt problem. “This points to a mismatch between the fiscal policy and the broader economic policy, a situation which should be evaluated critically to assess the sustainability levels of public debt,” he added. Speaking in Kisumu during the launch of the group’s Nyanza branch, the chairman called on the government to explore accessing loans on concessionary terms to help ease the debt burden. “The duration we take to repay loans from international organizations is 15- 20 years which is relatively short that is why we are in this situation,” he said. He called for longer repayment periods to ease the heavy burden of servicing the loans to avoid affecting capital projects. “Japan is the world most indebted country with debt to GDP ratio of 249 per cent implying that Japan owes twice the size of its economy yet debt sustainability is seldom an issue,” he said. “ The strategy adopted by Japan is negotiating longer tenure loans with very low rates. The trick is to work on the countries credit standing by focusing on investing on key sectors that stimulate economic activity.” He urged the government to keep an eye on the red flags and warning indicators to ensure that the country is not caught-up in a debt crisis in the near future. Mwatu also called for prudence on public expenditure urging parliament and county assemblies to take their oversight roles seriously to help tame pilferage of public funds. He further called for immediate action on the auditor general’s report for financial year 2015-2016 which highlighted malpractices in both county and national governments.