People living with HIV-Aids could be placed on a shorter, more bearable treatment plan to prevent tuberculosis. This is after a study in Kenya and nine other countries showed that a one-month antibiotic regimen to prevent the disease is safer and more effective than the standard nine-month therapy. Those living with HIV-Aids currently take drugs daily, for nine months every three years, to prevent the disease. The anti-TB drugs are taken alongside ARVs, making it difficult cumbersome to adhere to the treatment regimen. Researchers are finalising data collection, which means it may take as long as two years before the one-month regimen introduced. Many Kenyans have latent TB infection. The condition means they do not have symptoms of the diseases despite having the tuberculosis-causing bacteria. The HIV virus weakens the body, easily causing progression of TB from latent to active. TB is the leading killer of people living with HIV-Aids according to the World Health Organization. However, the daily six-to-nine-month course of Isoniazid can cause liver damage. “These results have the potential to dramatically change clinical practice by offering people living with HIV-Aids an additional, shorter-duration prevention option that is safe, effective and more convenient,” said Anthony Fauci. Fauci is the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which funded the research. Kenya has a TB prevalence of 558 per 100,000 people according to the head of the department of curative and rehabilitative services Izaq Odongo. The WHO recommends that all adults and adolescents living with HIV-Aids receive preventive TB treatment as part of comprehensive care. The TB drug study showed that adolescents and youths were more likely to adhere to the one-month prevention regimen. It was conducted between 2012 and 2014 with 3,000 HIV patients aged 13 and above sampled in Botswana, Brazil, Haiti, Kenya, Malawi, Peru, South Africa, Thailand, Zimbabwe and the United States. Study participants were randomly assigned to a one-month course of rifapentine and Isoniazid or a nine-month course of Isoniazid. Investigators monitored the participants for an average of three years. Both preventive regimens were safe, with fewer adverse events occurring in the one-month treatment.