Calls by International Monetary Fund to abolish or modify the Interest rate cap are in bad faith and will disadvantage ordinary citizens. Kiambu Member of parliament Jude Njomo said IMF is using biased data from the Kenya Bankers Association to push their agenda without interests of the public. Njomo introduced the interest rate cap bill to parliament in 2015 to cap banking lending rates. The bill signed to law by President Uhuru Kenyatta in September 2016 has seen many banks, policy makers and Key stakeholders in the financial sector call for its repeal claiming that it is hurting the economy. “IMF can only advice us but not tell us what to do, we are an independent state and the decision to scrap the laws lies with the National Assembly which passed them,” Njomo said. According to IMF, the controls are undermining effectiveness of monetary policy aimed at ensuring price stability and supporting sustainable economic growth. He criticised the international policy maker on matters finance for using data from KBA that is not independent instead of carrying out their own research. In addition, he noted that difficulties to access credit by Small and Medium enterprises is stage managed by the banks and are not naturally caused. “Banks are making crazy profits,and that is their only objective, it is not that they have no money to lend the SMEs, this is just a strategy for them to have the law abolished,” he said. To ease credit access for SMEs and ordinary citizens, Njomo now wants
the government to borrow less from local banks in order for the banks
to have money to lend to the public. When asked what impact the CAP has had on his enterprise to access a loan, Wandi Packaging CEO James Ndichu said the process is discouraging. “I applied last month, and the feedback I keep getting is wait for the que to reduce while in real sense they are buying time to see if the government can review the cap,” Ndichu said. He does not support revoking of the law as he believes it is a punishment to SMEs. While at that, KBA chairperson Habil Olaka expressed their support on IMF calls. He declined to comment on claims by Njomo that their data is biased but noted that IMF made their observation based on the facility they have with the country.