As the saying goes, the Jubilee government may run but it cannot hide. Somebody may hide a disease but not death. While we have all felt that things are not running right, we have also refused to believe our instincts. We have instead chosen to believe false assurances that Kenya is on the right track, and on the verge of an economic takeoff to the First World. Finally, the truth is out: That Kenya is broke and things can only get worse for various reasons.  FUATA NYAYO First, rather than manage Kenya as a productive factory as Mwai Kibaki did, Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto have decided to run the country like a kiosk or a matatu, producing nothing and recklessly causing deaths with incredible lack of discipline. This is how President Daniel Moi drove Kenya into ruin and consequently taught Uhuru and Ruto.  OLD DOGS Running the country as Moi did is what has brought Kenya to its current bankruptcy. And while we may wish to get out of this mess, the situation can only become destruction or total ruin. You cannot teach old dogs new tricks: Uhuru and Ruto cannot change the economic course of this country. They can only destroy it further. While UhuRuto claim to be laying the foundation of Kenya’s development, the truth is they are taking the country back to the days of Moi’s ruin of the economy.  WASTEFUL CAMPAIGNS Since the Digital Duo formed their Jubilee coalition to run for the presidency, they have run the most expensive campaigns in 2013 and last year, taking their capture of power as the only purpose of the top office. Worse, instead of applying the breaks to the vehicle of expensive campaigns to give the country a respite, Ruto has already started his 2022 campaigns, and is already spending countless millions every weekend on this. After the 2013 campaigns, there is no doubt that the focus of Uhuru’s government was not saving money for the country’s development but to secure their freedom from the ICC. Tragically, this fact was never admitted and continues to be denied and indulged in whenever necessary.  MILLSTONE OF GRAFT, ENSLAVEMENT And while there are many reasons why Kenya’s economy has collapsed, corruption is the worst. A while ago, the EACC admitted Kenya was losing about Sh608 billion every year to graft. And Kenyan corruption is no longer eating up public funds in the millions but in the billions. And this money will never be recovered because graft is not only stealing our money big, it has also captured our leadership, which now needs to be rescued. Indeed, corruption is the Number One reason the country is broke today. Both the state and the private sector are captured, and this is why Kenya’s redemption is hard before its total collapse. But as we try to comprehend what it is for a country to be broke, we must understand that being cash-crunched means having less to eat today and our complete enslavement tomorrow. We don’t have our money but Ruto cannot stop using billions for his campaigns. Jubilee has also decided to borrow over Sh300 billion even before we repay other billions that we borrowed the other day. Frighteningly, Uhuru and Ruto are going for expensive loans when the country is already broke. This will enslave us all.  OTTOMAN EMPIRE Were we to look at history, we would see how the Ottoman Empire was enslaved and colonised by European countries such as England, France and Germany, lending it huge amounts of money she could not repay. Eventually, she was partitioned into colonies that were shared among her European lenders. This then is the fate that could befall Kenya, if we continue with this trend. While it is bad that we are in this mess, it is worse that we are facing the tragedy of the dying ear that is deaf to treatment.   