A long stint in the then Nyanza Province as a TV the producer in charge of VoK gave me a working vocabulary in nuanced Dholuo language. I visited my favourite joint in Kisumu at the weekend to reunite with old buddies, some in their sunset years. I earnestly wanted to know their take on Raila’s handshake. There was hesitant bonhomie interspersed with long silences, a sign of tummy butterflies about the elephant in the room, not least because of my recent public reading of Raila’s defection to Jubilee. The thaw was our shared antipathy to praise singers in ODM who’ve sung themselves hoarse in joyous celebration of tokenism and embarked on a fool’s errand — the ill-advised attempts to cannibalise partners in NASA, and unconditionally endorse Jubilee schemes to neuter the Opposition. First agreed, Raila maintains his current NASA friends because eloping to Jubilee shouldn’t prompt hurried dissolution of the NASA marriage. Knowing Jubilee’shunger to fatten him for slaughter, he’ll need a fallback pretty soon. It isn’t decent to discuss Raila directly, so oral narratives to express dissent stood. Without gender prejudice, there was the Foolish Wife story. Not long ago, Roadways Nyanza was the only bus plying Western-Nairobi route. On school recess, mothers packed their children for the 12-hour ride to Nairobi to be with their migrant city worker husbands. The rural house would be cleared of valuables and padlocked. Excited children longed for city visits. But unknown to them, their mother’s desire was to get pregnant by a husband who rarely visited the village. The family pack would leave at 4am to catch Roadways. But this wasn’t before the foolish wife defecated in the house. Unfortunately, the family would miss the bus and return to the stinking house. ODM parrots should stop making Raila the Foolish Wife in this folktale. Second agreed, ODM should end off the blinkered tunnel vision race horse mentality and see the handshake for the hidden forest it is, rather than token trees it expects to harvest — after all, logging is banned. This is Jubilee’s DNA desire to annul the very multiparty foundation. Creating a monolithoc single-party and engineering or tinkering with constitutional multiparty safeguards has been a long- time project for Jubilee. And here kicks in the secondary version of the Foolish Wife chronicle. There used to be rare communication between the migrant city labourers and their village wives. Between prolonged periods, there’d be an occasional emergency letter through the nearby school post office address. However, literacy levels were very low. Under these inhibitive conditions delays in letters reaching owners were normal. Additionally, letters were read to owners by the few functional literates, who included preachers, teachers and schoolchildren. Mistakes in reading or deliberate distortions were plentiful. On this one occasion, the husband wrote he’d be home on the very day the wife left for the city. As the family braved the morning chill at the bus stage, the bus arrived and their father alighted, laden with city goodies. Though disappointed, they weren’t going to the city, the children burst celebration welcoming their father. The father wondered why only the children had come to receive him. The children turned and their mother had vanished. The father scolded them for attempting to run off to the city without their mother and promised hell when they got home. And hell awaited their arrival. They found their mother buwsy dung-smearing the house. They were tongue tied. As the rain lashed them, the mother didn’t bother a rescue. She wasn’t about to confess she’d hurried off to clean the dirt earlier deposited in the house after the shock of seeing her man. All she did wasgive her kids a warning stare, digressing from the script she had unwittingly written that morning. Yet it was not she who had written it: It had been a misinterpretation by the ‘professional’ letter reader, who misled her to arranging travel, instead of her husband’s message that he was due home on the same date. The moral of the Foolish Wife is t Raila has hurt many. Despite the spin on promised goodies, Raila’s base isn’t convinced he could take so little at the expense of so much. They feel detached, painfully betrayed. Raila ok ni kare. En mana ni ok wanyal golo duge iko. Wan gi lit, Baba onego nyiswa adier. Kelo Uhuru mondo olernwa ok en ketowa e ler. Awacho kose okawacho? (Raila is wrong. He is exposed. But we can’t shout he’s naked. We’re hurting. We hope Baba tells us the truth. Bringing Uhuru here to explain isn’t the truth. But do I say, donge!)