The surprise meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga has elicited mixed reactions. The unity deal hatched after a two-hour meeting at Harambee House, Nairobi, was well received and lauded by Jubilee leaders as a right step towards healing the country. Only a section of NASA leaders endorsed it. Some leaders from Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC denounced the move, reading betrayal of the opposition. Few details of the deal were released. Read: Atwoli asks NASA backers to accept Uhuru-Raila reconciliation deal Cotu boss Francis Atwoli warned supporters of the leaders against creating a wedge between the two. “Their supporters should not come in between them and cause division again,” Atwoli told a local TV station on the phone on Friday. The meeting took place in the absence of Raila’s co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper, Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya and Musalia Mudavadi of ANC. Uhuru was not joined by DP William Ruto. The three NASA co-principals immediately said in a joint statement that Raila kept them in the dark. “While we’ve always advocated dialogue, as co-principals of NASA, we were not privy to the discussions at Harambee House,” they said. However, Ruto welcomed the move and praised Uhuru and Raila, describing them as true statesmen. “You’ve risen to the moment for Kenya and against hate, negative ethnicity and division. The unity, stability and transformation of Kenya supersedes partisan interests,” he said. [Statement] Miguna rejects Raila's 'betrayal' after waking up in Canada National Assembly and Senate Majority leaders Aden Duale and Kipchumba Murkomen also backed the deal. “Congratulations, President Uhuru, for living up to your promise of leaving behind a united, prosperous nation. Meeting Raila Odinga, his political archrival, was part of his promise to promote national reconciliation, healing and unity among citizens,” Duale said. Murkomen said the move will end divisive politics and take the quest for national unity a notch higher. Kisii Governor James Ongwae (ODM) supported to the deal. He said it holds the key to unlocking the political stalemate that has plagued the country since last year. ”We’ve repeatedly said this country needs dialogue because management of national affairs is not about individuals but the common good and posterity.” Nyando MP Jared Okelo wants the ensuing talks conducted in utmost good faith with “all cards put on the table”. ANC nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi said the development was positive and “should be given time to mature”. Wiper executive direct Jared Siso said Raila “sneaked” to Harambee House the way he did to Uhuru Park during his swearing-in on January 30. Mudavadi’s spokesman Kibisu Kabatesi said the deal was betrayal at its worst and a “long ranger thing” by Raila. “They [Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula] were not aware, not involved, not consulted and not invited. We’re waiting for him [Raila] to explain whether he was invited in his own capacity as a person or as ODM.” Read: Tillerson praises Uhuru-Raila meet, roots for free press and respect for courts  Click here for the latest political news