Some Kenyans are disappointed that President Uhuru Kenyatta has scrapped the visa requirement for Mozambique nationals. Via social media from Thursday, when the announcement was made, they said they were outraged as the government wants its own citizens to apply for the document. They were referring to lawyer and NRMKe General Miguna Miguna who was denied re-entry on Monday and later deported. He is being held at Dubai International Airport in the UAE. Latest on this: Joho and I have never spoken, ignore propaganda - Miguna While making the announcement during his tour of Mozambique, Uhuru said: "Mozambique citizens will no longer require a visa to get into Kenya. Our forefathers fought for political liberation. It falls upon us to ensure the artificial boundaries created by colonial masters are removed and our people are free to travel, do business and marry without obstacles." More on this: [VIDEO] Uhuru scraps visa need for Mozambicans, plans Maputo consulate The President also tweeted this message but some of those who responded told him he has the capacity to Miguna's return. Joseph Kariuki said: "Only Kenyans with dual citizenship will need visas." Fred Mugenya added: "In the same vein and true spirit of statesmanship, you could waive off the visa requirement imposed on Miguna." One Obock asked whether Mozambicans are more important than Miguna while Danvas Nyabasa said the Makonde had been in the country for more than 54 years before they were recognised. "Miguna, a Kenyan by birth, is not allowed to freely enter his country. Uhuru, this is too much. Please build your legacy in a good way. This is the driest joke of our century," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Austeen Toney who said their Makonde brothers have been in Kenya for decades yet they are still marginalised and are crying foul over Uhuru's unfulfilled promises. John Ogola said: "Jokes aside, Miguna's umbilical cord is in our soil. Political liberation begins at home." Njoki Kelvin asked whether Miguna should be advised to come in as a Mozambique citizen. "Do you think he shall have less stress? It may be easier than returning home with court orders. Thanks for the tip." Dan Mwanzia added: "Foreigners won't require visas but a real son of the soil has to be detained in a lavatory because he doesn't have a visa to his home country. This is illogical." Last year, the President announced that all Africans visiting the country will receive a visa on arrival with no reciprocity conditions. He said giving visas on arrival will underscore Kenya’s commitment to pan-Africanism. "You shall be treated as Kenyans. If you wish, and find a willing partner, you can marry and settle in Kenya. This commitment we make again with no requirement for reciprocity," he said. Miguna's passport was perforated when he was deported to Canada in February after stamping documents for Nasa principal Raila's Odinga's swearing-in as the People's President on January 30. The government says he has to apply for Kenyan citizenship and acquire a visa in order to return. He has refused to do this and noted he will not allow the violation of his rights. See: Uhuru declares visas on arrival for Africans, freedom to marry Click here for the latest political news