Three criteria
often cited as being key criteria in the pursuit of sustainable economic growth
and social development include adequate infrastructure, macroeconomic stability
and an articulate and achievable development strategy. Despite the equal
importance of the three criteria noted, our focus today shall be
infrastructure. The importance of infrastructure development to achieving
economic posterity is a topic well canvassed. Indeed, it is commonly noted that
infrastructure development is a foundation on which to build an economy. Efficient
infrastructure supports economic growth, improves the quality of life, and is
necessary for national security. Zeroing in to quality of life, numerous studies
point at there being a direct correlation between investment in public
infrastructure and quality of life. These include investments in
transportation, power and communication facilities and social infrastructures
to name a few. In
acknowledgement of the necessity of quality infrastructure to the achievement
of economic advancement, the East African region has pointed out infrastructure
development as a key tool for regional development. As a step toward the
achievement of this, East African Community (EAC) leaders, in the recently
concluded retreat on infrastructure development and health financing and
development, pledged to invest $78 billion (Sh7.9 trillion) on infrastructure development
over the next ten years. This will be utilised to fund over 200 capital intensive
projects, such as the Standard Gauge Railway, renewable energy and
various oil and gas projects in the region. As evident from
the price tag of $78 billion, infrastructure projects are highly capital
intensive. Often times, these are financed by external and domestic debt, as
well as internally generated revenue. However, with the ever increasing costs
associated with large-scale infrastructure projects, it is becoming
increasingly necessary for governments to seek creative and efficient ways to
fund these projects. In recent years, this has led to an uptick of Public
Private Partnerships. Through private sector investment, private sector
funds may supplement the national budget in a bid toward achieving efficient
infrastructure. Additionally, well utilised PPPs may result in a transfer of
technology and management know-how as between public and private sector
players. In order to
ensure that infrastructure targets are met, it is necessary for maintain fiscal
responsibility. Measures include improving administration and management
efficiency with regards to public infrastructure projects. This would reduce
budget overruns that have been known to be a major barrier in infrastructure
development. Ultimately, the freed up can be pumped into over viable projects.
Additionally, a widening and deepening of the tax base will insure a boost in
internally generated revenue, which can be diverted to growth promoting
investments. Should the
continual focus on infrastructure development be maintained, with the proposed
projects efficiently and prudently managed, it is expected that the EAC economy
will be catapulted forward.