Former EACC boss Patrick Lumumba will head a 10-member task force appointed to audit Nairobi county's Sh60 billion pending bills. Governor Mike Sonko gazetted the names last Friday. Read: Sonko appoints pending bills scrutiny committee The committee will review, scrutinise, and analyse all the pending bills and make appropriate recommendation to the county treasury for payments or otherwise. "The committee will bring to finality the problem of pending bills claimed against the county government," Sonko said in the notice. Former LSK chairman Erick Mutua, Martin Wamae, Yusuf Murabwa, David Kangara, and Timothy Naeku were appointed to the committee. MCAs Robert Mbatia (Budget Committee chair) and Wilfred Odalo (Public Accounts Committee) were also appointed. Others are Maurice Juma and Charles Kariuki. Sonko appointed acting county secretary Leboo Ole Morintat and one representative each from the legal affairs department and the finance sector to serve in the secretariat. Sonko asked all suppliers and contractors with any pending bills claims against the county government to submit them to the committee within 21 days for consideration. The committee has three months to finalise its report. "The committee will verify and validate details of each pending bill and advise the Nairobi county government accordingly," he said. The committee will develop a system to ensure that future escalation of pending bills with the county is avoided. It will prepare a payment priority list of all cleared payment taking into account the need for equitable treatment of creditors and cash flow. The Secretariat is mandated to provide appropriate committee reports and undertake research in liaison with national and county departments. Sonko said individuals or companies found to have attempted to defraud City Hall for goods and services not delivered would face the arm of the law. "We are aware of the massive graft at the City Hall that we inherited from the previous regime. That is why we have put up measures to curb it," he said. Click here for the latest political news