Doctors who conducted a brain surgery on the wrong patient at Kenyatta National Hospital last month are not off-the-hook yet. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists' Board has said it will conduct another probe into the surgery next month. The medics will know the decision on April 10, when results of the next probe will be released. Read:[Statement] KNH doctors not to blame for brain surgery error - report The board CEO Daniel Yumbya told the Parliamentary Health Committee the report released last week absolving the doctors was "simply preliminary". He said the report will form basis for the full investigation, where the patients, the KNH management and medics involved in the surgery will be invited to give evidence. “We will have the hearings on April 5 and 6 and all parties involved will be invited to give evidence,” Yumbya said. "We will then release the findings to the public on April 10." Last week, the board absolved Dr Hudson Ng’ang’a and Dr Mose Moraa, but indicted nurse Mary Wahome, saying her competence must be put to test by the Nursing Council. MPs disputed the report, saying it was highly skewed to favour doctors. Wajir West MP Mohamud Mohamed said the committee will not accept reports blindly. “The exoneration of doctors seems to be coming out too loud. All my colleagues are concerned by this,” he said. “Everyone who has come into contact with the patient bears responsibility for whatever happens to the patient.” Committee chair and Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege said since the board was created, it has cleared nearly all doctors accused of misconduct. “Is it worthy for anybody to come before the board. Your board seems to function to protect doctors,” she said. Separately, the National Nurses Association of Kenya also dismissed the report. “We state categorically that it's technically impossible to pretend to come out with any iota of substantive findings, within 24 hours, on an issue of such a magnitude," chairman Alfred Obengo said. Board member Dr Elly Nyaim, who also appeared before the MPs, complained of “worrying” systemic failures at KNH, which may have led to the wrong surgery. He said the board learnt of the surgery through the media on March 2, yet KNH should have self-reported earlier. “What is coming out is very worrying systemic lapses at KNH and they must be addressed. Even those working in that environment are exposed to risks and mistakes might reoccur,” he said. Yesterday, Yumbya said since the board was formed, it has handled 987 cases and determined 915 of them. Only 71 cases are still being investigated, including the KNH brain surgery mix-up. Also Read:KNH brain surgery report skewed to favour doctors, nurses say   