The new arrangement between Opposition doyen Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta without a doubt caught many flat-footed. And tongues have not stopped wagging. The handshake was multipronged. Chiefly, it signals the reengineering of the start of the 2022 succession debate. Secondly, it sets the agenda for the next five years. Thirdly, it will change the focus in the political theatre. Uhuru and Raila are not just any other Kenyans; they are sons of Kenya’s political royal class. How we interrogate the historical meeting transforms our view on our ever-changing political landscape. Before Raila met Uhuru, Deputy President William Ruto had his eyes firmly fixed on succeeding Uhuru after his term comes to an end in 2022. Has his focus dimmed? No. To Ruto’s enemies and allies, the 2022 dream appears shaky. After the handshake, the speed at which new political partnerships and alignments are being made is jaw-dropping. Former protagonists are already drawing up working formulas. NASA MPs, especially those from ODM, have made it crystal clear that, from now on, they will work with Jubilee in the bicameral Parliament. Meanwhile, Ruto’s Rift Valley allies are watching the unfolding scenario with fear and trepidation. But, in the same vein, they want to give the whole thing the benefit of the doubt. Publicly, the politicians appear to be unmoved by the handshake, but you will be shocked at how miffed they are by Uhuru and Raila meeting. Despite Ruto giving the meeting a thumbs-up, some of his allies believe a waterloo is in the offing. This is because of what is at stake from this point on. Will Ruto’s 2022 ambition fall through the cracks of the handshake or will it be strengthened? There are those from his vast backyard who wish the meeting hadn’t happened. But there are those who are thankful it did. It all depends on whether they support him or not. Fundamentally, those who have parted ways with the DP are scouting for new alliances and allies in the ever-flourishing political market. As a calculating politician, Ruto is very cautious of any arrangement that could derail his dreams. To all intents and purposes, he will bend over backwards to bring Raila and all his NASA cohorts closer to him as he prepares to take his first stab at the presidency. To understand the crux of this matter, we need to study Ruto’s body language towards Raila from the start of this year. Suddenly, the DP ceased calling Raila names as he always did. A while back Raila told Ruto that he (Ruto) will need his support in 2022; maybe this is the start of that support: After all, politics is about numbers and interests. Although it is still unknown whether the handshake will give birth to a coalition government, it is imperative to note that fear of the unknown is rife in Ruto’s camp—their political survival is at stake. It is not far-fetched however to conclude that the Deputy President is neither beleaguered nor isolated by the the new framework. In spite of the many dissenting voices from the President’s backyard against his 2022 dream, Uhuru has assured his deputy that he will pass the presidential baton to him. In spite of these assurances, Ruto is not sitting on his laurels. He has started meeting allies from Central Kenya in his own capacity as Jubilee’s 2022 contender. Swathes of Central Kenya have time and again made it clear they are not obligated to vote for Ruto in 2022. Proponents of this school of thought are now wallowing in political Siberia. This is the group that is now crawling out of the woodwork, hoping to grind Ruto’s ambitions to a pulp. And they are not alone; Ruto has new and old foes in Kalenjin-speaking Rift Valley who are also waiting for the right time to sink their teeth into his 2022 dreams and paralyse them. With all these mixed bags staring at Ruto and other presidential contenders, 2022 will surely be an epic fight. that will make 2017 look like child’s play. Jebet is a journalist and political commentator