Garissa university Chancellor
Prof Helen Sambili has promised to work with the institution’s management and other
relevant stakeholders to make it great again. Speaking on Thursday  during her first visit as well as inaugurate
the first university council gazetted in January this year, Sambili said she was
determined to make the university a centre of academic excellence. The chancellor said that the university will work closely to upgrade the facilities and
they are consulting with the national treasury on the same. The university suffered one
of the worst terror attacks to have been witnessed in the country on April 2,
2015 where 148 people majority of them students were massacred by Al-shabaab militants. Prof. Sambili said she was
impressed by how the institution has been able to pick up its pieces and rise
again. “We are here noting that we
have the responsibility all of us including the media to change the narrative
of this university. We all remember what took place two years ago but
we are committed to change and make this university great again,” she said. Chairman of the
university council Dr. Christopher Gatama said that the institution is
prioritizing security by use of technology and physically increasing security personnel to secure the place. “We carry the responsibility
of healing this university. We have prioritized what to be done in the short
term and long term going forward,” he said. A walk at the facility paints a different picture that was once a scary place. Students and members of staff have their identities  captured in a
data base. They place their thumbs on a scanner that identifies them
whenever entering the institution. No outsider without a national ID card and the approval of the relevant authorities is allowed into the institution. The gate is also
manned by four armed police officers at any  given time and an
administration police post head by an chief inspector whose strength
refused to divulge because of security reasons. Other security measures include the construction of a perimeter wall, which once completed will be fitted
with razor wires and 24 hour CCTV cameras. Three
watch towers to be manned by armed security officers will also be
constructed at the institution. According to the institution’s assistant registrar in charge of
academics Stephen Ndinya the current student population  stands at 1,195 as compared
to 750 before the attack.      