More than 2,000 settlers on Monday denounced leaders supporting controversial subdivision of the Mwea settlement scheme into 7,232 parcels. The angry lot said they were not involved and demanded the subdivision be carried out afresh. The settlers said most of the land had been distributed to outsiders and leaders’ cronies and legitimate beneficiaries sidelined. They met at Mashamba village in Makima ward. It was convened by Mbeere South sub-county commissioner Beverly Opwora and attended by Mbeere South MP Geoffrey Kigangi. Led by Makima and Mwea MCAs Philip Nzangi and Kisingu Mwaluko, respectively, the lot further demanded the sub-division be declared null and void. It was completed in 2016 and title deeds issued. They also demanded that a fresh subdivision be carried out with full involvement of the MCAs and committees comprised of the settlers. They said President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed the review of the subdivision during the last election campaign. They said his directions should be followed. Kingangi concurred with the settlers that the subdivision was bungled and thousands of old people who lived on the land for decades had been left out. The irate settlers refused to be addressed by the Embu county land executive Josphat Kithumbu, blaming him and the county government for distributing most of the land outsiders and sidelining them. MERE INCITEMENT It took the intervention of the deputy county commissioner for the settlers to calm them down and listen to him. Kithumbu explained to them that the land was subdivided according to law but their grievances would be looked into and considered. He said manhy lies had been peddled about the whole issue and settlers incited against him and the county government. The settlers booed and heckled Mbeere Council of Elders chairman Eston Nyagah and several other speakers who claimed the subdivision was fair and participatory. They drowned them out and forced them to hand over microphones to other speakers. Speakers from Kirinyaga county said they had a claim on the land. They demanded the subdivison be halted completely and fresh carried out for claims to be considered fairly. Most speakers demanded that the land be resubdivided with all the settlers being given first priority. Opwora warned that anybody inciting settlers to violence over the land will be dealt with severely. Click here for the latest political news