Construction of Kenya’s first and longest railway tunnel at the Ngong Hills, part of the Nairobi – Naivasha SGR Phase 2A project, will be completed in August. China Communication Construction Company said it has completed half of the 4.5 kilometre tunnel, digging from three points to cover 2.5km of the 4.5km tunnel. Steve Zhao, spokesperson of the SGR Phase 2A construction from Nairobi – Naivasha says their engineers have been at hand to ensure that the section is completed within the five months by working on the tunnel from three points that is; the entry point of the locomotive, the exit end of the tunnel and from the centre. “So far, 1.2 kilometres are complete from the exit end, 0.8km from the entry side of the tunnel and 0.5km from the mid-section. The construction is taking place simultaneously to ensure that we complete all the work within the stipulated time,” he told journalists who visited the site in Ngong. Section office Number One, which has been tasked with the construction of the tunnel, currently has over 3,300 staff, majority of whom have been working on the tunnel construction. "There is a shift programme for the workers, so that the work goes on non-stop 24 hours," said Zhao. The Ngong tunnel has been designed as a single-track railway tunnel with a clearance height of 7.6 metres and a width of 6.4m. In the construction process, the contractor has employed the three-bench seven-step excavation method. He added that the safety of the workers within the tunnel has been of paramount importance where all the employees are required to have the protective gear at all times. “In addition, the air inside the tunnel is sampled and analysed monthly to ensure workers are not exposed to harmful gases.” He said that only male workers are allowed in the tunnel, while females can work on other sections. Apart from the Ngong tunnel, two more tunnels measuring 2.64 km will be constructed along the 120km Naivasha – Nairobi SGR route. The construction of the line to Naivasha is expected to be completed within 2019.  