President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have cracked the whip on Jubilee MPs to drop the impeachment motion against Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki. Kariuki sent Kenyatta National Hospital CEO Lily Koros on compulsory leave after doctors at the hospital performed brain surgery on the wrong patient. MPs Bashir Abdullahi (Mandera North), Nelson Koech (Belgut) and Rehema Jaldesa (Isiolo) yesterday affirmed to the media at Parliament Buildings that they had dropped the impeachment motion that attracted 170 signatures from lawmakers. They were with National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale. Abdullahi was leading the removal bid. He said they held a consultative meeting with the party’s top leadership and resolved to withdraw the motion, which was sent to National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai on Wednesday. “We have decided to allow the matter to be addressed internally within Jubilee Party. The party leadership admitted the issues were genuine but will be addressed in the Jubilee structure to weed out members who want to hijack this motion,” Abdullahi said. But an MP who sought anonymity said, “The party leader really castigated this move and urged us to drop it”. Duale said Jubilee Party leaders in Parliament met with leaders from other political parties and agreed to drop the motion. “This matter will be resolved at the Presidency and Cabinet level. Jubilee is the ruling coalition and the matter will be addressed internally. The petition against our sister at the Ministry of Health has been withdrawn,” Duale said. The Constitution requires at least a third of the 349 members of the National Assembly sign to meet the threshold. In the petition, the MPs accused Kariuki of “abuse of office and gross violation of rules and regulations”. Koros and an officer in charge of clinical affairs were sent home to pave way for investigations. The National Assembly Health Committee tabled its report before the House, recommending the disbandment of the KNH Board. On Wednesday, Jaldesa accused Kariuki of arrogance and disrespect for MPs. She said she was once asked to leave her bag at the reception before being allowed into Kariuki’s office when she was the Public Service and Gender Affairs CS. “Power has gotten to her head,” she said. Two weeks ago, the move to impeach her gained momentum until the Deputy President told the MPs to withdraw it. Koros on compulsory leave Kariuki announced the decision following the incident where doctors at the hospital performed brain surgery on the wrong patient. “I apologise over patient mix-up at KNH, I have directed that the CEO be sent on compulsory leave until the probe is over,” the Cabinet Secretary said. The CS said a Dr Mutei and John Ong’ech will take over and run the institution as investigations continue. John Mbadi on March 9 said it’s true there are many problems at the Kenyatta National Hospital. “But as to whether the Cabinet Secretary should be impeached, I am not sure.” He said Kariuki did not make the right decision by suspending Koros since she has no such powers. “If you allow people to break the law to correct a mistake or something wrong that has been done, then, eventually, no one will respect the Constitution,” the Gwassi MP said. The ODM national chairman said there are problems at Kenyatta that need to be fixed. “Perhaps it needs a complete overhaul,” he said. “The problems bedevilling the hospital are not isolated to Kenyatta alone.” See:MPs plan special motion to impeach CS Kariuki for abuse of office Also Read:Health CS Sicily Kariuki survives censure motion Click here for the latest political news