Last year I was one of those who loudly advocated a fresh, free and fair general election supervised and funded by the international community. That call is now more valid and urgent. Hail the Cambridge Analytica elections scandal, which have exposed the stinking frauds that were Jubilee’s 2013 and 2017 electoral victories. This expose comes at the same time as the UN’s findings on a universal happiness survey that categorised Kenyans as unhappy. In early 2003, just after the December 2002 general election, Kenyans were ranked the happiest people in the world. The 2002 polls are on record as Kenya’s only free and fair general election, ever. The excitement following the reconciliatory handshake between Their Excellencies Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta at Harambee House, three weeks ago, shows the country was engulfed in gloom and deep-set bitterness brought about by a mismanaged General Election last year. A spillover from yet another rigged election in 2013. Historically, rigged polls have led to tension, ethnic animosity, government high-handedness, including degenerating into a police state by an insecure presidency. They have caused economic stress, a slump in production, lack of investor confidence, looting by insecure public servants, especially senior ones, poverty, human suffering and underdevelopment. Kenyans cherish a prosperous democracy punctuated by free and fair polls. Any deviation is sabotage, toxic and needs to be confronted and stopped. You cannot force election victories using illegal and immoral tricks; ride on electoral offences to office then proceed to form a tribal government and shamelessly preside over massive corruption. All the while discriminating against the majority of communities in running public affairs, mismanaging the state and then expecting to sanitise it all with a cosmetic handshake and make-believe reconciliation effort. The Cambridge Analytica revelations; the Supreme Court findings of massive illegalities in the August 8, 2017, election; the October 26 repeat presidential election,despite desperate pleas by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and commissioner Roselyn Akombe; the brutal assassination of IEBC ICT director Chris Msando. All these should be brought to bear on the current reconciliation. Those Kenyans celebrating the historic and abrupt rapprochement deal are living in denial. It is a welcome undertaking, but our two leaders should be guided to handle it in the most logical and sustainable manner. Genuine reconciliation and healing are grounded on deliberate and honest fixing of a dispute’s root causes. Our main problems revolve around negative ethnicity and election rigging, which are sustained by state capture and massive looting of public coffers. Raila and the opposition’s main beef was that Kenya was being led by an illegitimate government. UhuRuto’s victories in 2013 and 2017 were rigged, as revealed by Cambridge Analytica. Kenyans have always known that the Jubilee majorities in the county assemblies, the National Assembly and the Senate — baptised as ‘tyranny of numbers’ and used to torment the opposition, while mutilating the Constitution to entrench bad governance — were due to rigging at the local levels. I was a victim of this Cambridge Analytica-propelled grassroots rigging last year. This was confirmed when Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, who was deployed to weed out outstanding opposition leaders in Gusiiland, recently visited my Kitutu Masaba constituency and Nyamira county and celebrated my removal as MP. A fresh, free and fair general election should be organised for August this year to pacify Kenyans and entrench the new spirit of brotherhood, reconciliation and national healing. That’s if Uhuru and Jubilee want the world and Kenyans to believe they are honest in reaching out to Raila and the opposition, and for genuine peace. To avoid a repeat of past mischief, the election should be organised, funded, executed and supervised by the UN, EU, AU and the East African Community. The IEBC and other support institutions as currently constituted are culprits in electoral injustice and should keep off.  ODM national treasurer and former Kitutu Masaba MP