Illicit liquor packaged as known brands has flooded Thika town and this is hurting investment, manufacturers have warned. They said on Saturday that their products are imitated by people who have previously worked in their factories. Residents’ health is at stake and firms risk closing up shop, the producers said. In 2015, the government cracked down on illicit liquor, especially in Central Kenya, nabbing vendors and seizing products. The country was treated to bizarre images of leaders leading rowdy youths to destroy bars suspected to be stocking and serving ‘second-generation’ alcohol. Three years later, licensed producers of alcoholic drinks say their businesses could collapse. Vinepack Ltd, manufacturer of alcoholic beverages including Nile Tot, Fiesta and Moonlight, said their Sh150 million investment is under threat, as sales of counterfeits take their toll. degrades economy Director Johnson Murei said the company has stepped up the war on counterfeits and urged enforcement agencies to join the efforts. “Counterfeits are not only killing young investments, but also degrading the country’s economy because no revenue is earned from them,” he said. The company is also improving its products so they become difficult to reproduce by unscrupulous businesspeople. It is coming up with new packaging security features. It has changed its bottle lids from aluminum caps to plastic guala caps. “Other measures include the KRA excise stamp, standardisation mark and the company batch code. Again, constant liaison with the industry regulators and licensing bodies like Kebs, the KRA and the Kiambu Liquor Directorate will enhance the fight against counterfeits,” Murei said. regulatory compliance Another director, Joseph Kimani, said concerted efforts between the local firms and the Kenya Anti-Counterfeit Agency will reject all counterfeits from the Kenyan market and ensure the illegal trade is stopped. “We appreciate the government’s efforts to crack down on illicit, substandard and counterfeit products in the market,” he said. The war must not stop if the country is to ensure only genuine products from licensed manufacturers find their way to the market, Kimani said. This will translate into high revenue for the government and safe products for consumers, he said. Samson Wamisa said they are out to ensure all products in the market conform to regulations and standards. He is the team leader of a task force formed to crack down on illicit products in the region. The team comprises officials from Nacada, the public health department, Kebs, KRA and the provincial administration. Wamisa said only two liquor manufacturing companies in Thika — Africa Spirits Ltd and Vinepack Ltd — have been cleared. “It has come to our attention that some products in the market bear fake KRA stickers and others have passed their expiry dates by more than two years. This is risking the health of the consumers and that’s why we will wipe it out.” Click here for the latest political news 