The Cooperative Bank on Thursday was tasked to explain why county revenues totaling to Sh1.1 billion delayed to be remitted to the county government account for a period of 6 months. The bank, which appeared before the County's Public Accounts Committee last week, failed to convince the committee why there were massive delays in remittance of cash despite claiming it promptly did so on a daily basis. The committee chaired by Mabatini ward rep Wildred Odalo sought to know who was responsible for the delay and why. According to the report tabled by co-operative bank, there was a daily delay of money being swapped from January 1st 2015 to June 30th the same year. Head Corporate Banking at Cooperative bank, Jacqueline Waithaka told the committee swapping of money from the
bank to Central Bank of Kenya is done on a daily basis. She however failed to explain to the committee the nature of agreement between them
and Jambo pay even after Kilimani Ward Rep Moses Ogeto insisted. "We swap money at closure of business after
Jambo Pay sends the total amount of revenue collected on that day then we remit it to the county government account," Waithaka said. Karen MCA David Mberia, however, termed the delay as a 'deliberate fraud' from both
Jambo Pay and Co-operative Bank saying, "Sh2.8 million was delayed for
57 days before hitting the Nairobi county account." Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko had contracted Jambo Pay to collect revenue on behalf of Nairobi County. Revenue collected were from business licenses, land rates ,Parking,
Construction permits, market rents, advertisements and Liquor Licenses The bank found itself on the spot when Karura ward rep Joseph Wambugu questioned them on the measures they took once they became aware that Jambo Pay was not remitting money within the required 72 hours. He argued that the bank would have alerted the county government once they had noticed the delay. However, Waithaka defended the bank telling committee that they never noticed anything as the bank was still receiving money from Jambo Pay on a daily basis within the given period between January and June 2015. The bank, is scheduled to appear before the Public Accounts Committee on Wednesday and is expected to table before the committee relevant documents detailing transfer of cash from Jambo Pay. The question on who delayed the remission of money for the six months in 2015 is still in query.