Title: A Boy From Tandale Artist: Diamond Platnumz Genre: Afro Pop Release: March 14  The second week of March was such as special moment for Diamond Platnumz. He was in the country to launch his latest full-length album with Songa at the Kenya Cultural Centre in Nairobi. Obviously, with all the attention that had been directed towards him, it was evident that much was expected of him and his new compilation. Diamond had always dreamed of being a star, and this being his most significant major release, it would be correct to consider him one. He has positioned East Africa among other top-performing regions. His run has been one for any aspiring musician to admire. We all know his story, about how he started from the bottom and his tenacity earned him his spot. Most Diamond fans would consider this compilation his best attempt, considering it is a compilation that features quite a stellar guest list. The 67-minute LP kicks off with the romantic tune “Hallelujah” featuring Morgan Heritage, a track that has actually put Diamond in trouble with religious leaders. Rick Ross trades off bars on the second track, “Waka”, as Diamond struggles to pass a message in a language he lacks mastery in. The album revisits some of his top tracks like “Marry You,” featuring Ne-Yo, “Number One (Remix)” featuring his once dream guest Davido, “Nana” featuring Flavour and “Kidogo” featuring P-Square. We also get to witness the vocal brilliance of Rayvanny on “Iyena” and Miri Ben-Ari on “Baila”. “African Beauty” brings out Omarion’s affiliation with Africa as he successfully attempts to integrate Kiswahili in his verse. Tiwa Savage and Jay Prayzah deliver on the club-destined tracks “Fire” and “Amanda” respectively. Through out the compilation, we get to experience an explicitly charged Diamond Platnumz, who doesn’t cower from what he wants to express. Ultimately, the 18-track compilation closes with the relaxed “Far Away,” a tune that features the vocals of Vanessa Mdee. To a reasonable extent, this compilation suggests a dignified, contemporary maturation. However, there are moments it feels like it’s about to settle and prosper, and then there are those it experiences minor frustrations. His fans will always want to relate with the soulful artist who made music they would relate to rather than pop hits basically created for plays. Truly, A Boy From Tandale is a colourful addition to Afro pop. It might not be the best attempt ever and, therefore, it ought to mount pressure on Diamond to release a well-ordered, full-length project next time.  Star Rating: 3/5