The witness protection agency wants the case in which Kisumu Senator Fred Outa, former Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga and others charged with malicious damage of property to be heard in Busia. Outa, Ruth, Kondele MCA Joachim Oketch and three others were also charged of stealing plastic chairs and destroying 11 tent stands worth Sh92,500 belonging to Tausi Designs and Promotion Ltd. Before Chief Magistrate Julius Ngarngar on Monday, the prosecution in the case said presented the order that had been issued by Justice Tripsisa Cherere. Jacinta Nyamosi said the order arose from an application made by the witness protection agency concerning the witness safety. Nyamosi told the court that said the organization in their report indicated that there was need to protect the witnesses in the case who were afraid for their lives with the case being in the county. The accused through their lawyers however claimed that the order was a total ambush without regards to the accused persons hence infringed on their clients rights being most of them were leaders within the county and resides in Kisumu. They stated that they had not been served with such orders seeking for the transfer of their client’s case to Busia Court. Geoffrey who represents Ruth and Outa said they were taken by such orders because they knew they were appearing in court to get a report from the ODDP’s office from Nairobi but not a plot to get such transfer orders. He said before the court grants such orders, he needs more time to consult with his client on the effect of order and if need be will have to apply for setting it aside. “Why would the witnesses from the same county be afraid of their own leaders,”Yogo questioned adding that maybe after Busia the case might also be transferred to Turkana. Another advocate Robert Maua questioned why an order given on February 15th had never been served to the only for it to appear in court one month down the line. “It’s unfortunate that my clients were charged in a Kericho court and they had to be moved back to Kisumu, now we are talking about Busia,”said Maua. He supported his colleague sentiment to seek leave to peruse the application, look at the grounds and make sustainable response or even necessary to set aside the application. However this was not objected by the prosecution who said they should take their time and respond to the same. Nyamosi however stated that their was no malice intended on the part of the prosecution. Ngar Ngar ruled that they should appear before the court on May 21 where such responses will be heard. Last year in August Outa and Ruth were also accused of entering an electoral area designated by IEBC contrary to the Election Offences Act, 2016. The Opposition politicians were also charged with obstructing an election officer and chasing away persons undergoing training by the IEBC for Thursday's presidential election. Outa faced an additional charge of incitement to violence. He is said to have uttered "demolish and destroy this IEBC equipment and tents". Oketch and three others were denied the charge before Kericho senior resident magistrate Stephen Ngetich.  