ODM have given their leader carte blanche to enter into an amorphous marriage with Jubilee and are now warning their coalition partners to keep off in the same manner they kept off the swearing-in ceremony. They have gone a step further and emasculated Senate Minority leader Moses Wetang’ula and replaced him with ODM’s James Orengo. Raila Odinga made a half-hearted attempt to rescue Wetang’ula, which was rebuffed. Kenyans are beginning to read mischief. ODM have not made public the details of their sweetheart deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta. To remain in the Opposition is a clear case of practising double standards. They want to have their cake and eat it! If they have joined the government, they must surrender all Parliament minority positions. Kenyans trust this is not a repeat of the 1997 cooperation with Kanu, as NASA will not accept to be party to a charade. It’s either ODM join Jubilee or remain in NASA. There is no middle ground. Or is it another ploy from Cambridge Analytica? On January 3 this writer wrote that Cambridge Analytica, a privately owned company that combines data mining and data analysis with strategic communications, had worked for Jubilee in the 2013 and 2018 presidential elections. Whilst the role and exact impact and effect of Cambridge Analytica is still under scrutiny, legal, moral and integrity issues arise as to the implications of the ruling party Jubilee acquiring and sharing the data of millions of Kenyans (not just from Facebook but other government agencies) with a private company for their own selfish benefit. It is instructive to note that Cambridge Analytica worked on the Donald Trump and Brexit campaigns and is currently the subject of criminal investigations in both countries. Back then I was demonised as an empty voice crying in the wilderness. I have been spectacularly vindicated by an expose on BBC’s Channel 4. The company admitted to their role in the Kenyan elections in 2013 and 2017. Jubilee have since sheepishly admitted to having recruited Cambridge Analytica. We now know that Cambridge Analytica admitted to branding, doing research and writing policy papers and speeches for Jubilee. That Jubilee was willing to work with a company that had no qualms about recruiting and sending prostitutes to damage an opponent’s reputation; a company that thinks truth is not necessary in order to win; speaks volumes about Jubilee’s antics during elections. As they say, birds of a feather flock together or a man is judged by the company he keeps! Now that ODM have opted to enter an unholy marriage with Jubilee, they ought to gracefully exit the Opposition. NASA can then chart the way forward with the remaining principals and other like-thinking parties. It is pretentious for ODM to try to retain a foot in NASA and Jubilee simultaneously. If they have eloped, they ought to follow their chosen path. It is instructive to note that only ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has had the courage to denounce the ODM leader as a betrayer. He described the deal between Raila and Uhuru as “hollow, selfish and meaningless to NASA’s structured cause”. He went on to say that with the departure of ODM from NASA to Jubilee, new political permutations and alignments will emerge, thus making NASA stronger. He said the ODM leader had forsaken the fight for national dialogue and electoral justice that saw many Kenyans lose their lives “for whatever material offers from Jubilee”. He also described Wetang’ula’s ouster as a well-choreographed plot by ODM. These are strong words coming from one principal to another. Word on the grapevine is that NASA has been registered as a political party minus ODM. If that be so, then ODM have been left hanging precariously somewhere between the devil and the deep blue sea.