Governor Mike Sonko has suspended two top finance chiefs for allegedly spying for former city boss Evans Kidero. Finance executive Danvas Makori, who was appointed to the position a month ago, and acting chief finance officer Ekaya Alumasi were sent home on Thursday. Sources at City Hall have revealed the two officers - both served in the former administration – have been in constant communication with some former City Hall staffers, including Kidero, about county matters. The communication intensified two weeks ago when the explosive KPMG audit report on the county finances was released. The report stated the county could have lost Sh21 billion during the former regime. Kidero denied claims Makori was spying for him. He urged Sonko to admit his shortcomings “instead of looking for scapegoats”. “Sonko should stop dreaming about Kidero all the time. He has got a job to do and if he cannot do the job as he indicated a few days ago, then he should resign so that other competent Nairobians can take up that job,” he said. PERSONAL ASSISTANT Kidero said Makori was his personal assistant until he left the county boss job in August last year and that any communication he has been having with him since he left has not been about City Hall. “I have absolutely no interest at City Hall and that is why I have not been commenting on any matter related to City Hall so that we can give him time to work. I handed over to him and informed him that the job he was taking was not a walk in the park,” he said on the phone. The Star has established Sonko has deployed secret detectives at City Hall to monitor conversations and activities of senior officers, including executives and chief officers in key departments. Recently, some executives and senior officers have been declining interviews with journalists on the phone. Some have referred journalists to the office of the governor on matters that are directly under them. “We are required to record everything we do, including interviews with journalists and forward to either the governor himself or the county secretary. We are monitored, CCTV cameras are all over,” an executive said. Deputy director of public communication Elkana Jacob said investigations have been launched. “Makori, who was trusted to hold the Finance docket, went behind Sonko’s back and was in constant communication with Kidero, his associates and other people opposing Sonko. We have checked their gadgets and we are shocked,” he told the Star on the phone on Friday. Jacob said the detectives were still unearthing more officers who have been spying for “outsiders” and very soon more heads will roll. “This is a syndicate, I am telling you. It involves engineers, contractors and even some CECs could be sent packing very soon,” he said.