Nakuru is going flat out to be elevated to city status. Speaker Joel Kairu told the Star on Monday that since the Cabinet approved the upgrading of two more towns in September last year, the city has been working hard to qualify. Kenya has three cities: Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. Nakuru is the fourth-largest town and has been touted as the ‘fourth city’ for close to a decade. Eldoret would be the fifth.The Cabinet must approve elevation. City status comes with national government funds for selected infrastructure, including roads. Also, all civil servants — police, teaches and government employees — would have enhanced benefits. City status also attracts investors. Residents are enthusiastic, however, conditions must be met. According to the Urban Areas and Cities Act 2011,to qualify as a city, an urban area must have a population of at least 250,000 based on the last census. Nakuru has 800,000 people, according to the 2009 census. It must have an integrated urban development plan and demonstrate the capacity to generate revenue to sustain its entire operation. In the 2015-16 financial year, Nakuru collected Sh2.3 billion. Kairu said the county has fast-tracked motions to achieve its goal. They include the approval of a geospatial plan to guide development and land use. The county is rehabilitating the Lanet Airstrip into an international airport. strategic position Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui says a matatu terminus will be constructed outside the CBD. Kairu said the county is fixing roads and expanding the sewerage system strained by a fast growing population. Proximity to Uganda, the Northern Corridor and the Kenya-Uganda Railway are a major boost. Building of the second phase of the standard gauge railway has begun, as has construction of the dry port in Naivasha. Some residents said although the county administration is celebrating, sewers discharging untreated effluent are a time bomb. There are huge traffic jams during rush hour. Housing is a major headache. A large number of houses the county government inherited from the old local authorities are dilapidated. Growth of the the Flamingo City is limited because it is sandwiched between Lake Nakuru and Menegai Crater with one of the world’s biggest calderas.The crater and lake, home to flamingoes, are major attractions. “We want to deliver President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Last week, we passed a motion on introduction of digital approval of plans,” Kairu said. 