By What System Will Jubilee Party
Govern Kenya, Democracy Or Dictatorship?  We may not agree with
Miguna Miguna, but when we see him treated as badly as he was at JKIA, those of
us who have suffered a lot in the hands of dictatorship shiver and tremble. Tell-tale
signs of dictatorship – corruption by leaders, extrajudicial killings by
police, detentions without charge or trial, forcing dissidents into exile and
rigging of elections, dictating judgments, defying court orders and subjugation
of Parliament — start with a few victims but end up with everybody. When my family and I
were exiled in Norway, my wife was detained for nine hours at Jomo Kenyatta
airport, when she came to see me at Nairobi Hospital as a prisoner. Earlier, my
wife and our children had also been blocked from flying to Norway at the middle
of the night. There is little doubt
that the majority of Kenyans want to live in a democracy, where they enjoy
freedom, rule of law and economic prosperity. There is, however, a tiny
minority of the powerful that wields power and wants to create a dictatorship
with which they will rob the country and exercise oppression and exploitation.
When people choose leadership, they must first settle whether they shall be
governed by democracy or dictatorship, which determines whether they will be
governed freely or in shackles. Even without
consulting, the Jubilee government is leading people, not towards greater
democracy but into a dictatorship. This is why, in recent surveys and opinion
polls, the majority of Kenyans say the country is headed in the wrong
direction. Other than those who exercise power over others and, therefore,
welcome the absolute authority of dictatorship, very few Kenyans want to be
subjects and victims of a dictatorship. When any government
takes power, it must tell its people how it intends to govern them because when
an administration wants to govern people through democracy, it says it out
loud. But when it keeps silent, or is hesitant to say openly what system it
intends to govern by, it wants to secretly by dictatorship disguised as
balanced democracy, guided democracy or benevolent dictatorship. People must be
prepared to go to a referendum over they system they want to be governed by,
between dictatorship ordemocracy. Given the centrality
of this matter, one wonders whether, when Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta
agreed to ignore their differences and address national problems together, did
they agree by what system they would use? We must never forget
what some powerful and well-placed voices of Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe,
Kiharu first-term MP Ndindi Nyoro, and Prof Peter Kagwanja and others have been
calling for a benevolent dictatorship that will be a panacea for all our
problems. And yet, these voices have been speaking for more powerful forces. But however loved
people are, or how benevolent a leader is, can people be enslaved, oppressed or
killed for their own good? If we choose to be
governed democratically, we must realise that for all of us to have freedom,
justice and prosperity, the Executive, Parliament and the Judiciary must, like
an orchestra, work together and harmoniously and share power. There should be
no infightings and none should exercise absolute power against the other. For
democracy to function smoothly, there must be parliamentary and judicial
safeguards against Executive’s tendency to accumulate absolute powers against
Parliament and the Judiciary. If the three arms of
government work against each other, there will be discordance, malfunction and
failure to generate freedom, justice and prosperity for the people. When the Executive orders
or influences the Judiciary, refuses to implement court orders, detains or jails
judges as the government has done in Turkey, democracy is dead. When the
Executive intimidates Parliament into passing or not passing certain laws or
even detain MPs, it will have metamorphosed into a dictatorship. Equally, if Parliament
passes oppressive laws such as denying the Executive money to render services
to the people, or deny Judiciary the security of tenure, it will also have
become a dictatorship. Equally, Judiciary will become a dictatorship or part of
one if they pass judgments whose express purpose is to deny justice. As Kenya struggles to
eradicate corruption and other problems, it is very sad that dictatorship has
also reared its ugly head again. If a disease that returns is the disease that
kills, we must fight very hard against dictatorship.  