Residents of Kakamega county were treated to a strange funeral, where parallel services were held for the burial of businessman Joshua Ouya on Saturday. When Ouya, a renowned businessman, collapsed and died on New Year’s Day, it was expected that his family would organise a decent sendoff for him within reasonable time. But a dispute as to who was entitled to bury him broke out between his wife Linnet Washiali and former wife Mary Rapando. Linnet is Mumias East MP Ben Washiali’s younger sister. A court battle led to his remains lying at the Lee Funeral Home for close to three months. Ouya, 60, collapsed in his house on the Eagle Plains Estate in Nairobi on January 1. He was taken to Nairobi South Hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. Trouble started after his family introduced Rapando, who had earlier separated with the deceased, as his first wife. They demanded that she buries Ouya. A meeting between Ouya’s Abamwende clan and Linnet’s Abakolwe to resolve the standoff ended in disarray. The two groups only threw tantrums at each other. The two sides ran parallel obituaries in the local media. While the family insisted Rapando is the first wife and should be allowed to bury her husband in accordance to Luhya customary laws, Linnet said she is the only surviving wife and should be given exclusive rights to bury him. Under Luhya customs, the body of a man who had two wives is supposed to spend one night in the younger wife’s house before being moved to the first wife’s house, where he will be buried. Linnet moved to the Milimani Commercial Court on January 9 seeking orders declaring her Ouya’s only legal wife with exclusive rights to bury him. Linnet is a director at Kenya Wildlife Service. She also sought orders for preservation of DNA samples for tests on Rapando’s children and others born out of wedlock. Rapando was sued jointly with brother-in-law Amisi Omukanda and sister-in-law Beatrice Muganda. They wanted the court to declare Rapando the first wife and accord her the right to participate in the funeral, together with her children Brian, 29, and Joy, 22. Linnet says Ouya never told him he had another wife, he only talked about children he sired. Linnet said Rapando, the principal at Lwanya Girls’ Secondary School, was only a girlfriend. Ouya’s elder brother Fredrick Mumia said, “Rapando and Ouya had not divorced because the dowry he paid had never been returned according to Luhya customs. “She cannot be termed as Nashikoko,” he said. Nashikoko is Luhya for a woman who leaves her husband after marriage. In Eshikhoni village, Abamwende clan members locked Eshikhoni ACK doors to block the body from entering the church on Friday, since they didn’t want association of Linnet with anything belonging to the Omuganda family. This then resulted in parallel services for the deceased’s burial by the feuding groups. Chief Magistrate DA Ocharo said while Rapando might have rights over the estate of the deceased, those rights cannot grant her the status of a wife for puoses of his burial. Linnet and her Abakolwe clan members and other friends held a service in her compound while Mary and the deceased’s family members staged another 100m away. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and other politicians had to address both groups. “I don’t want to get into what is happening because it may be worse when I die,” Oparanya said. Ouya’s younger brother Amisi Omuganda said the ruling that awarded Linnet the right to bury Ouya was faulty. They will appeal.