Meru University VC Japheth Magambo has downplayed calls for his resignation following the murder of a student leader on Tuesday. Calls for Magambo’s resignation gained momentum on Tuesday with MPs and MCAs joining students, parents and University Academic Staff Union officials in demanding that he quit. The calls follow the Tuesday killing of student leader Evans Njoroge who was shot by police during riots. Magambo has also been accused of poor management, increased fees and misappropriation of funds. “Why resign? There is absolutely no reason for me to resign. What for? There is nothing like that,” Magambo told reporters on Wednesday. Yesterday, Education CS Amina Mohamed constituted a team to investigate Njoroge’s killing and the unrest at the university. “The ministry has noted with utmost regret the chaos at Meru University that led to the death of a student on Tuesday. We appeal to students to desist from any activities that may interfere with ongoing investigations,” Amina said. SHOT AT CLOSE RANGE Meanwhile, the students continued to protest the killing of their colleague. Yesterdat, they barricaded the Meru-Maua road and blocked entrance to the institution’s main campus in Nchiru. Magambo defended his stay at the helm of the institution, saying it has massively grown under his watch.On Wednesday, police in three vehicles kept vigil at the institution with several officers comprising the GSU, AP and Kenya Police patrolling the campus. On Tuesday, Njoroge was leading students in protests against Magambo’s to re-open the institution before their grievances are addressed. Students at the university had been sent home following persistent protests over high school fees and poor learning conditions. They had been asked to return on Wednesday. Witness said Njoroge was chased down a farm by an officer who shot him on the head at close range. “The police action was cruel, brutal, ruthless, uncivilised, uncouth and quite unprofessional. We want the Education CS to take action and replace the Vice Chancellor with immediate effect,” UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga said on Wednesday. Magambo said the university was yet to receive an official report from police on what happened and why the student leader was killed. “Unfortunately, we’ve only learnt about the death from the media. We extend condolences to the family. We are extremely sorry,” Magambo said. INDEFINITELY CLOSED Meru county police commander Nelson Taliti said it was not their duty to inform the university, saying the slain student had been identified by colleagues and family members. “This is something in the public domain. We have already confirmed he is a university student,” Taliti said. Magambo said the university was closed and the management did not expect students to be around. The institution now remains indefinitely closed. “We appeal to students to respect the decision that the institution remain closed as arrangements are made to recall them,” Amina said.