Employers have warned informal employment - which accounts for 80 per cent of the total jobs in Africa - is worsening the poverty situation. During a forum on entrepreneurship and employment creation hosted in conjunction with the International Organisation of Employers, FKE executive director Jacqueline Mugo deplored the growth of informal employment at the expense of the formal sector. She said Africa needs to analyse the quality of jobs being created. “It is a known fact that not only are over 60 per cent of youths in Africa unemployed, but also over 80 per cent of employment in Africa is in informal sector. This type of employment only worsens the poverty situation of Africa. We need our people to have a decent income. This is good for business, this is good for Africa,” Mugo said. She said of the 833,000 jobs created in Kenya in 2016, 747,300, which is 90 per cent, were informal. This trend is expected to continue. Overcrowding “On average, informal jobs do not pay a decent income, do not contribute to NSSF and NHIF. They do not pay income tax and are generally not sustainable. Informality is characterised by casualisation which drives corruption. What kind of jobs we are creating is a very important question,” Mugo said. She decried the failure by Africa to optimally use its human resources, saying the continent only uses 55 per cent of its full human capital potential, compared to a global average of 65 per cent. To rectify overcrowding in informal employment, IOE President Erol Kiresepi called for the involvement of the youth in job creation. “There appears to a huge lack of employment opportunities for the youth, with negative consequences, for them to grow personally, and maintain a living. We want to use this conference to show impact. We want to draft an action agenda for us to engage on some of the most challenging issues,” he said. FKE president Mark Obuya reiterated the need to develop policies and strategies that encourage and allow entrepreneurship to flourish and create the millions of jobs that Africa needs. “We must deal firmly with issues to do with capital and government bureaucracy in licensing,” he said.