Xavier Kipng’etich will captain the Kenya team to this year’s Rugby Africa U-20 South competition set for next week in Windhoek, Namibia. The Impala Saracens scrum-half will be assisted by Homeboyz loose forward Stanley Isogol. Head coach Paul Odera yesterday said they are confident of getting good results in the event. “We’ve been trying to get a balance between those who have been playing the game for a long time and some of our young players who have just started.” “The advantage of the Kenyan rugby player is that they are very well conditioned and they are able to withstand mentally even the hardest hits. We’ve been trying to see if we can get a balance and the team this year has tried to reflect that. “Trying to get that balance is what has dictated squad selection. We’ve not had the luxury of having all of them in Kenya. However, we are pleased that many are playing in Kenya Cup and the Eric Shirley Shield level,” noted Odera. Chipu play Madagascar in their opening fixture on Wednesday. “Having watched Madagascar last year and in previous years, we know they play a very expansive game when they have the ball. They will run the ball at every opportunity and will look to keep us pinned in our territory,” he said. “That is how they beat Zimbabwe last year. They ran almost every ball and very rarely do they want to go to ground. Ours will be to look to dominate the contact area and will need to be every direct when in possession.” The winner of the Kenya-Madagascar clash will play against the winner between Namibia and Zimbabwe tie for the right to North competition winner at a later date with a berth at Junior World Rugby Trophy up for grabs. The team departs on Monday and return on April 1. Chipu lost in last year’s final to Namibia after going down 66-24. Chipu squad: Joshua Matasi (Impala), Toby David Francombe (Nondes), James Simiyu (Strathmore), William Diffu (Homeboyz), Emmanuel Silungi (Homeboyz), Stanley Isogol ( Homeboyz—vice captain), Akuei Monate (Nakuru), Mark Mutuku (University of Canterbury, NZ), Xavier Kipnge’tich Bett (Impala, captain), Michele Brighetti (Sedbergh School, UK), Joshua Macharia (KCB), Zeden Marrow (Homeboyz), Victor Matiko (Menengai), Jeff Mutuku (Kingswood College, South Africa), Edmund Anya (Strathmore), Kevin Kerore (Mwamba), John Daniel Gichuhi (Homeboyz), Bonface Ochieng (Quins), Harold Anduvate (Menengai), James McGreevy (Hillcrest), Andrew Siminyu (Hillcrest), Bethuel Anami (Strathmore), Samuel Asati (KCB), Lucas Oppal (Strathmore), Massimiliano Brighetti (unattached); Reserves: Dennis Lusweti (USIU), Allan Aziz (Menengai) and Derrick Keyoga (Menengai).