More than 200 Maseno University medical laboratory science students are stranded. The institution was shut down for failure to meet accreditation requirements. The Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Board said the university failed to renew its approval licence. It also lacks adequate teaching and learning materials. Board chairman Abel Onyango yesterday said the closure has affected diploma and degree students. An inspection by the industry regulator showed the institution lacked sufficient human resource capacity and adequate physical infrastructure. Among other reasons for closure in the notice include lack of governance and management structure and offering non-approved diploma programmes, Onyango said. A letter dated February 20 and signed by University Dean Pauline Andang’ says KMLTTB further noted that Maseno admitted students who did not meet minimum requirements and violated curricular approved by the board. The inspection by the board showed the university flouted the Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Act. “Notice is hereby issued for immediate closure of the medical laboratory programme,” reads the letter in part. Everlyne Macharia from KMLTTB led the closure. She said the board has started transferring students to other accredited institutions. “We have contacted other institutions, including the Kenya Medical Training College, and other national polytechnics which are compliant to enrol the students who meet the minimum qualifications,” Macharia said. The move is likely to affect students who were admitted without meeting admission requirements. They face the possibility of losing money and time. Maseno University Public Relations director Owen MacOnyango denied the institution was directed to close down, terming it a ‘notice of closure’. “The board has alerted us and we are in discussions with them about the gaps and soon we will meet their recommendations. The particular school is already working on the issues raised to ensure no disruption.