Siaya Senator James Orengo has denied claims that he selfishly grabbed the Minority leader position from Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula. The senator told Citizen TV in an interview on Tuesday that the decision was not an individual's but by the parliamentary group, a body he adds is mandated to take such steps. However, he said there will be a discussion with the principals on Thursday to bring in context the changes before he can take the seat fully. More on this: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Describing the change in House leadership as work in progress, Orengo said he has accepted the role of minority leader following the PG's resolution and approval of the speaker. "Before I sit on the seat, I have to give space to the principals to go through what has taken place." On claims by Wetang'ula that the ouster was planned behind the Bungoma Senator's back, Orengo said the events are a culmination of 'good things' that have happened to him since last year. Orengo was hailed as the only senator who did not campaign in his constituency ahead of the 2017 poll. He said Tuesday's events were presided over by legislators from all the coalition's parties, hence is not an ODM affair. Orengo attributed his choice for the seat to the work he has done in Nasa in defending the coalition members adding that he never invited the senators to a Kamukunji to ask for the seat. "Even my presence has been very irregular because of the defence role I have played for all Nasa members...I defend people in Ford Kenya, ODM, Wiper, and even ANC." "This was a decision reached by the senators themselves,” he said after the Tuesday events. Wetang'ula was ousted following the coalition's PG vote which was ratified by Speaker Kenneth Lusaka at the plenary. The Siaya lawmaker named Senators Okongo Omogeni (Nyamira), Amos Wako (Busia), Prof Sam Ongeri (Kisii) as among those who reviewed the plan and settled on him for the post. On grounds that Wetang'ula's ouster was driven by misgivings in the latter's leadership, Orengo said : "There is a bit of a disconnect for a person who is in the leadership at the Nasa summit level and then at the Senate or at the National Assembly where they are supposed to be accountable to the parliamentary group." "It is not easy for a person at the summit leadership level to be accountable to the electoral college, being the members of the coalition," he said. Orengo further denied claims of a dress-down between Wetangula and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. There were fears the ouster bid stemmed from the meeting at Stoni Athi in Machakos county. The senator said the coalition was constructed to win an election and not deal with post-election situation in the event of a loss. The lawyer added that the focus of Nasa was on capturing the executive and that the parties' Memorandum of Understanding had nothing to do with sharing positions in Parliament. He said the deal reached before the election was that the posts will be balanced based on the performance of each of the parties. "We are not going against the organs of the coalition and are working on the 'fault lines' that might be existing in the union." The senator said he hopes the Nasa parties will find a working solution to the matter by looking at the far that the coalition has come. Nasa leader Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Wetangula separately opposed the decision saying it will lead to the collapse of the coalition. "We don't have to get to that...I want to call upon my friend Jim Orengo to decline this nomination so that he doesn't go down as the person who collapsed Nasa," Kalonzo said. On this, Orengo said the coalition members have to think deeply enough, sit down and find out the fault lines that might threaten its unity. Read: Lusaka blocks Magaya attempt to stop Wetang'ula removal Related: Why Senators want Weta out of minority job Click here for the latest political news   