MPs are scheduled to gill NHIF CEO Geoffrey Mwangi on Tuesday morning over the cancellation of a tender related to a health cover for civil servants, police, and prison officers. This comes just days after the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority launched investigations into the possible loss of more than Sh400 million paid out for the tender. Read: State probes botched civil servants' NHIF deal NHIF paid two bidders against an order by the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board. Britam Life Assurance Company (K) Ltd and Pioneer Assurance Company Ltd were awarded the tender, despite quoting high prices. Britam quoted Sh836,946,330 while Pioneer put its price at Sh852,284,830. The board had ruled that the award was irregular and ordered that NHIF contracts UAP Life Assurance Limited at its tender sum of Sh797,623,500. Related: Police insurance: UAP to get Sh836m NHIF tender after CIC withdraws case The tender was for the provision of the Group Life Cover and last expense for civil servants, National Police Service and Kenya Prisons Service for the 2017-2018. Meanwhile, the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority has temporarily declined to allow the National Hospital Insurance Fund to single source for a multi-million management systems. The Fund wrote to PPRA on January 15 asking to be allowed to engage in direct procurement for two tenders. The first is for the development of agency management system portal while the second is for the service maintenance of the customer management system. In a letter dated February 27, PPRA director general John Juma, through a Ms Opiyo, asked the NHIF to resubmit the request for failing to attach the required documents. "We have reviewed the contents of the Direct Procurement report for the above subject tenders and noted that the report was not accompanied by the required supporting documents," PPRA says. The letter seen by the Star says that this should be done by March 13. It refers Mwangi to PPRA Circular No. 01/2016 on the mandatory requirement by procuring entities which provide the various Reports and Reporting Templates on General Procurement Transactions that should be submitted. "To enable the Authority to assess your compliance with the above conditions. Your report should be accompanied by the following documents:- 1. A copy of the approval by the Accounting Officer for use of the direct procurement method; 2. A copy of professional opinion by Head of Procurement Function. 3. Approval of Award by the Accounting Officer. 4. Negotiation report," the letter says. It adds: "You are also advised to ensure that future reports are submitted to the Authority accompanied by all the required documents cited in the above circular." Click here for the latest political news