Elgeyo Marakwet teachers have asked the Ministry Of Education to extend deadline for submitting data for all learners in primary and secondary schools. School heads have until March 31 to submit the data for over eight million learners through the National Education Management Information Systems. Marakwet teachers led by Kenya National Union of Teachers executive secretary John Cheberi feared school heads will not obtain the requirements for registering pupils by then, saying it will be "practically impossible to meet the deadline". Cheberi said it has been difficult for parents to obtain birth certificates for their children. “Parents are still queuing at registration of births and deaths offices in search of birth certificates,” Cheberi said. “There are only three registration of births and deaths officers serving both Marakwet East and West sub counties. Some orphaned children also line-up in queues because they have no one them get birth certificates.” He said parents and pupils travel over 60km from remote villages such as Sambalat, Kapyego and Arror to Kapsowar to apply for the birth certificates. Some of them, he said, camp for days looking for the document. He asked the state to employ more staff at births and deaths registration offices and deploy them to each sub-county. He further urged the births and deaths department to give priority to vulnerable school children who were seeking the certificates on their own. NEMIS captures data of all students, staff, real time enrolments, school capitation and disbursement of funds. Marakwet west quality assurance officer Kipyego Sang said the NEMIS procedure consist of four modules that include: institution module, leaner module, staff module and finance module. He advised teachers and administrators to start with modules that do not require birth certificates in order to make it easy beat the deadline. The officer who spoke at his Kapsowar offices said some institutions are complaining yet they have not completed filling modules that do not require births certificates. His Keiyo counterpart said numerous reforms may hurt the implementation of the new 2-6-6-3 curriculum. He said NEMIS and teacher performance appraisal and development [TPAD] are diverting teachers’ attention at a time when they are busy implementing the new curriculum. He said teachers are busy collecting data for NEMIS and TPAD at the expense of attending to learners. 