When Sebastian Mikosz took over as CEO of loss-making Kenya Airways last June, he immediately shut its outlet in Nairobi’s downtown Accra Road, which served thousands of small traders who fly to the Far East to buy cheap goods in bulk. The move marked the beginning of an aggressive hunt for cost saving and premium passengers, after years of losses following a slump in tourism and large debts incurred to buy new aircraft. Polish native Mikosz, who helped turn around flag carrier LOT Polish Airlines as its chief executive, needs to stem those losses before it can begin to pay down $2 billion (Sh202.59 billion) of debt restructured in November to stave off the airline’s collapse. He told Reuters he plans to roll out a new economy plus class by the end of the year designed for business and wealthy leisure travellers, including growing numbers of American tourists and executives from dozens of Nairobi-based US firms. Coming first to wide-bodied planes, it will mean new seats with the same capacity by using space between them. “We are working on a pretty big reshape of the onboard experience,” Mikosz said. $100 million project The airline also plans a direct route to the Indian Ocean luxury tourism island of Mauritius and the first direct flight from Nairobi to New York by any airline from October, a plan Mikosz said was known as the “$100 million project” for the revenue the daily flight is expected to bring in. The US route will compete with indirect flights from established players such as Emirates, British Airways and Ethiopian Airlines and test KQ’s ability to reshape its image from an Africa-focused carrier. “We still have to prove that we can produce an operating profit,” Mikosz said in an interview in his office overlooking airport service hangers. “That is the biggest challenge that we have in an environment where you have a lot of competition.” Twenty-five foreign airlines operate out of Nairobi’s main airport, including Turkish Airlines which is expanding in Africa and state-owned Emirates, South African Airways and Ethiopian Airlines. Mikosz describes this state-backed competition as his biggest fear as he tries to turn around a publicly listed firm owned 48.9 per cent by the government and 7.8 per cent by Air France/KLM and attract a strategic investor. “It is really sometimes very frustrating when you see that somebody can have much lower costs thanks to this protected environment and you have to face a real free market economy,” he said. Google regional hub His plans mark a shift from a focus on African air passenger demand, which the International Air Transport Association sees growing by almost six per cent a year over the next decade due to increasing economic output and poor road and rail links. Kenya hosts regional hubs for 48 US or US-based businesses like Google and IBM and the US is the fastest-growing source of tourists, many changing planes in Europe or the Gulf in more than 20-hour trips. Jan Mohamed, the chief executive of TPS Eastern Africa, which runs the Serena chain of luxury hotels and safari lodges, said people would pay extra for direct flights, which take about 15 hours. Tickets to New York have begun retailing for around $1,000 (Sh101,300 ) return, compared with about $1,500 (Sh151,950 ) for an indirect flight. A former executive at KQ, who helped return it to profitability after years of losses in the early 1990s, said the new strategy was sensible, but held some risks.