Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and Mozambique’s Filipe Nyusi have assured of their commitment to help the private sector thrive in both countries. They made the announcement during a Kenya-Mozambique business forum in Maputo. Uhuru said the private sector is the true driver of economic growth, adding his administration has taken steps to streamline procedures to ease business operations. “We, in Kenya, are doing everything we can to ensure we create an enabling environment. We are keenly focussed on improving our ease of doing business index. We have simplified the procedures and the rules to make it easier for businesses to operate because we believe if businesses succeed, Kenya succeeds,” he said. Nyusi encouraged members of the Kenya business community to set up shop in Mozambique as a step towards deepening relations. free trade treaty Rooting for increased intra-Africa trade, Uhuru called for increased partnership between Kenyan and Mozambican business communities. He expressed the need for African countries to look at themselves as a continent of potential and a market of over 1.2 billion people instead of seeing themselves in isolation as small countries. “And if we did this, this would facilitate large investments, it would facilitate job creation because today we are exporting our jobs. We are exporting our jobs to China and to other markets because we, ourselves, have not been able to open up our markets in order to attract the kind of capital that we need to be able to create those jobs here on the continent,” Uhuru said. He said the signing of the African Continental Free Trade Area treaty by 44 African nations in Kigali last week was a landmark step towards making it easier for business people to freely move with their goods and services across the continent. “I believe this presents a great opportunity for our private sectors to grow as we aim to push and to deepen both investment and trade across the African continent,” Uhuru said. He said closer partnerships between members of the private sector in Africa were key to helping countries achieve their socioeconomic dreams. “The private sector is the key to people-to-people exchange. It is the key to economic growth and through the private sector, you help us deliver jobs and prosperity for our respective nations,” Uhuru said. He singled out the extractive industries, the blue economy, tourism and agriculture as some of the key areas that the Kenyan and Mozambican private sectors could set up joint ventures. Read:Uhuru in Mozambique for blue economy, trade talks Also Read:Uhuru handed Maputo city key during Mozambique visit       