Maize prices in the Rift Valley have dropped after the NCPB reduced intake from farmers and millers began importing cheap produce from Uganda. Farmers, who still have more than three million unsold bags, have been forced to sell their maize to middlemen at throwaway prices. Middlemen are buying a 90kg bag of maize for Sh2,000, while the Cereals Board was buying a bag for Sh3,200. Millers are buying maize at Sh1,800 per bag from Uganda. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri visited the area two weeks ago and directed the NCPB to decongest its stores and buy all maize from farmers. Nothing has been done, however, as maize lorries are still queuing at the depots in Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge and Kitale. “The stores are still full and farmers are really frustrated. They are filled up with maize imported by millers from Uganda and sold cheaply to the NCPB,” director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo. Give farmers priority Farmers have faulted a state plan to allow importation of more than six million bags of maize from Uganda, yet the NCPB is still receiving their crop. Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said the state should give farmers first priority, and they should be paid well. He wants the government to release more than Sh4 billion owed to farmers by the Cereals Board. “There should be no importation until the maize from farmers is exhausted and they are all paid for their deliveries,” Chemno said. Deal with uganda Uganda minister Michael Welikhe, who was in Eldoret last week, said the two governments agreed on a plan to sell maize to Kenya. “We have a surplus, we are selling the maize to Kenya at Sh1,800 per bag to help reduce the high cost of maize flour,” Welikhe said. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta was in Uganda two weeks ago, and the maize issue was discussed. Farmers want Kiunjuri to return to the region and problems they are facing. “We are not seeing any tangible efforts to address our problems, especially concerning marketing of maize that is produced by local farmers,” Menjo said.