And since negative ethnicity instils both superiority and inferiority
ethnic complexes, many Kikuyu elites — and even common Kikuyus — believe they
are superior to the others, even when those claiming superiority are dirt poor
and subjects of their billionaires. But Kikuyus are not the only people that
feel ethnically superior or inferior. All Kenyans today do. Could David Ndii’s move, therefore, be an expression of Kikuyu ethnic
inferiority complex or individual subjugation to ethnic superiority complex of
the Luo elite? If Ndii believes the problem of Kikuyu leaders is ethnic superiority
complex or negative ethnic constitution of the community from which he cannot
extricate himself except by removal, he must consider all Kikuyus, including
himself irredeemable. But the cure of negative ethnicity cannot be Kikuyus or other people
fleeing from their communities, which all cannot be evil or demonic. It is
promotion of nationalism among all Kenyan communities. All Kikuyus are not for the status quo. Many, like people of other communities,
also want change, and must not apologise for their ethnicity, renounce it or,
like Ndii, flee from it — which they really can’t. The problem in Kenya is not
ethnicity. It is negative ethnicity that all Kenyan communities have embraced
for what they mistakenly believe is their political and economic salvation. Or did Ndii join the Luo community because he believes they are above
negative ethnicity, or is it that negative ethnicity of the Luo elites is
better than that of the Kikuyu? Today, right across the country, most Kenyans take negative ethnicity as
their ideology of choice, although many individuals are not ethnically wired. Maybe
Ndii joined the Luo because he believes negative ethnicity of the Luo is better
than negative ethnicity of the Kikuyu. Again, Ndii might have made this
decision because he wants to fight negative ethnicity from within the Luo, or
because as a Kikuyu, it will be easier to fight negative ethnicity from within
Luo, directing his fire against the Kikuyu and emerge as a heroic fight against
negative ethnicity. But had Ndii decided to fight negative ethnicity from
inside the Kikuyu, directing his fire against his community, they would
consider him traitorous or as in Rwanda, a cockroach. To change Kenya to a better society without negative ethnicity, we must reject
negative ethnicity of whatever community. If we consider some communities as
enemies, we shall be declaring ourselves enemies of nationalism and positive
ethnicity. We cannot consider the Kikuyu or the Luo an enemy and claim to fight
for everybody’s freedom, prosperity and equality. When we embrace negative ethnicity, we demonise and dehumanise the
others and ourselves, and cease being Kenyans and agents of good change. What then is our solution to the problem of negative ethnicity?  It
is in treating Kenyans equally, and embracing nationalism. And to Ndii, you may be frustrated by the Kikuyu internal profiling and
discrimination — being called a traitor or betrayer — but even in the Luo
nation, you will encounter the same form of discrimination. As the President
Julius Nyerere of Tanzania would have said, where you go, you will discover
discrimination between Luos of Siaya and those of Migori, Luos of Karen and
those of Mathare and Luos of Nyanza and those of Kiambu.  If Ndii is not preferring Luo negative ethnicity to Kikuyu negative
ethnicity but seeking to eliminate negative ethnicity in all our ethnic
communities, he would be entitled to say: if you hate Luos so much, then consider me a Luo. If you hate Jews so much,
then consider me a Jew. If you hate black people so much, then consider me
black. If you hate the Kikuyu so much, then consider me a Kikuyu.  If I disagree with Ndii in his misunderstanding of negative ethnicity, I
totally condemn that Kikuyu song that mocks and condemns Kamba community in
their fight against economic discrimination. Those who think the cure of Kamba
negative ethnicity is Kikuyu negative ethnicity are totally wrong. 