An international NGO has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to set up devolved County Police Services. The International Center for Policy and Conflict Executive Director Ndung’u Wainaina said in a statement that this will effectively take early action to prevent and reduce crime at local level. “It will enhance the local capabilities and resilience of police, and achieve value for money without losing agility when fighting crime,” Wainaina said. Wainaina said the nature of crime has changed drastically with counties facing different challenges. He asked the police top brass to work with all stakeholders at the counties to address emerging crime trends. “One size fits all policing and law enforcement model approach controlled from Nairobi is colonial, archaic and does not allow room to respond to different security challenges and meet local needs,” he said. He added security and law enforcement agencies are trapped in regime policing of the colonial times. “Just as in colonial times, the police remain a symbol of political power and an instrument of oppression rather than an independent institution with a distinct professional capacity to governance,” he said. “A clear illustration of this is the widespread use of police officers for the protection and escorting of political notables and for largely ceremonial guard duties.” He asked the national government to end the centralized top-down bureaucracy and adapt to changing global security dynamics. Read: Devolve security to counties, says Nanok Wainaina called on the national police to introduce policies that increase the powers of local institutions and enhance local accountability. He also called on the police to prevent people from doing things for themselves, and reduce bureaucratic and regulatory burdens that slow progress. He said the status quo is becoming increasingly hard to justify following the growing insecurity levels. Policing remains the only emergency service that is not devolved. Others which have been devolved include health, land development agriculture, education and the construction of county roads. He said the weakness of Kenya’s police is the result of its institutional history and the governance mechanisms within which it operates. “Security Organs have been compromised to secure personal and political interest rather than secure the people and the country,” Wainaina said. The appointment process of the leadership of security institutions is manipulated to award individuals who value politico-ethnic loyalty over professionalism, merit, competence, competitiveness and accountability to the people and to the Constitution. Apart from lacking a coherent national security strategy, Kenya has no solid integrated crime prevention and law enforcement policy. Policing and criminal justice are the only mainstream public services, which are not devolved to County.  Click here for the latest political news