The late Francis Imbuga may have had the current state of affairs in Kenya in mind when wrote his play Betrayal in the City in 1975. He summed up things this way: “It was better while we waited. Now we have nothing to look forward to. We have killed our past and are busy killing our future”. That is what Miguna Miguna's lawyers told the High Court yesterday, as judges issued order after order that were simply ignored as the government failed to allow Miguna into the country or even produce him in court. “Its is impunity of the highest order and must be punished," said Miguna's lawyer James Orengo. The government has ignored 10 orders issued by the courts relating to Miguna since he was arrested on February 2. Yesterday, Justice George Odunga spent nearly the entire day adjudicating on an already messy situation after the government refused to obey an order to produce Miguna in court as ordered the previous day by Justice Roselyne Aburili of the High Court. Justice Odunga had earlier ordered Interior CS Fred Matiang’i,  Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and  Immigration PS Gordon  Kihalangwa  to appear before him in person, but  none honoured his directive. And when they failed to show up in court, the judge, in a hard-hitting ruling, convicted them for content of court. Read: Matiang'i, Boinnet fail to produce Miguna, defy court summons Also read: Miguna lawyers want Matiang'i, Boinnet jailed six months for contempt The judge said the matter before  him was no longer a dispute between the two parties but had reached the level where judicial powers are on trial and the dignity of the court is being questioned. “This court cannot continue to fold its arms while the respondents continue to catwalk on its orders,” said the judge before he ordered the three to appear before him at 10am today for sentencing. He also ordered that Miguna be released unconditionally and that he should not be removed from the court’s jurisdiction.  The judge further directed that Miguna be allowed access to his lawyers as he told police officers holding Miguna that the orders applied to them as well. Justice Odunga warned that unless Miguna was released unconditionally and presented in court, Matiang'i, Bonnet and Kihalangwa will not be heard by the court. The disobedience  of court orders arose  from the dramatic arrest of Miguna on the night of February 2. Then his lawyers dashed to court and successfully obtained orders. The court ordered his release on cash bail of Sh50,000, but the police engaged his lawyers in a cat-and-mouse chase for days, until he was forcibly removed from the country. His forcible removal from Kenya was done against orders issued by Justice Luka Kimaru of the High Court, who had directed Boinnet and DCI George Kinoti to ensure the lawyer was immediately released. The judge had also ordered the two police chiefs to appear in court with Miguna on February 6, but the two orders were ignored. The police chiefs are now before the Court of Appeal, trying to reverse orders holding them in contempt. The disobedience has not only been with the jubilee Government but was equally with its predecessor and neither is it coming from the Jubilee administration only but also from the Opposition. Related: Miguna deported, put on Dubai-bound plane - lawyers More on this: GSU rough up Miguna's lawyers at JKIA while serving court orders Chief justice David Maraga, irked by the recent blatant disobedience of court orders in February, said adherence to the rule of law is not an option for any individual or institution. “Disobeying court orders is inimical to the rule of law,” Maraga said as he joined the condemnation by Kenyans who warned the trend wouldill set a bad precedent. When his election was annulled on September 1, the President and Jubilee supporters threatened the Judiciary and targetted Maraga, promising to "revist" the Suprme Court decision. It is not the first time court orders are being taken lightly by the President, and State officials. During his tenure, former President Mwai Kibaki was criticized severally for failing to obey court orders. Among orders the then President was faulted for overlooking include a decision requiring him to gazette members of the National Lands Commission. In 2012, Kenyans reacted angrily after county commissioners ignored a High Court order to vacate office. The High Court, then said the President violated the Constitution in his appointments. The matter was later put to rest by the Court of Appeal by reversing the decision of Justice Mumbi Ngugi. There was also a controversy when the government in 2005 gave out 12,000 land titles for the Ogiek community in Nakuru, amid a stormy debate on whether or not it ignored a court order stopping the issuance of the documents. But it’s the Jubilee Government that has received the greatest backlash owing to the contested August 8 and October 26elections. “We have a government that is so low in self-esteem that the only way to govern is by throwing tantrums, they have no respect for the rule of law and the courts,” Says lawyer Waikwa Wanyoike. Lawyer Thomas Maosa adds that the three arms of government work interdependently and they should work harmoniously and no arm should disregard the other. In November last year, the High Court in Kitui restrained all county assemblies from passing or implementing motions on the formation of the People’s Assembly, but this order was ignored by  NASA  affiliates parties. Recently, the government ignored orders issued by Judge Chacha Mwita  directing the Communications Authority of Kenya from restoring live transmission for TV stations shutdown on January 30. The High Court suspended the Government’s directive to shutdown three leading TV stations in the country pending a full hearing of the case that was filed by activist Okiya Omtatah. When Omtatah tried to serve the orders a day after the suspension was granted, he was barred from entering into the offices. The TV channels were later to be switched on a week later, but still, Royal Media Services that had filed a separate suit had to wait longer to get its stations back on air.  The media house later withdrew its case against the government. Related: Miguna standoff exposes cracks in Uhuru-Raila deal Other details: [VIDEO] I won't apply for tourist visa, adamant Miguna says after JKIA blockade Embattled CA Director General Francis Wangusi had earlier gone through the same predicament after he was blocked from accessing his office, despite obtaining a court order lifting his suspension. Wangusi obtained orders from the Employment and Labour Relations Court. Similar orders had been issued by the court in a case filed by two university students. Wangusi was sent on compulsory leave on January 12 by the Board to allow  an audit on human resources at CA. Lawyer Cliff , one of the lawyers representing Miguna  and whose other clients – the infamous Akasha brothers – were extradited to the US to face drug-related charges , despite a court order, says,  “disobedience of court orders is  unacceptable. “It will lead to anarchy and lawlessness and therefore any other consequences unforeseen and unknown.” Hr went on: “In the Akasha cases, they were taken out of jurisdiction before their matters were finalised. The IG admitted to being part of the team that expelled them from the country. There were orders in place to prevent that. Laws are necessary in governance of any civilised society.” A number of NASA politicians whose passports and gun licences were revoked following court orders spending the decisions by Interior Cabinet Secretary Matiang’i, had also had to fight for their freedom. Matiang’i has been at the centre of the push and pull in his decisions, including one relating to the tenure of NGO Coordination Board Executive Director Fazul Mahamed. The Employment and Labour Relations Court, on December 7 stopped the government from renewing or extending Fazul’s contract, which ended on November 23. However, he stayed on until last month, when he announced his decision to leave. Most affected are tens of litigants who spend years in court corridors seeking to enforce decrees that have been ignored by the State. As a result , some  CSs and Peincipal Secretaries, among them  ICT’s Joe Mucheru, Karanja Kibicho  and  Saitoti Torome,  and have been faced  contempt proceedings. After winning compensation suits against the government, many litigants spend countless years trying to get the Attorney General to pay up. Justice  Abuliri, in a case filed by Geoffrey Mwangi, a man who was in 2015  awarded Sh560,000  after he was run over by a GK vehicle belonging to the ministry of Health, castigated the State for failing to pay him. The judge dismissed an argument by the Attorney General that ministries have to await for approval of budgetary allocations. Similarly, an America-based Kenyan journalist,Peter Makori, is another litigant who, despite winning a case against the State in 2007 for torture and malicious prosecution, is yet to get a dime. “There is no legal requirement that the accounting officer can only settle decrees after budgetary allocations, “Justice Aburili ruled. Click here for the latest political news