For a long time, residents of a remote village in Rongai constituency, Nakuru county, have been enduring acute water shortage. The scarcity in Solai village, Wema area, was so bad that at times, conflict
erupted among the locals, mostly pastoralists. In 2011, the community felt enough was enough. They
called for a meeting through elders, where they decided to write a proposal to
World Vision, asking for help. Since then, Word Vision has sunk eleven boreholes. Water scarcity in the area will soon be a thing of the past. Water kiosks have been put up in different
parts of Wema, and residents issued with
smart cards, which they easily use to buy water. While fetching water at the Chepkulul water kiosk, Caroline Kiptoo, 60, recalled how far they have come. "Before this water came, we were suffering a
lot. We travelled for many kilometers with our livestock as we
looked for water," she said. Kiptoo praised the easy way in which the kiosk operates. She only needs to place her card on the machine, press a button and
water flows. "There is no waste because if a drop goes down, money will
be deducted from whoever's card is on the machine," she
said. The blue card, which resembles an ATM, is powered by Aqtap, in which tokens, as low as of Sh5, are loaded through an M-Pesa
paybill. Help is offered to the
elderly who cannot load on their own. A 20-litre jerrican costs Sh2. Chepkulul water project chairman Kiptoo Korir said before
the machines were introduced in 2016, the community had set aside an area near
the borehole, where people would physically use pipes to fill the jerricans.
"There was so much wastage. The place was a mess because people
poured water carelessly and cows used to drink from here. It was like a
lake," he said. He said the project has already benefitted 1,500 people, with its membership being at 3,000. Women and children, who bear the biggest burden in
searching for water, now have a sigh of relief. Most of them previously travelled
for long distances for water, while others chose to use the highly saline water
from Solai Lake. "The farthest they now come from is about 2km, while
earlier they could go up to 12km," Kiptoo said. 'BEST THING EVER' With her four-month-old baby loosely tied on her back
and a jerrican on one hand, Angeline Kabon walks to the kiosk. She is one
of the beneficiaries of the project. "This is one of the best things that have ever
happened in this area," she said. She uses the water for cooking and drinking and does
other house chores with borehole water. "It’s cheap for me since I only
use Sh100 for a whole month, and I am certain my family drinks clean
water," she said. Kabon hopes the water will be piped to the homesteads, which will make her work much easier. "You see, I have a baby whom I have to
carry with the water for the 2km I cover. It’s tiring for both of
us," she said. For Soti Chirichir, 60, the project worked a
miracle for her. "At first, I did not believe I could just press a button
and water comes out. This is something I have never seen in my life," she
said as she waited for her jerrican to fill. With age catching up with her, Soti said it had become
difficult for her to access the commodity before the project was put up.
"The only place I could get water for my animal was Solai Lake and the
water is not good for them," she said. For her drinking and cooking, she relied on shallow wells, which were kilometres away and dried up during dry seasons. A watering point for animals has also been put up a few
metres from the kiosk, where locals pay Sh1 for each cow a day, while goats and
sheep drink for free. Ann Chesile, 24, says her 15 cows and 20 sheep are now
safe, and her everyday journey of 6km was cut to 2km by the
project. "With the one bob, my animals can drink the water as many times
as I want," she said. The chairman said they estimate the number of animals
each household has while charging. FRESH, BOUNTIFUL WATER The Chepkulul water project was fully set up at a
cost of Sh18 million. While commissioning it, Nakuru
Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the project has promoted a water-saving culture, since every drop is paid for. "I want you people to own this
project. Don’t look at it as a World Vision project. Look at it as
your own," he said. The governor announced a hydrological survey for the whole county to determine where water can be found, then
look for financiers to help drill and equip. World Vision Kenya national director Francois
Batalingaya said the project belongs to the people, and they should sustain it even when the NGO leaves.
"At World Vision, we put children at the centre of everything we do.
This initiative belongs to the people here. It makes me happy to know children
here have access to clean water," he said. Water CAS Winnie Guchu
urged the community to let all people access the water without looking at where
they come from. “Water has no boundaries, and we have to help each other
among communities," she said. She promised to look into ways the water can be
piped up the mountains to serve Baringo county. All the 11 boreholes in the larger Wema area have fresh
water and high yield, which raised the water access for residents from 30-54 per cent. World Vision Nakuru water engineer Canary Njihia said the Chepkulul borehole produces more than 50,000 litres of
water per hour. With 144 solar panels, smart card machines and one
tank, the project started functioning in 2016. Njihia said the decision to use solar systems to power the boreholes was informed by the
fact that solar energy is easily available and cheap. It is, therefore, best for
the long-term sustainability of the project. HEAVY INVESTMENT Since 2012, the NGO has invested heavily in the area, where an estimated Sh500 million has been used. To fully equip the remaining
boreholes, Canary said they need another Sh50-80 million. "We have Mahinga project, which produces 74,000
litres per hour, and Emaragishu, which has the highest yield of 75,000 litres per
hour, and they need to be equipped," Njihia said. He urged the county and national governments to
partner with them to ensure the projects are finalised with ease. The governor promised to invest Sh7 million for the
projects, which cover an area with more than 32,000 people. "Nakuru has areas with serious water deficiency, and we want to
ensure our people have access to clean water," Kinyanjui said. The governor said Emaragishu water borehole has the capacity to serve Solai and Soin areas, as well as parts of Baringo county. Soin MCA Irene Chebitii appealed for her ward to be considered, saying it suffers serious
water shortage. "My people are suffering. I recently used Sh3
million to sink a borehole, which only produced 2,000 litres that is hot and
salty. This is a waste of money and time. I request World Vision to extend
its generosity to our ward and do piping for us from here. We will appreciate
if it this comes to us," she said. 