Boys are dropping out of primary and secondary schools in Bungoma at an alarming rate. Urgent measures are needed, stakeholders said on Wednesday at Baptist Girls’ Secondary School in Bungoma. They attended a national dialogue on education quality and learning outcomes in Kenya. Education executive Betty Mayeku said a lot of attention has been paid to girls and there hasn’t been much focus on boys’ education. She said girls who fall pregnant while in school are given good care and after giving birth many of them are taken back to school. In contrast, many boys are forgotten when they drop out of school. Mayeku said boys get into drug abuse and criminal activities because of peer pressure. She urged parents and teachers not to treat boys as outcasts if they make girls pregnant. Instead, they should be encouraged to return to school and complete their studies, she said. Mayeku said a recreation centre for victims of gender-based violence victims is nearly complete and will soon be opened. It was set up by Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga at Ndegelwa The centre will cater for abused and pregnant schoolgirls who will be counselled and given a chance to return to school. The county is developing a programme to ensure schoolgirls do not get pregnant this year following circumcision ceremonies in August and December. The Bungoma government also has given four-year scholarships to needy students who joined national schools Administration executive Richard Sabwami said poverty is the major cause of declining education standards across the county. He said some girls, especially those in day schools, do not have fare to go to school and are easily lured into sexual relations with their teachers, boda boda riders and fellow students. They are enticed with lifts and gifts. Sabwami said the county government would ensure education standards improve and teachers are supported.Bungoma education director Jacob Onyiengo said many schools in county have poor infrastructure. They lack water, electricity and the poor roads are poor, he said. He said during the 2016-2017 financial year, the ministry of Education gave 88 schools Sh154 million to build infrastructure. However, in this financial year, only six schools in the county are being assisted, he said. Onyiengo said most schools lack playgrounds and space for expansion. “We have some schools’ neighbours who have also refused to sell land to schools or sell at a hiked price making it had for the schools to expand, even if we havesponsors for various projects,’ he said. He cited Makutano Primary School in Kanduyi that has 1500 students and lacks enough playround because the neighbouring community won’t sell land to the school. Onyiengo deplored the high number of mushrooming private schools that are close to each other and don’t offer quality education. He said the county faces an acute shortage of 549 teachers, especially in Mt Elgon. teachers that the ministry needs to address “We are having a shortage of 549 teachers in Bungoma especially in the volatile regions of Mt Elgon. The director reveled plans to have one stream at Lugulu girls and Kamusinga that are national schools that will have students from Bungoma county from next year. Onyiego asked leaders and politicians to ensure there is goodwill between education stakeholders.  