The recent formation by Kenya and three European countries of a Framework for Return of Assets from Corruption and Crime signals deep commitment to the fight against corruption, especially to asset recovery This event was formalised on February 15, when the Assistant State Secretary for Africa, Federal Department of Foreign Affairs of Switzerland, Ambassador Anne Lugon-Moulin visited Kenya to endorse the framework. The cooperation framework is a landmark initiative and signals a deep commitment to the war on graft. The framework, a collaboration between Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Jersey proposes a mechanism for seizing proceeds of corruption and crime. The illegally acquired proceeds will in turn be repatriated back to Kenya, where they will be applied for the benefit of public projects. This is in line with the principles enunciated in the United Nations Convention against Corruption, to which Kenya is a party. One of the main objectives enshrined in Chapter V of UNCAC is to ensure the corrupt do not enjoy their ill-gotten proceeds. Kenya recently has been a major beneficiary of the cooperation offered by the governments of Switzerland and the UK, as public assets that were stolen and stashed in the two countries were repatriated back and or frozen, and have been used for development projects in the country. The Commission firmly believes the war on corruption and, more so, asset recovery will be greatly boosted by the FRACC, which will strengthen the country’s ability to combat graft. The Commission has continuously placed more emphasis and focus on financial investigations, which has led to tracing of more assets, recoveries and disruptions that avert loss and have saved the Kenyan taxpayer billions of shillings. To illustrate some achievements in the 2016-17 financial year, the Commission recovered Sh13,921,644 in cash, plus land and immovable properties valued at Sh242,122,448. We preserved assets valued at Sh1,360,987,444 and averted loss through proactive disruptions of approximately Sh6,181,466,000. In total, the Commission saved the Kenyan taxpayer a total of Sh7.8 billion. Asset recovery is a key deterrence to corruption. When the corruptly acquired assets and gains are sequestered from the criminal, over and above other penal measures and sanctions, the motive or desire to engage in corruption is greatly reduced. In addition, the asset recovery enables the return to, and use of the stolen property by the rightful owner, who happens to be the public. This has a positive impact on development. These are some of the cases where the Commission has facilitated return of assets to the public through recovery and restitution. In Kitui, illegal payments of Sh1.3 billion by the county government to contractors were stopped following the commission’s intervention. A residential property at Woodley belonging to the Nairobi City County valued at Sh75 million was recovered, while in Kisumu, land valued at Sh 30 million that had been grabbed was repossessed. Two parcels in Mombasa valued at a Sh130 million belonging to the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority were also repossessed. These success stories have been made possible through implementation of legal framework such as the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act, and the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act. EACC appreciates that the recovery of corruptly acquired assets serves as a big deterrent to engage in corruption. Despite numerous challenges, the Commission has made significant progress in this initiative, hence, attracting global attention. Much will be achieved when all Kenyans stand up against graft and guard against plundering of public resources meant to benefit them and future generations. Corruption affects people’s daily lives, including roads built poorly, unequal access to healthcare and medicine, crime and violence in our communities and across borders and political choices distorted by money and greed. It is, therefore, the duty of every Kenyan to join the fight against corruption now! Exodus 23 Vs 8: “Don’t accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds those who see and twists the words of the innocent.” Archbishop Eliud Wabukala, EACC chairman 