A detachment of the Kenya Defence Forces stationed at Banandeka in Kopsiro, two General Service Unit camps in Chepkurkur and Kipsigirok, two divisional police stations in Kopsiro and Kipsigon and several Administration Police camps. Yet all these security agencies have not subdued the ragtag gangs wreaking havoc in the conflict-prone mountainous Mt Elgon sub district of Bungoma county. Thanks to the sorry state of the roads and the rugged, hilly terrain, it is a nightmare for security officers deployed to crack down on the marauding insurgent who have eclipsed peace from the multi-ethnic constituency. They have reduced the agricultural and scenic mountain into a fertile ground for criminals who flourish on causing fear. Because of the secretive nature of the community, compounded by the easy acquisition of sophisticated weapons from Uganda and South Sudan through Lwakhakha, Chepkube and Suam border points, enforcing law and order is not a cup of tea here. Much as the Kenya Defence Forces-led Okoa Maisha Operation brought some stability in Mt Elgon, it did not provide a lasting solution to the underlying land problems. Beyond the establishment of land ownership in Chepyuk as directed by the deputy president on Sunday, the people of Mt Elgon need to be empowered. Poverty levels in the area are high, which has led to low enrolment and high rate of school drop-outs. The sorry situation has been exacerbated by the attitude of the Sabaots towards education, which portends a worse future if not addressed. Yet the sub county has huge potential. The favourable weather coupled with the rich volcanic soils lie unexploited as the youth languish in poverty.. Most youths would rather not enrol at all for school and those who do few excel beyond the local upper limit set at class eight. Due to the deadly history of the SLDF, those who opt to pursue farming prioritise a gun “for self defence” from the sale of their harvest. But the ongoing upgrading to bitumen standard of the Lwakhakha-Korosiandet-Tulienge-Sirisia-Namwela-Chwele as well as the Kapsokwony-Kopsiro-Namwela-Chwele roads offer new hope for the people of Mt Elgon. It not only opens up the “marginalised” area to the world but also exposes the residents to more investment-friendly and competitive environments.