Coast MPs who endorsed Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 bid have denied claims they were paid Sh100,000 to pledge their support. The accusations were raised by Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire who alleged that the legislators were motivated by money in their declaration to back the DP. "I think these guys have been motivated by cheap money," the first-time MP told the Star on telephone on Tuesday. Read: Ruto is next president, Coast MPs says, pledge full support "That is what makes people fail to attain our aspirations," the lawmaker, who did not attend the meeting where the endorsement was made, said. "I cannot just go and support anybody without having a clear roadmap on our way forward." The sentiments did not go well the legislators who accompanied Ruto for the three-day tour of the Coast from March 16. The trip came a week after President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga announced a truce between them. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib said Mwambire, being a first-time MP, spoke out of the excitement of getting a media platform. The MP said he cannot take money from anyone to support anybody. "As an individual, I did not get any money. I don't know about others," Twalib told the Star on phone. "I
do everything for the interest of my people. Working together with DP
Ruto made our people get a Sh1 billion road, a police station and soon,
water," the MP said. For his part, Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said it was wrong for Mbarire to make accusations without concrete evidence. "Does
he have evidence? Let him give evidence first before we talk," the MP
said adding that the only thing Ruto asked MPs to do is come up with two
project proposals each. "Mwambire was not there. So , he does not know what transpired. He should have his facts right." "What is Sh100,000? I spend that in a day when I serve my people in my office in Kaloleni. He looks cheap," Katana said. Changamwe
MP Omar Mwinyi, on the other hand, said the MPs who pledged their
support to Ruto during his tour had their reasons which were not
necessarily motivated by money. "We were there to support development and not to pledge loyalty to anyone and some of us said so to make it clear," Mwinyi said. He
said 2022 politics will be played when that time comes. "For now, we
will work together for development of our areas and for our people," he
told the Star on phone. Mwambire did not attend the meeting where the Coast leaders, among them Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, pledged to back Ruto in the next election. "My stand is we need to have structured dialogue with these people [Jubilee] and not just go like that," he said. "We need to be given our opportunity. We need to look at how we have been engaging," the legislator said. Mwambire said the region should wait for the outcome of the Uhuru-Raila dialogue before they can make any concrete decision. ODM party, through its officials, warned the MPs against such
endorsement saying the party's focus is on the Uhuru-Raila unity bid. Also read: Raila warns his MPs to keep off Ruto 2022 bid Click here for the latest political news