Three years after the crackdown on illicit brews, Kenya is back to square one. In 2015, the media was awash with images of drunkards wallowing in despair, lying helplessly in the streets and making public appeals for assistance to regain sobriety. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a nationwide crackdown on July 4, 2015, to fight a menace that had turned some youths into zombies. The crackdown was welcomed by elected and community leaders and clerics, but vehemently opposed by dealers of illicit brews and some addicts. Politicians, including MPs, came out in a rare show of unity for the clampdown, joining hands with the National Government Administration Office or Ngao, comprising county commissioners, deputy and assistant commissioners, chiefs and their assistants. They led overzealous crowds to raid drinking dens, seizing and destroying millions of litres of liquor alongside chemicals and paraphernalia used to make them. Dealers of the illicit brews and toxic second-generation drinks did not take it lying down. And now, it appears they won the fight against government’s crackdown, as proliferation of the liquor resumed after the crusaders retreated. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i launched a fresh salvo on March 1, targeting illicit brews and unlicensed alcohol outlets. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said the first national crackdown was a success but its achievements were not sustainable because it was not well-planned. “When we started the crackdown in 2015, the leaders did a fantastic job. But because it was not a structured crackdown, what we witnessed were many court cases slapped on individual MPs and misuse of county government administrative structures,” Kibicho said. “The politicians quickly chickened out, and the problem started coming back.” TAX VS STANDARDS Kibicho blamed multiple legislations around alcohol control for causing confusion that paralysed the crackdown. The Constitution has relegated the licensing of alcohol sale and liquor control to county governments, but enforcement of quality control and standards is the responsibility of the national government through two agencies, Nacada and Kebs. Multiple legislations around alcohol control cause collision between authorities pursuing conflicting interests, leading to confusion that illicit liquor traders have exploited to remain in business. “The licensing of alcohol was given to county governments, and those counties have by-laws that have no regard for the health of citizens but more regard for revenue generation,” Kibicho said. “So we have two sets of laws that are in conflict: one looking for revenues and another to standardise drinks and safeguard the morality of our young people.” Bar owners issued with licences by county governments have been selling illicit brews in their premises. Unscrupulous traders have been using poisonous materials and chemical substances to manufacture second-generation substances after acquiring licences from the authorities. Kibicho said this has left Ngao with no option other than violating the laws to arrest the menace. “I remember one time I went on a crackdown in Tharaka Nithi and the people who knew I was coming obtained restraining court orders before we arrived,” the PS said. “I was caught between being a law-abiding citizen and breaking the law to save lives. I decided to ignore the court orders and we forcibly gained entry into that place. We poured 100,000 litres of illicit brew. “I cannot count the warrants of arrest on my head out of the fight against these illicit brews. If you start from assistant chiefs to regional coordinators, you cannot count the court orders on them over the same.” HIGH IN SCHOOL A survey in 2016 indicated that alcohol is getting increasingly accessible to high school students. Most survey respondents said it is possible for students to secretly use drugs, which has led to unrest in schools and declining performances. Consumption of harmful alcoholic drinks causes family break-ups, fuels violent crime and leads to illnesses and deaths. Nacada chairman Victor Okioma said: “The country is struggling with a health sector strained by numerous alcohol-related health complications and deaths. “Food security, manufacturing and housing are compromised because those affected are not involved in any meaningful economic activity.” As to why Nacada is struggling to tame the menace said, Okioma listed several barriers: Non-compliance with alcohol regulations, illicit brews and unlicensed outlets, inadequate coordination and enforcement of alcohol control laws and increased smuggling of illicit brews into and across the country. “It is against this background that we are proposing that we carry out a raid targeting alcohol and drugs outlets, focusing on both illicit brews and unlicensed outlets,” he said. The sobriety crusader said the operation’s ultimate aim is to enforce compliance and to raise the community’s awareness on dangers of alcohol abuse. He said the operation might require government officials to defy court orders and told them to be prepared. Kibicho said it has been inevitable to disobey court orders after illicit brew traders began using them to skirt around the law in the 2015 national crackdown. “That time we barely could finish two months before hearing stories of people going blind because of consumption [of illicit brews], and those stories were abundant,” he said. When he joined the ministry of interior in 2015, Kibicho made the fight against second-generation and illicit brews his pet topic, and since then, he has “seen a lot”. “We have buried a chief who had been assaulted as he fought this menace. We have had those people shot at using arrows. We have had to pay hospital bills for our own officers with broken limbs after being assaulted by people who continue to think this is a good business,” Kibicho said. “Therefore, we decided as a ministry that we need to create an orderly crackdown instead of an ad hoc operation that ends up bringing personal problems. “The problems are many because you have to convince other arms of government that we don’t have different set of citizens — citizens for judiciary, executive, county governments — all these are the same people, and our cardinal responsibility is to ensure we protect their lives from harm. Sometimes we even have a responsibility to protect them from against themselves.” Kibicho said while the law is very clear that bars cannot open before 5pm and cannot sell after 11pm unless they offer accommodation, the rules are being broken. “If you go to your village, you will find some ramshackle written boarding and lodging and because those ones are exempt, you will find a fellow with a cup of tea on the side after 11, and if you try to arrest them they say look there, we have a licence, this is a boarding and lodging, and I am here enjoying my beverage as I wait for my food. And the food is mandazi,” he said. Kibicho said the ministry formed a national multi-agency team for this crackdown to check the producers of the second-generation brews, whether they meet the requirements of the institutions, and out of 157, only 21 passed. Therefore, those that are not among the 21 should expect some action because they didn’t comply. “We will face a lot of problems  if the desire for revenues overrides the desire to safeguard lives,” the PS said. QUALITY ASSESSMENT Kenya Bureau of Standards quality assurance manager Bernard Nguyo said they have ways of assessing if locally manufactured and imported alcoholic beverages are up to par. Nguyo said Kebs has a number of standards, and alcoholic beverages are adequately covered by them. He said specific products like whiskeys, vodkas, beers and even traditional spirits have got national specifications they should comply with. “We have a programme of inspecting goods that come into the country for all products, including alcohol. We ensure they follow a certain system of manufacturing to guarantee quality of their end-products,” Nguyo said. He said in alcoholic drinks, the standards address three aspects: safety, quality and labelling. “Safety addresses the impact of that particular product on the health of the consumer. Here we are looking at methanol alcohols, aflatoxins and microns (micro-organisms that can cause diseases). The parameters of quality include looking at alcoholic content and total solids,” Nguyo said. “Labelling involves the name given to the product, the address, full information about the manufacturer, the ingredients and date of production and manufacture, and batch for identification.”