Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi has condemned the deportation of lawyer Miguna Miguna to Dubai saying citizenship by birth is a fundamental right that cannot be taken away. In a statement on Thursday, the NASA principal called for investigations into claims that the outspoken lawyer was assaulted and denied access to basic human needs during his confinement at JKIA. He said it is shameful that the government could treat one of its citizens 'like garbage' by bundling him on a plane to a foreign country against his wishes while other countries were doing everything to protect its citizens. "The questions before us go beyond the plight of one individual. Citizenship by birth is a fundamental right that cannot be taken away by the whims of a few people. It is painfully, shameful and absurd that Kenya can callously bundle away one of its citizens to the unknown, as if it was offloading bad rubbish." Also read: Miguna refused to cooperate to be allowed entry - KNCHR The condemnation comes after Justice George Odunga fined Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet Sh200,000 each for contempt. He conferred a similar fine on Immigration PS Gordon Kilahngwa after the three disobeyed a court order to release Miguna and appear in person in court to explain the JKIA circus. Judge Odunga ordered the fines to be deducted directly from their April salaries saying it was highly unlikely that they can be arrested by their juniors if warrants of arrest were issued. More on this: Justice Odunga fines Matiang'i, Boinnet Sh200,000 for contempt of court Mudavadi said the government should stop imagining that it has taken away Miguna’s citizenship saying "it has no capacity to do this". "We call upon the state to unconditionally return Miguna’s passport forthwith, and to grant him his lawful re-entry into the country and to protect his right to participate freely in the activities of his country," he said. Mudavadi expressed concerns that the flagrant disobedience of court orders by those charged with protecting the rule of law was setting a bad precedent for Kenyans that it is ok to disobey the Constitution. He urged the Judiciary to remain steadfast in the execution of its mandate and mete out punishment to law breakers irrespective of their social status. "As the last firewall in safeguarding the Rule of Law, the law must forcefully bite all who attempt to defy it. Nobody should be allowed to behave as if they are above the law." He enumerated the need for the government to regularise the citizenships of Kenyans who acquired foreign citizenships prior to the promulgation of the current Constitution to avoid similar scenarios from being replayed in the future. Related: Miguna has to apply for Kenyan citizenship, Immigration department says "Every Kenyan who bears dual nationality has cause to be very afraid following what the State has done to one of us," Mudavadi said. The old Constitution required individuals wishing to hold the citizenships of foreign countries to renounce their Kenyan citizenships. The 2010 Constitution however allows Kenyans to hold dual citizenships without having to renounce their Kenyan one. It says those who renounced their Kenyan citizenships prior to its promulgation should apply for re-admission as Kenyan citizens. The above clause is what the government has been banking on to block Miguna from entering Kenya since his deportation to Canada on February 6. Miguna, however, denies ever renouncing his Kenyan citizenship when he acquired the Canadian one in the late 80s. He argues that he cannot apply for fresh citizenship like the government wants him to since he never at any point stopped being Kenyan. Mudavadi also condemned the assault meted out on journalists that covered Miguna’s blockade at JKIA on Monday. He said the right to information by citizens and the right to bring such information by journalists is protected by the Constitution. "Their right to do so has constitutional protection. The State must refrain from harassing journalists who are only going about their lawful duty. Once again, those who beat up journalists at JKIA on Monday must be brought to book," he said. Mudavadi called on Kenyans to jealously guard the Law and demand that everyone respects it. Meanwhile, NASA leader Raila Odinga who was largely expected to boldly speak against Miguna's mistreatment is yet to say a word. On Monday, the opposition chief left JKIA unceremoniously without saying a word after failing in his attempt to secure Miguna's release. The ODM leader was at the Milimani law court ahead of Justice Odunga's sentencing of the Interior CS, Inspector General, and Immigration PS. A section of observers say the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta may be behind his uncharacteristic silence. Miguna found himself in his current situation for his role in the January 30 mock swearing-in of Raila as the "People's President". Click here for the latest political news 