Luhya unity politics is expected to take centre stage during Sports CS Rashid Achesa’s homecoming on Saturday. Deputy President William Ruto, top business people and Luhya politicians will attend the event in Shibale, Mumias West constituency. Speaking to the Star at their Shibale home, Achesa’s brother Saddat said, “It is going to be a very big day for us as a family to use the opportunity to thank the President and his deputy for appointing our son.” Ten bulls will be slaughtered. Businessman Lendrix Waswa, who is in the organising committee, said the occasion will bring together Luhya leaders and cement their unity ahead of 2022. He said Luhya politicians are currently divided between NASA and Jubilee. “We have donated our bulls as members of the Luhya community to signify the journey of unity and complete our rituals according to our culture,” Waswa said. Waswa said all counties of the Mulembe nation - Bungoma, Vihiga, Kakamega and Busia - will be represented. EDUCATION NOT EVERYTHING Political commenter Isaac Wanjekeche told the Star the occasion is important to Ruto, who is keen on getting votes from Kakamega in 2022. “When Ruto appointed Achesa, he was calculating the 2022 politics with a keen eye for getting votes among Achesa’s Wanga subtribe of Mumias,” he said. Achesa only underwent basic formal education, the report by the Committee on Appointments shows. The former ODM national youth leader went to Shibale Primary School between 1990 and 1997. The report says the nominee told the committee chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi he dropped out of school for lack of fees. “That though his academic credentials show that he only underwent basic formal education, his professional training and experience in sports and entrepreneurial and resource mobilisation are impressive,” the committee said. The report is set to be discussed in a plenary after which those whose nominations will be approved will be forwarded to the president for appointment. When he took office, Achesa warned cartels.       