Keroche heiress Anerlisa Muigai is being accused of not paying a debt of Sh19.9 million owed to a city shylock identified as Dennis Mwangeka. According to documents seen by Word Is, Anerlisa took two loans from Mwangeka on two separate dates in September 2015, and gave out two cars as collateral, a Range Rover Evoque and Audi Q7. Mwangeka found out the hard way that the Range Rover Evoque belonged to her mother’s company when cops stormed his yard and accused him of having a stolen vehicle. He tried to explain to the police how the vehicle came to his possession, but he was asked to produce the car or face charges. He gave out the car and retained the services of a lawyer. Mwangeka said the Nero Water Company CEO borrowed ‘money stating that she had personal business cargo at the Mombasa Port that needed to be urgently cleared as they had accumulated demurrage to the tune of Sh5.5 million’. Anerlisa promised to repay the same amount within a week — September 16, 2015 — with an interest of 10 per cent, which would come to Sh6,050,000. However, "she didn’t honour her promise and told the shylock her ‘goods had incurred more demurrage charges, and that she required another Sh4,2000,0000 with 5 per cent interest to clear the goods." Anerlisa then gave Mwangeka a Range Rover Evoque as security, stating that it was hers and that she would repay the total amount borrowed at the agreed interest rate by September 18, 2015. When the date came, Mwangeka reached out to Anerlisa to confirm at what time she was going to settle the loan, but she told him she was ‘held up in Mombasa on issues of clearing her cargo and promised to settle the loan once she returned to Nairobi’. On September 21, 2015, Anerlisa paid Sh346,000 to settle part of her first loan, which was Sh5.5 million, and promised to clear the balance by September 24 of the same year. Things became thick for the rich kid, who is known for her flamboyant lifestyle, and she handed Mwangeka another car, an Audi Q7, as security and promised to settle her loan balance on September 25, 2015. When Mwangeka tried calling her on the said date, she had promised to pay the loan but she allegedly became elusive and would ignore his calls. Now, Mwangeka is hoping that Anerlisa will pay back the loan balance so he can continue with the smooth running of his business. Anerlisa did not pick our numerous phone calls or respond to our texts when sought for comment. At the time of going to press, she had blue-ticked us.