NASA senators will hold a retreat in the next 14 days to discuss the coalition’s leadership in the Senate. This followed the ouster of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula as Minority leader. The position is now held by Siaya lawmaker James Orengo. Read: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Also read: Ford Kenya trashes Wetangula’s ouster, say will strip ODM of minority posts On Thursday, NASA leader Raila Odinga convened a summit meeting with NASA senators where he said they had cordial discussions. "The senators have expressed themselves frankly on this issue and Senator Wetang'ula also had an opportunity to respond to the issues at hand," Raila said. He made the remarks during a press briefing at Okoa Kenya office, Nairobi. "The senators have also told us the issues that they are confronting in the Senate," he added. Raila said the legislators will discuss that issues and resolve them before the recommendations are communicated to the speaker. Kalonzo Musyoka affirmed that the NASA was still a unified coalition despite the change of guard in the Senate minority leadership. He said ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi did not attend the meeting because he was attending a board meeting. Raila said senators endorsed the agreement reached between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta. "They have 100 per cent endorsed that memorandum of understanding," Raila said. He dismissed as personal opinions claims by some ANC and Wiper MPs that they will walk out of the NASA coalition. The position was reiterated by Kalonzo. "We are all together and we have restated the unity of NASA. I’m sure our respective MPs and MCAs stand appropriately guided," he said. On Tuesday, Mudavadi said that ANC would not join Jubilee in the spirit of supporting the Uhuru-Raila pact. He said the party was willing to assume the position of official opposition and even go it alone if the other NASA affiliate parties opted to work with Jubilee as well. More on this: Mudavadi: We'll go it alone, can't work with Jubilee Click here for the latest political news