We may not agree with Miguna Miguna, but when we see him mistreated at JKIA, those of us who have suffered at the hands of dictatorship tremble. Tell-tale signs of dictatorship — corruption, extrajudicial killings by police, detentions without charge or trial, forcing dissidents into exile, rigging elections, dictating judgments, defying court orders and subjugation of Parliament — start with a few victims, but end up with everybody. When my family and I were exiled in Norway, my wife was detained for nine hours at Jomo Kenyatta airport, when she came to see me at Nairobi Hospital as a prisoner. Earlier, my wife and our children had also been blocked from flying to Norway at the middle of the night. There is little doubt most Kenyans want to live in a democracy, where they enjoy freedom, rule of law and prosperity. There is, however, a tiny minority that wields power and wants to create a dictatorship with which they will rob the country, oppress and exploit. When people choose leadership, they must first settle whether they shall be governed by democracy or dictatorship, determining whether they will be governed freely or in shackles. Even without consulting, Jubilee is leading people, not towards greater democracy but into a dictatorship. This is why, in recent surveys, the majority of Kenyans say the country is headed in the wrong direction. Other than those who exercise power over others and, therefore, welcome the absolute authority of dictatorship, very few Kenyans want to be subjects and victims of a dictatorship. When any government takes power, it must explain how it intends to govern. When an administration wants to govern through democracy, it says so out loud. But when it keeps silent, or hesitates to speak openly, then it wants to govern secretly by dictatorship disguised as balanced democracy, guided democracy or benevolent dictatorship. People must be prepared to go to a referendum to decide if they want dictatorship or democracy. Given the centrality of this matter, one wonders whether, when Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta agreed to ignore their differences and address national problems together, did they agree which system they would use? We must never forget that powerful voices of Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe, Kiharu first-term MP Ndindi Nyoro, Prof Peter Kagwanja and others have been calling for a benevolent dictatorship, a panacea for all our problems. They have been speaking for more powerful forces. But however loved people are, or however benevolent a leader is, can people be enslaved, oppressed or killed for their own good? If we choose to be governed democratically, we must realise that for all of us to have freedom, justice and prosperity, the Executive, Parliament and the Judiciary must, like an orchestra, work together and harmoniously and share power. There should be no infighting and none should exercise absolute power against the other. For democracy to function smoothly, there must be parliamentary and judicial safeguards against Executive’s tendency to accumulate absolute powers against Parliament and the Judiciary. If the three arms of government work against each other, there is discord, malfunction and failure to generate freedom, justice and prosperity. When the Executive orders or influences the Judiciary, refuses to implement court orders, detains or jails judges, as the government has done in Turkey, democracy is dead. When the Executive intimidates Parliament into passing or not passing certain laws or even detains MPs, it will have metamorphosed into a dictatorship. Equally, if Parliament passes oppressive laws, such as denying the Executive money to deliver services, or denies the Judiciary the security of tenure, it will also have become a dictatorship. Equally, the Judiciary becomes a dictatorship or part of one if it passes judgments whose express purpose is to deny justice. As Kenya struggles to eradicate corruption and other problems, it is sad that dictatorship has also reared its ugly head again. If a disease that returns is the disease that kills, we must fight very hard against dictatorship.   Koigi is a political activist and former Subukia MP