Jamhuri High School is a school divided. Muslims and Christians in the school do not share toilets and libraries. In the dining hall, Muslims have a special partition. And religious divisions simmered for a year before they spilled into the public two months ago. It all blew over in the dining hall. A Muslim and a Christian quarrelled on January 23, but tensions cooled after principal Fred Awuor intervened. That was the calm before the storm. A mass brawl broke out the very next day after a Muslim student was taken off the dining hall queue for skipping the line. Seven students were stabbed and 35 injured. Eleven students have since been suspended — some could even be expelled — while four have been taken to court and charged with assaulting a form two student. Investigations by the Star have established that the conflict runs deeper than a dining hall dispute. It is rooted in a disagreement over time allocated for mosque prayers, and in blocking of outsiders, including imams, from praying in the school mosque. While Muslim students feel this amounts to discrimination, their Christian counterparts accuse them of seeking preferential treatment, and of belittling them as pagans. Muslim students and Imams from Jamia Mosque have been at loggerheads with the principal since he was posted to the school from Eastleigh High School last year. Immediately he arrived, Awuor ordered students of Muslim faith to pray for 15 minutes and not one hour, as they used to during his predecessor David Kilonzi’s time. The head teacher also barred residents who used to frequent the mosque in the school, including imams from Jamia mosque, from doing so any more, unless they were vetted. “These issues may appear trivial, but they are the main concerns here,” an insider told the Star. “These students say the moment they stay in the mosque beyond the set time, even by a minute, then they will either miss lunch or not be allowed to go to class.” The matters have escalated, with parents and religious organisations being roped in. Already, the Jamia-based Muslim Education Council has written to Education CS Amina Mohamed, demanding removal of the head teacher. FIGHT FOR EQUALITY The MEC accuses Awuor of bias and discrimination, and of fuelling animosity between Muslim and Christian students at the institution. Of the 990 students, 232 are Muslims, while others belong to the Christian and Hindu faiths. “It is not a matter of doubt that the principal has been part of the problem. To foster good relations among students, it is important that he be replaced,” MEC executive director Munawar Khan wrote in a letter dated March 6. The letter is copied to the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, the Jamia Mosque, the Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya, the Nairobi regional education coordinator, and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. Awuor denied the accusations, saying he has been treating all students equally, according to the school rules and education laws. “This is a school and I have to run it according to the law. Whatever I have been doing is anchored in the law. There is no way students can demand to pray for one hour, yet that is the only time they have (between 1pm and 2pm) to pray and have lunch,” he said. On blocking outsiders from praying at the school, Awuor said he was implementing a circular the Education ministry issued last year requiring schools to vet religious leaders visiting for prayers before allowing them in. Refuting bias claims, he said Muslim students’ numbers have risen from 110 last year to 232 currently. “Remember we have Hindus, Christians and Muslims here, and no group has ever complained,” Awuor said. ‘WE DON’T CARRY BOMBS’ But some of the students who spoke to the Star in confidence said Awuor has not been paying attention to their grievances. “We feel like second- or third-class students in this school. We are not allowed to pray when we want, and if our leaders raise a complaint, they are told it is not a must that we pray,” one student said. Another said: “He is the person dividing us. Christians are favoured. He has brought guards who are now in charge of the mosque. Our leaders are no longer allowed to come here. That is not right. We don’t carry bombs to this place. We are denied lunch and breakfast.” But a number of Christian students and parents who spoke to the Star defended the principal and accused their Muslim schoolmates of seeking special treatment and belittling them. “They call others pagans and dirty people who they do not want to mingle with. The principal is not the problem here. He is simply enforcing the rules because sometimes they lock themselves in the mosque for more than an hour, when lessons are going on,” a form four student said. But MEC cited the disciplinary action taken as evidence of discrimination against Muslims. They told the CS that eight Muslim students have been expelled following the January 24 fracas in the school. Four students — Brian Oswago, David Kyalo, Clinton Luvango and Moses Otieno — have been charged with assaulting a form two Muslim student. “In a shocking reaction to the fracas, the school administration went on to expel several Muslim students, an action which is unjustified, unreasonable and a clear case of prejudice against Muslim students,” reads the letter in part. The principal distanced himself from the claims, saying he does not have the powers to dismiss students from the school. He said he suspended 11 students — 10 Muslims and a Christian — based on the recommendations of the school disciplinary committee that investigated the incident. “The power to expel a student is vested in the county education board, not me and not the school,” he said. DISCIPLINARY PROCESS The school disciplinary committee, headed by the deputy principal, interrogated 25 students linked to the chaos. The committee recommended to the board of management to suspend 12 students, pardoned one and submitted the rest to the county education committee for expulsion. The committee is yet to give its verdict on the the students. Awuor said both the school and the board could not take any disciplinary action against the four students who were charged, as doing so would amount to contempt of court. They also did not commit the offence within the school compound. “It should be noted that the mandate of the disciplinary committee and the BOM is to deal with matters that happen within the school. Anything outside the school is beyond them,” he said. The Star could not verify the counterclaims between Awuor and the council, as the report of the disciplinary committee was unavailable. Awuor declined to share it, saying the case was already with the county education board — a higher level — and that it was still active. Besides the deputy principal, the school disciplinary committee comprises all senior teachers in the school. Its report must be approved by the BOM, whose secretary is the principal, before it is taken to the county education board. The MEC says the school disciplinary committee recommended expulsion of eight students: Imran Mohamed, Saddam Omar, Mohamed Gulled (all form fours); Mohamed Idriss, Abdirashad Mohamed (all form threes); and Ali Gulhed, Osman Abdullahi, and Omar Abdullahi (all form twos). The Star is in possession of a letter dated February 12, suspending Imran Mohamed, a form four stream C student, admission number 30536. The letter is signed by Awuor and addressed to Imran’s parent. Awuor said in the letter that the school disciplinary committee recommended Imran’s suspension after he appeared before it on February 8 and 9 for interrogation. It reads: “Your son was found culpable of being involved in the fracas that occurred on Wednesday, January 24, 2018. Your son be suspended from school for a period of not exceeding 14 days as from today, February 12, 2018, pending hearing by the full board of management.” On January 26, just two days after the chaos, the Star has established, Education PS Belio Kipsang chaired a meeting of BOM, teachers and all parents in the school. “The PS and his team of investigators were here and they talked to many students and parents,” a teacher in the school said. “What shocked him most was the fact that these students do not share toilets. He directed that to end with immediate effect.” Awuor confirmed the PS’s meeting and said they had already installed taps in all the toilets for student use. Last Monday, Muslim students staged a protest outside the school and even marched to the city centre, demanding reinstatement of the suspended students. Imran’s mother Halima Ali told the Star her son was expelled unfairly. “My son had nothing to do with the chaos that erupted in the school. He was expelled because he was the chairman of the Muslim Students’ Council,” she said.