Kenyans may never know what caused the crash of the police helicopter said to have been bought for Sh2.3 billion. Top government officials are frustrating investigations into the June 2016 crash that happened four months after being purchased for aerial surveillance. Augusta Westland AW-139 was registered as number 5Y-NPS. The six-member team gazetted to lead the investigations has been denied a budget and logistical support from the Office of the President.The probe would have given Kenyans specifics of the aircraft and the real price. “The Cabinet Secretary did not allocate funds for the investigations. It was never funded at all,” a senior official told the Star. For two years, the committee has been doing nothing. Transport CS James Macharia, through Gazette Notice No8597 dated October 13, 2016, appointed a team of six to investigate the circumstances that led to the accident. “The police and the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority are clients. The OP and Transport should explain to Kenyans,” a top government official told the Star. two years later... The team included Captain Martyne Lunani, the lead investigator, John Patrick Ochieng, Lt Col Patrick Mutai, retired Captain Wilfred Ngumo, Humphrey Bulimu and Kennedy Ogeto. Almost two years after the helicopter was bought and crashed, it is unclear whether it was new or refurbished, despite a massive expenditure of Sh2.27 billion from public coffers. “They have given us four Bel helicopters previously used by the Italian police for free in goodwill because we have been their customers,” Police Spokesperson Charles Owino said. Owino said the National Police Service bought two more similar planes from the company and given a discount of 3 million Euros. One is used for VIP duties and another for utility. “The Agusta AW 139 was brand new when it was bought from Agusta Manufacturers in Italy. Investigations were carried out after the crash and an Agusta engineer was involved in the probe.” controversial Insiders said senior government officials are against the investigations as the findings might be leaked to the public. “There is no accident report as required under Regulation 148 of the Public Finance Management (National Government) Regulations 2015,” the Auditor General Edward Ouko said. “In the absence of the accident report, it is impossible to categorise the loss of the helicopter in terms of natural cause, technical or pilot’s error, the basis upon which the loss could be recovered.” The mystery surrounding the procurement, purchase and circumstances that led to the crash have deepened. In the latest audit, the Auditor General’s office showed Sh2.27 billion was paid for the chopper, but the government has only availed a payment voucher of Sh683 million. no explanation The gazetted investigation team was not allocated any budget by the ministry, crippling logistics activities and allowances expenses. Ouko said no explanation was issued for failure to release the accident report by the Cabinet Secretary, in accordance to the Civil Aviation (Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation) Regulation 2013. Read:Uncertified pilot crashed police helicopter In a letter dated May 10 last year, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said the helicopter did not have a warranty as a unit. Further, failure to avail the required warranties for avionics has made it impossible to determine whether the helicopter was new or refurbished. Avionics are electronic equipment fitted in an aircraft. Auditor Ouko said tendering and contract documents were not availed for review, as the Interior ministry said the purchase of the helicopter was classified. So far, the Interior ministry has not given the details of the avionics parts purportedly under warranty or reasons for failure by the manufacturer to compensate lost parts under warranty. Also Read:Police chopper crash costs taxpayer Sh2.2bn Click here for the latest political news