Kenyatta National Hospital board of management has recommended that all patients must be tagged throughout their admission and stay in the facility. The team says in its report on the recent surgery mix-up that this will avert cases of patients being subjected to the wrong procedures. The board has also proposed that working hours and schedules of clinical staff be reviewed to deal with dangers of fatigue. Also read: Overwhelmed health system to blame for KNH mix-up - Oluga KNH communications manager Simon Ithai said the board also called for a review of the structure and contents of hospital’s pre-operative checklist. The report with the preliminary findings on what led to a wrong patient being operated on by doctors at the hospital on March 1. "The board also suggested the hospital introduces human marker pens to mark surgical sites on patients scheduled for operation," Ithai said. KNH doctors at the hospital mistakenly operated on Samuel Kimani instead of John Nderitu who needed a brain operation to remove a blood clot. Kimani had sought treatment at the hospital for closed head trauma injury that only required medication and not surgery. The incident occurred after identification tags on the patients' were allegedly interchanged by a Neurosurgery Registrar. Health CS Sicily Kariuki suspended the CEO Lilly Koros over the mishap. The suspension of the doctor, clinical officer, and two nurses was, however, lifted. Read: Brain surgery mixup doctor back at work Ithai said this was to allow the respective regulatory bodies to separately undertake independent inquiries into their professional conduct. "The two patients affected by the unintended surgical intervention are well and were discharged from the hospital on Wednesday, March 7." He said the board has also commissioned the services of an independent auditor to undertake an external system audit and present its report within 30 days. "The board wishes to reassure Kenyans of the hospital’s commitment to the highest standard of service delivery," Ithai said. More on this: Doctors defend KNH surgeon who operated on wrong patient Click here for the latest political news  