The High Court nullification of Governor Cyprian Awiti’s election has rekindled his bitter rivalry with former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, and poses a tough challenge for ODM. This is evident in the margin of the now-nullified August 8 governor election results. However, the irony is that Magwanga was the only MP brave enough to endorse Awiti’s governor candidature in the 2013 election, among the other six MPs who served in the 10th Parliament, but became the fiercest critic of Awiti’s administration, citing loss of public funds through corruption. The war of words started when Governor Awiti announced his achievements in March 2014, one year after getting into office. In the document, there were a number of development projects are MPs, including then Karachuonyo MP James Rege, claimed were done by the National Government Constituency Development Fund, and accused the county government of misusing public funds and hiding behind projects funded by other leaders. At the centre of the controversy in Kasipul constituency were the Otunga Water Project in Central Kasipul ward, Ayoro-Obisa Bridge in West Kamagak ward, a casualty room at Rachuonyo Level 4 Hospital and the Rachuonyo Kenya Medical Training College, which was officially opened by Philip Kaloki, the then KMTC Board chairman, among others claimed to have been funded by the county government. On February 20, Justice Joseph Karanja, ruling in the petition case filed by Magwanga shocked those in the courtroom audience with his well-choreographed ruling, which he delivered with a lot of wit, leaving many in suspense before he dropped the nullification bombshell. Justice Karanja ruled that the IEBC conducted a sham election, and failed to disaprove two parallel result forms that showed Awiti and Magwanga won. The court slapped the electoral agency with Sh4 million in costs, while the third and fourth respondents were ordered to pay Magwanga Sh2 million. The results that were adduced in court for the first instance indicated Awiti had won with 210,173 votes against Magwanga who garnered 189,060. In the second instance, Magwanga got 224,863 votes against Awiti’s 174,235 votes. Karanja took time dismissing all allegations made by Magwanga, the petitioner, point by point, issue by issue, as well as dismissing all the testimonies by 14 witnesses, creating a panic mode among Magwanga supporters as Awiti’s camp got excited and elated. Then the tables turned. As soon as Justice Karanja annulled the election, Magwanga and his running mate Joshua Orero quickly hit the ground running, saying he is ready to reclaim his victory in the by-election. He accused Awiti of fearing defeat as it emerged the governor would appeal the ruling. “How can Awiti pretend to be unsatisfied with the ruling, yet he is planning to go to the Court of Appeal to defend his alleged victory? If it is true he won, as he claims, why fear to face the electorate again?” Magwanga posed. But in a swift rejoinder, addressing the press in Kisumu immediately after filing a notice of appeal, Awiti said he respects the court ruling but differed with it and, as such, vowed to appeal the High Court verdict. If a by-election is to be held — assuming the Court of Appeal upholds the ruling — then ODM and its brigade led by NASA leader Raila Odinga must prepare razor-sharp strategies coated with a human appeal arsenal to change the mindsets of fanatic grassroots following attached to Magwanga. A number of factors will work for and against the two giants should the repeat polls be held. First, the ODM/NASA brigade will engage in ferocious campaigns in support of Awiti to incapacitate Magwanga completely. The Raila factor, as usual, will work as solid political capital as well as his numerous and intense campaigns on the ground due to little pressure at the national level will go a long way in enhancing Awiti’s chances. Another imminent factor is that of deep pockets and the incumbency Awiti enjoys. The incumbent will be in a position to oil his campaigns. Despite the perceived differences among ODM MPs in Homa Bay over succession politics in the 2022 governor election, elected leaders have no option but to support Awiti’s reelection. This will ensure there will be no incumbent in the General Election. National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi and Woman rep Gladys Wanga are reported to be harbouring ambitions to succeed Awiti. However, Magwanga’s emotional grassroots attachment across the county, more so in Rangwe, Karachuonyo, Homa Bay Town, Ndhiwa, Suba South, and Suba North constituencies — five of the eight — remains a deep rock for the party to push or pull out of its way. His mobilisation skills to woo voters, funds as well as his incomparable energy to run the campaigns for even 72 hours surviving on water alone, are Magwangas’s strengths. Other factors that will propel Magwanga’s candidature are the 1,370 sacked Homa Bay workers, who are crave an opportunity to secure back their employment and the shambolic ODM nominations. Magwanga defected from the ODM party to run as an independent candidate after he was denied the party ticket and went ahead to stage bare-knuckle campaigns that shook ODM to the core. Those who were promised some plumb jobs by Governor Awiti during campaigns but were allegedly shortchanged could cost him. The successful petition by Magwanga is a relief to his supporters, who were heartbroken when Awiti was declared the winner by the IEBC in the controversial polls. For NASA, particularly ODM, this is one rare chance to pull the rug from under Magwanga.    