A device is available that lets women have mess-free sex while on their periods. The Ziggy Cup, which can be bought for £35 online at Plant Organic, is the world's first reusable silicone menstrual cup that can be worn while getting intimate. The device, which lasts up to two years, sits just below the cervix and creates a vacuum seal to catch menstrual blood. Its flat shape, which women insert into their vaginas using a figure-of-eight motion, is so thin, its manufacturer INTIMA claims it cannot be felt by the user or their partner. INTIMA adds the non-toxic cup does not cause any dryness or irritation, and ensures up to 12 hours of leak-proof reassurance. Holds up to 76ml of blood Holding up to 76ml of blood, the cup is covered in a hexagon pattern that creates friction to ensure it stays in place. Its 100 per cent hypoallergenic material is the same as that of medical implants and has passed regulations set by the US' drug-approving body FDA. The cup comes in a discreet carry case and simply requires cleaning between uses. How to use the Ziggy Cup To insert, the Ziggy Cup: 'Never let your period hold you back - from anything!' Similar devices include INTIMA's Lily Cup One, which is intended for beginners and has a looped stem to make it easier to remove. Amandine Pranlas-Descours, global brand manager for INTIMINA, said: 'Lily Cup One was designed with new users in mind. 'Simply our most comfortable and easiest to use menstrual cup yet, I really think it will help forge great habits for life among young women, in terms of environmental responsibility, of challenging the cynical "period tax", and of never letting their period hold them back - from anything!' Period-friendly gym shorts encourage menstruating women to exercise This comes after the launch of period-friendly gym shorts in May last year. The shorts, by underwear brand Thinx, encourage women to get physical while menstruating without having to wear a sanitary towel or tampon. They can allegedly hold up to 10ml of blood, which is the equivalent of two tampons worth. The shorts have a four-layer structure, with the top fighting bacteria and the lower sheets absorbing moisture, according to Thinx's website. Priced at $65 (around £45), NYC-based Thinx claim the comfortable shorts help women train better while menstruating by taking away any leaking anxiety.