The troubled Nakumatt holdings has hit the last nail on its head after they were evicted from City Mall premises. The eviction comes after the court issued an order on Monday for them to immediately leave the building. According to Nakumatt Mombasa Manager Vijay Lackhan, the eviction has caused them billions of losses. "We received the court order on Tuesday evening and we never had time to remove our goods," Lackhan said. Read; Court orders Nakumatt out of Mombasa's City mall He said it was illegal for the landlord to enter and throw things without a care. The manager said the court should have given the supermarket ample time to honourably leave the building. "We have been at Nyali police station seeking for assistance but it has been in vain," he said. Judge Charles Yano on Tuesday gave Ideal Location limited, the landlord, liberty to forcefully evict the once giant supermarket from the premises. The judge also ordered that the supermarket pay all the outstanding rent accrued at the time of eviction. The court said the rent owed is Sh27.8 million, which is rent from last November. The matter landed in the environment and land court after Nakumatt failed to pay November rent and other bills. The manager said the landlord should be held responsible for the losses incurred at the supermarket. "At least 800 workers are going to be affected by this eviction," he added. Nakumatt has been undergoing a difficult financial situation and has been caught on debts with different banks and suppliers. Auctioneer Joel Titus said they have been contracted by the landlord to remove items from the premises. He said the touted supermarket had been given ample time to leave the building but they failed to adhere to court orders. During the hearing, Ideal said Nakumatt's poor performance has caused them a negative impact on their business. They City mall owners claimed other tenants have threatened to leave the mall as they were also incurring losses. Their lawyer Willis Oluga said the landlord was serving a loan and therefore they could not afford missing rent. Read; Nakumatt evicted from mall in Nanyuki, goods looted at dawn  Click here for the latest political news