Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has promised to prepare the way for President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of his Siaya visit.
Rasanga said he regrets turning Siaya residents against Uhuru when he removed the President’s portrait from his office in protest against Jubilee leadership.
The governor asked the Siaya business community not to hang Uhuru’s portrait in their business premises and replace it with Raila’s portrait.
Addressing residents in Gem, Rasanga said he locked all IEBC materials in his office to block any form of voting during the presidential repeat elections that Raila opted out of. Siaya is among counties where no voting took place during the repeat elections after the Supreme Court nullified Uhuru’s victory.
However, with the new pact between Raila and Uhuru, Rasanga said he is going to use the same energy to mobilise residents ahead of the President’s visit.
The governor said he will visit all parts of the county to ensure Uhuru gets a heroic reception in Siaya.
“When Baba says left, it’s left. When he says right, it’s right. Now he has said we can work with Jubilee. Who are we to defy that?” Rasanga said.welcomed uhuru
Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, Rarieda’s Otiende Amollo and Siaya Senator James Orengo have welcomed Uhuru to Siaya.
Orengo said as Nasa leaders they are open to any move towards healing, especially after a prolonged political season in the country.  
The Siaya senator urged Jubilee to use the opportunity to compensate all those who were killed and injured during and after the elections.     Raila, during his last visit to Siaya, asked residents to give him the go-ahead to invite Uhuru to Siaya to discuss the pact.
Raila told supporters to trust his decision of joining hands with Uhuru, saying the move will spur development.
 The Nasa leader said the agreement with Uhuru is aimed at healing the deep ethnic and political divisions.
“Before agreeing to become a team we came up with issues we intend to address, ranging from corruption to electoral injustice,” Raila said.
The President has never toured Siaya county since he ascended to power. It he visits, it will be his first tour in Raila’s home county.
However, Raila’s move has not augured well with all Nasa leaders who have protested his truce with Uhuru, terming it a selfish move geared towards benefitting ODM, not Nasa.
Nasa leaders have ganged up against Raila Odinga to “teach him a political lesson” in what promises to be a nasty and gruelling political duel. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has declared that he will not take back the Senate Minority leadership position and for the first time blamed Raila for being behind his removal.nasty and messy
Living true to his vow that the NASA divorce would be “nasty and messy”, Wetang’ula has promised a relentless war on Raila and his ODM party.
“We will continue giving them in small measures and calculated dosage to ensure they enjoy no comfort,” vowed Wetang’ula, narrating his woes during the closed-door NASA Parliamentary Group meeting on Thursday.
“I was subjected to name-calling, harassment and humiliation in the presence of my brother Raila and when he stood up to speak, he said nothing about what had happened,” he said.