The National Cereals and Produce Board has suspended maize intake from farmers in Rift Valley, causing protests from farmers stuck in long queues at depots in Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge and Kitale. The board’s stores are full with maize from farmers demanding to be paid about Sh4 billion for deliveries since December last year. Kenya Farmers’ Association director Kipkorir Menjo led the farmers during protests in Eldoret town, urging the government to reopen the depots for more intake and release money required by the NCPB. “We have been informed that the board’s depots are full and they can only deal with distribution of fertiliser, yet farmers are still queuing to deliver maize, only to find the gates locked,” Menjo said. He added that the government should organise itself to take in all the maize from farmers and distribute fertiliser while also paying out the debt. NCPB chief executive Newton Terer, through spokesman Titus Maiyo, said the depots are full. They are in the process of moving the maize stock to depots that are less congested. “We have stores that are not full in areas out of the North Rift,” Maiyo said. The board has so far purchased more than three million bags of maize at a cost of more than Sh11 billion. It has paid out about Sh 7 billion to the producers. Rift Valley farmers have threatened to reduce maize production this year after the government delayed to pay them Sh3.2 billion for deliveries to the NCPB. Menjo says the delayed payments will affect preparations for this year’s planting season, which starts in three weeks. “The majority of farmers are worried and without cash. They have planned to reduce the area under maize production in their farms this year,” Menjo said. He added that the unreliable maize market and poor handling by the government are forcing most farmers to grow other crops. The National Treasury last week released Sh1 billion out of the Sh4.2 billion the government owes farmers for maize delivered. The farmers, carrying twigs, staged demos at the NCPB depot in Eldoret and gave the management a week to pay them. 