Collins Wanjala is the notable change in the KCB side ahead of todays Kenya Cup final against Kabras at the Lions Den in Ruaraka. Wanjala has been named on the bench in place of Arthur Owira, who has travelled with Shujaa to the Victoria Sevens event in Zimbabwe. Head coach Curtis Olago has gone for the tried and tested and fireworks are no doubt expected in the match. Olago said history will count for nothing despite having a favourable record against the sugar millers, who were promoted to the top tier in 2015. The bankers beat Kabras Sugar 27-3 to lift their fourth Kenya Cup title during the 2014/2015 season. Earlier in the regular season, KCB had beaten the sugar millers, who were making their debut in Kenya Cup 13-3. KCB reclaimed the Kenya Cup title during the 2016/2017 season, thrashing Kabras Sugar 36-8 in the final and earlier in the season edged them 22-17. “ History will count for nothing. Even our unbeaten run so far is in the past as this is a different final. Kabras will come hard at us and we must well be prepared for them,” he added. The bankers whitewashed Kabras 41-12 in the regular season to book their ticket in the semis. South Africa’s Western Province forwards coach, Hanyani Simange, has been helping KCB improve their technical ability and approach to matches in the last two weeks. Key players for the bankers in today’s showdown include skipper Curtis Lilako, Oliver Mangeni, Davis Chenge and Brian Nyikuli in the forwards with vice captain Darwin Mukidza, Shaban Ahmed and Jacob Ojee the star players in the backs. On their part, Kabras will be gunning for revenge and coach Charles Cadovillis said it’s the execution in attack and defence that will carry day. “Finals are won by doing the small things right and I hope on Saturday, we can take our chances,” he added. Cadovillis will rely on skipper Max Adaka, Asman Mugerwa, Kenyan international George Nyambua with Edwin Achayo, Kevin Keegan, Philip Wokorach and Felix Ayange the pick of the backs. South African referee Archie Sehlako will officiate the final. The Eric Shirley Shield final will be between KCB II and Impala II at USIU starting noon.