Opposition leader Raila Odinga’s supporters now want him to clarify if Jubilee is the ‘promised land’ he was to deliver them to. This follows his recent unity pact he reached with President Uhuru Kenyatta which they said was for the sake of uniting the country. At the height of the campaign period, Raila hyped Nasa supporters by telling them he, like the Biblical Joshua, would deliver them to Canaan – freedom from an oppressive Jubilee regime. The said Canaan never came. The August 8 election was nullified and Raila boycotted the repeat poll on October 26. Raila and the entire NASA fraternity largely blamed foreign diplomats for aiding the subversion of democracy in Kenya by giving the shambolic polls a green light. They particularly singled out US Ambassador Robert Godec of leading the fray and accused him of endorsing electoral injustices for economic gain. Godec denied the claims. On Wednesday, Raila posted on Facebook pictures of him and Godec who he said paid him a courtesy call in his office. "We discussed the national reconciliation initiative and how there can be no progress without justice. The US has pledged to support us as a people as we proceed with the task of righting the wrongs that have ailed our nation for too long," Raila said. Read: Trump pledges to support Uhuru-Raila peace pact But some of Raila’s supporters did not take lightly the sudden friendly gesture he has grown apt to extending to his former nemesis. Some questioned the motive behind his new found friendship with the people he constantly criticised and wondered if he would now retract from criticising the ills he has always openly opposed. Also read: Nasa MPs to join Jubilee in vetting AG nominee Paul Kihara Ugenya Siaya Alego asked: "Sasa tuendelee na construction of Northern water collector ama bado unaresist (Do we continue with the Northern Collector Tunnel or are you still resisting)?" In October 2016, Raila opposed the construction of the northern water collector at the Aberdare region, a project he said was being secretly undertaken by the Jubilee administration. He said the project would cause desertification in parts of Central Kenya. Mukuru Wa Kimeruu Machumaa said: "Meet anybody His Excellency but not everyone has interest of justice we are seeking under your leadership. US is not an honest partner in our quest to address the issues you stand for." Tony Chinedu wanted clarification on the Canaan issue. He said; "There’s every possible that Canaan is Jubilee. I am just waiting for Confirmation from Baba!” Details: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Hussler Sonko said: "I mean former baba you told us US cannot be trusted and should keep off Kenyan affairs, I just asking did this US change from America one to united siaya??? wacha kutubeba ufala enda ukakulie #eurobondbondo. (Stop taking us for fools)" Roy Ombija said the rate at which Raila is warming up to people he previously criticised for subverting the will of the people, he might soon meet IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and CEO Ezra Chiloba. "This is the apex of hypocrisy...As a staunch supporter, I never ever in my wildest of dreams imagined saying this against Raila Amolo Odinga. At this rate you’re watering down your legacy in gushes Sir...me wonders who is next in line on your appointments - Chebukati and Chiloba? My allegiance is leaning more towards Miguna Miguna by every passing day." Thomas Isoka Chebai said: "Next, you should meet Chebukati and Chiloba, Cambridge Analytica, Morpho...yes, just keep on meeting all of them...I'm currently battling depression courtesy to your silly political manoeuvres punctuated by yourself interests. You have christened yourself Joshua but I hereby christen you as new day 'Okwonkwo'. Your inability to grab POWER sulks." Garang' Okaka said: "Those are normal American lies from useless Godec. We know Canaan and we are heading there. We completed reconciliation syllabus in 2007/2008." Yet again, Samson Nyasimi added: "Last time your handshake with Uhuru was called a golden handshake...now what do we call this one? Baba in case you forgot, America under Godec is the greatest enemy of our JUSTICE. Although I respect you as my president, by dining with the enemies of common people, you have indeed killed our motivation for change!" "Meet anybody as you wrap up your politics. The third liberation will be realised when Odinga and Kenyatta families exit politics," Vickie Kacholla said. More on this: Amb Martin Kimani, Raila's lawyer Paul Mwangi to lead unity process Some, however, supported Raila’s cause of the charting the course for a dialogue for the sake of peace and unity. They said dialogue on how to unite a country that was leaning on the precincts of ethnic division was long overdue. In support of that, Mike Aduda said: "I know you are genuine to the cause soldier on keeping in mind that baby pendo and the likes are looking at you through the walls of justice." Kennedy Meshack added: "Majority of negative comments here are either from paid stooges of other politicians or unfortunate warlords who would like to see Kenya burn rather than hope for the better. If you have a problem with Raila decamp quickly and keep your war mentality away." Walter Wekesa said: "Baba you are always right, and trust you made the right decision. As a true soldier will match with you keep pushing forward." Generali Osumo Jnr added: “ My President you are a true peacemaker, a true statesman who cares for his people. Kenya depends on your decisions. Our country is now at peace because you decided to forgo your own comfort and decide to work for the best interests of the country. God bless you Abundantly.” "There’s what we call conscious and love for the nation. Some of us are still die-hard of Raila Odinga to date. If the country burnt or torn apart who’d be responsible? When the economy hurts; it dissolves our very sense of belonging to Kenya. Can we learn from our battling neighbours who are seeking asylum here. Raila chose to be a nationalist over bigotry," said Victor Wazome. Denis Owino Wuod Awasi also congratulated Raila for the bold step he took to reconcile with Uhuru and asked him to recognise the legitimacy of his presidency. "You have taken too long to recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as a legitimate President of Kenya. You would have done after 26th repeat Presidential Election and you would have saved more lives," he said. Click here for the latest political stories 