Moses Wetang'ula sat pensively but in relative comfort within the confines of the first
class cabin of the NASA ship. He watched almost
helplessly as the ravaging waters gushed through the many holes on all
sides of the vessel. The ship had suffered massive battering since the boycott of the Peoples President’s swearing-in ceremony by the
three co-principals. Senator Wetang'ula clung to the hope that the Chief
Principal, Raila Odinga, would throw him the ever elusive lifesaver jacket. But the captain took
unnecessarily long to respond to his desperate distress calls. Wetang'ula gulped copious amounts of
contaminated political waters, drowned in bloated ego and got swept away from
the seat of Senate Minority leader. Ford Kenya is a founding member of the NASA coalition, but was unfortunate in the 2017 Senate elections. It bagged only one seat, courtesy of its leader, in
Bungoma. Yet curiously, the other principals saw it prudent to nominate their
only elected colleague to lead the NASA Senate troops. Wetang'ula
forgot that the number of party seats in the House is more important than one
seat in the Summit. He is said to have been arrogant and condescending to
his fellow senators and would give orders instead of seeking
consensus. The consequences have been painful and disastrous
to his long-standing party. Wiper and
ANC have been vocal in calling for the Summit to discipline ODM for
slighting Ford-Kenya. The calls are at best half-hearted, considering that Wiper
had earlier on entered into an unholy alliance with Jubilee to have their
Borabu MP elected to the prestigious Parliamentary Service Commission. This
was in spite of a brokered deal to have ANC enjoy part of the parliamentary pie
by having Vihiga Senator George Khaniri assume the Senate Minority Whip
position. Attempts to crack the whip on ODM are self-defeating and futile
because the party no longer behaves as part of the coalition. ODM has not
concealed its disdain for the lacklustre support given by its coalition
partners to the twin agenda of resistance and peoples’ assembly movements.
Snippets have been thrown at the other co-principals at opportune moments
deriding them as cowards and lacking in stamina. ODM thus
took advantage of the missteps by Kalonzo and company to reassert its
dominance and declare its intention to divorce. They did not wait for the
formal divorce, they just threw the other partners out. They have demonstrated
this by ignoring calls from their leader Raila to spare Wetang'ula. Wetangula would better heed wise counsel and let
go the seat before he is dragged into deeper and murkier mud. He was the last
and least of the principals, but the first casualty of the NASA fallout and its
inevitable disintegration. It is also an opportunity for him to reposition and
rebrand himself as a possible contender for the throne in 2022. This is
Ford-Kenya’s best chance to demonstrate that it is truly a national party with
considerable national grassroots networks. NASA has
therefore remained effectively a two party coalition. However, the two parties,
Wiper and ANC, will not stay together for long. Fate has conspired against
their unity and sooner rather than later, they will fall to their respective
backyards for soul searching. It would be foolhardy for Musalia and Kalonzo
to cling to the sails of the sinking ship, NASA. They have the last opportunity
to disembark and craft a new vessel for the 2022 journey. However, the two seem
to share little in common except for their respective heritage in Kanu.
President Moi reorganised the Independence party into a wobbly and ineffective
but large movement for his succession, where they both served ignominiously as the
last vice chairmen. Without the elder Raila in their ranks, it would be
interesting to watch how they identify and settle on either of them as the
presidential candidate. Clinging to ODM will continue to entrench the
paternalistic relationship they have had with their big brother. They will remain
under ODM wings and be eclipsed from the forefront and the limelight necessary for
their 2022 agenda. Their future lies in abandoning the NASA wreckage and
fashioning a new outfit that may have the impetus to gallop to the 2022 election. ANC
should find ways of sharing with ODM the spoils of the dwindling fortunes of
Ford-K in Western. Kalonzo has the daunting task of stemming a
fallout from Wiper, whose beneficiaries are his perennial nemesis
Charity Ngilu and latter-day regime apologist Alfred Mutua. If they do so now
then they have the advantage of time on their side. Otherwise they would be
crushed to smithereens and be scattered into the sea by the emerging mutant but
indomitable alliances from Jubilee and ODM and lost into oblivion in the
fullness of time! Political and public policy analyst