Counties are staring at a serious cash crunch after the National Treasury insisted on slashing Sh17 billion from their budget allocation of Sh302 billion. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich yesterday told the
Senate's Budget Committee that counties will not be left out of austerity measures prompted by a Sh84
billion revenue collection shortfall. Rotich blamed the counties for failure to collect enough revenue. He said the counties were over-relying on the on sharable revenue from the national government. "We are proposing rationalisation of the budget and no one will be spared," Rotich told the committee chaired by Mandera Senator Mahamud Mohamed. “When the budget for the 2017-18 financial year budget was being
made, we assumed that that the country will collect more revenue than the
previous year. That hasn’t happened." Read: 'Broke' Treasury plans to slash county budget by Sh15 billion Reducing the counties’ budget
will require an amendment of the Division of Revenue Bill and the County Allocation
Revenue Act 2017-18. Rotich said the austerity measures will not
affect the counties' allocation of Sh378 billion for the 2018-19 financial year. Counties have been allocated Sh314 billion from the sharable
revenue and Sh33.2 billion from donors, representing a 39.8 per cent
allocation. Council of Governors Chairman Josphat Nanok, Governors Joyce Laboso (Bomet) and Dhadho Godana (Tana
River) said counties were struggling because of Treasury's delay to release funds. The three were present during the committee session. “We have been loud enough about delayed release of funds. We
have asked Treasury to adhere to the law and we raised this matter with the
Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council. All counties are struggling
whether they are from Jubilee or NASA,” Nanok said. The COG chair was spoke during the Senate committee’s public
hearing of the Division of Revenue Bill 2018-19 financial year. Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and the Commission for Revenue Allocation chairperson Jane Kiringai said
governors will be unable to implement the pending Sh11 billion doctors’ Collective
Bargaining Agreement if funds were not immediately released to the counties. The 47 devolved units agreed to implement the doctors CBA
after paralyzing services in county hospitals after their 100-day strike last
year. Read: Is Kenya broke? We may be headed for harder times The Treasury boss, in response, told counties to adjust their
budgets and shelve some of their projects to implement the CBA. “We cannot have one level of government struggling and
another level spending. Everybody has to bear the burden, thus the
rationalization and austerity measures. One thing has to give way in counties
to implement the doctors’ CBA which was signed,” Rotich said. The COG chairman accused the National Treasury and Roads and Infrastructure
Ministry of dishonoring an agreement between counties and IBEC chaired by
Deputy President William Ruto to have the county allocation and road maintenance
levy increased by 20 per cent. “It is not in goodfaith for Treasury and the Roads ministry
to disrespect the IBEC agreements arrived at through negotiations. We don’t
want to go back to the route where we used to make noise to get money we wanted
yet issues have been resolved amicably,” Nanok said. Rotich, however, noted that the Division of Revenue Bill and
the Roads Bill 2018 before National Assembly can be amended to accommodate the
20 per cent increase counties agreed with IEBC. Read: Governors renew push to borrow money from banks for projects, salaries  Click here for the latest political news