The National Treasury is unlikely to meet its 2017/18 revenue target, crippling disbursement to both national and county governments According to the statement of actual revenues and net exchequer issues as at February 28, 2018 published last week in the Kenya Gazette, Treasury has collected Sh1.16 trillion against a target of Sh2.14 trillion, with only three months to the end of financial year. The impending huge fiscal deficit has thrown the government into panic, forcing it to borrow more internally as well as employ unusual revenue collection means to narrow the margin. The statement shows Treasury has borrowed domestically up to Sh220.73 billion since July last year, remaining with only Sh110 billion to hit its revised estimate of Sh330.89 billion. The Central Bank has issued at least Sh120 billion in domestic commercial papers since January to support budget. Just this March, Kenya successfully floated a dollar denominated bond worth Sh201 billion in the international market to clear liabilities as well as support budget, stretching the general public debt above Sh4.56 trillion. Last week, National Youth Service announced plans to deploy some of its buses to ferry commuters in parts of Nairobi at a flat rate fee of Sh50. It however indicated that the buses are to save commuters from high fares charged by public service vehicles during the ongoing heavy rains Kenya Railways Corporation has also announced plans to hike fare on Standard Gauge Railway by at least Sh300 starting May while Immigration department has introduced Sh100 fee for replacing lost national identity cards. The low revenue collection has crippled disbursements to government bodies, with counties which are reeling under accumulated debt worth over Sh100 billion worst hit. Out of Sh306.2 billion allocated to county governments, only Sh126.9 billion has been released. Most counties have received slightly above 30 per cent of total allocation, with Mandera county which is allocated Sh9.7 billion receiving a paltry Sh3.2 billion, representing 33 per cent. Nairobi City County which is allocated Sh15.4 billion has since received Sh8.8 billion, best county disbursement of 57.1 per cent so far. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok last month said that counties have for the last four years been hard-pressed to deliver on their functions due to the slow disbursement of funds and lack of a borrowing framework for both short and long term projects. Our sources have it that county employees in at least 12 counties are yet to receive their February salaries with most development projects now on halt. The cash drought has not spared the national government. Over a half of the government’s development budget money is yet to be released by the treasury. Only Sh147.3 billion out of Sh351 billion has been released Out of Sh940.1 billion of recurrent exchequer issues to ministries and state agencies, only 575.8 billion has been disbursed so far. Early this month, Treasury CS Henry Rotich revealed that the country is facing a financial crisis blaming Kenya Revenue Authority for failing to hit right targets in the projected revenue collection. “We have discussed with KRA how to catch up by tightening the tax net on the domestic and customs revenue,” Rotich told the Senate committee on Finance and Budget. He went on to reveal a proposal to slash the amount allocated to counties by up to Sh17 billion. According to the 2017 Budget Review and Outlook Paper, Kenya missed revenue targets by Sh54.8 billion during last financial year. This figure is likely to go higher this year, considering low revenue collection by KRA in first and second quarters due to prolonged election cycle that started in August.