A confident and articulate Noordin Haji took his time highlighting his qualifications when he was vetted for the DPP position on Monday. Haji, the son of Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, told the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee that his father had nothing to do with his nomination and went on to details his qualifications. He has had a career spanning many years as National Intelligence Service Deputy Director. The candidate noted that he has studied opportunities and challenges in the criminal justice system so he has the vital perspectives the position requires. "My collaboration with law enforcement agencies has allowed me to play a central role in operational leadership. Training in joint operation accords me skills that can be injected in the office of the DPP," he added. Haji said his experience as a public officer in various capacities prepared him to understand the unique needs of investigators, prosecutors and law enforcement officers. Noting that litigation can no longer take the tradition approach, he pledged to equip prosecutors to deliver their mandates. "I will establish a prosecutors' institute ... they will get the best training," he said. He continued: "I have investigated complex cases. I am an analyst who has analysed friends. I have an advantage and the privilege in the system so I will oversee things from a bird's view. I believe being an advocate will guide me." The candidate further noted that having prepared evidence for the prosecution, he will have an edge in the office. "It has given me a wealth of experience to bring on board. I will serve the justice system efficiently and effectively," he said, further noting that he had been an advocate for 19 years, a period that began with work at the office of the Attorney General. "It has allowed be to develop reach and diverse experience in the criminal justice system, [aspects which] are necessary [for one] to become a DPP." The promises Haji made in an address that lasted at least 12 minutes included integrity and servant leadership should he succeed Keriako Tobiko who is now Environment CS. "I have the energy and vision to serve this office. I will always be on your side if confirmed. I will strive to be the DPP that you deserve. I pledge to lead the DPP office with integrity. The Constitution will be my guide," he told Read: NIS boss Noordin Haji to take over office of DPP BACKGROUND Haji was born on July 3, 1973 in Malindi, Kilifi county and often moved with his parents as his father was a civil servant. He spent his formative years at DEB Nyahururu Primary School and attended schools in parts including Nakuru, Mombasa, Nyeri, Eldoret and Garissa for class one to eight. "This exposed me to the rich diversity of our Kenyan cultures allowing me to appreciate, at an early age, our interdependence as a society," he said. Haji told the panelists that his mother, a high school teacher, taught him kindness and generosity for those in need as she helped them even when she did not have much - a trait he termed legendary. "My loving father was a career civil servant who served this country as an administrator, starting from the lowest level and rising through the ranks, with great honor, dedication and integrity," he added. Haji said his career has been guided by values inculcated at an early age by his parents to whom he owes much and who are blessed to see him considered for the position. "From them l learnt the values of integrity, hard work, selflessness, service to humanity and discipline; values that will continue to guide me in the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution should l be confirmed," he said. Noting that he is a proud husband and a father, the nominee said that whenever he looks at his family and children, he sees the millions of law abiding Kenyans who deserve to be protected from criminal elements. "When l leave every morning they remind me of why l chose to serve within the justice system," he said. "If confirmed as DPP, they will be a constant reminder of why we must ensure the wheels of justice roll seamlessly and efficiently, and that justice is served for all." Haji noted he was nominated because of his father but his years of hard work and integrity. He assured the committee that he will not be influenced politically. "Even though my father is a politician, I have no political affiliation. I am here because of my integrity. The constitution will be my guide," he added. Also read: Uhuru's pick of Noordin Haji for DPP job draws criticism Click here for the latest political news