The tender row over the printing of the new-look currency has taken a new turn, with the disputing parties fighting over an attempt to withdraw the case that is now awaiting judgment. The Central Bank of Kenya and British firm De La Rue International yesterday protested a move by Swedish company Crane AB to withdraw the matter, saying allegations of impropriety made against them must be dealt with first. Crane has been fighting the Sh10 billion-a-year tender awarded to De La Rue, accusing the procuring entity of breaching the Constitution and lacking transparency in awarding the deal, but now says it no longer opposes the tender. The firm has been seeking the CBK and its rival resolve the dispute out of court, but the two have refused to settle. The tender was terminated on January 9 by the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board, following an application by Crane.  VERDICT ON 9 APRIL  Thereafter, CBK and De La Rue filed their separate applications challenging the decision. Similarly, Crane filed an application seeking to oppose CBK and De La Rue’s bid. The parties argued the case on February 22 and a judgment is scheduled to be issued on April 9. However yesterday, through lawyer Gitau Singh, Crane told Justice George Odunga that it wishes to “discontinue its opposition to the tender”.  NO GOOD REASON  But CBK, and De La Rue said, “It will be in the interest of justice not to leave a cloud of doubt hanging over the allegations made against us”. Through lawyer Fred Ngatia, De La Rue further said Crane had not given the court a good reason for the matter to be withdrawn just when a decision is about to be given. “This case should not be withdrawn when allegations surrounding the process are still out there,” said Ngatia. CBK’s Ochieng’ Oduol urged the judge to allow the matter to proceed to the end, saying “it is not open for Crane to wish away the allegations it made”. The Public Procurement Administrative Review Board, in its decision that halted the project, said the printing firm should not have received a 15 per cent preference margin on the tender, which is given to bidders of services when goods are manufactured domestically. On December 13, the High Court temporarily suspended the Central Bank’s award of the new currency printing tender to the firm.