Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu has postponed this weekend’s Kitui 7s rugby tournament owing to the heavy rains that have pounded the county lately. Ngilu, who conducted an inspection tour of the tournament venue, Ithookwe showgrounds on Tuesday, added that the facility would not be ready to host a successful event. “Due to the heavy rains that have been witnessed in Kitui in the last few days, we have decided to push forward the event since the environment will not allow the matches to run smoothly. We  will have the event as part of our Madaraka Day celebrations,” said Ngilu. Ngilu, who was accompanied by Kitui County Executive for Tourism and Culture, Koki Musau, apologised to the residents and sponsors who will be adversely affected by the postponement. Musau said the event will be an opportunity for Kitui to showcase their tourist attraction sites and therefore important to stage it once the rains have stopped. “We want the legion of visitors get an opportunity to travel around the county and tour our various tourist attraction sites with ease,” said Musau. On Sunday, Musau and chairman of the organising committee of the Kitui 7s, Mumo Mwendwa, said having the event during the drier period will also give the various sponsors and entrepreneurs a chance to reap from their investments with minimal challenges. The duo was speaking during a media briefing dinner at a Kitui hotel. “We are expecting to host an upward of 10,000 rugby fans, who will be ready to spend. They will need services while in Kitui. It behooves the local traders to rise to the occasion and make a quick buck,” said Musau. “We encourage the local investors to highlight our tourist attraction sites like the mystic Nzambani Rock and the unique cuisines and traditional artefacts.” Mwendwa said they expect revelers to spend at least Sh50 million during the three-day event in areas of accommodation, food and other services. “We had over 4,000 visitors during the previous event, who exhausted the bed capacity in our hotels to an extent that some had to sleep in their cars. This year’s event provides another opportunity for our people to make money by bridging such gaps,” added Mwendwa.       