Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya says NASA is past its usefulness and should be disbanded. He said ODM, ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya came together to bid for the presidency in the General Election but lost to Jubilee — whether fairly or unfairly. NASA was purely meant for the presidential race, as affiliates fielded their own candidates and competed against each other in the other contests, Oparanya said. He backed the Uhuru-Raila unity deal to help reconcile communities and bring about meaningful transformation for wananchi. Oparanya said there is no need for the principals to remain together and “continue squabbling ... Life must continue,” he said on Saturday. On March 1, Oparanya hinted at possibilities of ODM seeking new partners ahead of the 2022 General Election. CO-PRINCIPALS MEET On Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta held a meeting with ODM leader and NASA chief Raila Odinga and they resolved to work together to unite the country. The pair met at Harambee House, Nairobi, and said that the bruising political battle that ensued after last year’s election had ended. This did not go down well with Raila’s co-principals. ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula said they were kept in the dark. Kalonzo, Mudavadi, Wetang’ula and Raila yesterday met to discuss deal. They later said they suported dialogue that includes NASA’s goals. Other leaders who attended the meeting included former Senators Boni Khalwale (Kakamega) and Johnson Muthama (Machakos) and Kimilili MP Chris Wamalwa. The meeting took place at Stoni Resort in Athi River. On Saturday, Oparanya urged Raila to concentrate on national healing and assemble a united team to clinch the presidency in 2022. He said he will run for President on an ODM ticket in 2022. He has asked Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to support his 2022 presidential ambitions. The two NASA co-principals are also keen on the presidency. STRENGTHEN PARTIES FOR 2022 Oparanya said the NASA affiliates should refocus on strengthening themselves separately. Weak parties will have no impact in the next General Election, he said. Once the parties have strengthened themselves, they could reconsider coming together again in 2022, he said. “Other parties should leave us — ODM — alone so we do our own business. Let’s meet in 2022 when we’re strong. If it will be me in ODM, we will talk and If it will be Raila we will talk when election time comes,” the county chief said. Oparanya spoke during the burial of senior private Hesborn Otunga in Khwisero subcounty. Otunga died in Somali last month. MPs Tindi Mwale (Khwisero), Justus Kizito (Shinyalu) and Kakamega woman MP Elsie Muhanda were present. Oparanya said ODM was aware of Raila’s mission to have talks with Uhuru. He told Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to stop complaining that Raila never consulted them. “If he did not consult you, do your own thing and leave him alone,” Oparanya told the trio. Kizito backed Oparanya’s presidential ambition. He said Kakamega county has always supported candidates from Vihiga and Bungoma counties, despite having the largest vote bloc in the former Western province. Click here for the latest political news