What happened on Wednesday was a court process, but you cannot fail to read politics into it if you keenly follow the trend of cases and challenges that have come Alfred Keter’s way, among other leaders from Rift Valley. Kenyans on social media, as may have seen have expected, expressed their varied opinions on how the Keter situation has been handled. He is a public officer but he has been subjected to tribulations every time he questions the government. His role as a legislator is to oversight the Executive arm of the government, but we have all witnessed that every time he speaks on the issues he is seeking answers to, he, among other leaders, is branded an enemy of development being used by some forces to oppose the government. Keter has all along been playing his constitutional role not only as a Member of Parliament but also as a high-ranking member of Kenyan society. If you remember, when he raised issues pertaining to the Standard Gauge Railway and the laptop project for Class One pupils, it did not take long before he was arrested at the Gilgil Weighbridge. And just the other week, after he and I, among other MPs, vied for various parliamentary committee chairmen positions, he was arrested on allegations that he forged Treasury Bills, a matter that is in court and I do not want to comment on it. The Executive has taken over the control of Parliament: The way those committees were constituted left more questions than answers. For example, in my case, where I went for the chairmanship of the Agriculture committee, the argument the Jubilee leadership had was that the Cabinet Secretary for Agriculture would come from Rift Valley, but when the Cabinet was constituted, you know who took the position. It was not the first time a CS and a chairman would come from the same community – check the history of parliamentary committees and who were the ministers – so it was all lies. Right now farmers are suffering and when you attempt to ask questions, you are called names. Let me make it clear that if the leadership of Rift Valley will not come together and iron out all these perceptions that some leaders from the region are targetted by the State, then the region is taking a wrong route and could easily explode. The writer is the MP for Moiben