March 9, 2018 is a day firm anchored in the political books of history. I say ‘political’ to qualify the event as it was. One, the two participants in the now famous’ handshake are politicians. Two, the fact that Kenyans are yet to know the details of what transpired justifies the profiling of the event as a political meeting. Three, little has been said particularly from the opposition on the matters regarding electoral justice, extra-judicial killings, intimidation of the judiciary and civil society, corruption and all the myriad issues that formed the discussion for the alternative government prior to the ‘reconciliation’. It is the last part that forms the basis for this article. There are millions of Kenyans, who immersed their ideals and beliefs into the NASA bandwagon, hoping the fight for a better Kenya was sincere. The first term of the Jubilee government managed to create a vulnerable country. As we speak now, Jubilee has done exceptionally well in taking us back to those days when disarray was the order of the day. Nobody knows what will hit the country tomorrow. Today, the Treasury has broken all borrowing records to the extent that supporters of financial doom in the form of Bretton Woods institutions are a worried lot. Treasury CS has, in the past, made remarks construed to imply that the government is running broke. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same government formation keen on effecting one Eurobond after the other. It is the same authority addicted to concessional loans. When you factor that reality, that the economy is not active enough to sufficiently support KRA ambitions, you realise this country is in a very risky trajectory. Our unemployment rate hitting 50 per cent is one of the highest in the world. Cameroon, an African country has an unemployment rate of 5-6 per cent. If you add all these stressing realities to the eventuality of a socially and judicially unjust country, you appreciate the outbreak of frustrations hitting this country. Raila through the various party formations has always insisted he is sincere in holding Jubilee to account. It is for this reason that he managed to galvanise impressive support from all those who sought and still seek to see a changed nation. In that sense, should he join Jubilee in advancing the current hopeless governance ideals, he will go down as the greatest political conman that Kenya ever had. Indeed, if it had to take the hopes of millions of supporters, deaths of children, maiming of his followers, sabotage of judicial processes and executive wastage of time for him to get a position in terms of ‘shared objectives’, then the sincere reformists of this country will never forgive him. He must take the change agenda that he passionately pushed for to action.  Mwangi comments of current affairs