On July 3, 2015, during a crackdown on illicit brews in Kayole, Nairobi, 17 youthful alcoholics duped police and other government officials into allowing them to help dispose of methanol and other illicit brew chemicals seized at Queen’s factory. One of the poisonous drinks seized was a pseudo Vodka named “Rest in Peace”. The youthful addicts began helping themselves to the substances as the lorry carrying them to the dumpsite took off. Moments later, sobriety began ebbing away and they began quarrelling in their drunken stupor. These quarrels led to one of them setting the lorry ablaze, causing an inferno that claimed eight of them and injured the rest before they were rescued. The then Kayole police commander Ali Nuno said most of them were so drunk that they could not attempt to flee the fire. Sadly, this is not an isolated case of addicts going overboard in attempts to save the drinks. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said the fight against illicit brews has in some instances turned to be a race to save people from themselves, sometimes having to break the law to save lives. “In some parts of Western Kenya, we poured the brew into a sunken pan but we had to add salt to the drinks after alcoholics followed us to where we disposed them,” Kibicho said. RETALIATION TO CRACKDOWN Violence has been used to ward off government officials determined to eliminate the killer brews. A senior chief was hacked to death in Ossen, Baringo county, while leading local administrators in the crackdown against illicit brews on August 11, 2015. An assailant attacked Jeremiah Chepkwony and his with a machete and slashed him several times, killing him on the spot. Kibicho said chiefs have been shot at with arrows in some places by people defending their brews. During a dawn crackdown in Mathare, on March 8, 2016, Kibicho had to deploy hundreds of armed policemen in combat gear to provide security to officials in the crackdown. High tension ruled the area during the six-hour operation, where officials seized more than 5,000 litres of chang’aa and assorted illicit brews and 500 litres of kangara used to make them. Couples fought in public, trading accusations of betrayal and informing officials of where they had hidden the brews. But more spectacular were men in drunken stupors who lay on roadsides, hurling profanities at the officials as they criss-crossed villages in Mathare, searching for killer brews. Killer brews were so prevalent, especially in Central Kenya, that President Uhuru Kenyatta likened the war against it to the infamous crackdown on Mungiki in 2005 and 2006. “We agreed to tackle the (Mungiki) problem head-on, and now we have a similar problem. We did it then. We can do it again, until we control the (illicit liquor) problem,” Uhuru said. Months after the crackdown took off, authorities relaxed and everything went back to normal, and the sale of illicit brews resumed. The same crackdown was launched at the beginning of this month to wipe out the second-generation brews. Despite past instances where the drinks caused blindness and death after sellers heightened potency by means including adding battery acid, their drinking is still widespread. Renewing the war against them, Interior CS Fred Matiangi said the crackdown will be conducted in 25 counties identified as hotspots. The government plans to set up rehabilitation centres, with priority given to mental health services.