The Labour ministry is displeased that striking lecturers did not attend a Wednesday meeting to reconcile them with their employer. Minister Ukur Yattani said
he appointed Deputy Labour commissioner Geoffrey Omondi the conciliator. His task was to bring the University Academic Staff Union and
Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum to a negotiating
table. “Yesterday
[Wednesday], the first meeting took place but unfortunately they did not
turn up. The other party was on the table but the negotiations were
incomplete because one side was missing." Speaking when he met members of the National Labour Board in his office on Thursday, Yattani said dons should give dialogue a chance as it is the only way their concerns can be addressed. “I appeal to the university union that there is only one value ...  that value is engagement. We are willing to provide necessary facilitation,” said the CS. The CS also urged trade unions to embrace dialogue instead of going to the streets whenever there is a dispute. He warned that the country risks losing investors to neigbouring counties due to instability in the labour market. “We are competing on a daily basis, especially with neighboring countries, for investments. No investor will be interested in a country where the labour market is not stable." Conciliator Omondi said both parties collected invitation letters and accused the union officials of not showing up despite receiving the invitation. “I signed the letter on Monday and it was collected by Uasu personnel. They signed the letter and we got a delivery book to confirm they received it. The other side also collected theirs,” he said. Regarding the meeting, he said he collected information from IPUCCF but could not make a decision as the other party did not attend. The lecturers downed
their tools on Thursday citing failure by the IPUCCF to table a
counter offer to their 2017-21 Collective Bargaining Agreement. The
CBA touches in the lecturers' salaries, allowances, pension, housing,
medical covers and promotions. The union argues that
the employer has failed to table a counter offer on five consecutive
occasions since May last year. Uasu Secretary General Constantine Wasonga says the IPUCCF reneged on its promises
to table the offer on May 31 and July 1 last year, and on January 31,
February 13 and February 21 this year. “I tell Uasu officials wherever they are that during the strike,
they should not engage or meet any councils [and] university
management until further notice. Lecturers are now under the
management of Uasu,” he said on Wednesday. More on this: Lecturers strike over 2017-21 CBA begins midnight, says Uasu Click here for the latest political news