After flopping massively in his second stint as Harambee Stars coach, Stanley Okumbi has been demoted to head the national Under 20 side.
The underachieving Okumbi had been handed the head coach roles at Harambee Stars albeit on interim basis after the exit of Belgian Paul Put in February.
Okumbi led Stars to a disappointing North African tour, where Kenya fell 2-3 to the Central African Republic and drew 2-2 with Comoros during the just concluded Fifa international week.
In his tenure at the helm, Okumbi has led Stars in  21 international matches, winning five, drawing eight and losing nine. In between, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) had sought the services of Belgian Paul Put, who was supposed to take the former Mathare United coach as his assistant but he was opposed to the idea until his departure early in February.
Put, who successfully led Kenya in reclaiming the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup title, resigned from the team citing personal reasons, prompting the federation to once again promote Okumbi.
But in his first assignment of his second stint, came out a cropper and FKF had no option but to sack him. The federation’s communications officer, Barry Otieno, confirmed Okumbi’s redeployment.
“Okumbi has been the national team coach in acting capacity but has now been redeployed to the U-20. We will be unveiling a new coach on May 1, where we expect him to come with his technical bench,” said Otieno.
The federation further quashed claims that former Harambee Starlets coach Richard Kanyi had been sacked. “We appointed David Ouma as the new head coach after undergoing studies in Germany. Kanyi will act as his deputy.”
Plans for the second edition of the Under-13/U15 National Youth Championship set for April 27-29 at the Nanyuki High School in Laikipia are almost complete, Football Kenya Federation have confirmed .
The championship is a culmination of inter sub-branch leagues played at the grass-roots level across the country since last year. The best players from the leagues will consequently be selected to form eight All-Star regional teams— representing Nairobi, Western, Eastern, Central, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Coast, North Eastern—ahead of the national contest.
“Youth development remains key in our long-term football agenda,” said FKF secretary general/CEO Robert Muthomi. “It is our belief that the FKF Youth Leagues will not only provide a platform to expose our young players but will also aid in the development and the long-term success of the sport,” he added.
The climax of the Championship will be the selection of the National U13 Football team, set to take place in future international assignments.