In Shakespearean mythology, the central plot is always about kings not recognising they had hubris. William Shakespeare teaches that it’s foolhardy for a leader to imagine only they are always right. It’s equally foolhardy for the leader’s courtiers to accept that only the leader is right. Foolhardy too is the leader who only trusts the wisdom of courtiers. That’s why the new idiom popularised by branded sycophants that Raila Odinga is always right and never wrong, and when in doubt refer to the above is idiocy incorporated. This is not an insult. Shakespearean wisdom helps us isolate those who genuinely believe the Uhuru Kenyatta-Raila armistice is good for the country from those charlatans who populate the political scene. For seven months, proxies of Uhuru and Raila rained uncivil invective on either leader. Those against Uhuru were spectacularly abusive. They left little civility for the rapprochement on the steps of Harambee House. We can reel off names, but let’s recap just a few. The video clips are there to prove it, so don’t think of instructing some lawyer after yours truly. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri, who sees wisdom in everything Raila imagines, swore on his mother’s grave that even if he were struck by lightning “I’ll never recognise you Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta as the President of the Republic of Kenya”. MP John Mbadi, the ever restless ODM chairman, and rough Chief Whip Junet Mohamed herded NASA troops in Parliament in boycotting the vetting of Cabinet nominees "fronted by an illegitimate Uhuru”. Now out of the blue, Uhuru isn’t just President Uhuru, but a wise leader to boot. As Junet was hovering outside Harambee House, Leader of Majority Aden Duale, who now vividly recalls “Raila is a statesman”, added his husky voice against a "demonic” Raila who should retire in defeat instead of burdening Kenyans with whining after every poll thrashing. Raphael Tuju, the sly Jubilee secretary general who nearly denounced his ethnicity over claims Uhuru’s presidency was illegitimate and who only visits his birthplace under heavy security, now lurches wild with praise of “Raila's vision”. Nothing exemplifies the lack of ethics for our neophyte politicians than recent comrades-in-arms turning broadsides on each other. Flatterers lack independent minds and are purveyors of fake news. As you’d expect, flatterers from both sides aren’t interested in the worthiness of the ‘bridge too far’ document by the UhuRaila duo. Instead, they’re falling over each other to be heard singing praises. A blow-by-blow analysis of the ‘bridge too far’ may just reveal their ignorance. But the time for reckoning is nigh. No sooner will the ink on the armistice be dry than these idlers will begin mourning betrayal. This certainly happens if courtiers find the King has reserved choice pieces of choma for his family and only intestines are available to go around. There’ll be a war cry when ‘building bridges to a new Kenyan nation’ turns out to be handsome brick-and-mortar projects for a select few. But other than chiding Kenyans against negating each other, what is in ‘building bridges to a new Kenyan nation’ for Kenyans? Peace? Stability? And what happens to justice and economic prosperity? Are we this gullible or did we long lose the oomph in the struggle for justice, respect for rights and the rule of law? Must we die with the King too? Remember, ‘The King is dead, long live the King?’ Sociologists will view ‘building bridges to a new Kenyan nation’ as a fantasy, the kind of introductory notation to first-year archaeology students. It’s more about the causality of family feuds in the primordial state of human kind than a modern treatise on what ails Kenya and how to overcome the adversity. The grudge between two families has become the tragedy of a nation. ‘Building bridges to a new Kenyan nation’ is rich in premonition and thin on reality; a waking nightmare for peacebuilding. UhuRaila, pick the cherry fruits but watch out for the thrombosis of praise singers. When you’re spent, they’ll scatter like ants at the sign that you’re no longer paying for insincerity. History is replete with leaders who meant well but left execution to the madding crowd. History doesn’t record the hypocrisy of the crowd but your mistaken belief in them and a litany of baying for the noose to be tightened around your necks. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com