Books on the African diaspora in America are plenty. But there is something authentically fresh about the immigrant story presented in Behold the Dreamers, a debut novel by Cameroonian-born Imbolo Mbue. Jende Jonga is an immigrant from Cameroon living in New York in 2007. He lands a job as the chauffer for an investment banker with Lehman Brothers called Clark Edwards. Punctuality, fastidiousness and discreteness endear Jende to his boss, who has some indiscretions in his work and private life. Despite living in a small, cockroach-infested apartment in the Harlem neighbourhood, Jende has a loving marriage and happy family life with his wife Neni and their six-year-old son. Neni’s had a difficult childhood and her education was cut short in Cameroon, but now she is studying for a pharmacy degree. She even gets a part-time housekeeping job in the home of the Edwards. It is here that is she exposed to the secrets of the super wealthy. When the 2008 financial crisis happens, it precipitates a series of unfortunate events. Edwards is fired from his job and before long, his picture-perfect lifestyle starts unravelling. Jende desperately tries to keep his job and stop his dreams slipping from his grasp. The two families become further entwined as they tackle their deepening personal crises. On top of growing financial problems, Neni is expecting their second child and Jende faces possible deportation for lack of a residence permit. The stress has brought out his violent side on the home front. Finally, Jende resolves to cut his losses and take his family back to Cameroon. Neni, however, is determined not to return to Africa, and she embarks on some risky endeavours to protect what they have achieved in America. Although Jende is the protagonist, I found myself rooting for Neni and her determination and ambition because “for the first time in her life, she had a dream besides marriage and motherhood”. Mbue herself came from humble beginnings in Cameroon, studied in the US, and was inspired to write the book after she lost her marketing job in the wake of the Lehman Brothers’ collapse. Her upbringing in Africa brings authenticity to the backstories of Jende and Neni, and their reasons for seeking asylum in America. At the same time, living in New York for over a decade has given Mbue first-hand experience of the migrant story in America. For the most part, the book moves along at a brisk pace, with uncomplicated language that keeps you turning the pages. The story took place a decade ago, yet it resonates with the reality of undocumented immigrants seeking their dream in America today.  Relationships, marriage and personal values are put to the test in the face of a tightening immigration system, and hard choices have to be made. Behold the Dreamers won the 2017 PEN Faulkner Award, was a New York Times bestseller and was listed in Oprah’s Book Club.  Star Rating: 4/5