The scandal that was unearthed by Channel 4 in
the UK engulfing both Facebook and data company Cambridge Analytica has come as
a shock to many. There can be no doubt that the depths of depravity that
the undercover reporters caught the Cambridge Analytica senior team boasting
about in their operations around the world are indeed shocking.  However,
should we really be surprised to learn that companies of this nature are
willing to go to such lengths? In 2012 I was lucky to
spend a month volunteering on the Barrack Obama re-election campaign. While
there, it was clear what the main focus was: get data, and lots of it. Under
the campaign guidance of David Axelrod and Jim Messina in 2008, the Obama
campaign was seen to revolutionise the way political campaigning was
undertaken. It was all about big data. While registering voters there was a great
emphasis placed on getting them to join a targeted sharing tool on Facebook. Over a million Obama supporters
signed up for the Facebook app during the campaign, an app which gave the
campaign permission to look through their friends' list, giving them a huge pool
of rich data to mine. We worked with the theory that
potential swing voters were more likely to be persuaded by their friends than
by generic political advertising, with the campaign promoting what they termed
“friend-to-friend” communication. In swing states this was widely seen as very
successful, although it’s difficult to know exactly what persuades voters. It should be made absolutely clear
that all of this data mining from Facebook in 2012 was done entirely with
voters’ permission. In fact the purpose of the app was talked about at length
with prospective voters, so there bears no comparison with this week’s scandal
where data was taken from Facebook seemingly without people’s consent. However, what is true is that both
in 2008 and 2012 big data was one of the driving forces behind Barrack Obama
winning and then returning to the White House. Fast forward six years, is it
really a surprise that unscrupulous companies such as Cambridge Analyitca are
taking these proven communications tactics and using them in an utterly
nefarious way? I hope that what we have seen this
week will bring an end to many of the awful practices uncovered. Clearly, as
someone who lives in Kenya, I share the wider curiosity about what all this
might mean for our recent - highly unusual - elections.  The alleged
involvement of Cambridge Analytica’s in Kenya may now have new weight, given
the recent revelations in the US and UK contexts. As communications professionals, big data can provide us
with real insight into our target audience that allows us to better understand
what they really think, which in turn allows us to tailor our messages
accordingly and answer the questions they want answering. Take for example, one of the most
traditional outputs of public relations professionals - a simple press release.
It can contain three or maybe four key messages, and done properly, these key messages will talk to a good segment of your target audience.  What if you could write a press release tailored for each
individual you are targeting? That is the tantalising goal that big data can
help us get closer to. Indeed, will big data make the humble press release
superfluous in years to come as we use more targeted communications methods?
 I think it is entirely possible. Data companies have probably been treading a thin line between legal and illegal,
moral and immoral for a long time. It is unacceptable to
use people’s information for purposes that they are not aware of. This latest
scandal might just bring us closer to such companies being more transparent
with the use of data. It is important to remember that big data does not have to lead to
cloak and dagger meetings, bribes and entrapment. Done in the right, ethical
way, it is a tool vital for communications. Zack King,
Grayling Kenya Managing Director.