Newbies Dagoretti Boys staged an upset as they beat former Nairobi Region holders Upper Hill in the basketball final to book a ticket to the national championships next month. Patronized by Peter Orero, the immediate former Upper Hill principal, Dagoretti Boys won the game 58-51 to debut at the nationals. In the girls’ showpiece, Buruburu thrashed their longtime rivals Parklands Arya 57-27. The game was marked with fairly equal exchanges but Buruburu were more accurate in shooting and orchestrated more steals compared to Parklands. Buruburu worked hard to contain their rivals to scoring under 10 points in all the quarters. The champions collected 21 points in the opening quarter against Arya’s six and 19-6 in the second. The two sides then staged a low-scoring game after the break as Buruburu ran away with the third 9-6. Arya tried very hard to outsmart their challengers and for the first time, though narrowly, won a quarter, 8-9. Chantel Kiobe powered Buruburu’s campaign and was the game’s top scorer with 30 points, 15 0f which were netted in the first quarter. Her efforts were complemented by Claris Osula who notched in six. On the losing end, Sherryl Kerubo slotted in 10 points. “We expected Parklands to take us to the wire but they did not offer much opposition,” noted Julius Otieno, Buruburu Girls’ head coach. In hockey, Mt. Larvena Girls brought Moi Girls Nairobi’s appearances at the nationals to a halt with a 1-0 win in the final. Joy Mwangi slotted in the all-important field goal in the 56th minute to ensure Mt. Larvena makes their maiden appearance at the nationals in 2018. This was after Moi Girls’ waisted three opportunities in the opening five minutes of the game when they were awarded the same number of penalty corners. Mt. Larvena’s Lilian Mutegi said: “The game was very tough but we thank God for the win. We now shift our attention to the nationals where we look forward to making an impact,” Upper Hill Boys reclaimed the regional title by beating Dr. Ribeiro Parklands 3-1 on post match penalties.