Businessman Jimi Wanjigi yesterday got a reprieve after the High Court halted his criminal case that is pending before a Nyeri court. The Nyeri court yesterday summoned Wanjigi to appear before it on Monday. He faces an 11-count charge of criminal offences related to importation of illegal firearms confiscated from his Muthaiga home, Nairobi, on October 17 last year. Prosecutor Winsely Nyamache told chief magistrate Wendy Kagendo to ensure Wanjigi appears in court on Monday or be issued with an arrest warrant. But later in Nairobi, Justice George Odunga suspended the summons, but declined to issue orders barring police from charging the businessman in any other court. Wanjigi’s lawyers James Orengo, John Khaminwa and Nelson Havi had asked the judge to restrain police from instituting any criminal case in any court, pending hearing and determination of the suit, but the judge said doing so would be an abuse of the court process. Odunga said Wanjigi was at liberty to proceed with the application and seek orders to permanently quash the summons and block police from charging him, saying he had an arguable case. “I’ve considered the application, submission, statements of facts and affidavits. I’m of the view that the applicant has established a prima facie case,” he said. Wanjigi had said the summons was procedurally unfair. His lawyers said the orders were erroneous and unlawful because they were given in violation of High Court directions. Orengo said the businessman had in October obtained anticipatory bail, after police raided his house and destroyed property. Khaminwa added, “This court must exert its authority and condemn such acts.” They said there was an ulterior motive calculated to prejudice Wanjigi’s legal rights. The lawyers also complained about the manner in which the summons were served. They said there was no need for Wanjigi to be sent all the way to Nyeri when he was a resident of Nairobi. “There is no airstrip in Nyeri. It’s a long way from Nairobi. It’s difficult to understand why they want to charge him in Nyeri and not Nairobi,” Khamwinwa told the court. In October, after police attempted to arrest Wanjigi, he rushed to court and was ordered to pay Sh50,000 to secure his freedom. Similarly, Justice Luka Kimaru recently issued orders restraining his arrest. Yesterday, the businessman said he was being tossed around, intimidated and harassed. “The action is in bad faith, unfair and violates my legitimate expectations,” he said.