Environment CS Keriako Tobiko is dismayed that those charged with protecting forests, including the KFS, are actually the enemies. Tobiko pointed the finger at Kenyan
Forest Service for allegedly making him believe licences issued to
members of the Community Forest Associations were bound by conditions. The associations were given permits for shamba systems on land in forests. But the Cabinet Secretary said on Monday: “I have just learned that there is
nothing like that." He noted: "Communities adjacent to forests are the best protectors and
must benefit from the forests. They are allowed to get into the forests and plant
their crops and take care of tree seedlings." Tobiko spoke after visiting Thogoto in Kiambu, Oloolua and Kibiko in Kajiado. The CS said he was shocked when he went
to Kibiko only to find out that locals tilling forest
land are not members of the community association. “In fact they pay money to members
without receipts and agreements. An association is given the responsibility to guard the forest but is subcontracting and double-charging outsiders." The Minister further said he was told "horrifying stories" about what is going on under the watch of the KFS. He said that while he is striving to empower the institution, he is perturbed that it has been living in denial and continuing with the narrative of "no destruction is going on in government forests". “KFS is a good institution working under tough conditions, limited capacity and resources. We are working on ensuring that KFS is empowered [by having] resources, personnel, tools and competent staff," he said in Kibiko Ngong. “It is time ... It is in fact overdue ... radical changes are necessary within KFS. We made changes on Sunday and others were made earlier but they are only face-saving actions. I am convinced beyond any doubt that unless KFS radically overhauls, the country cannot reclaim its pride." Read: Resign if you can't deliver, Tobiko says as Wakhungu hands over Also read: Tobiko talks tough as task force on forest protection formed Tobiko earlier warned that he would
weed out rogue KFS rangers and empower those found fit to fully protect
forests, water towers and wetlands. He said he was unhappy with reports
that rangers were colluding with traders and illegally harvesting timber in
government forests. The CS added that millers caught
logging without permits will be prosecuted for economic sabotage. "There are saw millers who are not
following laid down procedures. Their licences will be
revoked," he said at Mazingira House in Nairobi when he officially took over from Judi Wakhungu. At the time, Tobiko said environmental
conservation was a matter of life and death and asked officers in his ministry
to take their work seriously. He noted communities living around water
towers will be empowered through conservation as many of them care about the
environment. Details: 10 KFS officers fired over illegal forest activities More on this: Ruto's forests task force a waste of time and resources - official Click here for the latest political stories