The Teacher Service Commission has refuted claims that the commission failed to turn up for conciliation proceedings at the Ministry of Labour on Friday. The teachers' employer said both the conciliator and members of KNUT were not at the venue of the meeting at the appointed time. "As a matter of fact, the boardroom where the meeting was scheduled
to take place was locked," TSC said in a statement. Head of
Corporate Communications Kihumba Kamotho said TSC called the conciliator and sent her text messages which all went
unanswered. "Efforts to trace the conciliator even in her office on the
third floor of the NSSF Building were unsuccessful." Kamotho said the TSC team left the venue at about 11.30
am having
failed to meet both the conciliator and the team from KNUT. "The
TSC team was later informed that the conciliator, the Labour
Commissioner and the Cabinet Secretary for Labour were in an unrelated
meeting with KNUT officials, a fact that had not been brought to the
attention of the TSC team," he said. He added: "It is, therefore
false, misleading and mischievous for Wilson Sossion (Knut Secretary General) to claim in the
national media that TSC failed to turn up for the meeting." On March 13, the Labour ministry's appointed Hellen Maneno as the conciliator of teachers and TSC. The group was to agree on contentions over promotion of teachers who
have attained higher qualifications and the appraisal system of grading
teachers performance (TPAD). The commission said the utterances by Sossion are "unfortunately a demonstration of bad faith even before the commencement of the engagement by the parties." The commission also accused Sossion, who is also a Nominated MP, of inciting teachers against the commission. Teachers have threatened to stage a nationwide a strike soon over what they termed "poor terms of operation". Read: Teachers threaten strike after TSC snubs reconciliation meeting The threats came after the reconciliation meeting between their unions and TSC failed to kick off. Sossion told journalists that the union has applied for a certificate of disagreement to initiate the process of calling the strike. "Talks with the Ministry of Labour and that of Education have been fruitful but the employer has decided to frustrate the work done by teachers by shutting their ears," he said. The conciliation process is supposed to take 30 days. Click here for the latest political news