The National Land Commission will issue a notice of 90 days to those who have encroached on riparian land to vacate. NLC Vice Abigael Mukolwe said flooding that the recent flooding in Nairobi was as a result of the wanton encroachment of lands along river banks and streams. Speaking exclusively to The Star at her office in Arthi house, Mukolwe said, "Flooding is destroying our infrastructure which are very expensive to build, killing people and causing strange diseases such as cholera. We cant allow this to continue." The move is likely to send shock waves among prominent individuals accused for erecting multi-billion storey buildings in riparian land. Former Bobasi MP Stephen Manoti is among those likely to lose in the purge. Manoti has a Sh1 billion commercial building on the banks of Ngong River along Lang’ata Road. The building is among those that had been listed for demolition by an inter-agency committee that had been formed to audit unsafe buildings and those built on wetlands. "An illegality is an illegality, and in this country, we have the rule of law. Everyone must respect the rule of law. The law be applied uniformly and will be enforced irrespective of who has committed it," she said. Mukolwe said article 67 of the constitution says riparian land is public land hence not available for allocation to anyone. She further says that NLC is developing a policy paper on riparian land that will provide a framework of how riparian land is going to be managed through out the country. The commission will work closely with the National and county governments to secure riparian land from private developers, who Mukolwe says they own almost all raparian land. Article 62 of the constitution says all rivers, lakes as defined by an act of parliament and all land between high and low water marks are public land. NLC manages public land on behalf of the national and county governments and also recommend a national land policy to the national government. In 2016, South C and Nairobi West were classified as flood hotspots in Nairobi. Other areas include Kileleshwa, Imara Daima, Thika Road, Langata, Loresho, Zimmerman, Garden Estate, Thome and Roysambu. Kahawa West, Donholm, the Mbagathi/Langata Road Roundabout, Nairobi West, Ruai, Utawala, Mukuru slums and Kibera slums were also identified.   