The religious conflicts that erupted at Jamhuri High School on January 24 came as a shocker to the institution’s old boys. The former students have termed as unfortunate and regrettable the chaos that left 42 students injured, seven with stab wounds. Four students have been charged in court with assaulting a colleague, and 11 been suspended by the principal in connect with the fracas. Muslim students accuse the management of bias and discrimination, but head teacher Fred Awuor and a section of the students have denied this. They accuse their Muslim counterparts of seeking special treatment. SECOND-OLDEST SECONDARY SCHOOL Located on Limuru Road, Ngara, in the country’s capital, “Jamuu”, as it is popularly known, is the second oldest secondary school in the country after Nairobi School. It was founded in 1906 as a Railway Educational Centre. It was formerly known as Government Indian School because it predominantly enrolled students from the Indian community. In 1955, the school was renamed The Duke of Gloucester School, named after Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester. After Independence in 1964, the school’s name was changed to Jamhuri High School. Jamhuri is a Kiswahili word for republic. It symbolised independence and Kenya’s sovereignty as a republic. Since then, the school has had a diversified enrollment of students of African, Indian and White heritage. It was a purely boys’ day school until five years ago, when the boarding wing was introduced. The school is popularly known as “Jamuu” and its nickname is “Dukes”. Though it has not been known as one of the academic giants in the city and in the country at large, it has produced some of the finest sportsmen, musicians, journalists and human right activists in the country. Some of the old ‘Jamuuians’ (alumni) are Mathare Football Club chief executive officer Jecton Obure, Citizen TV news anchor Hussein Mohammed and celebrated musician Paul Nunda, alias Jua Cali. Other big names that went through Jamuu are Mathare FC assistant coach and former Harambee Stars player Salim Ali, Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid, Ghetto Radio sports reporter Paul Ojenge, KTN senior producer Isaac Oyombe and Kothbiro tournament CEO Robert ‘Robow’ Ochola. CONFLICT UNPRECEDENTED “During our time we never saw such conflicts,” Ochola said. “We were grounded by principals of our time. Our bond was very strong and we could not allow an outsider to touch one of us.” Ochola said that though they used to have small problems or differences within, for instance, students disagreeing with prefects, the issues were never personal and they never escalated outside the school. “I want to advise the lads that they should never allow their differences to take either religious or tribal angles. Those trying to interfere and corrupt their minds should keep off. The boys should be left to enjoy their time in school,” he said. Obure, who was the school captain in 2001, said Jamuuians were known for fighting students from rival schools like Upper Hill and “raiding” girl schools, but never fought among themselves. “It is so unfortunate that such a thing (fight over religious differences) happened at Jamuu. We just hope and believe that it will never happen again,” he said. “We have been talking to the boys, though we are planning to visit the school very soon. We are telling them that Jamuu is at the core of Nairobi and everybody wants to be associated with it. That they should reject any force that wants to influence them.” Hussein Mohammed said they (alumni) were shocked by the incident and they are already mobilising themselves – through a WhatsApp group - and will soon visit the school to talk to the boys.