Northeastern senators yesterday clashed with their
colleagues from other regions over a petition tabled in the House seeking the transfer of non-local teachers from the volatile Mandera, Garissa and Wajir
counties. The agitated senators said it amounts to marginalisation. Children from the region will be denied a right to education, they said. Some teachers in Mandera behind the petition want all non-local teachers transferred. They allege locals are “rapists”
and unfriendly. Mandera Senator Mahamud Mohamed said transferring teachers
impedes efforts to foster national cohesion and integration. “Let’s not turn Kenyans against each other. We are not
rapists. We need cohesion. Let’s not sensationalise or dramatise this matter,” he said. Read: We don’t want nonlocal teachers, says Duale Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo said al Shabaab attacka are not limited
to Northeastern alone. Nairobi and Mombasa have also suffered at the hands of the terrorists. Dullo said teachers should not be transferred. Instead, the Teachers Service Commission, Inspector General Joseph Boinnet, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and his Education counterpart Amina Mohamed
should seek ways of providing security for teachers. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen sympathised with the non-local teachers. No Kenyan should be forced to
work in an insecure area, he said. “The security of every citizen, employee or teacher should be provided by the government. Whether in Mandera or Elgeyo Marakwet,”
Murkomen said. Related: TSC orders transfer of teachers from insecure areas The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator said the security of non-local
teachers should come first before considering the children’s right to education
in the region. “We should invite TSC, the Education ministry and Interior
ministry officials to give us the way forward on the education in North Eastern
region. Non-local teachers from Mandera who have run for their safety should continue
earning their salaries without and no one should try to deny them,” Murkomen
said. Meru Senator Njeru Ndwiga said TSC chaired by Lydia Nzomo
should expedite the recruitment of local North Eastern teachers to teach
children. “TSC should make sure the region has teachers. Non-local teachers
uncomfortable in North Eastern should be transferred forthwith,” Ndwiga said. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said every teacher has the
right to work in an environment with peace and that the security ministry
should beef up security in North Eastern for children to acquire education.  Click here for the latest political news 