There has been a shift in the Rift. Yes, literally. When the road to Narok at Suswa broke open following the heavy rains, a massive chasm appeared, cutting off the busy highway, Narok and the Southern Rift. And some took it as an omen that the Rift is not sitting pretty with the newfound unity between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Amolo Odinga, aptly dubbed UhuRao. They say it heralds a political separation from Central Kenya and the Rift Valley, and believe their ‘beloved’ son William Ruto’s chances are now significantly threatened by the coming in of Raila and his political base.  OPEN FAULT LINES Those with this kind of thinking are quick to point out that the Mt Kenya communities had once seriously demonised Ruto after the post-election crisis in 2007-08. They say that the negative sentiment about him was only dissipated when he shook hands with Uhuru and agreed to back his 2013 presidential bid. The coming together of Uhuru and Ruto (dubbed UhuRuto), made the latter an overnight saint in the Mt Kenya region in pretty much the same way Raila is now a saint among them. They now see Raila enjoying newfound love in the same way Ruto did in 2013. Ruto rode through that love to find himself where he is today, and was banking on that love to get him to the presidency in 2022, until Raila entered the room and things have now changed significantly.  PAYING UNOKA’S DEBT Author Chinua Achebe in his epic book Things Fall Apart, gave us the oblique character Unoka, who cared little for his obligations and never paid his debts. One day, a debtor came calling and the palpably lazy Unoka pointed to him mounds of debts owed to others and stated that he should first pay the aged debt before coming to the newest. The debtor, learning that his debt was only the youngest (and presumably the smallest), had no right to claim and so went away to wait his turn in the future. Pundits say herein lies the danger for Ruto. With Raila regaining the love he had last enjoyed when he announced ‘Kibaki Tosha!’, Mt Kenya could easily forget their debt to Ruto and decide to pay Raila’s debt first. This political debt had risked being declared a ‘bad’ debt, thereby reducing their creditworthiness in the future. It is amazing how the negative sentiment at Raila in Mt Kenya was wiped out by a handshake and likewise for Uhuru in Raila’s turf. He has become something of a saint among the Mt Kenya communities that had he had fallen out with a while back. Already, Raila, whose age allows him to get away with anything, had listed Mt Kenya as perennially bad debtors and openly warned Ruto to be careful with his own debt. This did not look good for Mt Kenya’s future coalition-making. Paying Raila’s debt first could pose danger for Ruto in 2022.  COLD CAMEL IN THE DESERT Others, however, are quick to rubbish this kind of thinking, pointing out Raila is not really that much of a threat to Ruto’s place in the geo-political scheme of things. They state Mt Kenya’s (unwritten) pact to support Ruto remains intact, despite the coming in of Raila, who has not made his 2022 intentions public. However, others such as Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki are not seeing things that way. They are saying Raila is coming in as the proverbial Camel who, finding the desert night unbearably cold, prayed to its master that he should allow only the nose into his tent. The obliging master allowed the nose to come in. But soon, the camel prayed for only his head to come in, then the neck and, before long, he was the one in the tent and his master was out in the cold.  GUARDED PESSIMISM During a recent rally, Nandi Senator Samson ‘Wakili’ Cherargei was quick to point out that Raila should not interfere with the intended accession of ‘our beloved son’ Ruto to the presidency. His words echoed those of Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto, who said Raila could not be trusted because he had proved to be unpredictable politically. Cherargei’s outburst was the classic case of political ‘jealousy’, where a particular political relationship is threatened by the entry of a significant other player. This happened the last time Raila folded his party and joined Kanu, taking up the space that had for ages been occupied by party stalwarts, who lost badly when Raila eventually left the fold. Cherargei and Moroto could be forgiven for their guarded pessimism. Someone has been in their position before.  THE UHURUTO VS UHURAO EFFECT Ruto detractors in the Rift Valley had made the point that the recent coming together and creation of ‘UhuRao’ has had a massive conciliatory effect nationally, unlike the rather limited ‘UhuRuto’ effect created in 2013. They say that the difference in the power dynamic from this creation would easily shake Ruto out of the deck and push him into the water. They say the prevalent positive national mood shows the DP’s power is only limited as compared to that of RAO and it would show as much in the ballot in 2022 should Raila opt to run. But while they were quick to adopt a minimalist view of Ruto’s power, they forget that Ruto is a street savvy politician and smart strategist, who has masterfully converted his (deepest) disadvantages into political capital before. His sheer force of willpower rides on his early identification of the strategic importance of the presidency, and is relentless in his quest for the office. And there is nothing like a politician with his eye on the ball. But, as always, not everything is going against Ruto and he is probably already benefiting from the law of unintended consequences.  LAW OF UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES As in all political deals, there’s always the law of unintended consequences, where things turn out differently from what was erstwhile intentioned. The UhuRao deal could have just sorted out Ruto’s geo-political rival Gideon Moi, the Baringo senator. By loosening the political backyard of Raila, Ruto will no longer consider Gideon his bitterest rival in the Rift Valley. During the last election, it was necessary to have Gideon and his party, Kanu, be close to government, as Raila seemed to be amassing clout in his corner of the ring. That is not the case going into 2022. With UhuRao, Gideon is suddenly dispensable. Already, there has been strained relations between him and Jubilee, following the temporary shutdown of part of a certain media house, where his family has a controlling interest. He was on record as having called for the reopening of the TV station during the shutdown, and has even had his Senate committee summon ICT CS Joe Mucheru to explain the circumstaces of the shutdown. This situation was of course unprecedented, Gideon found himself in a bad spot with Jubilee. UhuRao now robs him of any leverage he still had with Jubilee. Besides, the political undercurrents in the Rift Valley have not favoured him, particularly with the new appointments into government. His party did not feature much. Those he fronted were given the cold shoulder. The UhuRao handshake now complicates matters for his presidential bid, if at all he still habours those ambitions. He had hoped to run for President so that he could boost his geo-political significance in any future deal-making but now that was largely put paid to by the handshake.  PULLING THE LUO TO THE CENTRE Raila is like a man who walks out of the dancehall, leaving behind a bevy of beauties he had brought with him. He recently became ‘saved’ and has no romantic interest in the girls that have been much-sought-after by many suitors, with little success. Ruto is now eyeing these beauties to see which one(s) he can invite to the dance floor. Luo is the most beautiful girl in the room and Ruto must be cracking up his courage to make the move. It is, therefore, natural if Ruto’s long-term girlfriend, the Kalenjin, feels jittery at the presence of other girls, but in this game, the more girlfriends one has, the better for all of them. They must just let their boy have his day, it will be good for them too.    Sang is a writer and biographer, researcher, publisher and commentator on leadership and social issues