Coast women yesterday accused local leaders of abandoning those who have contributed to transforming the lives of residents. Coast Women Power, a lobby championing the rights and empowerment of women, said Alice Maitha’s death on Tuesday is a classic case of abandonment. The third wife of former powerful Coast politician Karisa Maitha, died at the Coast General Hospital aged 53. She had been in the ICU for three weeks and had battled ill health for four years. Maitha, the former powerful Coast politician, represented Kisauni in Parliament. He died in 2004 while on an official trip in Germany. “She has been sick and all the political leaders did was promise help. No help was forthcoming. She was admitted to the Coast General Hospital for two weeks and no one went to see her,” Coast Women Power founder Emma Mbura said. “She was abandoned in her hour of need.” Despite her failing health, Alice had put on a brave face, fighting for women’s space in politics in a region where cultural practices still dictate that women belong in the kitchen. She would hear none of that. FEARLESS MOTIVATOR She actively waded into the murky male-dominated waters of politics in 2013, when she ran against men in the Mombasa senator race. She ran on the ticket of TNA at a time when no politician worth their salt would dare be associated with the party. She was the only woman in the region who tried her luck in the senator race. Alice lost to then-Wiper’s Hassan Omar, but left an indelible mark, inspiring other women and girls. “She was a brave woman. She gave me the courage to soldier on in politics and I earned a nomination to the Senate thanks to her,” Mbura said. Political activist Naomi Cidi said the Coast has lost a fearless and motivating woman. “She was a champion of the mnazi drink — alongside her late husband Karisa Maitha. She gave Coast women the dignity and pride they deserve,” she said. Cidi said political activism and human rights advocacy at the Coast have suffered a major blow with Alice’s demise. Alice’s son Byrum Mwakaz’s statement on February 23 said a lot about her courage. Mwakaz said his mother developed health complications four years ago, but never gave up or slackened her quest to improve residents’ lives. “Mum, you were a fighter — a politician who was not scared to fight with men,” he posted on his mother’s Facebook page on February 23. INSPIRING “It’s been fours years since the start of your illness. But we still had to fight for you for a better health. “Even though you are lying there in the hospital bed, God is still fighting for you because He is able. He will keep you on your toes as we go back home. May God continue healing and fighting for you because He is able.” A mother of three, Alice has been described by friends and rivals as God-fearing, choir-loving, fearless, hearty, generous and inspiring. Her other children are Joan Mwaka and Juney Karisa, a journalist. Alice’s husband Maitha, was a phenomenal politician, as Cidi once wrote in the Star. He died in the line of duty aged 50, marketing Kenya as a tourist destination. Popularly known as The Hurricane, he was a “burly, gregarious and aggressive personality. Like his stormy nickname, he was a force of nature — a force to reckon with,” Cidi wrote. Maitha served as Tourism and Wildlife minister in the Narc administration. He was first appointed as the Local Government minister, where he cut his ministerial teeth and became famous as a no-nonsense workaholic. Click here for the latest political news