The leadership
has had to ward off a series of onslaught on its unity and strength. Their
resolve to remain a united outfit that can sustain a coordinated challenge to
Jubilee dominance has been tested to the limit. While the ruling party was able
to marshal its troops to push its parliamentary agenda successfully, the
opposition has struggled to convince their rank and file that everyone had
access to their piece of pie. There was also loud grumbling and open
disobedience of coalition instructions from the Minority leadership in
Parliament. Parliament resumed business in the backdrop of accusations of
betrayal from quarters close to the Peoples’ President, Raila Odinga. His
co-principals had spent the better part of early February explaining to their
followers the reasons of not attending the swearing-in ceremony at Uhuru Park
on January 30. NASA followers
have largely dismissed the reasons proffered by the other Summit members as
frivolous and at best lame excuses. The pent-up anger has not subsided nor
ventilated and the disquiet has been palpable. But the Summit has put up a show
of unity and tried to demonstrate commitment to their agenda of electoral
justice. However,
objective conditions of politics do not support the desire of the NASA leaders
to remain united and work together under the current circumstances. NASA has
begun to suffer the effects of atrophy. The leaders are faced with the
challenge of mobilising resources for their grandiose political enterprises, yet
they are limited because of being out of government. They, therefore, must fall
back to their support base for bailout. The resource reserve of the support
base is now almost depleted after a long drawn out electoral process. Many of
the benefactors are also facing personal challenges in form of election
petitions and repayment of financial advances. The need to recoup investment is
driving the base to fragmentation. The internal NASA succession, together with
the angling and positioning for 2022 election, is also pushing each of the
principals to separate corners. Each is retreating to their respective
political houses for endorsement to run in 2022. The other major factor
accelerating the atrophy is the feeling of betrayal by ODM leaders at their
hour of need on the afternoon of January 30 in Uhuru Park. This is buttressed
by feeling of intimidation and domination by the other affiliate parties
demonstrated well during the sharing of slots in Parliamentary Committee leadership.
The complaints have now became loud. The Jubilee Party
has not spared the opposition either. They have taken advantage of their
internal challenges to exert maximum pressure. The leaders have enticed the
ranks of the opposition by offering government appointments to their stalwarts.
Within Parliament, opposition members have been offered support from the Jubilee
side to break ranks and compete for positions against their colleagues. Wiper
Party is seen as a beneficiary of this flagrant raid by Jubilee on the
opposition benches. Where enticement is not effective, the ruling party has
resorted to open intimidation. They use the government machine and state
agencies to frustrate political activities of the NASA brigade. The saga
revolving around the security and passports of some NASA luminaries can be seen
in this light. The Jubilee leadership is clearly intent on sparing no efforts
to vanquish the opposition to obliteration. Jubilee is also
enjoying the support of Western powers in this quest albeit by default. Over
the years, the opposition has always enjoyed unrivaled patronage of the Western
powers in their duels with the government. They seem to have lost it when they
became obstinate and defied the envoys against boycotting the repeat
presidential election. The NASA Summit
adopted a belligerent stance with the leading Western power representatives,
who were pushing them to recorgnise the releelection of President Uhuru
Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. NASA has, therefore, lost vital
international networks and, thus, has no big brother to intervene in their
internal wrangles as well as intercede on their behalf for international
support. Fatigue has thus set in and they must then retreat to their respective
units of ODM, Ford-Kenya, Wiper and ANC.