It revolves around double
standards, lack of principles and shifty pronouncements. Culprits include very
senior leaders within the summit of the Opposition and nationally decorated
politicians who should know better. Their actions have shocked and disappointed
many. One day we are together assuring
innocent and trusting supporters of optimum unity and determination to remove
this ethnicity-driven, destructive and malfunctioning Jubilee regime from
power; the next moment a key leader erupts with disturbing pronouncements as if
undermining the cause or working for the enemy to destroy us. When under attack by validly
alarmed opposition supporters for their disturbing pronouncements and conduct,
culprits have responded by claiming existence of problems with communication
and coordination in the organs steering the leadership and programs of the
opposition coalition. Yet none has come up to convince the country that they
have been denied opportunity to ventilate any burning issues and concerns in the
Opposition’s boardrooms. Why is it that of late some top
leaders in the affiliate parties forming the National Super Alliance (NASA) are
talking at cross purposes? Can this pass for mere coincidence? Could these be
signs of pre-meditated mischief and strategic selfish maneuvering? Why is
caution being shredded and hurled to the winds recklessly? Where is logic? Could some
opposition leaders be secret partakers of Jubilee’s corruption proceeds like
Eurobond and NYS? Otherwise, why this cold betrayal of the people? Truth telling has never been a
vice. Double standards and deceitful marriages of convenience appear to pervade
the Opposition leadership and is the blight to our progression. Our journey to
Canaan is suffering lengthy delays due to avoidable self-distractions. There is no alternative to unity
of purpose in this endeavor. Yet such unity goes beyond public posturing and
mere declarations of togetherness. It calls for real political leadership and bonding
into a strong functional guild, commitment to each other and the cause. It also
calls for resourcefulness in ideas, programs, strategies and mobilization. Bringing together ODM, Wiper,
Amani National Congress (ANC) and Ford Kenya and their principals to construct
one united NASA family to oust Uhuruto was out of sound judgment. It was
grounded in the wisdom that “there is strength in numbers and unity”. A lot of
effort and resources went into it. Hence, undermining this project of
patriotism is reckless, suspect and unforgivable. Events and pronouncements oozing
from sections of NASA leadership after the successfully boycotted repeat
Presidential elections of October 26 last year, more so concerning the swearing
in of Raila Amollo Odinga as the People’s President,  have raised eyebrows. Quite irritating and
confusing. Obviously the culprits are giving
Jubilee many windows of opportunity to infiltrate, divide and crash the
opposition. This will delay the achievement of our dreams to liberate the
people or destroy the project altogether. Similar selfish misbehavior
within the Opposition has in the past denied Raila Odinga very realistic
chances of ascending to the Presidency. In 2007 some decamped from the original
ODM to launch a separate Presidential bid and lost, but it gave the PNU regime
room and opportunity to retain power dubiously. Some opportunists tried it again
in 2013 and harvested humiliation. Those should have been vital lessons to
deter any repeat. If all top Opposition leaders had
stuck with Raila in 2007 we would have won with a landslide. And if the unity
had prevailed, which should be the case, one of them would be President today
with Raila being a retired statesman and others preparing to reign thereafter.
But opportunism has undermined and derailed all that and held back the people. Jubilee benefits from and
celebrates a disunited and wrangling Opposition suffering from endless
leadership crises. Then it can attack with devastating effect. A united NASA is
Jubilee’s waking nightmare. The culprits have been keen to
defend themselves variously, even as they attract more suspicion by unleashing
their individual premature Presidential bids for 2022. Piqued by the uncomfortable turn
of events, somebody has warned: “beware, friendly fire kills”. Could he be
blackmailing well-founded fury into silence? Question is: why are friendly
fires escalating within the Opposition? Who is recklessly provoking the people?
What are the triggers? Culprits should re-examine
themselves and help arrest the situation by mending their tongues, ending
suspect conduct, apologizing and unconditionally returning to the fold. Non-negotiable solid unity of
purpose is what the doctor prescribed for Kenya’s political emancipation. The
united Opposition umbrella outfit National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) used it to
sweep Kanu from power in 2002. Also a united ODM in 2007; under Raila Odinga
and the Pentagon.  The writer is ODM national treasurer and former Kitutu Masaba MP   