The
government is planning to contract 10,000 farmers in Bungoma, Uasin
Gishu and Trans Nzoia counties to increase maize production. This is one of the strategies to achieve one of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four Agenda on food and nutrition security. About
50,000 acres have been targeted in Bungoma, 225,000 in Uasin Gishu
and 225,000 in Trans Nzoia counties. The Agriculture ministry is targeting 500,000 acres under maize production. The
farmers are expected to produce five bags per acre above their
current production of 25-30 bags. This will result to an
expected production of an additional 2.5 million bags. The plan is at discussion stage. A source who spoke to the Star said this is a good strategy since
the country has enough land to feed its people but transparency is key
in the implementation. “It
is high time the government made good use of underutilised land to produce more maize,” the source said. Last
week, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said the country has enough
maize to last for four months. He said there are 37 million bags of
maize, but there is still a deficit of 10-15 million bags. According
to the document seen by the Star, the state is targeting large-scale farmers
with at least 50 acres and above. Only those registered in the
Agriculture ministry database will be selected. Farmers will be given incentives such as
subsidised seeds, fertiliser and fall army worm pesticides, benefit from subsidised drying facilities at the
NCPB depots, get affordable credit, warehouse receipt system, lime and agrochemicals
as motivation. Field extension officers and chiefs in the three
counties will do the selection and verification on the ground. There are also plans to
expand area under maize production by utilizing 10,000 acres of
public land under Agricultural Development Corporation and 1,300 under the Kenya
Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation. The institutions will produce maize
by themselves, but will be supported with resources for various
inputs and operations, the document reads. Expected
output from ADC and Kalro is 30 bags per acre to produce a total of
339,000 bags. This will increase the current maize production of 37
million bags harvested last year to 46 million bags this year.  Click here for the latest political news