The proposal by Tiaty MP Kassait Kamket to change the Constitution to create a powerful Prime Minister has rekindled debate about a Parliamentary democracy in Kenya. The first-time MP has called for a single seven-year ceremonial Presidency and the scrapping of the position of Deputy President. The Jubilee MP has proposed the creation of a substantive Leader of the Opposition, who will have a shadow Cabinet and control several committees of the House. Kamket’s proposal includes a depoliticised President, who is elected by Parliament, and who will be in office between elections to ensure continuity. He will be head of state and will have the duty to ask the leader of the largest Parliamentary party to form government. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, will be a leader with no term limits, and will name his Cabinet from among parliamentarians. According to Kamket, the proposed President must have attained the age of 50 years, and will be elected by Parliament on the first Thursday of December of every seventh year. Kamket’s proposals are not new. We have been here before.  RETURN TO THE BOMAS DRAFT? The rejected Bomas Draft had pretty much the same provisions, and it emphasized a parliamentary democracy. However, the contentions over this form of government led to a major fallout as Raila Odinga led the onslaught against the Kibaki government, which, in 2005, had introduced the Wako Draft that concentrated power at the Presidency. Two years later, Raila ran a campaign to remove Kibaki, which succeeded on the back of promises of a parliamentary democracy. It was perhaps the fear of a powerful premiership that had coalesced powerful forces against Raila’s bid, and he failed to become President. He would get the premiership in a compromise that saw peace return to Kenya after more than 1,000 Kenyans were killed and hundreds of thousands displaced. His single-term premiership was, however, quite controversial and convinced many that it was not what they wanted. Besides, he only had implied but not real power. The Kamket Bill will also be music to the ears of the National Council of Churches of Kenya, which had also made similar proposals only that they had been quietly ignored. They had proposed the establishment of a Prime Minister, who will have two deputies and will answer questions fielded in Parliament. The proposals are also likely to excite an Opposition that has been rooting for constitutional changes quite akin to this. In fact, they are largely motivated by a ‘rotational’ presidency that will break the duopolistic Kalenjin-Kikuyu power matrix. By and large, their version of the Executive, which will not be too radically different from that of Kamket, may see it obtain bi-partisan support.  KALENJIN-KIKUYU DUOPOLY A very close friend of mine who is not from my tribe, told me just after the 2013 election that he had realised that Kenya had 42 tribes, but the ‘4’ was silent. We both laughed it off but there was something real in his concern. How come Kenya has not moved on from these two tribes in a half-century of Independence? The coming to power of President Daniel Moi, now with hindsight, was a strategic blunder for those who had surrounded Jomo Kenyatta in his inner circle. There are many photos I have seen this week with Kenyatta and his brother-in-law Mbiyu Koinange literally together at every waking moment. Kenyatta was a powerful President but Koinange was the power behind the throne and never made it hidden that he intended to succeed him. Despite the effort to remove Moi from the line of succession, he remained with everyone knowing he was a heartbeat (literally), away from the top seat. Eventually Kenyatta’s heart gave out and so Moi became President. However, in his exit on 2002, he tried to create another Kikuyu (Uhuru) to succeed him, only this time the Opposition had fielded another fresh Kikuyu candidate in former Vice President Mwai Kibaki who won. Uhuru Kenyatta was defeated but bounced back to become President with a Kalenjin running mate, thereby consolidating the Kikuyu-Kalenjin duopoly.  DANGER IN KAMKET’S PROPOSAL There is danger in the Kamket’s proposition — it could consolidate the very same Kikuyu-Kalenjin political duopoly, if Russia is an example to go by. Since Vladimir Putin came to power in 2000, he served his Constitutional limit (eight years) and then became Prime Minister in an arrangement with Dmitry Medvedev, who served as President for a term ( 2008-12 ) and returned to the premiership. However, the Russian example is not a really good one because, indeed, Russians are pretty much a socially and culturally more homogenous than Kenya. We here have such great tribal divisions that will not be ending soon. The Kikuyu-Kalenjin duopoly is, therefore, likely to play out in the proposed amendments with the very same individuals — UhuRuto remaining in power into their sunset years because there is nothing to stop them. The arrangement will likely lead to further marginalisation of certain communities the end of which will be conflict.  CHEAPER ELECTIONS In England, everyone goes to the ballot to elect two individuals — the MP and the councillor. The MP would have to be the person already chosen by the party — you are more inclined to vote for the individual not the party. The winning parliamentary candidate will be named and he will in turn participate in the election of the Prime Minister, who is the leader of the party or coalition with the largest number of seats. We are just coming from an election billed the most expensive in the world in terms of per-capita cost. Much of the money goes into our multi-tier structure of government populating several august bodies — the county assembly, the Senate and the National Assembly. Then there is the Executive led by the President and also the governors. If passed, we are likely to have cheaper elections — voting only the MCA, the MP and the Senator. The campaigns will be much quieter and there will be no need to have a so much acrimony revolving around tribal coalitions. The Executive will be acceptable across the country since a representative from each corner voted for them.  WESTMINSTERIAN POSITION IN OUR PARLIAMENT Kamket’s proposals are likely to return Parliament from the current Congressional style to the Westminsterian style. This was what we had at Independence with the Governor General becoming the head of state, while Jomo Kenyatta was the Prime Minister. This changed after only a year and we got a powerful President. However, towards the start of Kenyatta’s second term, Tinderet MP Jean-Marie Seroney himself a stickler to Westminsterianism, called for the (re)introduction of the position of Prime Minister. At a House debate in March 1971, he made the call that was shot down by the architect of the powerful presidency —Attorney General Njonjo. Seroney then made a similar call in April 1973 but that was not to be. We next got a Prime Minister in 2008 but perhaps the confrontational nature of its occupant led many to play down the significance of the position. Today, many countries in the world — most of them in the developed world, have powerful premiers, including such ethnically and religiously diverse nations such as India and Pakistan. African nations rejected the position in favour of powerful presidencies, which in itself is an indictment of our attitude to power — the more the better. In that case, I don’t see Kamket going very far with this.      