Bungoma county government has set aside one hundred million
shillings for drilling boreholes across its 45
wards. Governor Wycliffe Wangamati on Tuesday said
providing clean sufficient water to every resident was one of his key campaign pledges in
2017 polls and must be fulfilled. The county has been unable to supply the residents
with adequate water despite having strong water catchment areas such as Mt Elgon
forest and River Nzoia. Other reasons were attributed to leadership wrangles. Wangamati was addressing parents, teachers, students and residents at Masaek
primary school in Mt Elgon constituency. "I have listened to the many complains on acute water
shortage that have been raised here and I want to tell you that I have set
aside Sh100 million to drill bore holes across the county that will begin with the most
hard hit areas like here in Mt Elgon" he said. The county will ensure markets, hospitals, schools and homestead are
supplied with clean sufficient drinking water. Mt Elgon and Sirisia
constituencies will be
one of the areas that will be considered first when the programme begins
in two
months time. The Governor also said the county through the ministry of Water will acquire its own drilling rig. "We want to purchase our own rig so that
we be able to drill water faster and more cheaply whenever there is need," he
said. The Governor also wrote to the commission
on revenue allocation to equalise funds to marginalised areas like Mt. Elgon to improve infrastructure. ‘I am optimistic that Mt Elgon will be considered as
a marginalized area and benefit from the equalization funds,’ he said. The embattled Nzoia water and sewerage company has
also not been able to supply fulfill its mandate due to what is said
to be leadership wrangles. Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati said
providing clean sufficient water to every resident was one of his key campaign pledges in
2017 polls and must be fulfilled. Wangamati was addressing parent’s teachers, students
and residents at Masaek SA primary school during a prize giving day in Kapkatenyi
ward in Mt Elgon constituency on Tuesday. ‘I have listened to the many complains on acute water
shortage that have been raised here and I want to tell you that i have set
aside 100M to drill bore holes across the county that will begin with the most
hard hit areas like here in Mt Elgon,’ he said. The governor reveled plans by the county through ministry
of water to acquire its own drilling rig. ‘We want as a county to purchase our own rig so that
we be able to drill water faster and more cheaply whenever there is need,’ he
said. He said the county will ensure markets, hospitals, schools and homestead are supplied with clean sufficient drinking water. He said Mt Elgon and Sirisia constituencies will be
one of the areas that will be considered first when the programme begins in two
months time The governor assured
Mt Elgon residents that his government will ensure it improve infrastructure
that has been neglected since independent. Wangamati raveled that he has written to the commission
on revenue allocation that is set to consider the area as marginalized A report was written by my government and is awaiting
senate and parliamentary discussions and approvals ‘I am optimistic that Mt Elgon will be considered as
a marginalized area and benefit from the equalization funds,’ he said. Calm is slowly and relatively retuning to the violence
stricken Mountain after a 90 day curfew was imposed by state  following a spate of killings .   