Pyrethrum sector players have accused the government hindering the revival of the industry through stringent and unfair policies. The stakeholders singled out the ban on exporting pyrethrum in its raw form by the Agriculture and Food Authority. At a forum in Njambini, Nyandarua county on Wednesday, it emerged that a Chinese investor had been put off by the tough regulations. E-Share Agriculture and Planting Company director Francis Muchiri said the investor wanted to put 2,000 acres under pyrethrum farming. He also wanted to construct a Sh300 million processing plant. Muchiri said the investor was also willing to help farmers re-establish the crop as their key income earner. He was ready to collaborate with farmers from Nyandarua, Nakuru and Bomet counties. Muchiri said the investor has now been put off by AFA ban on exportation of raw pyrethrum. “It's sad that such investors are threatening to relocate to other countries where they will be allowed to export the commodity in its raw form,” Muchiri said. He said the regulation was was unfair and asked the government to amending it. some of the policies including those from the Pyrethrum Directorate. “It's sad that such investors are threatening to relocate to other countries where they will be allowed to export the commodity in its raw form,” Muchiri said. Muchiri who later spoke to journalists said they were not opposed to the government's plans to encourage exportation of finished product. He said Kenya production was still less, compared to other countries. "We had entered a deal where farmers would be enrolled to receive free high-yield seedlings to plant and later sell to the company for export," Muchiri said. Nyandarua County Agri-Business Association chairperson Margret Muthoni said they had formed the group to access market for farmers. “We want to revive pyrethrum farming. We have already acquired a market where to sell 5000 tonnes annually,” Muthoni said. Trade and cooperatives chief officer Daniel Kamau said the county was ready to support cash crop farmers. “We can provide incentives and train farmers on best practices because we want to revive the once flourishing pyrethrum sector,” Kamau said. Farmer Esther Wambui said they were ready to abandon potato and vegetable growing if the sector can be revived. “With ready market, pyrethrum is our number one crop. We are forced to cabbages and potatoes because the sector collapsed," Wambui said.   