Nairobi Majority leader Abdi Guyo has denied reports that he has been funding criminal activities, including terrorism, in the city. The second-time Spring Valley/Matopeni MCA also rejected claims he has been engaging in sexual affairs with female Nominated MCAs. Guyo said he has been maligned and his character assassinated by reports in mainstream and social media. "I abhor al Shabaab and its activities. I am not their sympathiser and I don't know who runs the terror group," he said in an interview with The Star on Thursday. He accused cartels of holding the county at ransom and being behind  the "false and alarming" reports about him. Guyo claimed the cartels want to silence him because of his stance against corruption. In his contributions at the Assembly on Wednesday, he said: "I have never been involved in any criminal activity, Madam Speaker [Beatrice Elachi]. I am a leader in this house, in my ward and in the whole of Nairobi. What is happening is pure intimidation and character assassination." On claims he has been having affairs with female MCAs, Guyo noted his Islamic beliefs do allow him to be promiscuous. "Madam Speaker, I am a married man with three children - two handsome boys and a beautiful girl. My wife has never complained that I have affairs outside our marriage." The ward representative further said his woes began two weeks ago, immediately after they discussed EALA MP Simon Mbugua's role at City Hall. Read: Who’s Simon Mbugua? De facto deputy governor? City MCAs ask Sonko The MCAs argued that the former Kamukunji MP was directing, intimidating and threatening leaders as well as workers at the county headquarters. Guyo claimed he has bean receiving calls from private numbers, threatening him over what transpired in the chambers. "Madam Speaker, these are cartels. They are trying to intimidate and beat me to silence. But I state here that I will not be cowed, intimidated or silenced. I will continue to discharge my mandate," he said Click here for the latest political news 