Three former City Hall finance officers were on Tuesday at pains to explain queries raised by Auditor General Edward Ouko. Ouko has queried the expenditure of Sh480 million paid to law firms, despite a budgetary allocation of just Sh100 million. Appearing before the county assembly’s Pubic Accounts Committee, former Finance executive Gregory Mwakanongo, former chief officer Luke Gatimu and former head of county treasury Maurice Okere denied authorising the payments in disregard of the Integrated Financial Management System. The counties were directed to make all transactions through the Ifmis for easy trail and accountability. The three are also accused of failing to present a supplementary budget to the assembly to regularise the payments. They neither provided payment vouchers to support the expenditure nor the list of firms paid, a factor that raised concerns the money could have been stolen. “Why were all these illegalities committed?” PAC chairman Wilfred Odalo asked. COURT ORDERS Mwakanongo said they did not prepare a supplementary budget because they treated the expenditure as a pending bill. He said they had been compelled by the court to make the payments. “The expenditure was not illegal because we considered it as a contingent liability. We also declared it in our correctional journals,” Mwakanongo said. Gatimu said Sh288 million was paid following court orders. MCAs challenged the officers to provide documents to prove there were orders directing them to make the payments. “We cannot legitimise an illegality. If the expenditure was not regularised, then an illegality was committed. Action must be taken against you unless you provide documents to support your claims,” Waithaka MCA Peter Kiragu said. The trio, who served in former Governor Evans Kidero’s administration, were summoned after finance chief officer Ekaya Alumasi failed to provide a satisfactory response to the auditor’s queries. ARREST THREATS Mwakanongo said the documents were with the current officer holders. Odalo ordered Alumasi and the three former officers to provide the documents on Monday, failing which the trio will be forced to pay back the money. “It is now up to you to liaise with those in office and provide the documents. You know the consequences of failing to do so,” Odalo said. The committee had last week threatened to have the three former officers forced to appear before it if they failed to honour the summons. They had failed to honour a similar summons the previous week. Click here for the latest political news