In many African cultures, the walking stick is viewed as a symbol of authority. Leaders, including heads of state, have been known to use them. Notable examples include Kenya’s founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and Vice President Jaramogi Odinga, both of whom wielded a walking stick and a flywhisk. Among members of the Kikuyu community, a walking stick is a source of respect. Elderly men who own walking sticks are adored, depending on the design and decorations of the walking stick. Walking sticks were used by men to point at things, people and as pillars of support as they walked. In many cultures, it was a bad omen for a man to point at someone using fingers. This would amount to an irreversible curse, and thus the use of walking sticks. In modern day society, the walking stick is also used for hiking.  TRADITION KEPT ALIVE To ensure the walking stick tradition does not die, a 70-year-old man in Nyamathumbi village, Gatundu North, has been passing his craft to generations. Samuel Kimani started making and decorating walking sticks in the 1980s. Through the seemingly trivial job, Kimani has managed to feed and educate all his children to university level, and the trade continues being the source of livelihood for his family. As a person with little formal education, Kimani discovered his inborn talent as he was trying out different designs on the walking sticks. His walking sticks are unique in design, and he has managed to sell them to a number of prominent people, including politicians and businessmen. mong Kimani’s prominent customers is former Gatundu MP Ngengi Muigai, a cousin to President Uhuru Kenyatta. He made the first walking stick for the politician when he was MP, and he says he is still one of his loyal customers. “When Ngengi asks for a walking stick, he gives me a token of appreciation of like Sh20, 000,” he said.  CRAFTING PROCESS Kimani uses fresh hardwood from deciduous trees to make his walking sticks. He says the trees are best for they are less gummy. Making walking sticks is a tedious undertaking, which requires patience and artistic skills, Kimani said. He said he not only sells the walking sticks but gives them to prominent personalities free of charge. During the 2017 campaign period, he gave walking sticks to the now Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Deputy Governor James Nyoro and Juja MP Ferdinand Waititu. “I have made a walking stick each for President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto, but the only challenge is how to reach them,” he said, calling on anyone who can assist him to give the walking sticks to the two leaders to come forward. The difficulties Kimani faces include lack of a proper market, as only one shop — Kendia Limited in Thika — has agreed to stock his artwork. “The government should assist artistes to open curio shops in major commercial centres, where they can market their work,” he said. Kimani’s wife Lydia Wanjiru said she is happy with her husband’s job. “Apart from the cuts he gets while on his artwork, the job is good because he is able to provide for the family. I suffer from blood pressure and diabetes, and the work caters for my medication,” she said.