Broken marriages are increasing in Lamu because mangrove loggers are out of work and their wives are deserting them. A 90-day ban on logging nationwide went into effect on February 24 to save the nation’s forests, water towers and to conserve soil and fight drought. Thousands of men who depended on mangrove logging for a livelihood are jobless. They no longer have money to sustain their families and unhappy wives are walking away. Residents who spoke to the Star yesterday said many men have been left by their wives after the lucrative business was banned. Marriage counsellor Yusuf Mohamed on Pate Island said many women cannot endure poverty. They left when the family encountered hardship. Mohamed said he has received reports of wives becoming rude and disrespectful to their husbands because they can no longer provide for them. He said there is also a rise in extra-marital affairs since mangrove logging was banned. He said the number of couples going to his office seeking divorce is alarming.“Many men are having a rough time. Those who are lucky are still with their wives. But even then, there is no peace. They are being disrespected because they can’t provide for their families. Some wives fled in this brief period the ban has been in force. This can’t go on. Marriages are in serious trouble,” Mohamed said. Women who also spoke to the Star said it was difficult to live with a man who cannot provide for his family. Logger Biti Abushir said she is aware some marriages were breaking up because men have no money. “Men can no longer pay fees for their kids. Some men can’t afford food. Women can’t stand to see their kids suffering and so many walk out.The ban is destroying marriages. Something must be done,” she said. Logger Husna Lali said the logging ban is frustrating to women who had found empowerment through mangrove logging. “Many women were involved in mangrove business instead of waiting for their men to bring home the bacon. The ban puts out the light for women.”