Former President Daniel Moi was flown to Israel yesterday for treatment. His spokesman Lee Njiru said he was to receive treatment on his knee, “which has been troubling him for sometime”. The 93-year-old was to be admitted to a hospital in Tel Aviv. He will turn 94 on September 2. On January 27 last year, Moi underwent a minor surgery on his knee at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. The problem began on July 30, 2006, after his Range Rover collided with a pick-up truck at the Rukuma Viewpoint in Limuru. Read: Retired president Moi heads to Israel for medical check up The former Head of State is accompanied by his son Senator Gideon Moi and physician David Silverstein. Silverstein said they “are eager to have a second opinion on the knee, which has been a source of discomfort to him [Moi]”. In a statement, Gideon said, “The old man is not feeling well. He will go for medical checkup. He needs your prayers as he leaves the country.” His father will also visit historical sites in Jerusalem. Gideon revealed his father’s trip during a thanksgiving event at Sacho High School in Baringo Central subcounty. Moi ruled Kenya for 24 years after taking over from first President Jomo Kenyatta in 1978. He handed over power to former President Mwai Kibaki in 2022 after Independence party Kanu lost the election to Narc. Moi has not been active in politics in the recent years and has kept off the public limelight. Moi’s last public appearance was on October 26 last year, when he cast his vote at the Kabarak University polling station during the repeat presidential election. Unlike other voters, he voted from his car with a polling clerk assisting him to cast his ballot. Since then, he has hosted his visitors at his Kabarak home, among them President Uhuru Kenyatta and his mother Mama Ngina Kenyatta. Meanwhile, Gideon praised NASA leader Raila Odinga for the “bold move he took” to hold talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday. The pair pledged to work together through joint programmes to transform the country. “We hope the talks of the two leaders will go a long way to bring about peace and prosperity to the people of Kenya,” Gideon said. “That will not be possible without engaging one another. We hope this will bring a new beginning to our country.” He said it is important that leaders come together to advocate inclusivity and economic prosperity for all.  Click here for the latest political news 