Less than three weeks to the deadline for online data capture of learners, parents are still struggling to get birth certificates required for registration. The data will enable creation of the National Education Management System. It targets learners in primary and secondary schools, teachers and non-teaching staff. Parents have been camping at the registries’ countrywide and volumes of documents have not been processed. Speaking to the Star on Friday, parents said they fear their children will be locked out of school if the process is not expedited. Read:Birth certificate deadline pushed as only 3.8 million students register Related: Makueni parents spend night in the cold to get birth certificates Parent Willy Maina from Kisii county said he has been in Nairobi for two months trying to get his son’s birth certificate. “My son is in Form Three and he has been in and out of school after the management sent him away to get a birth certificate,” he said. Maina called for services devolved to subcounties for smooth clearance. “There are more than 3,000 application documents in the Immigration Department. We hear staff are breaking their backs to work on as many documents as possible daily,” he said. Maina urged the government to engage chiefs and other national government officials to ensure the deadline is met. Read: 100,000 Coast students may not be registered for lack of birth certificates Parent Samadi Maganga from Kwale county told the Star she has been seeking a birth certificate for her daughter for nine weeks. She said the name of her daughter, who is in Standard Seven, was misspelled by a single letter. Maganga said she acquired the certificate at birth but the school has rejected it due to the anomaly. “It says the name appearing in the birth certificate must conform to the child’s official name and the single letter error cannot be accepted by the government,” she said. The government last month, extended the deadline for online data capture of public school learners to the end of March. So far, only 3.8 million learners have been registered under the National Education Information Management System. Last month, Education PS Belio Kipsang said he will work with the Interior ministry to hasten issuance of birth certificates. Learners require birth certificates to generate Unique Personal Identifiers. Nemis is an online portal for collection of real-time accurate data on schools and learners. It aims to ease school management in distribution of text books, allocation of free education funds and deployment of teachers. Also read: 40,000 risk missing KCPE registration in Baringo for lack of birth certificates  Click here for the latest political news