Lecturers have accused the vice chancellors’ committee of frustrating their efforts to strike a deal with the government over the 2017-21 CBA. They alleged that the committee is dictating to the Inter-Public Universities Consultative Council Forum to drag its feet in negotiating the deal. The lecturers went on strike yesterday to protest the delays, which have missed five deadlines. “The problem lies with the universities. They have been reluctant to give the government the cost of the CBA. Without the cost of the CBA, the Treasury CS cannot address the grievances in the universities,” University Academic Staff Union national chairman Muga K’Olale said yesterday. UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga warned the committee against meddling in their affairs. “As UASU, we don’t have any recognition agreement with the vice chancellors committee, so let IPUCCF do their work.” K’Olale said the CBA is aimed at correcting issues such as historical pay disparities, where some junior lecturers earn more than professors. “Universities do not have salary structures that are definite and certain. We want each grade to be clearly defined so remuneration can be predicted over a certain period of time.” They spoke during a joint press briefing with the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union at the University of Nairobi’s College of Health Sciences. kmpdu supports move The lecturers are pushing the IPUCCF to the negotiating table to ensure the CBA is signed on time for it to be factored into the 2018-19 budget. They have expressed fears that late conclusion of talks may delay implementation of the CBA as was the case with the 2013-17 CBA that dragged on for four years. KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga declared support for the strike and said doctors, who are also lecturers, have also joined the boycott. KMPDU had suspended its strike on February 15 to give room for dialogue over the payment of risk and emergency call allowances. “We have waited long enough and it’s time doctors, who are lecturers, are paid their allowances. There is no more talk and commitment. We don’t deal with that anymore,” Oluga said. Their strike will cripple specialised treatment in referral hospitals, where the doctors offer their services. University staff affiliated to the Kenya University Staff Union will join the strike today. Wasonga warned that this year’s strike will be worse than last year’s.