Justice George Odunga has convicted
Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa,
and IG Joseph Boinnet for contempt of court. The three have been ordered to appear before court on Thursday at 10am for sentencing. The judge further ordered that Opposition politician Miguna Miguna
be released unconditionally and to appear before court at 10am. Odunga said that if the state officials fail to release the lawyer forthwith, the court will not grant them audience when they appear. "Having considered the
issues raised before me, the matter before me is no longer a dispute between
the parties but a matter of the court," Odunga said. "The respondents are contemptuous
and they are convicted accordingly. They should appear before this court at
10am for sentencing." Kihalangwa, Boinnet and
Matiang’i failed to release the self-declared NRMKe general for appearance before Justice Aburili at 9am on
Wednesday. Read: Matiang'i, Boinnet fail to produce Miguna, defy court summons "If they fail to appear, I
will proceed with the sentencing in their absence," Odunga said Miguna was detained at JKIA on Monday on grounds he did not have a passport granting him entry into Kenya from Canada where he was deported last month. Judge Odunga said the
respondents have not provided any clear reason as to why they cannot be held in
contempt of court and have instead decided to go in hiding. He said that unless they are compelled to do so, "the respondents are not prepared to obey
the orders and they must be punished for their actions." The judge further ordered that Miguna must under no circumstances be released
from the jurisdiction of the court. Odunga said: "Court orders are not
subject to the interpretation of the Executive. The laws are not silent. They
may be changed but they speak the same language." "Courts are not guided by
ministers or political popularity; courts are guided by law and law alone.
Court orders must be obeyed," he ruled. The three officials had earlier ignored another
order requiring them to appear in court in person for the case. The lot sent
representatives instead. The judge further agreed to a
request by Miguna’s lawyers to have the DPP serve the three with the court
order. Miguna's lawyers had requested that the three be jailed for six months and fined Sh200,000 for contempt. Read: Miguna lawyers want Matiang'i, Boinnet jailed six months for contempt Click here for the latest political news 