County assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi has issued a stern warning to committees with pending reports to table them or the panels be reconstituted. More than 70 reports are currently pending in the panels, some dating back to September last year. The pending reports include requests by individual MCAs concerning their wards that touch on status of projects such as roads, streetlights, garbage and water problems in the various wards. “You must work for the people in Nairobi. That is why you were elected and if you cannot do that job, then we better replace you with competent members,” Elachi said. Committees with huge backlog include Culture and Community services, Budget and appropriations, transport and public works, environment and natural resources Planning and Housing. Culture and Community services committee chairman Mwangi Njehia, whose committee has six pending reports to table in the house, blamed county executives, who complain they are overwhelmed by work, for delay in responding to requests by members. “The delays are not of our own making, neither are we incompetent or overwhelmed. These CEC demand one week to provide response. Some of them do not even respond and they also don't come before us,” Njehia said. Elachi however responded saying, “How can CECs say they are so overwhelmed that they cannot do their work. It does not sound right. They must do their work and we are going to tell them to do their work.” Budget committee chaired by Kariobangi South MCA Robert Mbatia has been accused of delaying Governor Mike Sonko's Sh32 billion supplementary budget. The budget was forwarded to the committee in February and the committee was expected to scrutinize the document before tabling it in the house for approval. Public Accounts Committee, chaired by Mabatini MCA Wilfred Odalo, has twice sought an extension in February and then again last week, to table its report on the 2015-16 audit report in the house. Members request for statements from the executive through sectoral committees they then write to respective executive members for answers. The CECs are required to appear in the committees in person to respond to members' requests before tabling the report in the chamber. However, some members have complained that some of the reports are shallow.