Portugal or Germany have been lined up for the Kenya Simbas as part of their preparations for the World Cup qualifiers in June. Director of rugby, Thomas Odundo, said they are trying to secure one of the two teams from their busy schedule for a match or two in Nairobi in June. “We have written invitation letters to them but they currently playing in the European qualifiers for the World Cup. June will be ideal window to play them,” noted Odundo. Kenya played Germany last year, losing 31-28 and beat Portugal 41-15 three years ago at the RFUEA ground. Odundo said two and half months of preparation will be adequate time to prepare the Simbas for the crucial qualifiers. “I believe we have enough time to get the players in a good frame of mind for the qualifiers. The Kenya Cup season was shortened in order to get the called up players recovery time for the qualifiers,” noted Odundo. An 18-man squad was named to start training for the qualifiers last month and Odundo said the numbers are going to be increased after the Kenya Cup final between champions KCB and Kabras on Saturday. “After the Kenya Cup final, we will increase the squad from 17 to 30 and then intensify preparations,” he added Odundo a former international, was optimistic about the country’s prospects of qualification to the World Cup in Japan next year. “We have had continuity in terms of selection of players for the past three years. We came close last time and I think we learnt our lessons from four years ago and we are in a better position,” he noted. KRU appointed New Zealander Ian Snook as head coach on a two year contract and Odundo said the Kiwi will arrive in the country early April to start on the assignment. Kenya will start their qualifiers campaign against Morocco on June 23 before facing Zimbabwe seven days later at the RFUEA Grounds. Simbas confront neighbours Uganda on July 7 at home, then Tunisia on August 11 before facing a potential decider away to Namibia on August 18. The winner of the six-nation tournament will automatically qualify for the World Cup while the second placed team will be subjected to a four-nation repacharge tournament that will involve a team each from the Americas, Europe and Asia