President Uhuru Kenyatta has called for expeditious implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) treaty that was signed in Kigali, Rwanda, on Wednesday. The President said the landmark treaty offers Africa a competitive edge by creating a united economic bloc that will boost trade across the continent and help create an African value chain. It will also accelerate the growth of Africa’s Small and Medium Enterprises and power industrialization, he said. More on this: Africa agrees to giant trade bloc, but Nigeria and South Africa sit it out Also read: The story behind Africa's free trade dream Uhuru was among Heads of State and Government who led delegations from 54 countries who attended an African Union (AU) Summit in Kigali where the AfCFTA pact was signed by 44 State parties. The pact aims to establish a single liberalised market that will spur industrialisation, infrastructural development, economic diversification and trade across the continent that is home to some 1.2 billion people. It also seeks to promote industrial growth through diversification, regional value chain development, agricultural development and food security. In a statement read on his behalf by Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma, the President said the new trade agreement will engender the growth of African multinationals, placing the continent at par with other Free Trade Areas in the world. Uhuru urged all African States to sign the new agreement so they can move together towards the realisation of the Pan African vision of an “integrated, prosperous and peaceful Africa” as envisioned in the AU’s Agenda 2063. “I am privileged to sign the agreement on behalf of Kenya because I firmly believe in our shared destiny and in the fulfillment of the African dream,” he said. The President termed the occasion a historic moment and thanked all the chief negotiators and technical experts who made the African dream a reality. Uhuru then returned to Nairobi, seen off at Kigali International Airport by Kenya’s Ambassador to Rwanda John Mwangemi and other senior government officials. Click here for the latest political news