Nigeria's presidency said on
Monday it plans to negotiate for the release of 110 girls
abducted from a school in the northeastern town of Dapchi last
month, rather than use a military operation to free them by
force. The kidnapping is one of the largest since the jihadist
group Boko Haram abducted more than 270 schoolgirls from the
northeastern town of Chibok in 2014. Some of the Chibok girls
have been freed after what security sources say were ransom
payments; around 100 are still being held. Nigeria is grappling with an insurgency by Boko Haram that
has killed at least 20,000 people since 2009. Members of the
group are suspected of the latest kidnapping, on February 19, in the
state of Yobe. President Muhammadu Buhari, a 75-year-old former military
ruler, discussed the use of negotiations during a meeting with
US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in the capital, Abuja, the
presidency said. "Nigeria prefers to have schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram
from Chibok and Dapchi back alive, and that is why it has chosen
negotiation, rather than a military option," Buhari's office
said in an emailed statement issued by the president's
spokesman. "President Buhari added that Nigeria was working in concert
with international organisations and negotiators, to ensure that
the girls were released unharmed by their captors," the
presidency statement said. The issue of security has become politically charged in
Nigeria less than a year before a presidential election. Buhari
is touring areas hit by security problems and this week will
visit the state where the schoolgirls were abducted, the
statement said. Tillerson was in Nigeria for the last stop in a week-long
tour of African countries, his first trip to the continent as
Secretary of State, during which he has emphasised security
partnerships. He visited Ethiopia, Kenya, Djibouti and Chad
before arriving in Nigeria's capital. The emailed statement also said Buhari thanked the US for
assistance rendered in the fight against Boko Haram, noting that
Nigerian forces are good but need assistance with training and
equipment. Click here for the latest political news