Busia Health executive nominee Phaustine Barasa has promised radical changes to provide adequate drugs, improve services and  upgrade facilities.
“I know the challenges facing health institutions. Having worked as a (school) principal, I interacted with health workers when taking students, members of staff and my family members for treatment,” she said.
She was being vetted by a county assembly committee for the executive position.
Barasa said if approved, she will monitor, direct and work hand-in-hand with the chief officer, directors and the county assembly to upgrade the department.
Barasa said she will introduce measures to curb corruption by ensuring staff attend to patients with integrity and do not demand bribes or refer to outside chemists or facilities.
She also promised to enhance communication with patients by putting up suggestion boxes and hotline numbers to get feedback.
In September last year, a Busia health official said doctors sponsored by the national government for specialised training were liabilities to the counties. This is because they  earn while on study leave, but the counties are not sure they will go back to work for them.
The health official said their long absence makes it difficult for the counties to balance between workers and service delivery.
“The best scenario is for the county government to remove them from the payroll, hire others and reinstate them upon their return,” the official said.
In September last year, during the nurses and clinical officers’ strike, a Busia health official said the county government was on record as the first county to undertake promotion of health workers.
Barasa was among nominees who were named by Governor Sospeter Ojaamong for the positions of county executives and chief officers early this month.
The naming came after a long wait. Officials said the delay was caused by the desire to come up with a diverse and highly qualified team to serve the people.
 Three CECs and five chief officers from the previous administration were retained and told to take up their roles immediately, as they would not be vetted afresh.
“The highly motivated individuals, who come from diverse backgrounds and communities across our county bring a wealth of talent and experience that will complement our existing wealth,” Ojaamong said.
He said the county was committed to sustainable development, strengthening diversity and offering equal opportunities to everyone. “This team will work tirelessly to honour the trust of the people of Busia,” he said.
Seven nominated CECs and 11 nominated chief officers were to be approved by the county assembly.-
The CEC members who made it back to the cabinet are Osia Mwanje (Agriculture and Animal Resources), Leonard Obimbira (Finance, Economic Planning and ICT) and Benard Yaite (Youth, Sports, Tourism, Culture, Youth and Social Services).