Proceeds from illegal logging and charcoal burning inside the Boni Forest are being used to fund terrorists, the authorities say. Al Shabaab are also benefiting from the sale of game meat by the Boni community. A crackdown on on the loggers and charcoal burners has been launched. Speaking during the launch, Lamu police commander Muchangi Kioi said security officers in the Linda Boni operation will work closely with police to end the illegal trade. He said areas where the trade was taking place have had frequent al Shabaab attacks. Kioi said al Shabaab sympathisers were endangering the lives of innocent Kenyans. He said it was unfortunate that residents were still supporting terrorists. “The fact that people burn charcoal and cut timber to fund such terrorist acts is unimaginable. We can’t have such activities going on here,” Kioi said. SUSPECTS ARRESTED Sympathisers were using proceeds from charcoal-burning to buy food, water and other basic needs for militants who reside in the forest. Over 250 bags of charcoal and tones of timber resources were recovered on the first day of the crackdown. The recovery was made in the Ziwa la Kengo, Ziwa la Taa and Maisha Masha areas, all of which fall within the Boni Forest Enclave. Four suspects were also arrested. They will be charged with illegal logging and funding terrorism. Kioi said the crackdown will continue until the trade is eradicated. “The public should understand that we will not entertain logging or any other activity which is against the laws of this country,” Kioi said. Witu Forest manager John Mbori warned residents of dire consequences should they disregard the ban on logging. “The logging ban will succeed only if we move in one direction. We need to conserve our environment. We’ll take serious action against the loggers,” Mbori said. The crackdown comes days after the Kenya Forest Service recovered eight tonnes of Bambaru wood valued at Sh800,000 at Maisha Masha. Last year, the government said it would bomb the forest to drive out al Shabaab militants. The Boni Forest, which borders Tana River and Garissa counties, has been an al Shabaab hideout for a long time. The militants carry out attacks in Lamu and neighbouring counties, before retreating into the safety of the forest. Already, Operation Linda Boni has been going on for more than two years. But the bombing is yet to happen after conservation groups opposed the move, saying it would destroy ancient flora and fauna.