A politician has filed a complaint over brutality by police officers enforcing the curfew in Mt Elgon, Cheptais subcounty. Evans Kiprotich said the Administration Police harassed his family and employees in Cheptais. Kiprotich has written a complaint letter to the Inspector General of Police, Independent Policing and Oversight Authority, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and the Bungoma County Administration police commander. Kiprotich says on March 22, between 5pm and 6pm, a group of armed AP officers on patrol entered his farm in Cheptais village. “The police had no right or reason to enter my private premises. They confronted my family and my employees and physically assaulted them while damaging property,” he said. His brother Anthony Rono went to Cheptais police station the following day to record an official statement and ask why they assaulted Kiprotich’s family and five employees. They were denied P3 forms and the OCPD refused to record Rono’s statement. The employees had to seek medical attention. On March 24, AP officers again visited Kiprotich’s home and assaulted everyone, including Rono, who had the previous day visited the police station to record a statement. “The AP officers who raided my home were led by Inspector Henry Bakhayo. One of the officers who attacked and injured my family and employees included Ainea Nasong’o. They even threatened to kill them. They are in hiding for fear of more attacks,” Kiprotich said. He wants the police to stop threatening, harassing and assaulting his family and employees, or else he will sue. “Your swift and appropriate action will be appreciated. This will stop officers from taking advantage of the curfew to harass the public.” He continued, “If it is dealing with politicians, then let the police do a search in all homes for Mt Elgon politicians without bias.” Some key politicians have been mentioned as masterminds in the security situation in Mt Elgon. The three-month dusk-to-dawn curfew was ordered by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to flush out criminals. A Sh1 million bounty has been placed on the head of gang leader Timothy Kiptanui, alias Cheparkach. Former Mt Elgon MP John Serut says the wave of killings in the constituency is not politically instigated, but revenge attacks among relatives. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Serut said politicising the problem worsens it. Serut said Cheparkach, and his brother Ngeywo Kitai, who police say are behind the killings, were on a revenge attack after their houses were torched by villagers last year on suspicion of robbery. 