University staff in three unions up-scaled their strike over the 2017-21 CBA by demonstrating in Nakuru on Monday. The protests took place as the Universities Academic Staff Union filed an appeal in Nairobi against a court ruling for them to return to work. Hundreds of Kudhehia members withdrew their labour on Monday and joined their colleagues in Uasu and Kenya University Staff Union. Kusu Organising Secretary Ernest Wayaya said: “The union will not waver in its pursuit for the negotiation, signing and implementation of the CBA." He added that the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum (IPUCCF) has neither tabled a counter proposal nor made any efforts over the past two weeks to solve the crisis. "We will continue with the industrial action," he said. On Sunday, Uasu Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said 40 members of the National Executive Council voted to appeal the ruling. In his ruling on Friday, justice Onesmus Makau ordered lecturers to return to work and the government give a counteroffer their 2013-21 CBA in 30 days. More on this: Strike on, Uasu tells lecturers, to appeal court's return-to-work order The protesting unionists accused their employer of attempting to thwart the fight for their rights through misrepresentation, and dividing and intimidating them through the courts and other schemes. “Since 2006, CBA negotiations for public universities have been associated with misrepresentation and nefarious schemes to discriminate and disenfranchise the staff," said Uasu Chairman Fred Mwangangi. "We strongly condemn the use of courts by the employer to drive wedges among us." Andrew Maoga, Kudhehia Chief Steward, told reporters: "We, the members of the three unions, will stay the course by intensifying the strike until we cause total paralysis of all services in institutions." Students from majority of public universities had gone for a break and were expected to report back on Monday. The officials of the three unions asked them to stay away as this will save them the expenses they are to incur as they will not be taught. Click here for the latest political news 