Two Meru legislators  have pledged to support Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. Tigania East MP Josphat Gichunge and his Buuri counterpart Mugambi Rindikiri have said they will back Ruto. Before last year’s polls, former Meru Governor Peter Munya, now East African Community and Northern Corridor Development CS, said he will vie for president in 2022. These ambitions seem to have fizzled after he lost the governor race to Kiraitu Murungi in August last year. Gichunge was elected on the PNU ticket. Yesterday he said he will support Ruto as he has shown the ability to deliver to the people of Tigania. “He promised to ensure all projects initiated in the area are completed. “They mostly include tarmacking of  roads,” Gichunge said. He said construction of the Mikinduri-Kunati road launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta has not started. “When I visited Ruto he promised to have it fast-tracked,” Gichunge said. Earlier this month, six Meru MPs met Ruto at his Karen office. They agreed to hasten ongoing projects and implement new ones funded by the national government. They are Kathuri Murungi (South Imenti), Rahim Dawood (North Imenti), Kirima Ngunchine (Central Imenti), Rindikiri, Josphat Gichunge (Tigania East) and John Mutunga (Tigania West). The meeting was seen as a key political  strategy as Ruto seeks Meru support in 2022. Ruto has key point men in Kiraitu and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki. Kindiki is Ruto’s key footsoldier who has hinted at the possibility of becoming his running mate in the 2022 race for State House. Kindiki has welcomed the unity pact between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. However, he warned Jubilee to be wary of Raila, who has a history of breaking up parties. On March 10, Kindiki said, “Raila has a history of breaking up parties whenever he joins coalitions...he formed a coalition with KANU in 1997 using LDP, only to implode it from within.” “Raila is like the camel that told a house owner to allow it shelter only its head from the rains, only to ask for his hump to be allowed in too.” But speaking on Sunday at Kunati,Tigania East, Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi urged Meru not to be duped into supporting Ruto for the sake of rotational presidency. He urged Meru to rally behind their son Munya if he declares his interest. He said Munya is fit to run for president but Mombasa will support ODM’s Governor Ali Joho if he runs.