Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula on Sunday said he is no longer interested in the Senate minority seat. The Ford Kenya leader said he won't attend the retreat proposed by NASA leader Raila Odinga. Instead, he said he will "continue giving him small measured and calculated dosage to ensure he enjoys no comfort." More of this read: Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge He was speaking in Bungoma town accompanied by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. The two declared that they will merge their two parties of ANC and Ford-Kenya to form a “Mulembe” party. Read; Mudavadi hints at merger between ANC and Ford Kenya Wetang’ula narrated how a meeting convened by Raila on Thursday was reduced to his bashing spree. “When we went for the Thursday meeting, I thought my party leader had wanted to bring truce, only to be reduced into a meeting of subjecting me into name calling and humiliation,’ he said. Wetang’ula said during his entire bashing his co-principal Raila Odinga said nothing as he was being fried by senators. He said this made him believe that Raila Odinga was behind his ouster. “His silence showed a distinct message that my ouster was rehearsed and purely his deal,” he said. The Ford Party leader said he had not bargained for the position of minority leader and was a decision arrived at by the summit in order to keep their parliamentary group together. He termed the retreat called by Raila Odinga as useless and only aimed at castigating him and for that reason would not attend. “That is like a goat going into a court of hyenas expecting justice,” he said He said he will not take the position of minority leader even offered by the ODM party saying him and other co-principals had embarked on a grassroots campaign to popularize parties that will take care of smaller communities. Wetang’ula at the same time vowed to give Raila a run for his money and "sleepless nights" after what he termed as a betrayal. More on this: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted He lashed at the dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga saying it was not restructured and was only meant to be a dialogue between two individuals and not the entire country. “The country is not about two individuals, whereas we advocate for national dialogue the route by the duo will yield no fruits,” he said. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said the other principals were behind Wetang’ula. “The handshake did not fulfil the dreams of the Nasa party that wanted inclusivity and electoral reforms,” he said. He said the dialogue initiated by president Kenyatta and Raila should include other players like the church. He said ANC and Ford-Kenya were working on modalities to form one major party saying they had mandated their two secretaries-general to make haste the process. In a quick rejoinder, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna speaking to the star on phone said Mudavadi and Wetang’ula had failed to read the mood of things. He told Wetang’ula that he had no capacity to lead Luhya because he was unable to lead 27 senators. Wetag’ula was accompanied by a host of members of parliament. Also read: Orengo says he won't let go Minority seat  Click here for the latest political news