Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria is unsympathetic to Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula following his abrupt removal as Minority leader. In an apparent reference to the January 30 mock swearing ceremony that was boycotted by NASA principals, Kuria said Wetangula’s ouster was punishment for betraying NASA leader Raila Odinga. Wetangula, Kalonzo Musyoka, and Moses Wetangula developed cold feet at the 11th hour and did not turn up for the mock oath ceremony at Uhuru Park as had allegedly been planned the previous day. In Kuria’s opinion, it was payback time for the principals for failing to rise to the accession and support Raila when circumstances demanded. "In the run up to the August 8 general elections, I survived a hailstorm of stones when I went campaigning in Chwele, Bungoma county. When I later complained to Moses Wetangula about this treatment by his goons, he laughed it off and told me "Nilituma vijana wangu wakuonyeshe njia ya kurudi kwenu nyumbani" – I sent my boys to show you the way back home." "Today, I volunteer to peacefully show Weta the way out of the office of the Senate Minority leader. Baba is doing this like a bawse! He has been misused for so long. Loyalty is paid back in instalments but betrayal is punished instantly," Kuria posted on his Facebook page. On Tuesday, 19 of NASA’s 27 senators convened a parliamentary group meeting and unanimously voted to remove Wetang'ula. They replaced him with Siaya senator James Orengo who will be deputised by Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala. Also read: Orengo: Senators elected me as Minority leader on their volition Wetangula’s ouster has been largely seen as a ploy by Raila to deal with his colleagues in NASA after the Uhuru Park debacle. His removal came less than two weeks after Raila made a unity pact with President Uhuru Kenyatta without informing Kalonzo, Mudavadi or Wetangula. The three cried foul and said Raila acted in bad faith and was pursuing personal interests at the expense of the good of the people. Kuria sees the turn of events as the ODM leader's way of dealing with the principals for failing him. "Go Baba Go. They have borrowed your wings to fly so high and then laugh at you from the skies, mocking your inability to fly," he said. Related: Why Senators want Weta out of minority job Click here for the latest political news