Busia bar owners are losing customers to their Ugandan counterparts because of high taxes. The traders told a sensitisation workshop on Thursday that Kenyans flock to Ugandan bars across the border for cheaper alcohol. They want the government to liaise with the Kenya Breweries Limited for a lasting solution. "For how long are we going to incur heavy losses because of high taxes?" asked Rispaa Moraa. The traders also called for a distinction between alcohol meant for local consumption and those for export to end incessant scuffles with police. They said police were harassing them for engaging in illegal trade. The traders said they are unable to distinguish between illegal exports from Uganda and locally manufactured brews. They want the KBL to put marks on alcohol bottles, saying police were exploiting the gap to make arbitrary arrests. Deputy county commissioner Fredrick Ayieko said police will strictly follow the law to avoid misunderstandings with the traders. Ayieko officially opened the forum that brought together bar owners from Matayos, Nambale and Teso South subcounties. Ayieko said illicit brew was a challenge and that the government had developed a rapid result initiative and created a multi-agency team to look into more strategies of dealing with the menace. More than 50 people have been arrested and charged for indulging in illicit brews over the last two weeks. They were each fined Sh500. "This fine is not deterrent enough. We will discuss with the court users committee and the judiciary to ensure the culprits are punished accordingly," Ayieko said. Responding to one of the traders who sought to understand the difference in the prices of alcohol in Uganda and their operating time, t County director of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patrice Lumumba said they will follow the law despite the cries of the traders. "We are not going to sit back and watch Busia degenerate into the level of other counties where illicit brews have destroyed the future of youths," Lumumba said. He told the traders to actively use Association of Bar Owners for easy access of information and partnership. Kenya Revenue Authority official Isaya Kiptum told the traders to register with iTax and file returns on time to avoid fines. One Stop Border Post officer Anthony Namboka accused the traders of insincerity, saying some of them were engaging in illegal importation of alcohol from Uganda. "We will continue to impound those consignments," Namboka said.    