Kenyans
did not get the devolved system of governance by chance. It was their wish as
expressed in an overwhelming ‘Yes’ during the 2010 Referendum that gave birth
to the new Constitution. They
spoke strongly and unequivocally that they wanted a devolved system of
governance. It then follows that the responsibility to safeguard and defend
their dream system of governance is first with the government of the day and
secondly with the established institutions. This
means then that, as Kenyans, we have the duty to jealously safeguard the fruits
and benefits of devolution. The news that the Treasury is proposing to come up
with amendments to the law to reduce funding to the counties is unfortunate. Quite
unfortunate, because the proposal goes against the basic principles of
devolution upon which the county governments are anchored. The
cardinal principle of devolution is that resources must follow functions.
Already, the counties have been unable to perform their mandate properly for lack
of enough funds even to finance the functions that have already been devolved. We
as the county governments have been appealing to the national government to
promptly release the monies that are due to the devolved functions. This has
not been forthcoming, as there have been deliberate delays in disbursements
that have affected the operations of the county governments. We
believe the counties should get more resources to finance devolved functions
and not slash their rightful share. The national government still remains with
the bigger chunk of the money and only allocates the counties a small fraction
of the total revenue realized nationally. We
want to continue to encourage the national government to allocate even more
resources to the counties proportionate with the growth in revenue collection
at the national level. If
the national government wants to take back the little resources that we have
been allocated as counties, then the net effect would be crippled service
delivery and wananchi would suffer the most. Such a decision would be a big step
backwards. It
is worrying that if resources are cut-down, then it means that some of the
functions will follow resources to the national government and thereby kill
devolution. I
believe that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto will
not accept that proposal by the Treasury as it goes against their commitment to
protect devolution.  The writer
is the Kisii Deputy Governor and chairman, Deputy Governors' Forum