The County Public Service Board has been accused of surpassing its mandate on revoking the transfer of medical superintendents from two county hospitals. Some Nairobi county workers threatened to strike, saying the service board is taking too long to absorb them into the payroll. Health acting Chief Officer Thomas Ogaro has written to the Legal Services director to intervene. On January 23, he transferred Doctors Charles Wanyonyi and Omondi Kumba. Wanyonyi was the Medical Superintendent at Mbagathi Hospital while Kumba was at Pumwani Maternity. Ogaro redeployed Wanyonyi and Kumba to take over as Medical Specialists at Mbagathi and Mama Lucy hospitals respectively. Board CEO Meshack Guto revoked the redeployment, terming them demotion. “Whereas the board acknowledges redeployment is within the powers of the Chief Officer, this particular redeployment amounts to demotion in rank,” reads part of Guto’s letter to Ogaro. He further said the demotion is only applicable as a consequence of adverse disciplinary action. “Pursuant to Section 75 of the County Government Act of 2012, which empowers the board to correct any irregularities, the decision to redeploy is hereby revoked,” Guto said. Ogaro said the board CEO is causing confusion by overstepping his mandate. He said the revocation of the transfer violates the County Government Act, 2012. Ogaro asked the Legal Services director in a letter dated February 28 to intervene. He said supervision and administration of services lies with the relevant sector, not the board. On Monday, the board was under fire for failing to absorb more than 20 county staff hired more than five months ago. The workers want Governor Mike Sonko’s intervention. They also demanded that the board be disbanded. Joseph Okumu, who has been working for the county government for more than five months, said they will be forced to disrupt services if the matter remains unclear. He said they are being misused by what he termed “powerful individuals controlling the Public Service board”. “Sonko should disband the board for effective services to the county. This is sabotage.Why should we suffer yet he is the boss? How long are we going to wait for official employment?” Okumu said. Sonko is said to have paid some of the workers from his pocket. However, the board said it is following the correct procedure to absorb the workers. Chairman Philip Kang’u said the hiring process is clear. “If any person was hired by the county and has an appointment letter, they should file a complaint,” he said. “We are working with the governor to hire staff for his office. It is work in progress. Otherwise, the people you are talking about are hangers-on, not county officers.” Minority Whip Peter Imwatok had accused Ogaro of executing “illegal postings” as only the board should do so.