The handshake between the President and Opposition leader does not mean Nasa is dead, Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka has said. Kalonzo struck a hopeful note on Friday, saying the coalition is intact, even as events unfolds following the shocking unity and development deal signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa boss Raila Odinga. The other principals of the Opposition force are Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). A key challenge following the deal is the possible removal of Wetang'ula as Senate Minority leader. Read: Wetang'ula a casualty of Uhuru-Raila deal, Ruto safe, says Murkomen Kalonzo, who addressed a campaign rally at Matinyani for Kitui West MP candidate Edith Nyenze, said Kenyans should not misinterpret the handshake and think it means Raila is 'jubilated'. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto are the leaders of Jubilee Party. "Watu wa magazeti wawache kuchochea Nasa. Leo asubuhi kabla ya kuja hapa nimeongea na ndungu yangu Raila nikamtuma huko Kisii. Nimekuwa na waheshimiwa Wetang'ula na Mudavadi ... ni niwazi kwamba muungano wa Nasa uko imara," he said. This loosely translates to: "The media should stop pressuring Nasa. This morning I spoke to my brother Raila and sent him to Kisii. I have been with Wetang'ula and Mudavadi ...it is clear that the coalition is intact." Kalonzo asked Nasa MPs not to fall for Jubilee tricks as they may result in the coalition's division. He noted that under Nasa, Raila got the highest number of votes in the August 8, 2017 presidential election but that they were denied their victory by the IEBC. "There is no way Raila, in his right mind, cannot just throw that away [all that]," he said. "I assure you that Raila is still in Nasa. His handshake with Uhuru does not mean 'otherwise'. The little disagreements we are seeing will be settled in a matter of time." Related: [Statement] Raila not naive, will call off Uhuru deal if unsuccessful - Salim Lone Kalonzo's sentiments came after Raila told Nasa supporters at Kisumu's Kondele area that the coalition remains firm despite his peace pact with the President. The Opposition chief, who has eyed State House since 1997, said his talks with Uhuru were personal but aimed at peace and unity in the country. Through dialogue, he said, they will ensure to end to tribalism, corruption and electoral injustices. "The small fighting among Nasa principals is just like family fights where everyone is fighting for salt [sic]," he said. Read:NASA is intact, Raila tells Kisumu residents  