Thirty-six per cent of men in the Western region believe
a woman is to blame for ‘inviting' rape or sexual assault by the way she is dressed
or behaved, a survey released yesterday indicates. The findings are as a result
of a three year pilot programmes conducted in Kisumu and Bungoma counties by the British
Council and the Kenya Premier League. The initiative was launched in 2015 and used football
as a tool to raise awareness on gender violence. Initially, 96 per cent of the men in the region, specifically in Mt Elgon, believe a girl is to blame if she is raped. Read: Wajir chiefs mediating in rape cases will be sacked -Matiang'i Seventy-one per cent of male participants in the area also said a woman deserves to be beaten. But at the end of the programme, the number reduced to 26 per cent. In Kisumu county, 36 per cent of male participants believed that a girl is to blame if she is raped, but once they went through the programme, the number decreased to 11 per cent. Data collected also revealed that 41 per cent of men in Kisumu agreed that women deserve to be
beaten. After the training programme, the numbers reduced to 30 per cent. British Council director Tony Reilly said football is a useful tool in changing attitude
towards gender violence among the young people in predominantly male-dominated
societies. Related: Four child rape cases in Narok every week Reilly said they will continue with the programme as there is a notable shift in the reduction of
gender inequitable attitudes among boys and girls who took part in the
programme. More than 1,800 girls and boys aged between 10-20 participated in the sessions. However, 'Men’s
Castle-Kenya' founder Rosemary
Kinuthia said intervention is crucial before the boy falls into
destitution as no gender is more superior or stronger than the other. She said the rights of girls and women have been disadvantaged for a long time and their empowerment has been dominant at
the expense of boys. “Men’s Castle-Kenya
intends not to downplay the woman’s struggles and gains nor fighting with
policies uplifting status of women. However, to attain equity, we have to
remember and empower the boys and men who are our fathers, husbands, brothers
and most of all our beloved sons,” she said. "The people who
abuse us are men, our sons, uncles and fathers. Let’s bring them on board and have
sessions with them as well and find the root cause of the problem.”  Click here for the latest political news