DP William Ruto has called for an end to the debate on 2022 elections as it was deviating focus on the development agenda. The DP said the country has come out of elections and politicians should now concentrate on serving Kenyans. He said discussions to do with constitutional amendments and power sharing were now irrelevant to Kenyans. Read: Ruto’s 2022 bid causes a stir in Mt Kenya Ruto said political leaders must be fair to other Kenyans not in politics and allow them to focus on other issues. "It's immoral and unacceptable for those of us in the political class to use the political space to manipulate debate so that we always focus on elections and sharing of power," Ruto said. He was speaking during a Sunday service and fundraising meeting at the AIC missionary college in Eldoret town. He said millions of Kenyans are looking up to the Jubilee administration to deliver on pledges made during the elections including the creation of jobs, building decent home and implementation of universal health care. "That is the discos we should be focusing on now so that we empower Kenyans to have better lives as we had promised," the DP said. He said Jubilee leaders should implement the agenda for which they were elected and avoid being dragged into politicking all the time. The DP said political leaders should avoid being selfish by always discussing issues which concern them and not all Kenyans. "We in Jubilee should know we have been given a chance by Kenyans to lead and we should implement the transformation agenda in our manifesto to create jobs and universal healthcare. He said elections period were over and Kenyans should concentrate on development until the next elections. "We should unite and drive the development agenda and transformation of our county," Ruto said. Governor Jackson Mandago, Senator Margaret Kamar Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut were among those present. Former minister Henry Kosgey said leaders must be humble and stop chest thumping He said the community in the region had its eyes on 2022 when DP Ruto is expected to succeed President Kenyatta. "We must not lose focus because the DP is focused on 2022. Some say it's far but its very close," Kosgey said. Also read: Ruto seeks new allies over 2022 fear of ‘betrayal’  Click here for the latest political news