Talks are ongoing for Deputy President William Ruto to drop his presidential bid in favour of Mombasa governor Hassan Joho, an MP has said. Mvita lawmaker Abdulswamad Nassir said on Wednesday that Ruto has been engaged on the matter and is aware of their intentions. Read: Jubilee will not discriminate Coast region - DP Ruto Nassir told The Star that the agreement will endear Ruto to the Coast and also foster national unity. "Our stand is simple. We are asking Ruto to join us to support our own Hassan Joho for the presidency," he said. The MP said calculated steps were taken before Coast ODM MPs agreed to embrace Ruto and accompany him to his events. However the DP, through his spokesperson David Mugonyi, dismissed that such talks are ongoing. "This is a joke for a question. Are you serious you can ask this?" Mugonyi said when contacted for comment. Nassir further disclosed that the plan will also make the newly-found partnership between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga workable. "What we are pleading with him (Ruto) is that in the spirit of working together, he must support Joho's quest," he said. Ruto toured Mombasa on Friday, Kwale on Saturday and Taita Taveta on Sunday and was accompanied by a host of opposition MPs. This was the first time in almost three years that the DP worked closely with the region's legislators who are allied to Raila. Figurative speeches were made during the development tour which signals the change in Kenyan politics ahead of the 2022 poll. Coast region is largely an opposition zone and supported Raila's presidential bid in 2013 and most recently in August and October last year. "Welcome but be informed the region has its leader," Mombasa woman representative Asha Hussein told Ruto on Friday during the launch of Jomvu Kuu-Rabai road. The legislator apparently wanted Ruto to acknowledge the Governor's grip on the region. Nassir's assertions came amid concerns that Joho's bid is facing an eminent puncture after some of his "generals" showed an open bias in favour of Ruto. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa - a former strong Joho associate - said Ruto's presidency is unstoppable. But Nassir disagrees. "Aisha Juma endorsing Ruto is her own accord, she has made up her mind," Nassir said. Paul Katana of Kaloleni constituency also said he could not guarantee his support until 2022. Mombasa MCAs have started campaigns to maintain Joho's relevance and increase his chances of inching closer to the top seat. They are discrediting the likes of Jumwa on social media while heaping praises on their master (the governor). "The attention seekers have three years to run their mouths. The year 2022 we will be solidly back Joho as he vies for the presidency," Moses Aran, a nominated MCA, said. Also read: Ruto is next president, Coast MPs says, pledge full support Click here for the latest political news   