Fiery lawyer Miguna Miguna says that for three days he has been held captive in a filthy and cramped toilet since he landed on Monday at JKIA.The self-declared NRM ‘general’, who was dramatically detained after a failed deportation attempt on Monday, protested he has been subjected to inhumane treatment. He swore in Raila Odinga as the People’s President on January 30. In a statement to newsrooms yesterday, he said he has been denied the right to counsel, water and medical attention.Miguna said he has not showered since Sunday, when he started the trip to Kenya. “The toilet where I’m being held has no shower or bathtub. There is only hot water in the toilet, hence, I’m unable to wash my face and brush my teeth,” he said. [VIDEO] JKIA stand-off persists as Miguna refuses to board plane to DubaiMiguna’s fresh woes at the hands of the state come hardly a month after he was held incommunicado in five separate police cells, before being forcibly deported to Canada. His deportation triggered international outrage after the government blatantly defied court orders to release him or produce him in court.On Monday, Miguna was violently forced onto a Dubai-bound Emirates flight, but survived the deportation attempt after he was declared a hostile passenger. “In full view of the media and the entire world, the respondents [government] physically assaulted me, tore my clothes, refused to allow me to re-enter Kenya, abducted me and attempted to force me to fly out to Dubai without any documentation whatsoever,” he said. Related: Miguna Miguna denied entry after refusing to apply for Kenyan visaThe ex-adviser to ex-Prime Minister Raila Odinga remained defiant.Yesterday, Miguna said he will not negotiate his unfettered right as a Kenyan-born citizen to hold a passport and travel in or outside the country unhindered.He urged Kenyans to resist what he termed “the increasing authoritarianism by the Jubilee regime” desperate to establish a dictatorial state.“We must struggle together and defeat the despots. The time is now!” he stated. Miguna said he tore up a citizenship application form given to him by Immigration officials, saying he’s a citizen and doesn’t need to reapply.He denied, however, claims the documents were papers meant to renew his passport. Click here for the latest political news