Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has nominated Dixon Obungu to head the Lands docket. Obungu, if approved by the county assembly, will replace Nerry Achar, who has been moved to the Finance department. In a statement on Saturday, Nyong’o said Achar’s reassignment takes effect immediately. The other committee members were sworn in on December 5 last year. Then, only nine CECs were sworn in as the governor’s nominee for the Finance docket, Robert Ouko, failed to turn up for the swearing-in ceremony. Nyong’o said Ouko had written to the county, saying he had taken another job. The nine people approved by the county assembly and sworn in include Gilchrist Okuom (Agriculture), Achi Ojany (Tourism), Salmon Orimba (Environment) and Richard Ogendo (Economic Planning and Development). The others are Rosemary Obara (Health and Sanitation), John Obiero (Education), Alice Moraa (Business, Energy and Industry), Thomas Owiti (Public Works, Roads and Transport) and Achar (Lands, now moving to Finance). During the swearing-in last year, Nyong’o told the executives to be ready to work for Kisumu residents. In August last year after he won the election, Nyong’o dropped all the executive members who served in former Governor Jack Ranguma’s administration. He sent 14 chief officers and nine county executive committee members on compulsory leave. Nyong’o said the move was part of the transition process his administration was undertaking in line with the County Governments Act. He said the circular they received from the Council of Governors, dated August 15 last year, allowed county bosses to appoint their executive officers. Nyong’o said executives’ term ends with that of the governor upon leaving office. Governors have been warned against sacking workers who did not support them during the August 8 poll. But in November last year, a court in Kisumu reinstated the 14 chief officers sent on compulsory leave by Nyong’o. The ruling was delivered by Labour Court judge Maurine Onyango. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili had said that a legal team would study the judgment and give advice. Click here for the latest political news