Studies presented this week confirm the world is making major progress in tobacco control. The studies also confirm that taxation, point of sale restrictions and tobacco crop substitution continue to be key interventions in the fight against tobacco use. Tobacco control is based on decades of research that confirm tobacco use is the top preventable cause of cancers, numerous non-communicable diseases and death. The research culminated in the World Health Organisation’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the world’s only treaty on health, which Kenya has signed and ratified. Tobacco use kills 31,000 people in Kenya every year, according to the Ministry of Health. In Nigeria, a study released this week showed that increases in tobacco taxes brought new revenue which can be used to improve public health. The study was presented at the ongoing World Conference on Tobacco or Health in Cape Town. Cigarette prices were collected through surveys of randomly selected retailers in six states across Nigeria. For analyses, two tax simulations models were used: a home-grown model and the Tobacco Excise Tax Simulation Model. Each model was run under two scenarios. Scenario one looked at 275 percentage increase in tobacco taxes, in line with WHO excise tax benchmark of 75 per cent of retail price while scenario two saw a less stringent 150 percentage increase in line with a 50 per cent benchmark. Chukwuka Onyekwena of the Centre for the Study of the Economics of Africa, in Abuja, reported that a more stringent increase in excise tax in both models would allow for the maximisation of public health and government revenue within a one year period. “An effective tobacco control tax policy in Nigeria will entail a 275 percent increase in excise tax, a change in tobacco tax structure -from ad valorem to specific; and stronger tax administration and revenue-collecting agencies to yield the optimal results,” he said. The study mirrored the situation in Kenya where advocates are calling for the current cigarette tax system to be replaced with an easier plan where all types of cigarettes are taxed equally. Currently, filtered cigarettes are taxed Sh1.80 per stick and those without filters Sh2.50 for each. International Institute for Legislative Affairs, a Nairobi-based legal think tank, says the system has created many loopholes and the government was losing Sh7 billion every year in potential taxes. IILA proposes a flat rate of Sh3.25 for every cigarette stick regardless of whether it is filtered or not. “The high quality of the science being presented in Cape Town comes at a pivotal moment in tobacco control,” said Dr Flavia Senkubuge, President of the 17th WCTOH. “These studies confirm that we know what works in tobacco control. There has been astounding public health progress being made to eliminate smoking over the past two decades.” Another study, the impact of a tobacco point-of-sale display ban on youth in the United Kingdom, showed decrease in tobacco use after the ban on the open display of tobacco products was phased out between 2012 and 2015. Allison Ford of the University of Stirling in Scotland reported that in 2016 the vast majority of the study's sample (73 per cent) felt that having cigarettes behind closed shutters made them seem unappealing and made them think that it's not okay to smoke (83%). “That smoking susceptibility was lower following the ban suggests that placing tobacco out of sight helps safeguard young people and justifies this policy approach in the UK and elsewhere,” Allison said. In Tanzania, one study showed that tobacco farmers of Namtumbo District in Ruvuma Region, Southern Tanzania, have successfully adopted alternative crops. Lutgard Kokulinda of the Tanzania Tobacco Control Forum reported that maize and rice production increased by 452% and 377% respectively, while pigeon peas and sesame increased by 5,839% and 1,302% respectively. “Increased farmers' sensitisation coupled with sustainable and viable markets, could enable total replacement of tobacco with alternative crops,” she said.  