Forests
the world over face threats of destruction from farmers seeking more farmland; grazing communities;
herbalists and traditional healers; honey collectors, who burn forests to chase away bees and
harvest honey; miners, excavation
and extraction activities; and timber merchants who pose the single-most danger to forests. Canada’s forest laws are among the strictest in the
world. They protect their forests and ensure sustainable management
practices. This means consumers can be
confident that the wood products they buy from Canada were obtained
legally. In Kenya, forests
are provided for in Chapter Five of the Constitution under land and
environment. We have frameworks that protect and guide on
forest conservation and management, both exotic and indigenous, ensuring that the country maintains a forest cover of not below 10 per
cent. These include the National Forest Policy 2014; Forest
Conservation and Management Act 2016 (No 34 of 2016); the Forest (Charcoal)
Rules, 2009 that were placed in the Kenya Gazette in 2012; National Environment
and Management Act 1999 with subsequent amendments. Others include community
initiatives as well as policy and working papers by UNDP and the Kenya Forest
Working Group. But what keeps
the forest cover far below the recommended global level of 10
per cent? Why is it that
those charged with protecting forests allow their destruction with abandon, yet no punitive action is taken against them? Will Kenyans
allow the country to slide into desertification and become a water scarce
country in the guise of development and unscrupulous land grabbing by cartels? Forestry
management is a devolved function and the county governments are core stakeholders.
Though the directive and order by Deputy President William Ruto is
commendable and timely, the apparent exclusion of the county governments from the
task force to tackle logging is not a good pointer.
This may compound the moratorium against logging, especially where the counties feel the sharing of forest resources has not been well addressed by the national government. Involving chiefs and assistant chiefs at the basic levels where forests are found is
critical in increasing forest cover. Chiefs
have played an important role in establishing and maintaining farm woodlots through regulated authority to cut trees. Synergy with forest officers
is clearly lacking and needs to be activated. What has
brought Kenya to its knees on forest cover is unregulated logging and forest
harvesting with abandon that points to conspiracy and connivance between timber
merchants and forest officers. There is hence need to have regulated,
synchronised system of harvesting with clear reafforestation programmes. I
commend retired President Moi for the tree planting initiatives that saw millions
of trees planted in freshly harvested forests. President Kibaki too conducted
occasions of tree planting and urged Kenyans to plant trees in their farms. The
work of the late Nobel laureate Prof Wangari Maathai will forever be
remembered and honoured by nature lovers. President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big
Four Agenda will only be actualised in an
environment that is healthy. No project, of whatever nature, is undertaken
devoid of water. Food security, universal healthcare, manufacturing and housing
will require large volumes of water. I therefore suggest
that the country launches a national tree planting campaign to go on throughout the year
taking maximum advantage of the rains. Let's audit, record, beacon and gazette all the
forests. No one should be allowed to hive off forests; neither
should this exercise be used to grab forest land. Since forests
provide wood fuel and construction materials, innovative strategies to provide
alternatives such as the natural cooking gas initiative by the national government under NOCK and cheaper fibre and other building materials need
to be introduced. Lastly, the frameworks on forests and
the environment should be amended to enhance penalties to life sentence or death against offenders because they are murdering and violently robbing future generations. They are
placing our posterity at direct risk. Devolution policy and governance expert burugujn@gmail.com