The National and county governments have been called upon to put up an agency where youths can channel their skills and talents to reach market. Speaking on Monday in Thika, Right @Home Ltd director and politician Gladys Chania said youths have so many skills on art , fashion, beauty, sports among others. She said that with seed capital and market for their products the youth can be great entrepreneurs. Chania was donating computers to youths with different talents to help access internet and market their products. "There can also be an agency where they can channel their products then the agency sells on their behalf at a profit like Brand Kenya, EAC, the Ministry of trade or just something," she said. Chania further said that when the youth fail to get alternative to empowerment, poverty menaces doors are opened. "Can we prevent depressions and hopelessness that comes with lack of income. Let's prevent alcoholism, substance abuse, domestic violence's and many others by nurturing a strong economically independent society," she said. The @Homes director said most programmes undertaken by various players including the government lacked concrete monitoring and gauging of their effectiveness. "In order to help the youths i have partnered with various organisations which requires different skills from the youths and women where they are earning a living as most programmes by the governments lacks proper monitoring and consistency hence being non effective,"said Chania. Reuben Njuguna who does bead work for sale said that it would be beneficial for him if there was a platform for him to sell his wares nationally and international rather than hawking which fetches him small money. Amo La Moda modelling organisation was formed to help empower youths in getting jobs in modelling world with John Mwangi of Djohnie hair and dressing saying that youths need a platform to be seen. "We came up as youths with different talents and came up with our brand called Amo La Moda and this has been our base to sell ourselves out there and if we had help from governments most youths would get empowered,"said Mwangi William Ndungu a soccer coach of a youth club in Thika said that the youths interested in playing football often quit as they do not have support and never earn a living in it and it was time something was done to promote the talents in football. Chania however said that young people must be bolstered by robust national policies and innovative solutions to the challenges they face.    