Businessman Jimi Wanjigi and his wife Nzisa have sued Nation Media Group, its senior managers over a death announcement the newspaper ran on February 7. It emerged that the picture and personal details used on Page 49 of the Daily Nation edition on the said date were those of Wanjigi. The couple, in a suit filed at the Milimani law court on Tuesday, said the malicious publication was as a result of negligence on the part of the media company. The billionaire and Nasa strategist talks of the anguish that he and his family went through after his photograph appeared in the death announcement. Acting CEO Stephen Gitagama, Editor in Chief Tom Mushindi and Advertising boss Michael Ngugi are named as the respondents alongside NMG. Wanjigi accuses the media house of carelessness saying that as an old operator, it ought to have verified the information before publishing the traumatising advert. The couple further argues that the chilling advert was "a death warning, issuing a promise to kill; and offered for public display, personal and private details. Wanjigi says he is more aggrieved because the publication included his private details, including that of his family life, details of his children, places of residence and schools they attend. He says his aging father, mother and siblings were tormented by the publication and were subjected to psychological torture and trauma as a result of the same. More on this: Did 'Jimmy Wanjigi' die without Kenyans knowledge? - KOT "The act of the respondents was partly accentuated with malice and an intention to drive sales of their flagship publication through the public reaction the said publication was going to generate," he argues in the court papers. "In their scheme of things, the respondents intended to achieve multi-pronged benefits from the said grotesque death announcement; violate the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Petitioners; convey a chilling death warning and ultimately economically profit from the public interest the said grotesque publication was intended to generate." Further, the couple argues that the Constitution provides that every person has the right to freedom and security of the person which includes the right not to be subjected to torture in any manner, whether physical or psychological. Related: They want to execute me yet government was formed at my home - Jimmy Wanjigi Click here for the latest political news