Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has welcome partnerships aimed at succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. Addressing faithful at the Full Gospel Church of Kenya in Kabarnet on Sunday, Gideon said it isn’t yet time for politics but would welcome talks to build alliances. “Everybody is my friend so there is no harm if anyone decides to approach me for visionary talks meant to take over leadership and drive this country forward,” Gideon said. He asked supporters to remain patient, saying he will soon declare his stand. The senator has previously announced that he will take on Deputy President William Ruto in the race to succeed Uhuru. Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie and Kabarnet MCA Ernest Kibet accompanied Gideon. Gideon’s statement came just a week after Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua told Baringo residents that he had talks with Gideon about the 2022 presidential race. Mutua, who is the Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader, spoke at the homecoming party of Kandie. Gideon thanked Kenyans for praying for his father, former President Daniel Moi, who was recently flown to Israel for a medical check-up. “I accompanied him and we had a safe journey. Mzee received medication and is now getting on well at home,” Gideon said. He asked the government to release development funds for the counties. “It is timefunds are released to carry out projects,” he said. He promised to ensure completion of the stalled Kirandich Dam in Kabarnet town. The dam is expected to serve residents of Kabartonjo, Kabarnet and the lowlands of Tenges and Sacho. “Completion of the dam has experienced challenges since 2003, but we are still pushing,” Gideon said. On insecurity, the senator asked lawmakers both in the county assembly and the National Assembly, to fast-track bills that will ensure victims of bandit attacks are compensated. “So many people have lost their lives and property due to bandits attack. It is high time the victims are resettled and fully compensated,” Gideon said. He praised the government for strengthening security in volatile parts of Laikipa, Baringo, Samburu, Isiolo and Turkana counties. 