Several ANC officials want nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala kicked out for disrespecting leader Musalia Mudavadi. The officials from 10 Rift Valley and Western branches said on Monday they want quick disciplinary measures against the two. Billion Ebole said Osotsi and Malala have openly rebelled against Mudavadi, who is a Nasa principal, so they should be thrown out of the party. “Osotsi is in Parliament courtesy of Mudavadi, so it’s surprising that he has turned around to bite the hand that fed him,” Ebole said. He added they will organise demonstrations in Kakamega against the Osotsi and Malala. Harun Nyongesa accused the nominated MP of mismanaging the party when he was secretary general. “Osotsi should tell us how Sh60 million disappeared [during his tenure]. He has run away to gang up with our rivals (Jubilee) to avoid being questioned on how the money was misused,”  he said. Ebole and Nyongesa issued a statement in Eldoret accompanied by Ezekiel Kibet, Edwin Koech and student leader Brian Kangogo. Kibet said: “We have been silent, hoping the two legislators would come back to their senses and stop the nonsense they are engaging in, but this has been in vain. We will go out in full force to defend our party leader.” Osotsi and Malala accused Mudavadi of being a coward after he skipped Nasa leader Raila Odinga’s swearing-in as the People’s President on January 30. They have denied claims they are Jubilee Party moles, but ANC has formed a disciplinary team to deal with them. On February 15, Malala said he is not moved by the threats of disciplinary action, while Osotsi accused politicians of diverting attention from their absence at Raila’s ceremony. The rebels were discussed during a meeting of the Parliamentary Group and the National Executive Council. PG chairman Ayub Savula, party secretary general Barack Muluka and members Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero) and Ernest Ogesi (Vihiga) said they will not watch as rebels wreck ANC. “The party will exercise options at its disposal in dealing with this matter. You cannot enjoy the benefits of being a member of our party while also working to destroy it,” Savula said.