Fiery lawyer Miguna Miguna has given a moving account of how he was overpowered by about 50 officers, sedated and bundled into a Dubai-bound flight unconscious. For three days, Miguna had been held incommunicado at a tiny toilet at the JKIA after his botched dramatic deportation on Monday night. According to Miguna, the officers broke into the toilet where he was held, wrestled him to the ground, as four different people injected him with unidentified substance. Read: Miguna refused to cooperate to be allowed entry - KNCHR “About 50 heavily armed thugs led by a uniformed Somali policeman who had commanded them on Monday, violently broke into the toilet I had been detained incommunicado at the Jomo Kenyatta Airport, didn’t identify themselves, wrestled me to the ground, held onto and sat on me, as a group of four different thugs injected substances to both my soles, arms, hands, both sides of my ribs and basically all over my body until I passed out,” he said. On Monday, Miguna caused a ruckus at the airport when the first deportation attempt was made forcing the airline to declare him a hostile passenger. Yesterday, he said he only regained consciousness when the Emirates flight touched down in Dubai. Miguna said he had severe pain on the left side of his chest, left wrist, right elbow and feet. “I’m sick. My ribs and body is hurting all over... I believe the despots must have injected me with noxious substances,” he said from Dubai. [Statement] Fear isn't part of my DNA, says Miguna Pictures taken during his flight and shortly after disembarking in Dubai showed a frail and dazed man, a far cry from the boisterous rabblerouser. His hands were swollen and at some point he was seated on a wheelchair. A doctor who conducted basic medical tests confirmed the worst ­— he had been sedated. “Additional toxicology tests would require exiting the airport, which I can only do with my valid Kenyan passport — a document the despots illegally confiscated and destroyed in violation of Justice [Luka] Kimaru’s order.” The self-styled NRM general says he did not recognise where he was when he first regained consciousness and had to rely on a man seated next to him. Sadly, the man was probably one of his captors, a flying squad officer, he said. Miguna said there had been an attempt to fly him to London. “Three burly men dressed in Air Emirates yellow reflector jackets approached me and rudely demanded that I disembark from the plane. The most obnoxious one introduced himself as Njihia,” he said. “I explained to him I wouldn’t go anywhere with him; that he didn’t have my valid Kenyan passport and  he is a criminal.” Miguna said the only flight he will take must be Nairobi-bound. Read: Mudavadi condemns Miguna deportation, says citizenship by birth non-negotiable  Click here for the latest political news