Police executions, arbitrary arrests and use of excessive force were the main human rights violations last year, the KNCHR has said. In its 2018 Human Rights Status Report, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights says most abuses were recorded prior to and after the August 2017 General Election. “The KNCHR on several occasions condemned extrajudicial killings and injuries to persons and has called for accountability on the officers involved,” KNCHR chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori said. She addressed a press conference on release of the report yesterday. The annual report was issued ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s fifth State of the Nation Address on March 29. Despite numerous calls and voluminous doumentation, Uhuru has never called for investigations of alleged rights abuses by security forces. The commision also investigated police brutality against protesting University of Nairobi students. “It is in the public domain that there were several demonstrations in the run up to the 2017 General Election and after. The protests were met with excessive force by law enforcement agents, who indiscriminately used tear gas and water cannons to disperse crowds,”she said. Mbogori said the organisation submitted its Election Report to the National Assembly and the Senate. The report does not contain the number of people whose rights the commission says were violated. It does not provide details of alleged police killings and enforced disappearances of youths in informal settlements and counter-terrorism operations zones. Police spokesman Charles Owino yesterday told the Star that in the absence of specific allegations, the report lacks credibility. “Extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances have been common. We therefore call on the President to direct the security forces to end enforced disappearances, torture, extrajudicial killings and arbitrary arrests. This will ensure that all security agencies operate within the rule of law,” Mbogori said. The group urged the Independent Policing and Oversight Authority and the National Police Service to conclusively investigate extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances to hold perpetrators to account. The report expressed concern over shrinking civil space and violation of freedom of association, leading to tension between government and other organisations. Read:92 killed by cops and civilians in August, October poll violence - KNCHR