Nurses in Homa Bay yesterday went on strike after a seven-day notice over delayed salaries elapsed on Monday. The more than 600 health workers accused the county government of withholding their salaries. More than 80 colleagues have been suspended and denied salaries since December last year, the nurses said. County director of health Gordon Okumu dismissed the nurses claims. Led by Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general for Homa Bay branch, George Bola, the nurses said they will not get back to work until their grievances are addressed. The nurses demonstrated along the streets in Homa Bay town to protest the withholding of salaries. “We cannot continue working when the county government has refused to listen to us,” Bola said. Bola said the county had failed to hire additional nurses at the Homa Bay County Referral Hospital. The hospital has a shortage of 280 nurses. “It is unfortunate that the referral hospital which handles a lot of patients has only 120 nurses,” Bolo said. Okumu said the nurses receive their salaries on time and that no one had complained over the suspensions. “The health workers have gone on strike without proper reason. They have been paid salaries up to February this year,” Okumu said. WITHHOLD CONTRIBUTIONS According to Okumu, the county has employed more than 400 nurses   with recruitment still ongoing. The union’s treasurer Juma Magara accused the county of failure to remit members contributions despite making the deductions in the payroll. He said National Health Insurance Fund and Kenya Revenue Authority taxes are not reflected. “We’re asking the county government to tell us where these fees go to. For now, we can only assume the deductions go to pockets of some individuals,” Magara said. The nurses demanded they be allowed to create a nursing services office with executive powers.. “We cannot continue operating without the county directorate of nursing services. Other counties have constituted the office,” Magara said. The strike came barely two months after the national union warned of industrial action over salary arrears. By January, some 13 counties were yet to pay nurses the outstanding salary arrears covering the period they were on strike as contained in their November 2, 2017 return-to-work formula. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary-general Seth Panyako told the counties to pay or face protests. Homa Bay was the only county from Nyanza in the list.