Forty two local and international professional golfers converge at Vet Lab Sports Club today for pre-qualification event with three slots in the 2018 Barclays Kenya Open up for grabs. This will be the last opportunity for any golf professional, local or foreign to grab a last-minute ticket into what is the most lucrative tournament on the 2018 European Challenge Tour. Nakuru’s Richard Ainley, Muthaiga’s Nelson Mudanyi, Windsor’s David Opati and Eldoret’s Boniface Simwa will rely on their local knowledge of the challenging 18-hole layout at the Vet Lab Sports Club to qualify for the Kenya Open. They face stiff competition from strong and experienced European journeymen including—Englishman and European Tour Champion, Oliver Wilson, Argentinian and three-time Challenge Tour Champion, Alvaro Velasco and Frenchman, Victor Riu, a Challenge-Tour champion. This is the first time in the 50-year history of the Kenya Open that a Pre-Qualifier will be staged—pointing to the growing popularity of the tournament. Kenya Open Golf Championship director, Patrick Obath, said the Pre-Qualifier was necessitated by the enhanced interest in this year’s event, adding that it offers fans an opportunity to watch a prelude of the Kenya Open before it tees-off on Thursday. “This year we will be having a Pre-Qualification event at the Vet Lab Sports Club on Monday (today), whose purpose is to select professional players who will fill in the final three slots for this year’s championship. Locally, trials like this are only seen in Athletics, but globally, all top golf events stage Pre-Q events,” he said. He added: “The Pre-Qualifier will also give golf fans a chance to watch the professionals in action ahead of the main event on Thursday. This event will give Vet Lab a brilliant opportunity to see how their new 18-hole golf course will hold up against some of the best golf professionals in the European Challenge Tour.” Twelve Kenyans, two Tanzanians, two Ugandans, two South Africans, two Zimbabweans and one Malawian are among African professional players expected to battle it out against the foreign contingent of players including five Englishmen. The high number of foreign players at the Pre-Qualification event shows the new stature of the Kenya Open as an annual global golf event. The tourney tees-off at 7:30am this morning and will culminate in a bush drive and dinner for the players at the Nairobi National Park later in the day courtesy of the Kenya Tourism Board.