An explosive report on the state of Kenya’s forests urges sacking the entire Kenya Forest Service Board and auditing the lifestyle of senior managers. “We were unhappy with governance, corruption, unfair businesses and stealing of government resources, as well as destruction of forests. We were horrified,” chairman of the forest probe task force Marion Wakanyi said. The interim probe report was handed to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko on Monday. On February 24 the state imposed a 90-day logging moratorium to allow for assessment of the state of forests and recommendations on how to conserve them. This is the preliminary assessment. Tobiko said final recommendations will be implemented “no matter how radical.” He said recommendations requiring laws will go to the national Assembly while others will be dealt with by him, the presidency and the Cabinet. Rangers should be equipped with state-of-art-technology, the report said. It called for implementing recommendations of the Mau Forest Complex report. Those found to have plundered forest resources should be prosecuted and compelled to return the proceeds, it said. Wakanyi’s team recommended both short- and long-term measures, including review of forest laws, overhaul of KFS governance, suspension of the shamba system and other projects. The Mau Forest Complex report generated heated debate and propaganda that cost former Prime Minister Raila Odinga much of his Rift Valley support base in the 2013 polls. Wakanyi’s team met stakeholders and visited forests. It said forest officers in some areas fail to record cash generated from tree sales. “In some forests, they gave out 10 hectares for harvesting and money for only two hectares was received,” Wakanyi said. There has been a simmering unrest in some areas that could become a full-blown storm, she said. The report proposes stiffer penalties for perpetrators of forest-related crimes. The task force said forest officials have been lying about the real situation on the ground. Some forests are given out for felling, without records. Some saw millers harvest trees without replanting. They were also given blocs to harvest but encroached on off-limits areas, the report said. Under the shamba system — Plantation Establishment Livelihood Improvement Scheme — communities adjacent to forests may grow crops when trees are young. Some beneficiaries end up grazing cattle against regulations. KFS senior management must be redeployed to allow effective operations, it said. Read:Forests task force wants KFS board out, lifestyle audit on senior officials Also Read:Tobiko distances himself from 'abrupt' KFS changes   