 THE backstabbing in NASA, especially over the 2022 presidential bid, could be getting out of hand. Sources whisper to Corridors that some spin doctors are in overdrive for their political party leaders. The tone of their spin, our moles say, is the clearest indication that the coalition is likely to disintegrate sooner than later. It’s said that, in secret, the Principals have no kind words for each other, and the propaganda is done with their knowledge. Raila Odinga was the coalition’s presidential candidate in last year’s poll and his co-principals are wary of hime reneging ron the coalition agreement that ODM does not produce a candidate in 2022. ***** A Jubilee politician from Mount Kenya region who has a soft spot for twilight girls has found himself in a tight corner after his ‘Mpango wa Kando’ –– a fellow legislator –– threatened to call his wife and share the raunchy photos that they took during their parliamentarian tour in Spain. It’s reported that the duo shared a room and had a sweet night of passion. But there is a little problem. The MP is not ready to take his colleague as second wife. Our source says that the MP has been given two weeks to make a decision or the worst will happen. ***** A top Jubilee MCA at a coffee house next to City Hall found himself on the receiving end after he failed to justify Governor Mike Sonko’s Uhuru Park renovation plans days to NASA Chief Raila Odinga’s swearing-in ceremony. Our mole at a heated lunch debate among the Nairobi MCAs said Sonko could have done better by showing plans that his orders were not meant to bar NASA from accessing Uhuru Park. The “renovation” has since stalled. “There is better propaganda than sticking to the old script, which has been used by many former clerks to deny the Opposition access to Uhuru Park,” one of the MCAs said of Sonko’s strategy. ***** A Member of Parliament from Kisii who recently won a court petition that challenged his election has started visiting terror on his opponents. Only days after the High Court upheld his victory, the lawmaker has fired a salvo at his opponents. The MP said at a funeral recently that he would teach those who petitioned his August 8 victory a lesson. “I am warning them to get ready for a rude shock,” said the MP, leaving mourners wondering what could be in store. His critics have also said they would hold him responsible in case anything happens to them during this five-year period. Isn’t the law clear on the liberties and rights of all Kenyans? Well. Time will tell.   