Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna has dismissed last Friday's meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga. He accused the Opposition leader of being a "political cheat" following his decision to sideline other NASA principals from the unity pact. Read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say The angered legislator said: "Raila's meeting with Uhuru on Friday was a selfish political game whose main agenda is to finish Kalonzo politically." Kalonzo Musyoka was Raila's running mate in the August 8 general election. They withdrew from the October 26 repeat poll citing IEBC flaws. Nguna argued that the ODM leader teamed up with Uhuru since the Wiper party leader is a threat to him [Raila] in the 2022 general elections. The two antagonists met on Friday and issued a statement of a pledge to forget the past poll bruises and focus on uniting Kenyans. More on this: Uhuru, Raila enter pact to end ethnic tension and heal wounds But when spoke at Nguutani secondary school on Saturday where he launched the Kitui county secondary school games, the Mwingi West MP said they not happy with the move. "We supported Raila with all we had. Countless people have died with others vowing that if their blood is what will make Raila win, let it be." "We have witnessed lots of bloodshed in most parts of the country simply because of our loyalty towards him. He failed us and we are not happy about it," Nguna said. "We were true followers of this man Raila but he has swept all that under the carpet by failing us." He said their supporters did not vote in October last year after the court nullified Uhuru's win on August 8 following Raila's directive. The MP said they even boycotted some products as advised by the NASA leader out of the respect for his word. The legislator asked members of the community to unite for a stronger bargain in the political fronts. Read: Not consulted? Accept and support unity pact, Ruto tells Nasa principals Click here for the latest political news