Coffee farmers will start receiving payments for coffee deliveries every month in a new model being implemented in Meru County. This will fasten payment of coffee
which currently takes six to eight months. Samuel Kuria, senior co-operative officer in
marketing division at the state department of co-operatives, said this is a pilot project
being implemented in Meru County and the model has been borrowed from the Ethiopia
cash payment model. Ordinarily, coffee farmers are paid after the sale
of coffee in the market which takes six to eight months, and this has demoralised
farmers with many uprooting the crop for other farming ventures. Kiplimo Melli, interim head of Coffee Directorate said
they are in consultation with county governors and other key industry players to
motivate farmers who have otherwise have to wait for many months before they
are paid. “For farmers to benefit from this, they must be members
of the coffee union. We will start payment in May for the April crop and farmers
will get an advance payment as they wait for the full payment once all the coffee
has been sold,” said Melli. He was peaking yesterday during a coffee power
breakfast talk on production and youth involvement at Safari Park hotel. Melli said that this model of payment is aimed at
motivating coffee farmers in the country and enticing young people to venture
into the coffee sector. Kuria explained that currently, cooperatives societies
are supposed to pay farmers 80 per cent of the total proceeds, and retain 20
per cent for operations which they (farmers) have to wait for six to eight
months. “In the new model, farmers will be paid an average
of Sh23 per month for a period of four months. The payments to the farmers will
be sent directly to their accounts,” said Kuria. He added that if successful in Meru County, the cash
payment model will then be rolled out in other coffee growing counties. According to the coffee directorate, coffee production
is currently between 40,000 metric
tonnes and 50,000 MT currently. This is a huge decline from 129,000
metric tonnes in 1987/88 coffee year owing to a number of factors including
climate change, farmers abandoning the crop to other high cash valued crops
such as horticulture, poor prices and delay of payments.