Almost four years after making his last international appearance, midfielder McDonald Mariga is back in the Harambee Stars squad after he was included in the team that will feature in the forthcoming March 24-27 North African tour. The surprise inclusion of Mariga in the 24-man squad to play Comoros and the Central African Republic in Marrakech, Morocco later in the month could not be more timely as the Uefa Champions League winning midfielder is back in the starting line up for his Spanish Segunda League side Real Oviedo, who were due to face Tenerife last night. Stanley Okumbi summoned Mariga for the friendlies owing to his football career renaissance. He is expected to partner his younger sibling  Victor Wanyama in midfield. However, the former Inter Milan man will not be guaranteed of a place in the team as he will jostle for a starting berth with fellow returnee Ismael Gonzales who plies his trade with CF Fuenlabrada of Spain. Kenyan Premier League produced nine players where Gor Mahia playmaker Francis Kahata, who made a comeback,  headline the  local lads. Kahata joined fellow teammate Harun Shakava and Samuel Onyango. Sharks produced three players: Erick Kapaito, John Oyemba and Patillah Omotto. AFC Leopards skipper Duncan Otieno also made it to the team while Matasi and Shikalo and drawn from Rangers and Bandari. Being voted the 2017 Sports Journalist Association of Kenya (SJAK) best goalkeeper proved priceless for Kariobangi Sharks John Oyemba who earned his first national team call alongside his teammate Erick Kapaito who is the current league top scorer. Oyemba will muscle for the starting berth with established and favorite Patrick Matasi and Bandari custodian Farouk Shikalo. Kapaito will face a uphill task in dispensing the duo of Jesse Were and Michael Olunga who have in the past performed in the national team. The team is set to report to camp, in Morocco on March 19, 2018. Full Squad Goalkeepers: Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers), John Oyemba (Kariobangi Sharks), Faruk Shikalo (Bandari) Defenders: Harun Shakava (Gor Mahia), Brian Mandela (Maritzburg United, South Africa), David Ochieng, (IF Brommapojkarna, Sweden), David Owino (Zesco, Zambia), Abud Omar (Slava Sofia, Bulgaria) Midfielders: Patilah Omoto (Kariobangi Sharks), Francis Kahata (Gor Mahia), Duncan Otieno (AFC Leopards), Samuel Onyango (Gor Mahia), Athuman Ismael Gonzales (CF Fuenlabrada, Spain), Anthony Akumu (Zesco, Zambia), Victor Wanyama (Tottenham Hotspurs, England), McDonald Mariga (Real Oviedo, Spain), Johanna Omollo (Cercle Brugge KSV, Belgium), Paul Were (FC Kaisar, Kazakhstan), Eric Johana Omondi (IF Brommapojkarna, Sweden)  Forwards: Ayub Timbe (Heilongjiang FC, China), Cliffton Miheso (Buildcon FC, Zambia), Erick Kapaito (Kariobangi Sharks), Jesse Were (Zesco FC, Zambia), Michael Olunga (Girona FC, Spain)