The National Treasury yesterday admitted the government faces a serious cash crisis and cannot meet all its financial obligations. Funding to key government projects has been affected as well as county governments whose budget the government plans to slash by between Sh15 billion and Sh17 billion. “We need to discuss with you [senators] and governors that the figure which we put on the table is not feasible based on the challenges that I have explained,” Treasury CS Henry Rotich told the Senate committee on Finance and Budget. Read: 'Broke' Treasury plans to slash county budget by Sh15 billion Also read: From state of confidence to admission of a crisis Because of the massive cash crunch, government institutions have been asked to cut down wastage and improve efficiency in the use of money allocated to them. “Every institution must tighten its belt. We have adopted a tighter fiscal framework to reduce expenditure. We have to cut expenditure across the board so that we can match with our revenue,” he said. He blamed the financial austerity on the failure by the Kenya Revenue Authority to meet targets in projected revenue collection, and the prolonged electioneering period. “We have discussed with the KRA how to catch up by tightening the tax net on the domestic and Customs revenue,” Rotich told the committee chaired by Mandera Senator Mohamed Maalim Mahamud. According to Rotich, the government is experiencing a shortfall of Sh70 billion in its revenue collection in the current financial year – 2017/2018. He said a combination of domestic and international loan repayments falling due, last year’s two presidential elections, the unstable political environment and demand for disbursements (to the counties) have led to the cash crisis. As a result of the cash crunch, it is likely that Kenyans will face tough times ahead because the government will continue to borrow locally in competition with the public, which will make it more expensive for small businesses to access credit from banks. As at December 2017, Kenya’s debt stood at Sh4.55 trillion, which has condemned the country to dedicating 54 per cent of revenue collected to repaying loans. The strict repayment terms have also seen the Treasury forced to borrow more, including the recent Eurobond, in order to repay due loans. “We want Parliament to reduce the allocation given to the counties. We want the Division of Revenue Bill amended to lower than the Sh302 billion,” Rotich told the senators. The senators, among them Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Makueni), demanded to know why the county governments are four months behind disbursements, despite the Senate developing and approving a disbursement schedule. They argued that only Sh134 billion (40 per cent) has been disbursed to the counties against the stipulated equitable share of Sh302 billion. Related: Budget to be aligned to Uhuru’s ‘Big 4’ agenda Also read: Uhuru's two ‘Super Ministers’ will control Sh500bn budget In July last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta assented to the County Allocation of Revenue Act, 2017, setting out the equitable share of the national revenue for each of the 47 counties. The counties were slated to receive Sh302 billion in equitable share of national government revenue, Sh23 billion in conditional grants and Sh16.4 billion in conditional allocations from loans and grants from development partners. “We are engaging KRA on how to catch up with revenue collection. We have instituted a deficit consolidation programme to reduce the deficit to 7.2 per cent,” Rotich said. Last month, Deputy President William Ruto announced that the counties will receive Sh314 billion in the next Financial Year and an additional Sh54 billion in conditional grants. The latest audit by the Controller of Budget has revealed that the counties are consistently spending more on salaries and less on development. The recommended level for county salary expenditure is 35 per cent of total expenditure.  Currently, they spend on average 78.3 per cent on salaries. Treasury is supposed to disburse cash to the county accounts every month, but with just over three months to the end of the financial year, some counties have only received 30 per cent of their allocated share. Rotich explained that reading the Budget early last year before the General Election had interfered with revenue collection. “We have a shortfall of Sh70 billion, which is a result of business slow-down activities due to the elections,” he said. According to Nicodemus Odhiambo, a commercial lawyer, the crisis was unavoidable, owing to Kenya’s lack of long-term fiscal planning. The government has over the years focused on infrastructure more than job creation, which would be a more sustainable source of revenue to fund the country’s Budget, he says. He also blames the government for uncoordinated borrowing and pilferage of public funds. “Poor planning and forecasting have been the bane of the country, and if we do not sort out our fiscal planning, we will be back on this road within months. The government has all along been increasing taxes on commodities instead of focusing on widening the tax base. If we could increase job opportunities, there would be a larger tax base,” Odhiambo says. Slashing county budgets will be self-defeating as it could scuttle devolution. Rotich was yesterday at pains to explain to the Senate Finance and Budget Committee why the counties have not received their full disbursement before the closure of the financial year ending on June 30. More on this: We are concerned about Kenya's debt burden, IMF tells MPs Also see: Treasury’s collection falls Sh52.6 billion below mark Financial expert and founder of Rich Management Aly Khan Satchu says that Rotich’s proposal was inevitable, but that the government must cut down on its spending and wastage of resources whether through graft or non-viable projects. He adds that the counties need to invest in entrepreneurial ventures to increase their revenue base. “It is as plain as day that we have run out of headroom. Of course, slippage is our biggest problem, whether at the national or county level. Mr Ouko has done a fine job of shining the torch on slippage, which is evidently an endemic problem,” Satchu said. Satchu also blamed the adversity on drought, electioneering and a credit crunch. “Yes the CS is stating the obvious,” said the Star columnist. Related: In devolution, resources must follow functions Click here for the latest political news