The timely implementation of development projects by the county of Lamu cant be achieved thanks to the delayed disbursement of county funds by the National Treasury. Lamu governor Fahim Twaha admitted that the situation made it difficult to effectively run the affairs of the county. Speaking on Thursday,Twaha however said the situation hasn’t affected the payment of county staff salaries. He says the major huddle is with development projects majority of which have now been halted as they await the disbursement of the funds. “With the little amount we received, we have been able to comfortably pay salaries to all county staff.We have also cleared all our power bills and that means Lamu wont experience any power cuts related to payment.Our biggest headache lies with development projects.We intended to carry on for instance with road construction projects and now cant because there is no money,”said Twaha. Twaha said had the funds been released on time,the county would have made major strides in development matters and even initiated more. He called on the national government to push for the speedy release of the funds in order to enable counties pursue and achieve their set development objectives within the necessary timelines. “I am aware that the delay isn’t just here but in all 47 counties so that means we are not alone in this.We are however glad that as county despite the situation,some things are moving.I am personally not worried because somehow we are managing as a county,”said Twaha. Deputy governor Abdulhakim Aboud said apart from the delayed funds,Lamu was still battling the issue of low budgetary allocation annually which he said has also been hindering effective service delivery. The Kenya adapted to the devolved system of governance six years ago,Lamu county remains among counties that continue to get the least allocation that ranges between Sh.1.8 Billion to 2.4 Billion as compared to other counties that receive ‘generous allocations. Aboud said it was unfortunate and unfair that despite the myriad of challenges faced in Lamu including costly sea transportation,the Committee on Revenue Allocation-CRA fails to put into consideration such. “The CRA needs to review the various criterion used in allocation of county funds and ensure counties faced with difficulties and underdeveloped like Lamu are given more attention in terms of funds allocation.Working in Lamu is expensive and mostly because of transport challenges. Moving around on the Indian Ocean is really costly yet the county government must ensure services reach there. Our roads are equally in bad shape.Theres not much that Sh1.8 Billion can’t do,”said Aboud.   