Three minors have been admitted with cholera in Naivasha following an outbreak at Kihoto estate near the lake. Medics are concerned that the numbers could rise due to heavy rains that have resulted in flooding almost daily. In Kihoto estate, some shallow latrines are located near wells. For years, the estate that is home to hundreds of flower
farm workers has recorded cholera cases that have been linked to the proximity of the wells to the latrines. Dr Angeline Ithondeka, the superintendent in charged of Naivasha sub-county hospital, said the children were in serious but
stable condition. “These are the first cases of cholera we have recorded this
year. We are on high alert as the rains could cause the disease to spread further." Naivasha sub-county commissioner Isaac Masinde said the area's cholera response team had been activated. The team visited affected areas and
issued water treatment tablets to residents, disinfected homes and
embarked on a public awareness campaign. Masinde cited the water issue in Kihoto
and Karagita estates as the major challenge and cause of the outbreak every
year. “Residents of the two estates rely on the water from the shallow
wells," he said. Traders in the lakeside town asked the
county to urgently address the issue of drainage. Antony Rebo said rains prevent access to some of the towns yet there has been no solution for years. “The slightest rain in Naivasha leads to flooding. We are
worried that with the heavy rains things could get worse," he said. In Garissa county, two people died from cholera in Balambala sub-county while another three succumbed in Saka. Waorkers cannot reach residents to determine the scale of the outbreak due to impassable roads. In Murang'a county, two people died while more than 40 were admitted after a suspected cholera outbreak in Nyaga village, Gatanga. More on this: Cholera kills 5 Garissa locals, three in hospital Also read: 46 admitted after Cholera outbreak in Gatanga, Murang'a Click here for the latest political news