The government suffered a major setback yesterday after the High Court suspended a circular issued by head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua on age limit for parastatal bosses. Justice Onesmus Mutua of the Employment and Labour Relations Court stopped implementation of Kinyua’s circular that was sent to Cabinet Secretaries and Permanent Secretaries in all ministries. Last week Activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court to challenge the government’s move to scrap age and term limits for state corporation CEOs. Kinyua directive meant that CEO’s of public bodies will not be subjected to both the mandatory retirement age of 60 years and further said they can also serve for more than six years. The court directed Omtatah to serve the petition to Kinyua and the Public Service Commission before the end today. In the petition Omtatah argues the circular exempts CEOs of public agencies from the mandatory retirement age of 60 and further changed the maximum tenure of the parastatal bosses from six to 10 years. The circular that was copied to the Cabinet Secretaries, the Attorney General and the Principal Secretaries indicates that the terms of service for CEOs are contractual and renewable based on performance and business requirements. It also says they are not subject to the general public service policy on mandatory retirement at 60 or 65 years or limit as to the number of terms served. Omtatah argues that Kinyua is not a regulation-making authority and he does not have the mandate to direct the operations of the public service by issuing the circular. He says unless the application is urgently heard and determined, Kenyans will suffer great loss. The activist also says the constitution and the rule of law will continue to be violated and threatened by Kinyua and the PSC. “Unless stopped by court, the circular will be implemented across the public service,” the petition reads. According to the activist, Kinyua issued the circular, which was subjectively created through an irregular, hurried, arbitrary and opaque process that did not involve public participation. “Kinyua is a busybody with no capacity to oust the mandate of the Public Service Commission,” Omtatah says. He says Kinyua has been “masquerading as the Head of Public Service” and purporting to have powers to instruct or direct Principal Secretaries, yet he has never been vetted by Parliament and is not an authorized officer. Omtatah wants the court to declare that the Office of the Head of Public Service does not exist in law and such designation are invalid, null and void. “I further seek a declaration that Kinyua is not a regulation-making authority and therefore had no capacity to make, alter, vary, or in any way howsoever to make statutory instruments,” the petition reads. The activist further wants the court to compel Kinyua to immediately refund to the Public Service Commission any money he has earned, while “masquerading as the Head of Public Service”. The case will be heard on April 12.