A former defence witness in the ICC cases William Rono has said he will go to The Hague to testify against former Journalist Walter Barasa. Rono who had been lined to testify in defence of DP William Ruto and Joshua Sang says he reads malice in the surprise decision by Barasa to surrender himself to the ICC in a bid to clear his name. “He has all along been fighting in courts to block his extradition to the ICC and it's surprising that he comes up with such a decision when a local court already ruled against him being taken to the ICC to face trial for witness tampering,” Rono said. Read: I've had enough; I'll surrender to ICC, journalist Walter Baraza says Rono said should Barasa surrender himself to the ICC, then he would be willing to go and testifying against him. “We have evidence on what Barasa did in the ICC cases and his decision to surrender is a threat which we can't take lightly,” Rono said. Rono, a former councillor in Eldoret claimed that an MP from Western Kenya was the one misleading Barasa in an attempt to revive the ICC cases. “The MP thinks he will be able to revive the ICC cases against the DP but as one of the defence witnesses we are ready to deal with such threats against the DP,’ Rono said. Rono claimed that Barasa’s statement indicating that he was broke and frustrated showed that he was trying to make financial benefits from the ICC issue. Barasa said friends have shunned him and no one wants to give him employment and his decision to go to the ICC was to clear his name. “Once the court said he cannot be extradited, Barasa should have settled down and work like any other Kenyan to earn a living. Many of us who were witnesses have moved on in business and I don’t know why he expected to be treated differently “, said Rono. Before the ICC cases started Rono and another witness Ken Wekesa Braziz went public claiming that they had been coached by civil society groups to go and testify against the DP. According to them, they rejected the plan and turned to be defence witnesses. Read: Appeals court lifts orders stopping Walter Barasa's arrest over ICC witness tampering  Click here for the latest political news