Residents of Kyuso in Mwingi North constituency were ecstatic about prospects of limestone mining in the area. The curse of poverty would soon end, many thought. Far from it. Athi River Mining Company was awarded the tender in 2013. Compensation to land owners was done swiftly. While some residents smiled all the way to the bank because they thought they had struck gold, a dissatisfied group from Ngaaie HIlls refused the money. A liaison committee chaired by Mwingi North Paul Nzengu was formed. In the agreement between the committee and the mining firm, the 600 residents whose land would be taken would receive Sh150,000 per acre as compensation. Unhappy group Half the number of residents have received their cash. Some had never touched so much money in their lives. They blew it in a flash and are back to square one. They haven’t left the land after getting the cash. Sixty families feel shortchanged by the deal. They said land was surveyed and demarcated in the absence of the owners. The unhappy group said mining laws were breached as the firm bought their land at throw-away price instead of leasing it. But an ARM official, who asked not to be named,dismissed the claims as cheap propaganda by people opposed to the project. He told the Star on the phone yesterday no money was forcibly deposited in anyone’s account. He said mining will only start after two limestone factories are built. The liaison committee vice chairman Joseph Mutisya said those complaining don’t own land and people compensated are buying land elesewhere. ‘fake survey’ Some residents who refused the cash told the Star on Saturday they are living in fear. There are concerned they may be forcibly evicted because ARM says it wants to start the project as soon as possible. However, there are stumbling blocks. First, the issue of land demarcation and lack of title deeds cannot be wished away. Proper documentation is key to determine the amount to be awarded to the affected families. The national government intervened and sent surveyors who worked alongside a private one contracted by the company to demarcate the land and pave way for issuing title deeds. But some families disagreed with the terms. They formed a community based organisation and elected Josephat Kitheka as their secretary. He told the Star initially the firm was abiding by the Mining Act of 2016, but midway, it changed. He said ARM decided to purchase their land instead of leasing. “The private surveyor undervalued our land. Residents were given documents showing less acreage than they originally owned. We contracted another surveyor who unearthed the truth,” Kitheka said. Despite the ‘fake survey’ and land demarcation, the mining firm compensated some of the residents. Those in Kitheka’s group refused the offer, based on the value of the minerals. Resident Kyalo Kyamati told the Star that it’s unfortunate the firm forced some residents to accept compensation. It deposited money in their bank accounts. “I am wondering why money was put in my account without consulting me. I made it clear I had rejected their offer until they settle all the outstanding issues. Ngilu poll pledge “I was called by an Equity Bank manager to alert me of the cash deposit. He asked me if I had links with ARM. Who told them I needed their money? Kyamati asked. He is appealing to Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu to come to their aid before their land is taken and they are evicted with no benefits. Kyamati said since the court upheld Ngilu’s election, she should deliver on her election pledges. When she was sworn into office, Ngilu promised to work with the national government to ensure minerals such as coal and limestone in the county benefit the residents. Many wives whose husbands took the money are bitter. They regret that limestone was discovered in their land. Resident Jackline Mutinda said family conflicts have increased. Men misused the compensation cash, leaving their children and wives in poverty. “Women don’t have land ownership rights. Their husbands misused the money. Some married new wives. Elderly widows’ land was taken by sons who have been squandering cash,” Mutinda said. An activist from Kituo Cha Sheria Kenya Isaac Mutinda called for immediate state and county help.