A Machakos school indefinitely suspended learning on Thursday after the building that houses it developed cracks. More than 1,500 pupils of Mlolongo Primary School in Mavoko were evacuated from the building and asked to go home. The single-floor building, that was constructed in 2013, has the school's 23 classrooms, the head teacher's office, two offices of deputy head teachers, a staff room, hall and washrooms. The institution has learners from the nursery to class eight level. Teachers scampered in fear of their safety after receiving reports of the cracks. They said they had no alternative but to send the children home since their lives were in danger. Two hundred will write KCPE this year. "Some of the teachers were in class while some were in the staff room when class seven children on the ground floor raised the alarm after they heard sounds emanating from the walls," said a tutor who sought anonymity.  The building that houses Mlolongo Primary School in Mavoko, Machakos county, as pictured on March 22, 2018. /GEORGE OWITI Head teacher Francis Wambua said he could not comment on the state of the building since he is not an expert. "The building has cracks. We do not have an alternative since the structure houses the entire school," he said. The children were asked to return on Friday with their parents for a meeting that area leaders, administrators, KeNHA engineers and Machakos county representatives will attend. "We want parents to be part of the deliberations and experts to give their verdicts. Eengineers will tell us whether the building should be condemned or repaired," Wambua told the Star in the school's compound.  A teacher shows the Star cracks on the walls of a class room at  Mlolongo Primary School in Mavoko, Machakos county, March 22, 2018. /GEORGE OWITI The school relocated to the building from where the new Mlolongo Weighbridge sits. Some of the parents have accused the contractor of doing a shoddy job while teachers asked the government to intervene. Click here for the latest political news 