At least 30,000 families that depend on mangrove in Lamu county want compensation for income lost through the government logging ban. Mangrove loggers, concentrated in Lamu East subcounty, say they have lost millions of shillings since the three-month ban went into effect. DP William Ruto announced the ban on February 24 to fight environmental destruction, protect water towers and mitigate effects of the drought. Conservationists say mangrove forests protect the environement. Thousands of residents of Ndau, Kiwayu, Faza, Kizingitini, Pate, Siyu, Manda and Lamu depend on logging business for a living. Many wer forced into the business after fishing and tourism were badly affected frequent terror attacks. They either want compensation for the time they have been out of business, or to be allowed to carry on with logging. UNFAIR TREATMENT Speaking in Lamu yesterday, chairperson of the Lamu Mangrove Community Forest Association Abdulrahman Aboud said life has become tough for many since the DP announced the ban. He said the ban is unfair since members have lost more than Sh16 million in the last three weeks. Aboud said mangroves have nothing to do with drought and as such, it is a punishment to keep them out of business. Many mangrove dealers will be impoverished or they will turn to crime, he said. “Mangroves are not normal forests. They have nothing to do with rain or drought. Banning logging will leave many residents jobless,” Aboud said. Fatma Fankupi said through the mangrove business she has been able to send her childrento school, but business has suffered since the ban was imposed. She can no longer afford school fees. “I inherited this business from my father who also inherited it from our forefathers. It’s not illegal to do mangrove logging, as its harmless. Why should the government wake up and impose a ban? They must allow us to continue,” she said. Abdalla Abushiry said many youth were employed as loggers and the ban is a big blow. We fear there will be increased crime and even radicalisation since many youths will be idle. Lamu East MP Athman Shariff gave the government a 14-day ultimatum to lift the mangrove logging ban. Click here for the latest political news