THE truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition Chief Raila Odinga will definitely destroy the careers of some
politicians. A Jubilee lawmaker was heard whispering to his aides that they
have to re-engineer themselves as bashing Raila, which was the lifeline of many
politicians, may not be tenable anymore. He was however upbeat that they were
not alone. He claimed that even some NASA politicians had built their careers on
attacking Uhuru mercilessly. He gave the example of a first term leader who is
facing a by-election after his election was nullified and who has been linking
his rival to Jubilee so as to scatter his chances in the coming mini polls. *** A legislator from Nyanza who has been on the receiving
end on social media has turned to divine intervention for help against his Facebook
tormentors. The MP has surprised his constituents with his sudden love for
prayer services and the loud manner in which he confesses his transgressions
before the congregation, including asking for protection from Facebook
tormentors who he admits have not given him peace since his election last year.
The politician is also rumoured to have deployed NG-CDF vehicle to his
long-time chang’aa vendor mistress
who is using the vehicle to transport the adulterated drinks either in the wee
hours of the morning or very late in the night. ** THAT the country is broke is now a public secret.
But as most Kenyans ponder what next, employees in several national and county
governments have already started feeling the heat, as their February salaries
remain unpaid midway through March. Workers at the University of Nairobi,
Nakuru and Nairobi counties and other public institutions are yet to receive
payment, with no word on when they may get their February pay. For most of the
affected employees, going public is not an option, as they fear being dragged
into a fight with their bosses, who they say may attempt to have them sacked. The
University of Nairobi's situation is worsened by the fact that it has been in a
dicey financial situation over the last few years, and delayed salaries have
become routine. ** A Nairobi-based businessman who successfully won
billions compensation claim for land could find himself in trouble following an
investigation by the EACC into a property recompense deal with the NLC. The
EACC is investigating the NLC’s payment for a piece of land owned by the
businessman who won billions in a case against the government after claiming
that land was grabbed from him. The investigation is questioning whether the
businessman could end up receiving more billions from taxpayers.   