Imara Bella Thorpe will skipper the Kenyan swimming team to the Cana Zone IV swimming Championship in Lilongwe Malawi starting tomorrow. The team departed the country yesterday morning for the prestigious event. Thorpe is one of the most experienced members of the team and will be making her fifth appearance at the championships. Other experienced team members include Rushab Shah, winner of silver and two bronze medals in Mauritius in 2016; Clyde Lwanya, winner of two bronze medals in Zambia in 2017, Jasmine Kimani, Victoria Okumu, Thomas Tabuka and Kunaal Khagram. Debutants include 12-year-olds Ishaq Bashir and Lenise Wanakai, Erica Wangeci, Scott Kithikii, John Paul and Aryen Muravvej. The squad will be competing for medals against 25 other teams including hosts Malawi. Kenya’s performance in previous CANA events has been strong. Last year, in CANA Zone 3, which brought together East and Central African countries in Dar-es-salaam, the team finished runners-up behind the hosts Tanzania. This year, the team seek to improve their overall performance against highly ranked southern Africa teams. The event is unusual in that it is a short-course swimming championship unlike previous years where it been a long course event. Swimmers will also be aiming to attain qualifying times for the 14th World Swimming (short-course) Championships in Hangzou, Peoples’ Republic of China scheduled to take place from December 11-16th, 2018. The officials accompanying the team are head coach Anthony Muriithi, Chaperone Emily Wanakai and team doctor Linda Thorpe. Sanjeev Khagram, a member of the Kenya Swimming Federation Interim Management Committee, will accompany the team as head of delegation. The team will be facing of the toughest African swimming nations like South Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Mauritius and Namibia. Coach Muriithi expects the Kenyan swimmers to be competitive and give a good account of themselves in the three-day event. “ We expect a competitive championship against the best swimming talent from East, Central and Southern Africa but our team has trained well and they relishing the challenge.” 