Deputy President William Ruto has identified the Coast region as one of his key stepping stones in his 2022 State House bid. The Star has learnt DP Ruto has identified key influential MPs and at at least two governors from the region, who he wants to work with. According to sources, these include ODM’s Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Suleiman Dori (Msambweni) and Jubilee’s Khatib Mwashetani of Lunga Lunga, among others. “There will be a lot of meetings held in April,” a source privy to the DP’s movements told the Star on Tuesday. According to an MP who was with the DP during his recent three-day tour of the Coast that started on March 16, Ruto asked the MPs from the region to come up with at most two projects each in their areas, which he will help them implement. This is part of his charm offensive in an attempt to earn their trust.The Coast has about 1.7 million votes. Though it has been an Opposition stronghold, Ruto wants to take advantage of the truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga to make significant inroads.Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said those who attended meetings with the DP in his latest tour proposed that the government helps implement projects in their respective constituencies. “It was our idea. Ruto only consented to it. It is time to work for our people and at the end of the day, we will be judged by what we did for our people,” Katana told the Star on the phone yesterday. Already, Jomvu MP Badi Twalib said he is grateful his relationship with Ruto has started bearing fruits ever since the Uhuru-Raila handshake. “I do everything for the interest of my people. Working together with DP Ruto made our people get a Sh1billion road, a police station and, soon, water,” Twalib told the Star on the phone on Tuesday. Thr Changamwe MP said the MPs who pledged their support to Ruto during his tour had their reasons, not necessarily for politics. “We were there to support development and not to pledge loyalty to anyone and some of us said so to make it clear,”  Mwinyi said. He said 2022 politics will be played when that time comes. “For now, we will work together for the development of our areas and for our people,” Mwinyi said. Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari, however, denied  Ruto asked MPs to come up with two projects each. “There was nothing like that,” he told the Star on the phone yesterday. He, however, admitted  he had asked for the Kinango-Kwale road to be tarmacked and the DP agreed. “What the DP insisted on was working together for the benefit of our people,” said Tayari. Analysts also say Ruto is more likely to work with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. According to Philip Mbaji, a political commentator from the region, Kingi and Ruto are great friends behind the scenes. 