International Automobile Federation (FIA) head of technical matters Giles Simon and Olivier Ciesla, the WRC Promoter managing director are in the country to oversee ARC Safari Rally as the country seeks to regain the World Rally Championship status. The two officials will use ARC Safari to gauge Kenya’s capability of organising WRC event. This year’s Safari, the 66th edition, has attracted 36 entries including drivers from Uganda and Tanzania, who will be chasing points towards the African Rally Championships of which Safari is a key event. Kenyans Onkar Rai, Jaspreet Chatthe, Baldev Chager, Manvir Bryan, Carl Tundo, Karan Patel and Jasmeet Chana will be joined by Uganda ace Jas Mangat as the main contestants for top five finishes. It will be a thrilling battle by the leading 10 drivers and the title is wide open.. Gilles Simon acts as FIA technical director for developing FIA championships and oversees technical solutions, strategy and sporting vision for the organisation. He works in close cooperation with the FIA departments responsible for the global management of motor championships, as well as the safety department. Oliver Ciesla, on the other hand, advises the FIA on viability of events round the world and promotes the WRC. Meanwhile, programme for this weekend’s ARC Safari Rally began at the Kasarani Stadium yesterday with low seeded cars undergoing scrutineering. Chief scrutineer Jagjeet Patter led his team in conducting pre-event checks for the rally to be flagged off at KICC tomorrow at 11am. “The major reasons for checks prior to the rally is to basically ensure cars conform to the required safety measures as well as make sure they meet the standards of being classified in categories they are enlisted for,” said Patter. “We will also conduct random checks during and immediately after the event to ascertain the original state of machines has not been tampered with on the competition day,” continued Patter. The last minute push saw rally crews also proceed to recce yesterday. Event safety officer, Nazir Yakub, said if rains persist there will be alternative route notes on areas which will be deemed impassable. “The main road from Nakuru to Mai Mahiu has been swept but that won’t hinder the progress of the Rally. Under the circumstances, we have done all we can to make the event safe by mitigating any unforeseen circumstances. We have 36 ambulances for emergency intervention. We also have choppers at our disposal for air evacuation and highly trained paramedics. The stages are well covered and managed,” said Nazir.