Kilifi bar owners have complained against harassment by a multi-agency team led by Nacada officials, which is clamping down on illicit brews in the area. They raised this and other issues during a stakeholders meeting on Kilifi's Liquor Control Act, 2015, that discussed how to address enforcement challenges. The meeting also discussed how to safeguard investments from unregulated operators and ambiguous clauses that are misused by law enforcement agents. Regarding the crackdown has left two popular outlets closed, the business people said it was not handled properly. One said: “The officials come all the way from Nairobi, go to police and are given orders to terrorise workers." Details: [VIDEO] Two popular Malindi bars closed indefinitely for illegal operations The bar owners also want the government to ban the sale of beer at funerals as it is illegal and has affected their
businesses. They want the Kilifi Liquor Licensing Act amended to ensure only those with permits operate at specified clubs or bars. Owners of pubs, bars and hotels who attended the meeting said those selling beer at funerals without permits evade taxes and sell alcohol at un-designated areas. They proposed amendments to the Act so such traders are either banned or forced to pay taxes. Among those present were Kilifi's Gender, Sports and Tourism executive Maureen Mnyazi Mwangovya, Kenya Hotel Keepers and Caterers Association Chief Executive Officer Sam Ikwaye and Eric Mwashigadi who is chairman of the Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurant Association (Pera). Mwangovya said they were committed to creating a conducive working environment for all bar owners. “We will work with the county to ensure officers including sub-county administrators and public health officers work with
the multi-agency teams during crackdowns to avoid harassment." The CEC told the Pera chairman to collect members' views on proposed amendments to the Liquor Licensing Act. The hoteliers association CEO noted a "serious problem" between the entertainment industry and the tourism sector. "That's why we are looking for ways to attract business and ensure harmony," he said. Click here for the latest political news