President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga unit pact is not a political stunt but a commitment to peace and development of the country, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto, during a tour of West Pokot county to launch development projects on Friday, asked other leaders should follow the example set by Uhuru and Raila. "We have agreed as leaders to unite and work together as President Kenyatta and Hon Raila have done," he said. He added: "We are uniting not because of political interests or for selfish reasons but because of the unity of Kenyans. This is so that we can focus on development which transforms the lives of Kenyans." Read: Raila too unpredictable to be trusted, Jubilee MPs warn after Uhuru pact More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya The Deputy President said issues pertaining the last General Election
have been overtaken by events following the unity pact between Uhuru
and Raila. "Issues of politics from Monday to Monday; day to
night are now behind us. Let’s now plan on development and how to
address the needs of our people," he said. He told West Pokot leaders to stop political wrangles and concentrate on servicing the people who elected them. "It’s
the voters who had the final say during the last elections. We are
working together because we have the same goal of serving the people.
All of us should do the same." Ruto cited the case of Governor John
Lonyangapuo who was elected on a Kanu ticket and has been engaging in
activities jointly with the Jubilee administration The Deputy President launched the construction of a peace school along the Kenya-Uganda border to address challenges of insecurity. Katikomor peace primary school is situated along the Kenya-Uganda border and will be constructed at Sh100 million. The aim is to bring together communities in the region fighting over land and cattle. West Pokot has pledged Sh20 million for the project with the Deputy President promising another Sh20 million from the national government. Ruto said similar schools will be launched along the borders of West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo-Samburu and Turkana counties as a measure to containing banditry and cattle rustling activities. Addressing wananchi during the launch of the school, Ruto said education remains key to fighting insecurity occasioned by cattle rustling and feuds over land ownership along the border areas. "The completion of this peace school will help bring together our brothers from Uganda, West Pokot and Trans Nzoia and bring to an end cattle rustling and conflicts over land ownership," the DP said. Governor John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), MPs Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria), Reuben Chelimo (Kongasis, Uganda), David Pkosing (Pokot South) and Lilian Tomitom (West Pokot woman rep) were present. Ruto told leaders and residents in areas affected by insecurity to unite and work together by supporting Government efforts in attaining lasting peace for the sake of development. "We should stand together in eliminating cattle rustling activities which are hindering the development of education, agriculture, trade and health among other areas," the DP said. The Deputy President also presided over a graduation ceremony at Chesta Teachers Training College where he told leaders to bolster peace and reconciliation efforts among all Kenyans irrespective of their political, ethnic, and religious persuasions. The leaders vowed to work together in addressing the challenges affecting the people especially insecurity, saying its through teamwork and unity that the peoples lives could be improved. "As leaders we have resolved to put aside our political differences and work together to eliminate problems of banditry and cattle rustling along the border areas," Lonyangapuo said. "The county government will build five more schools along the border in the next five years. This will be to address the challenge of insecurity which has been the major stumbling block to development." He said the county has had problems of insecurity with the people of Sebeny in Uganda, saying the construction of the peace school would help restore peace and accelerate development along the border areas. Chelimo, who represents the Sebeny community in Uganda’s Parliament, said he was committed to peaceful coexistence along the border areas. "We are grateful for the move by Kenya to construct Katikomor peace school along our borders. This will help bring our people together," Chelimo said. Click here for the latest political news