Right after checking into the luxurious
Park Hyatt in Stone Town Zanzibar, I was shown to my deluxe room, whose balcony
offered an unmarred view of the beach from the property’s seafront.
The view itself is quite a sight to behold, with people milling about before the
blue, boat-speckled water of the Indian ocean. One of the impressive things
about the design of the room is that the bathtub is placed in front of a wooden
door, which opens into the bedroom, offering a glimpse of the sea farther beyond. The hotel has a charming infinity pool, but
if you fancy swimming in the sea, there is a beachside gate to access the sand
shores, where you can join the locals swimming, playing football, doing yoga or
even fishing. Given the Omani influence on Zanzibar’s
culture, its influence can strongly be felt in the architecture and decor of
Park Hyatt. For starters, the hotel has a new and old building. The old one is called the Mambo Msiige mansion and dates back to 1847, when it was
built for a wealthy Omani tradesman. The government then took control of it
after he took part in an attempted coup to overthrow ruler Seyyid Bargash. A
good example of a traditional Zanzibar mansion, this building changed hands and
had various functions in the following years, including being used as a
hospital and later a British consulate, before being transformed into the
luxury hotel it is today. The new building, also known as Zamani
Residence, houses the rooms and restaurant. At the lobby, you will see towering
ceilings with wooden beams, skylights and golden brass chandeliers. The owner
is an avid art lover and collector, and so the hotel is dotted with
several unique pieces. There is even an entire gallery with a painter to give
art lessons, for those who want to exercise their artistic thumbs. For dining, an outdoor patio is the best
place to enjoy their buffet breakfast while taking in all the boats and dhows
in the sea. It gets a little hot and humid in the afternoon, in which case the
indoor restaurant with a show-kitchen comes in handy. They have an impressive
selection of fresh juices including tamarind juice. For lunch, I had a pan-seared kingfish with french fries, while my companion had a Jamaican roast
chicken. For a true taste of Zanzibar, however, I would highly recommend their
Zanzibar pizza or the ever-popular Zanzibar mix, also known as Urojo. The hotel also offers a gym, Anantara spa
with expert South-East Asian masseuse, cozy library overlooking the sea, a cozy
bar from which you can enjoy sundowners while getting a taste of the legendary
Zanzibari warmth, and hospitality. All in all, this is the perfect luxury base from which to explore the Unesco World Heritage Site that is Stone Town, with
attractions like Forodhani Market, House of Wonders, the Arabian Fort and
Harbour and more only being a short walk away.  Average
cost per night: Sh30,000 Rating:
4.5 Stars Contact:
+255
24 550 1234 Location:
Stone Town Zanzibar