With a week to the conclusion of March Madness, #TheRaverend has learnt that it is prudent to always have a backup plan for your backup plan. It is the only way to survive in this harsh world we live in. As a Kenyan you need a backup plan for every backup plan or otherwise “utalambishwa lolo or loli" by force. This week we have seen the god of Facebook, with all his billions, made to feel like a mere mortal. Mark Zuckerberg had to explain the embarrassing misuse of data from more than 50 million Facebook accounts, a controversy that's consumed the social media network. Cambridge Analytica were been caught pants down. This case reminded me of a time when we had only one toilet that we shared with all my relatives, including my uncles. One day I stormed into the house after nature called as I was playing “shake”, the door burst open, my uncle, who has never liked me very much, was having a rough time in the same toilet. Moral of the story, he was pants down and I paid for that interruption with a serious beating! Another case where it is crucial to always have your ass covered is the case of Senator Moses Wetang'ula, who never saw the handshake between UK and RAO coming. Now, he is fighting for his minority leader seat. Now to fret, people, as members of #TeamShaffie, here are five tips of survival to ensure prosperity and success in Kenya:.  Never waste too much time in school Individuals with five degrees or three PhDs never get time to hustle and understand the harsh reality of shamba la mawe that’s Nairobi living! When you are busy with books and lecturers' strikes, there are hustlers out their busy making major money moves, building an empire, waiting to employ you to toil for them. Wasting all your time/life in class/books drains your mental energy and at the end of the day you will get employed for less than Sh200,000 before tax, which is purely nonsense. I’m not saying that It’s not good to further your education, but remember “WagengeHao” said too much of something is poisonous. So, after your degree or a diploma, jump into the hustle and play with the sharks and in your spare time you can chase for aka loose Master's. The titles are things of ancient past that died with Charles Darwin and akina Einstein.  Keroro and slay queens are very dangerous Women have toppled empires. So when you combine slay queens drama and alcohol your chances of prosperity are! My bratha, did you hear me? N.I.L. Zero! Take that to the bank.  Betting or gambling will never be the solution to your being great, never ever! In the '80s and early '90s, gambling and betting was for the rich. But fast forward to the 21st Century the poor are the major players in the industry, followed by the middle class. Gambling is not a sound plan to lift you out of poverty. It’s a game of chance. Gambling is enticing; you will win small cash at first, but always remember the 'House never losses'. So if you are banking on beating the house by winning the jackpot, you are roast duck. Wewe utashinda umelamba lolo until you are six feet under!  Learn to be selfish and always mind your own business Don’t be that guy at the bar who shouts to anyone who cares to listen that you know rich people. Then you spend your time and hard-earned money drinking and plotting to build castles in the air! Wealth comes to those born in it or the true dreamers, the guys who always chase and search for opportunities not guys who are always observing every last action your neighbour or adversary is doing. The time you are squandering is sufficient to make an empire.  We need to eradicate the mentality of working in someone’s plantationreeee Do not. I repeat, don’t be comfortable because you are employed. Immediately you get that contract, plan an exit strategy. Always have a side hustle, even when you are someone’s slave. Your salary will never be enough to build you an empire. So make sure you're doing extra and save so that you can own your own plantation. Be your own boss. If you are a believer, you know that in time, God will come through for you. But before then, make your own major moves so that when God's favour and blessings come your way, whatever you have been chasing will be achieved.