Cyclist Stijn Van Parys is a man on a mission, and his is one many may consider an impossible one — to cycle across Africa in search of adventure. The Belgium international told the Star he decided to actualise an idea conceived eight years ago with his friends over a couple of beers. The idea at first was to cycle from Belgium to France, but his long-term dream was to cycle across Africa, with South Africa being his utmost destination. However, his ambitious dream came at a huge cost, since the trained banker had to quit his well-paying job before he embarked on a nearly year-long adventure. This as well brought painful memories, since his girlfriend couldn't stand his decision, and it meant he had to chase his dream a heartbroken man. His journey is set to cover 14 Africans countries, with his goal being cycling at least 8-10 hours a day, which is an average of 100km. I sat down with Stign, who is in the country seven months after he began his journey in his motherland, and his story is fascinating. Below are excerpts from the interview: Q: Please take us through your mission and how you came up with the whole idea of cycling across the African continent. Stijn: Basically 10 years ago, I was in university and I was having beer with my friends, and we used to do a lot of cycling back then already, where we would cycle and camp at night. So one day we decided to take it to another level, and we both thought Africa would be a great idea. Next couple of years, I was thinking what exactly I would need, and I started doing my research on my destinations and all that stuff. Well, I quit my job in preparation for it. I am doing the whole thing alone since the friend I was to do it with moved to Canada and he had issues with his girlfriend, so I decided to do it alone.  Q: You spoke about quitting your job, so what did you use to do and do you have any regrets so far? I used to work for a bank. I studied economics and I worked as an investment analyst, I liked it! I quit my job in June before my journey commenced a year later, but I actually don't regret my decision.  Q: Take us through the countries you have already visited and the experience so far. My journey started in Belgium, went to France, a part of Germany just at the border area, Switzerland, France again and then Spain. Then I took a boat to Morocco, where I cycled all the way to the beginning of the desert and then into the western of Sahara, Mauritania. Mauritania was probably the first part that was very challenging, since it gets very warm during the day at 45 degrees, and there is also terrorism threats. Because there are terrorists there, there are checkpoints every 50km, and so what would happen is, the police would 'arrest' me when it became dark because they were scared that I would get kidnapped. I would set up my tent next to a police checkpoint with five guys with AK 47 rifles and spend the night there.  Q: You have been in Kenya for five days now. What have been your most memorable moments here? I liked cycling around Nakuru and Nanyuki. It goes up a lot and you are like at 2,000km altitude and you have these huge views over. I like it a lot, it was really nice. And I stayed at some guest house where they were like heating water with a wooden stove.