A cricket like score-line was served out in Machakos as two former champions Tusker and Sofapaka slugged it out in a Kenya Premier League clash which ended 5-4. Tusker, who finished the game with ten men after Hashim Sempala was sent off for a second bookable offence, had taken a 2-1 lead, going into the break after goals from Matthew Odongo and Apollo Otieno had turned the game on its head after Kepha Aswani had given Batoto Ba Mungu a dream start by opening the scoring in the 7th minute. A manic 20-minute spell after the break saw the game swing in all directions like a pendulum. Goalkeeper Matthews Kigonya leveled the scores for the 2009 champions with a 50th minute penalty after Marlon Tangauz had been adjudged to have fouled Aswani. Tusker needed barely two minutes to take back the lead with Sempala beating his compatriot Kigonya with a low drive. The see-saw nature of the clash was not over yet as Aswani restored parity by finishing off a good move orchestrated by Maurice Odipo and Elly Asieche. By then, an hour had hardly passed but more was yet to come. Jackson Macharia, who had put in an anonymous shift until then scored the best of the bunch, clipping the ball with his thigh past Kigonya. Then Umar Kasumba took centre stage, finishing a lofted cross from Asieche after the brewers failed to clear the corner from danger. Kasumba then gave Sofapaka the lead for the first time since the opening goal after latching onto an Aswani pass to side-foot the winner fifteen minutes from time. With frustrations taking its toll, Sempala was red carded for a deliberate stamp on Odipo as the brewers slumped to a third defeat in seven matches and completely out of the title race with only a fifth of the campaign played. Bandari recent improvement on the road was evident as they pipped new boys Vihiga United 1-0. Back with the dockers after a year long stint in Sweden, David Kingatua fired the second half winner that not only left Edward Manoah’s side win-less but also consigned them to the foot of the table with four points from seven matches