Lecturers yesterday told a court that their ongoing strike is legal and in line with the Constitution. Public university VCs moved to court to overturn the strike, accusing the dons of reneging on pay talks. But lecturers accused the vice chancellors of failing to table a counteroffer to their 2017-21 CBA. “We plead with the court not to give any interim orders to stop the strike, as the applicants are misleading the court,” they told Justice Onesmus Makau. Read: Court declines to stop lecturers’ strike The lectures resumed a nationwide strike last Thursday over low pay, nearly three months after ending a similar protest. They have accused the Vice Chancellors’ Committee of sabotaging negotiations. “Failure by the claimants to submit their counterproposal stalled the negotiations. There was nothing to compare with the respondents’ proposal,” they said in their responses filed in court. The petitioners — vice chancellors — have never had any counterproposal to form the basis of concluding the collective bargaining agreement talks, the dons said. Read: VCs committee wants lectures to call off strike, allow talks They said that when the period within which the parties agreed to conclude the CBA discussions lapsed on January 31, they notified the varsity bosses of their frustrations on lack of goodwill on their part, especially their reluctance to engage them. The academic staff had no option but to issue a seven-day strike notice to the university managements and to the Labour ministry as required by law, they said. “In the absence of a counterproposal by the claimants, there was nothing for a conciliator to resolve, hence the need for a seven-day strike notice,” lawyer Titus Koceyo, representing the lecturers, said. He told the court to dismiss the case because it is frivolous, superfluous, has no merit and was filed in bad faith. The lectures have also asked the court to urge the vice chancellors to file their counterproposal. The Vice Chancellors’ Committee says it was unlawful for the University Academic Staff Union and Kenya Universities Academic Staff Union to call the strike, yet talks were ongoing. Read: Don’t meddle in our affairs, lecturers tell VCs’ committee The dons have also cited lack of goodwill from the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum. But the IPCCF disagreed. “It is imperative and of urgency that this court issues an injunction against the industrial action called by Uasu,” it said. “It’s unlawful and will disrupt the forum’s operations unjustifiably as well as set a bad precedent for industrial relations.” It said students are in the middle of their school sessions and the unprotected strike will cause disruptions, frustrations, hamper reasonable attendance in class and interfere with the whole academic calendar and examinations. The court will rule on March 16.  Click here for the latest political news