WHAT drove some ODM lawmakers from Coast to quickly endorse DP William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid yet none has ever backed their own brother and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho since he made the announcement late last year? This is the question many are seeking answers to, following the events at the Coast during Ruto’s recent tour. Word has it that some Coast MPs who did not attend Ruto’s function were overheard wondering what the DP did to their colleagues to back his 2022 bid with such vigour. It is said the MPs suspect Ruto, known to be a man of means, could have charmed the ODM MPs into backing him. **** HOW coincidental was it that MCAs from Bungoma were seated in the Speaker’s Gallery when their Senator, Moses Wetang’ula, was removed as the Minority Leader? Some could be overheard along the corridors of the Senate when they were walking out deeply in discussion on how historic it was to be present at such moments occurring right before them. One suggested that they should have been asked to stay away from the Chamber when Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, who comes from the same county as Wetang’ula, was making the communication to the House. *** AN MP from the North Rift is a man in trouble. Reason? The man is said to have “munched” a beauty he picked up from the streets of one of the three cities. According to a little bird in his office, the lady from the Coast has been calling the office, situated at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, demanding the balance of pay for the services she offered to the legislator. The MP is said to have paid a down payment of Sh5,000, promising to clear the balance later. But he never kept his word. The legislator disappeared and has not been picking up calls from the lady. The lady considers herself lucky that she had picked up the MP’s business card that has his contacts. *** COULD the man who has been with bullying female MPs by sending them nude photographs hail from Migori County? Some MPs suspect so. According to those in the know, the man, who has been pretending to be so connected to high-profile government officials, is said to be the one who recently exposed a former MP, alleging that he once had an affair with her. The man is also connected to a violent event concerning an MP from Kisumu County. On Thursday this week, an MP promised to expose the culprit, who has the phone numbers of MPs who served in the 11th and the current Parliament.     