Jamie Carragher has been suspended from his £1million-a-year Sky Sports job until the end of the season after admitting to spitting at a family from his car. The football analyst will not appear on any programming with Sky until at least May as it was revealed that police are preparing to quiz Carragher over the incident. Sky said it would review Carragher’s role before the start of the next football season, which begins in August. Earlier yesterday, Carragher called for the father who filmed him spitting out of his car to be left alone after he claiming to have received ‘death threats’. The TV pundit tweeted his support for Andy Hughes, adding that he was the ‘only person to blame’ for the incident. A statement from Sky said: “Following an internal review, Sky has suspended Jamie Carragher for the remainder of the football season. Jamie has taken full responsibility for what has happened and we will ensure he gets the help he needs to guarantee something like this never happens again. Before the start of the next season we will sit down with Jamie to discuss whether he is ready to return to his role.” It comes as police prepare to question Carragher after he was filmed spitting at Hughe’s 14-year-old daughter. Should Carragher, 40, be charged with common assault for spitting in the girl’s face, he could potentially face a six-month jail sentence or a hefty fine. Hughes, a Manchester United fan, used his phone to record the shameful incident that has left Carragher clinging on to his £1million-a-year Sky Sports job. Carragher tweeted: “I’ve made a big mistake and accept full responsibility. I am the only person to blame for this sorry situation, so please leave the family alone.” Mr Hughes, from Colwyn Bay, north Wales, shouted: ‘2-1, 2-1, unlucky Jamie lad, 2-1 lad’ from his open car window after spotting the TV presenter in traffic following Liverpool’s loss to Manchester United on Saturday. He then watched as former Liverpool star Carragher launch a mouthful of spit, which hit his 14-year-old daughter sat in the car. Mr Hughes ­­— who says that he ‘hates Scousers’ on his Instagram account — filmed the encounter with the TV presenter on his mobile phone. In the footage his daughter can be heard saying: “He spat on me.” Mr Hughes asks her: “Where did it hit you? The schoolgirl replies: “On my face.” His daughter then burst into tears, Hughes claims. The girl’s 38-year-old mother Sarah was also in the car. It is now thought that Hughes could himself face a £200 fine and six penalty points for using his mobile phone to record Carragher while at the wheel of his car. He has pleaded with Sky Sports not to axe the Liverpool legend from his lucrative pundit role as he revealed that the saga had led to death threats on social media.