FORD Kenya Deputy party leader Boni Khalwale’s point that Opposition leader Raila Odinga ignored high-level diplomatic intervention to be sworn in has not gone down well with a section of NASA leaders. Corridors overheard one senior official remark, “he can do better, some other matters are better left to the boardroom.” Now some are questioning if Khalwale, a former fierce critic of the ruling party, is trying to endear himself to the Jubilee administration after losing his governor bid to Wycliffe Oparanya. Well. There are silent voices in NASA who have been feeling that the ebullient bullfighter has been angling for an appointment in the Jubilee administration for a while. Or is he just being a voice of reason? ****** A governor from Nyanza who won an election petition has sent jitters down the spines of his staff. The county chief has vowed to send home staff that campaigned against him during the August 8 election. Many of the county staff had shifted allegiance to his opponent, whom they saw as a front-runner in the election. However, chickens could be coming home to roost for the hundreds of staff after the county boss’s election was upheld by the High Court. Already, some of the senior staff spared the axe as he faced the court petition have started carting away personal property from their offices. *** DID a senior NASA lawyer warn Opposition bigwigs of the impending nullification of embattled Embakasi East MP Babu Owino’s election victory? Why were all the Opposition leaders missing in action at the Nairobi High Court when the ruling was made? One of the opposition lawyers was overheard making a call at a top city hotel telling someone that he knew Owino would lose and that is why the NASA principals did not accompany him to court. “This was crystal clear, I told you last night and even shared with the NASA principals that Owino would lose his seat. We had no business going to witness the shame,” he said. MISTRUST and suspicion are rising in NASA about the loyalty of some members. Word is going round that one of its key strikers in the National Assembly, who was handed a plum position recently, may have been poached by Jubilee. The studious silence the vocal second term legislator has adopted of late is worrying his colleagues. The man was the subject of an impromptu kamukunji of NASA MPs within Parliament Buildings that went on for a long time. It is suspected that the man could be receiving pocket money from the government and has changed his lifestyle dramatically.    