ANC and Ford Kenya have intensified their war against NASA leader Raila Odinga in a bid to lock out of Western Kenya. The two parties have reorganised their activities to claim a stake in the opposition strongholds ahead of the 2022 polls. “First, we are fighting electoral injustice so that Kenyans can choose their leaders and second, build our support base to strengthen our parties,” Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba said. Read: We will teach Raila a lesson, says embattled Wetang’ula Also read: Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge MPs have are camping in Western Kenya during weekend and holding roadshows to reach out to grassroots voters. They have brought on board opinion leaders and former politicians to help solidify their base. “We thank the top leadership of ANC and Ford Kenya for putting their interests aside and agreeing to work together. We are prepared for the fight so that we can build our nation and ensure the rule of law is respected,” Omboko said. There is a growing rift in the National Super Alliance after President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga's handshake at Harambee House on March 9. Uhuru and Raila agreed to work together for reforms. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula feel shortchanged. Yesterday, ANC and Ford Kenya held a Parliamentary Group breakfast meeting to strategise against ODM and Jubilee. "We want to have healthy politics. The government should respect its people. We want leaders who come here to be honest with the people," Lugari MP Ayub Savula said. More on this: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted They said Western Kenya wants development and not the kind politics "used by outsiders to benefit themselves". Savula said Western Kenya is not a Mulembe nation, since there many communities from other communities born and living in the county. “MPs from this region in other parties have told us they will be coming home to ANC and Ford Kenya.” The leaders said part of the plan is to bring order in the parties, so they can have a common agenda for the people. Savula said ANC will discipline party rebels following investigations by the disciplinary committee. “Our deputy party leader Kipruto Kirwa heads the committee that is looking into the conduct of Kakamega Senator Cleopas Malala and Nominated MP Geoffrey Osotsi. We will come up with a report,” he said. Read; Ford Kenya trashes Wetangula’s ouster, say will strip ODM of minority posts The leaders said outsiders have misused the region for votes.They have identified them and are ready to take on the battle to them, they said. “We met to harmonise our activities and policies that will focus on development, politics and other interests of our people,” Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu said. “They say give a dog a bad name and hang it. That is what they have done to the people of Western by lying to the world that they are not united,” Eseli said. The MPs asked the parliament to respect the rule of law and release Miguna Miguna unconditionally.  Click here for the latest political news