Maize farmers have criticised the government for failing to clear all their outstanding payments. This comes after the government released Sh800 million. The farmers described it as a drop in the ocean. They are still owed more than Sh4 billion. They complained that they face a crisis and cannot buy the subsidised fertiliser because they have no cash. They want the government to act swiftly and clear the debt. National Cereals and Produce Board CEO Newton Terer yesterday said the farmers will get Sh1 billion more this week. “We’ll pay part of the money owed to them this week,” he said. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri promised the cash a fortnight ago. Hundreds of farmers have been protesting in Eldoret town against the piecemeal payments. “The planting season is on already, yet farmers have not been paid. They can’t access subsidised fertiliser. Many are likely to abandon maize farming this year,” Kenya Farmers’ Association director Kipkorir Menjo said yesterday. He urged Kiunjuri to honour his pledge to ensure they get all their dues. Kiunjuri had said the government was waiting for the MPs to pass the Supplementary Budget before the money is released by the Treasury. Farmers complain prices have dropped after the NCPB reduced intake and millers began importing cheap maize from Uganda. Those who still have more than three million unsold bags now sell to middlemen at low prices — a 90kg bag for Sh2,000. The NCPB buys for Sh3,200 a bag. Millers import maize at Sh1,800 per bag from Uganda. Moiben MP Sila Tirop warned of a food crisis if the payments are not made. “Farmers are frustrated with no pay and the imports that flood the markets. There’s also an acute shortage of fertiliser,” he said. Leaders must stand up for the farmers so their grievances are resolved, Tirop said. “This is a major crisis. All our leaders must come out and push the government to act. Failing that, the country will face a major food crisis due to reduced production,” he said. Menjo want Kiunjuri, who visited the region two weeks ago, to return and witness the problem. He said the plight of farmers has worsened since he left. Hundreds of residents still queue to deliver maize to the NCPB depots, Menjo s