Drones can now be used freely in Kenya, subject to registration by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority. They can be used in photographing events aerially, monitoring growth of crops on farms, studying weather patterns and in rescue operations and healthcare. KCAA Director General Gilbert Kibe yesterday said the remotely piloted aircraft systems must, however, abide by the regulations guiding their use. “Any person who wishes to import, own or operate an RPAS in Kenya shall apply to the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority in the prescribed form and pay the requisite fee. A person commits an offence if they own, operate, manufacture, assemble or test an RPAS without authorisation from the KCAA,” he said in a statement. The KCAA Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems Regulations, 2017, say Kenyans are allowed to acquire drones for sports, private activities and commercial purposes. An applicant must, however, demonstrate general knowledge, flight performance and navigation skills to be allowed to acquire one. The assembly or manufacture of drones without clearance by the KCAA attracts a penalty of a Sh2 million fine or six-months’ imprisonment. A similar punishment is meted out to anyone who operates drones with military specifications. Failing to disclose drone specifications, airworthiness, insurance policy, operating speed, maximum climb rates and coverage area attracts a Sh1 million fine or six-months’ imprisonment. Kibe said those who had already imported drones before the commencement of the regulations gazetted on October 6 have six months to apply for registration. The KCAA may grant permission, upon application, and a temporary permit to a person intending to operate a drone not registered in Kenya for a period of 30 days renewable once. The regulations do not, however, apply to State aircraft, unmanned free balloons (hot-air balloons), airships and toys. “No toy shall be operated within an aerodrome and not less than 500 metres from the aerodrome boundaries, in and around strategic installations, radar sites, high-tension cables and communication masts, prisons, police stations, courts of law and scenes of crime,” Kibe said. A drone with less than two kilogrammes gross weight, not powered by fuel, not fitted with a camera, not carrying a payload, and operated at a maximum height of 50 feet above the ground and not more than 50 metres radius from the operator, qualifies as a toy. The use of drones is increasingly becoming popular in Africa in the delivery of critical services. In Rwanda, drones are used to deliver medicine to inaccessible areas. In August last year, the Tanzanian government said it would begin the world’s largest drone delivery service for emergency medical supplies in the first quarter of this year. It said more than 100 drones would deliver 2,000 emergency supplies to 1,000 medical facilities daily. Such drones can carry blood, medicines or vaccines and can reach up to 10 million people en masse.