ODM now wants the Jubilee administration to come clean and explain the role Cambridge Analytica played in influencing the outcome of the August 8 polls. The election results were on September 1 invalidated by the Supreme Court citing massive illegalities and irregularities. Cambridge Analytica admitted running President Uhuru Kenyatta's 2013 and 2017 campaign messaging and propaganda. Also read: Facebook suspends Jubilee linked Cambridge Analytica for violation Most of their messages sought to malign and depict Raila Odinga of NASA as a bad leader. Cambridge Analytica is at the centre of an election manipulation scandal involving Facebook. Their admission, in a undercover film broadcast on Channel 4 News in the UK on Monday, has since seen the data mining firm fire its boss Alexander Nix. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna on Wednesday said the Jubilee administration should now own up to the role the firm played in the campaigns. He said this should be in the spirit of the new-found love between Raila and Uhuru. "The target of their fear campaign was of course the NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. We would want our Jubilee counterparts to come clean so that we can openly deal with the rifts created by these political mercenaries on the fabric of Kenyan society," Sifuna said in a statement. He suggested that laws should be formulated to ban foreign entities which are known to undermine democracy. "In order to protect our nascent democracy from such Foreign Political Mercenaries it may be desirable to curtail or ban, through legislation, their involvement in our politics," he said. Jubilee Party on Tuesday said that it had paid an affiliate of Cambridge
Analytica to "brand" its campaign gears during the 2017 presidential election. Vice chairman David Murathe said: "They were basically branding and all that but not directly." More on this: Cambridge Analytica confirms involvement in Kenyan elections Related: Cambridge Analytica whistleblower says his predecessor was found dead in Kenyan hotel room Click here for the latest political news