The petition challenging the election of Rabai MP William Kamoti has been dismissed by the High Court in Malindi with Sh3 million costs for lack of sufficient evidence. Judge Weldon Korir upheld the election of Kamoti, saying he was validly elected. The judge ordered petitioner Emmanuel Baraka to pay the IEBC Sh1.5 million and the legislator Sh1.5 million as costs for the petition. Baraka moved to court challenging Kamoti’s victory in the August 8 election, saying there were irregularities. However, the judge dismissed the petition, saying it lacked merit. no evidence Kamoti and his supporters celebrated the victory outside the Malindi law courts. Addressing journalists, the Rabai MP said the judgment has given his constituents more faith in the Judiciary. He thanked the courts for issuing a ruling saying there was no evidence of irregularities. “My competitors should know leadership comes from God, not from the courts. If they want leadership they should go to wananchi,” he said. Kamoti was with his lawyer Vincent Omolo. He said the judgment was balanced as it showed the petitioner did not have enough to warrant a nullification. Kamoti’s petition concludes other petitions filed against Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, Senator Stewart Madzayo, Woman Rep Gertrude Mbeyu and seven MPs. All the petitions were dismissed. kingi is in On February 22, the High Court in Malindi dismissed a petition against Kingi. Justice Korir ordered petitioner Kazungu Kambi to pay Sh4 million costs. The former Cabinet minister will pay Kingi of ODM Sh1.7 million and pay the remaining Sh2.3 million to the IEBC and returning officer Nelly Illongo. “The petitioner lacked enough evidence. This petition, therefore, stands dismissed. Amason Kingi was validly elected the governor of Kilifi,” Korir ruled before a packed court. Both Kingi and Kambi were absent when the judgment was delivered. Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi, Kilifi’s Jimmy Kahindi, MCAs and hundreds of Kingi’s supporters turned up for the ruling. They broke into song and dance immediately after the judgment. Kambi, who contested the seat on the Kadu Asili ticket, had moved to court to challenge Kingi’s victory in the August 8 General Election. The High Court also upheld the election of Michael Kingi as Magarini MP, slapping the petitioner with Sh3 million costs. Justice Patrick Otieno termed the petition filed by Johnson Mutawali and Boniface Nzai as fatally defective and not capable of being tried by a court of law. He said the petitioner failed to include the results declared by the IEBC, which automatically rendered the petition defective. Justice Otieno struck out the case, saying it would be a lesson for future petitioners and their lawyers.