Tana River governor Dhadho Godhana has been summoned to appear before Mombasa court over a Sh80 million debt. Godhana is expected to appear before judge Asenath Ongeri. This follows his failure to pay Abdulhakim Bayusuf and Sons Limited for items they supplied for the county. Bayusuf has also sued the county government, the county finance minister Baboya Bonaya, chief finance officer Ahmed Barawo, and the director of finance Francis Ndegwa. The governor and the others are expected to show cause why they should not be committed to civil jail for contempt of court. Tana River county had committed itself before the court to pay the amount in three instalments, a consent that it signed and was adopted by the court. The county was to pay Sh20 million then Sh30 million and finish up the debt by paying Sh30 million through a joint account at Aspire Bank. Through lawyer Gikandi Ngibuini, Bayusuf said: "It is with that decree that they promised their suppliers to pay them for the materials they had supplied them which were dispatched to Tana River." Gikandi said the defendants had failed to comply with the court order to pay the amount. He said Bayusuf is now on the breach of several court cases after the suppliers got impatient of empty promises. The lawyer further said his client may face a complete destruction if the suppliers sue them for failure to pay for the materials. "The imminent danger of the legal consequences that Bayusuf may face as a result of the defendant's non-compliance would have catastrophic consequences on his business," Gikandi said. He added that it was unfair for the county of Tana River to cause a destruction of the company considering how hard the owner has worked to ensure they reach where they are. "My client is likely to lose its reputation and suffer serious damage," he added. Gikandi urged the court to treat the blatant disregard and disobedience by the defendants with a lot of seriousness. He said the perpetrators ought to be punished by being committed to civil jail and only released after they complete paying Bayusuf.  Click here for the latest political news