The strike by university staff in public universities entered its fourth week yesterday with unions blaming the government of reluctance to address their grievances. On March 1, a seven-day notice given by the Universities Academic Staff and Union (UASU) expired, ushering in fresh round of strike. The strike is the first to be held this year, but the fourth to occur in a span of less than eight months that caused total paralysis in all the institutions of higher learning. As at Friday, University and Academic Staff union says their has been no engagement on the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiations (2017-2021) held since the beginning of the strike. Speaking to the Star on Friday, UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga said, the government had failed to resolve key issues and instead university heads had resolved to threats in an attempt to end the picket and return them to work. “The university heads have resorted to threats on the academic workers instead of solving their issues, the strike will go on until they finally give us a counter offer, agree and sign the CBA,” Wasonga said. Wasonga said they will not engage with the government on other issues unless it is a discussion around signing and implementing the CBA. “We are not going to continue with this cycle of calling off the strike and give room for negotiation to an arrogant employer, this time we are ready to go on with the strike as long as it will take until our issues are addressed,” Wasonga said. He further told the workers to ignore the threats as the union will craft a return to work formula at the end of the strike to protect them from any disciplinary actions by the employer. Court case An appeal to challenge a court case that rendered the strike illegal still awaits a ruling that will give the way forward. The ruling by justice Onesmus Makau ordered lecturers to return to work and the government give a counteroffer their 2017-21 CBA in 30 days. However, the union challenged the ruling citing it had failed to specify whether its orders were for a conciliation or negotiation process, and for not setting timelines. The negotiations for the 2017-21 CBA were expected to start on December 18, 2017 and be concluded by January 31. Read:Lecturers reject government's Sh6.8 billion offer to end strike