Investors who take
huge loans to buy matatus in the hope of cashing in on the lucrative industry
are quickly brought down to earth by harsh realities on the ground. They find their
earnings milked by an “extortion network”, whose tentacles are spread through organised criminal gangs, rogue traffic police officers, county askaris,
route marshals and touts, collectively costing the industry Sh50 billion a year. At the Railways
terminus and Haile Selassie-Moi Avenue roundabout, for instance, police have
strategically placed agents who collect fees from every matatu, while trying
not to attract public attention. “Nowadays they
start collecting bribes as early as 5am. Between that time and 9am, their main
work is to collect money before they embark on their daily duties,” a stage
manager told the Star. Collecting agents deliver
the cash to respective officers every evening, either by M-Pesa or by cash. Every
route has an agent who knows all the vehicles and collects the money from each of
them. For fear of being
tracked by the Johnston Kavuludi-led National Police Service Commission and the
anti-graft agency, the Star established that once this money is received by respective
officers, they hand it over to their small chamas. “Nowadays these
officers are operating on a higher level. They have their small chamas and in a
day contribute like Sh10,000 or at least Sh5,000. So instead of them taking the
money, we agents run the chamas for them,” one agent said. He said since the NPSC
and EACC track their M-Pesa transactions, the officers prefer to be handed the
money in cash, where they will divert it to projects named under family
members. Some of the amount
is banked in private accounts owned by the officers in collaboration with these
touts, who enjoy protection from the same officers. THE UNTOUCHABLES Star's leads
established that the touts are untouchable and can harass any matatu crew, and
whoever takes the matter forward lands themselves in trouble. This makes it
difficult for NPSC and EACC to crack down on the cartel. The agent told the
Star another squad of youth is stationed in the stages, whose work is to call
on passengers to board at a fee. Some of them sit in
the matatus, posing as passengers to lure other people to board, but as the
matatu gets filled, they alight one by one and collect their share before the
matatu leaves. One such agent,
Kennedy, told the Star the high level of unemployment is what drives them to
look for an alternative way of earning a living. “I come here every
day so that at least I can have something for my family. I am paid 20 bob on
every matatu, so the more matatus come for me to pose as a passenger, the more
I will earn on that day,” Kennedy said. Once full, the
buses leave to different routes, where the stage touts wait for their cut. A
crew of two is always stationed near estate routes to take over the bus as the
driver and conductor take a break. KBS MD Edwins Mukabanah
says due to such activities, many matatu owners are left with no option but to try
other means that will help them remain in business. Many operators have
ended up undercutting each other. It is a business that needs no education with
rules. It is free entry as long as you can dance to the tune, he said. “Imagine someone takes
a loan of about Sh5 million to buy a matatu with expensive graffiti, music,
television and even Wi-Fi, and still operate in such extortive circumstances,
if not for the sake of it, then largely in money laundering?” he added. "I have been
in this business for more than 30 years and I can tell you for sure that you
cannot invest an extra Sh250,000 to decorate a matatu and make a profit,"
Mukabanah said. PASSING THE BUCK All these
allegations are dismissed by police bosses, who say matatu operations are no
longer under their docket. Head of traffic
Jacinta Kinyua told the Star matatu operations are a devolved function and the
traffic department is no longer in charge. “Why should we
collect such money for work we do not do? I earn good money and I’m contented
with it. I do not need kickbacks for any operations,” the traffic boss said. She said, “This
time people should not drag my name into dirty dealings with an intention of
spoiling my reputation. I promise I will not let it go. We shall face each other
in court.” Acting head of
traffic Nairobi area Kipkemboi Chesang said the traffic department only clears
traffic, leaving the NTSA to handle other matatu operations. “NTSA should be
answerable because they are the ones who license and issue TLBs [Transport
Licence Board’s road service licences],” he said. But NTSA director
general Francis Meja dismissed the claims that its officers are colluding with
the cartels to issues TLBs to vehicles that do not deserve them. "We have
digitised most of our operations and our officers have very minimal contact
with clients seeking TLBs," he said. The EACC said matatu
cartels are a big network involving even the seniormost bosses. Agency CEO
Micheal Mubea said preliminary investigations have established that drivers, due
to fear of blackmail from the officers, are left with no other option but to
pay bribes. “These officers are
so daring, they come fully armed with guns, and whoever does not cooperate will
likely be pushed out of business,” he said. “Why should a traffic police officer arm
themselves, unless protecting their masters?” The anti-graft boss
told the Star the commission arrested 150 officers in two years, 76 per cent of
whom had been successfully convicted and dismissed from the service. He said their M-Pesa
tractions of between two to three months ranged from Sh1.6 million to Sh6.8
million, money believed to be collected from bribes. Kavuludi said the NPSC
had noted the high rate of corruption cases among traffic officers. He said
during the first round of vetting of senior traffic police officers, about 13.2
per cent were dismissed. Some 957 officers were vetted, with 127 removed due to
corruption. In the second round,
2,200 officers were vetted and 218 officers dismissed, making it a total of
about 345 traffic police officers dismissed from the service. He said some 81
senior officers refused to present themselves before the vetting panel and are
also out of the service. SEARCH FOR
SOLUTIONS Mubea said the
commission had supported the idea of instant fines for drivers arrested breaking
rules, instead of being taken to court. “But cartels moved to court and filed a
judicial review application, with interim orders issued that took us to zero,”
he said. NTSA boss Meja said
the only way these cartels can be eliminated is to remove cash from matatus and
adopt an electronic payment system. On December 1,
2014, then Transport CS Michael Kamau and KCB Group CEO Joshua Oigara launched
a commuter card called Pepea to much pomp at the Kencom Stage, Nairobi.
However, it was short-lived. MOA chairman Simon
Kimutai said the industry spent about Sh2 billion to purchase gadgets that were
to help transition to cashless payment. Every vehicle paid
Sh20,000 to get these gadgets, plus an extra fee for certificate, but the NTSA
came in as the regulator, making banks fight to have the money on their
accounts. “This was our baby.
We had hopes it would end corruption in the sector. We spent billions and now
the gadgets are lying in the stores. In fact, we are contemplating if we should
sue the ministry for forcing us into a system that terribly failed,” he said. NTSA blamed cartels
for the failure. “It is unfortunate the cashless system that had been
introduced was frustrated by the same cartels and the infighting between banks,
which wanted to have a monopoly over the systems,” Meja said. “However, we have learnt from past mistakes
and where we failed. We are currently working on a government switch that will
play a key role in relaunching the cashless system.” Mukabanah said the
government should get an agent to create one loop card that can provide a
neutral switch to the cashless system. “The Transport ministry
has no building capacity for its people. Other ministries have professional
government institutes to train, for example, nurses, doctors and extension
officers, but the Transport ministry has no institution for public road
training and creating careers in that line,” he said. The KBS boss said
the current regulations have no scientific backing, which increases the gap
between actual regulations and implementation. He said the
government has turned its back on the sector, leaving it to be solely
controlled by private dealers. “Such a compromised
system denies vehicles service, leaving drivers overworked and underpaid,
forcing them to break rules as they try to recover what they have given away as
bribes,” he said. Kimutai said the
current static police roadblocks should be removed and replaced with patrols. He
said the sector has tried to partner with NTSA and EACC to crack down on the
officers soliciting bribes, but the courts have let them down. The chairman said judges
are often compromised and compelled to issue orders reinstating rogue officers
to their positions. “The IG should tell
us why he has allowed traffic police officers to mount roadblocks fully armed
with AK-47s and pistols, because to us this is a deliberate move to sabotage
efforts to fight corruption in the sector,” Kimutai said. The National Assembly
has been urged create laws to bar senior civil servants from owning PSVs to
instil sanity on the roads. Matatu Welfare
Association chairman Dickson Mbugua told the Parliamentary Committee on
Transport the traffic police department has been unable to crack down on rogue
drivers who operate vehicles owned by influential government officials. “This idea of
senior civil servants owning PSVs in this country sets a bad precedent because
of the Big Man syndrome. The drivers harass other motorists, but traffic
officers are unable to take disciplinary action against them because of fear of
losing their jobs,” he said. Mbugua called on
Parliament to scrap the Ndegwa Commission report of the 1970s that allowed
public officers to conduct business with the government. The National Police
Service recently decided to scrap the traffic department to tame corruption,
but Meja described this move as “misadvised”. "There is no
single country in this world without a traffic department. If they are taken
off the roads, then who is to enforce all the laws that have been put in place?
The best remedy to this corruption saga is to strictly hold the officers
accountable," he said. The NTSA boss said
the authority is slowly putting saccos to task to account for their crews, amid
efforts to restore sanity. It is partnering with other stakeholders to build
ownership capacity and educate crews on the importance of dignity in the
business. “All we aim at
right now is to help the sector adopt new technology. We have embarked on a
rigorous vetting of PSV companies to weed out those not genuinely in the business,”
he said. NYS ENTERS THE FRAY On Friday, the
government introduced 27 buses on various routes through the National Youth
Service, amid efforts to alleviate the commuter crisis. NYS director general
Richard Ndubai said the service had further lowered the commuter prices from
the initial Sh50 to a flat rate of Sh20 regardless of distance covered. He said
the decision was arrived at following a plea from members of the public. However, the matatu
industry is up in arms, terming it unfair competition. Mbugua said the NYS will
have undue advantage since it will not be subjected to taxation like PSV
owners. Kimutai added that the NYS must make an application to the NTSA on routes
to cover as part of compliance. "The NTSA
announced that it had stopped enrolling new players in the business so what
criteria did the NYS use to get into the business?" Kimutai said. But the Competition
Authority of Kenya has backed the deployment of the buses. CAK director general
Francis Wang’ombe said the government is only buffering a shortage. Speaking to the
Star, he said no complaint has been filed, but the NYS has not breached any
competition laws, as alleged by Kimutai. The matatu industry
is estimated to rake in over Sh150 billion annually, which could be motivation
for government to sink its teeth into the enterprise.