Bayern Munich will know before they take to the pitch at RB Leipzig tomorrow if they will get the chance this weekend to seal their sixth successive Bundesliga title. The Bavarians, who are 20 points clear at the top with eight games remaining, will extend their record Bundesliga title run with victory at Leipzig, providing Schalke 04 and Borussia Dortmund fail to get three points from their own games. Second-placed Schalke travel to VfL Wolfsburg a day earlier, while Dortmund, a further point behind in third, host Hanover 96 a few hours before Bayern’s game. “That can obviously happen on Sunday (that we win the title),” Bayern defender Mats Hummels said. “But somehow I do not think that both Schalke and Dortmund will lose their games. “But we have to win at Leipzig for that to happen, that is a must. We will see what happens on Sunday but I am not counting on it (winning the title this weekend).” Bayern will go into their game with their spirits high after advancing to the Champions League quarter-finals following Wednesday’s victory at Turkey’s Besiktas that completed an 8-1 aggregate win. The treble-chasing Bundesliga leaders, who are also through to the German Cup semi-final, rested Arjen Robben against Besiktas to ensure he was fit for Sunday. Yet coach Jupp Heynckes could be without injury-plagued midfielder Thiago Alcantara who was taken off with a foot injury in the first half after scoring against Besiktas. The Spaniard, who will undergo further tests in Munich, only came back last month from a lengthy injury break. Leipzig, last season’s surprise runners-up, are battling for a spot in the Champions League, having dropped down to sixth on 40 points. The top four teams qualify automatically for the Champions League group stage. Leipzig need at least a point against Bayern to stay in touch with fifth-placed Eintracht Frankfurt on 42 and Bayer Leverkusen, who are in fourth on 44. “We want to play well against Bayern and earn points and we want to deny them winning the title in our stadium,” said Leipzig’s Jean-Kevin Augustin. Leipzig’s bitter home defeat to Bayern in the penultimate match of last season is still fresh in their memories, having led twice by two goals only to lose 5-4. “Bayern are also internationally a big club but we are not afraid of them. It will be a great game,” Augustin said.