President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said aggressive modernisation of the police force will continue. This will maintain the gains in the fight against crime. The President said the government will allocate more resources to the National Police Service Modernisation Programme to give the force the ability to neutralise security threats. The modernisation of the force includes provision of modern weapons, armoured vehicles and revamping the air wing. The programme has given sufficient momentum to the fight against crime. Uhuru said, “These investments have eased the response to emergencies and improved efficiency. We remain with the task to improve police welfare.” Read: Uhuru praises KDF for fighting terrorists and promoting peace Related: Locals get guns to help fight terrorism The Head of State spoke at the passing out parade of 3,984 Administration Police officers at the AP Training College, Embakasi. He said modernisation of the police force has helped Kenya make tremendous gains in the fight against terrorism. Uhuru added that the multi-agency approach to fight organised crime has strengthened the security forces. The head of state said the multi-agency approach needs to be supported by all. “I urge the public to play its role. We must adopt a workable approach in the fight against terrorism and all forms of crime,” said the President. The President urged the new officers to be patriotic and courageously take up their duty, which often requires them to endure danger and hardship. Also read: Kenya acquires armoured vehicles to fight terror Related: KDF gets six US choppers to fight terrorism, two more next May He reminded them that their role is to serve Kenyans and that they are bound by the rules that guide all public servants. “As officers of the law, and as public servants, there is a special obligation to serve Kenyans with compassion and understanding, and show them that government is here to work for them.” Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said the reforms started under the directives of the President would continue. The reforms include modernisation of the police training curriculum. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Deputy Inspector General, Administration Police Service, Noor Gabow thanked the President for increasing funding for police modernisation, reforms and housing.  Click here for the latest political news