Wrangles at the National Disaster Management Unit have forced Deputy Director Pius Masai to step aside. The outspoken Masai, who also wore the communications officer hat at the NDMU, is said to have made the move as the infighting has affected his work. His decision was leaked after stakeholders demanded updates following heavy rains that have wreaked havoc across the country. Read: Kenyans have role to play in preventing deaths by heavy rains Reached for comment on Friday, Masai confirmed he was not in the department. "It is unfortunate that my fellow Kenyans are calling for my help and support but cannot receive it. I am incapacitated to offer services in support of humanity because of the situation at my place of work," he said by phone. "I would like to let everyone understand that that there is internal conflict within NDMU's rank and file. But I am in good terms with the IG and the entire police leadership and our stakeholders." Masai, a police superintendent, has served at the unit since his appointment in 2014. His office is at Vigilance House in Nairobi so he has been the face of command and assurance during disasters, such as the collapse of buildings in Huruma, Mathare and Fedha, and the Kijiji slum fire. Many associate his command with the Garissa University College attack by al Shabaab militants on April 2, 2015, when he was sharply criticised for remarks urging Kenyans to be more vigilant. He said: "I ask all Kenyans, especially students, to fight back during attacks. Don't just be killed like cockroaches. Fight back." In an interview later, he said the remarks almost cost him his job as some senior officers wrote to the-then IG demanding his sacking. He noted the IG analysed the statement and defended him, resulting in anger and desires for revenge among top officers at Vigilance House. Masai previously served at the International Peace Support School (IPSS) as the chief instructor. At Kenya Police College, he was the officer in charge of the disaster management wing. He has also served in United Nations peace keeping missions in Croatia, Bosnia and in other UN assignments in Africa. There were claims that rivalry at the NMDU was renewed after Masai's a public appeal on behalf of officers at Central Police Station whose houses were razed in afire. A day after he announced the appeal, Masai cancelled the donations to the officers on grounds that the IG's office would take care of them. Click here for the latest political news   