Non-communicable diseases are some of the biggest medical problems of the 21st century, threatening the developing world’s advances in health and economic stability. NCDs have surpassed communicable diseases as the lead cause of death on all continents except Africa, where they are projected to surpass deaths from communicable diseases, maternal conditions and nutritional deficiencies by 2030. Eighty per cent of deaths from NCDs occur in low- and middle- income countries, with the majority occurring prematurely compared to high-income countries. Some of the most important tools in NCD control are prevention, patient empowerment, and health promotion. The NCDs causing the most deaths are primarily tied to diet, exercise, and alcohol and tobacco use. WHO recommendations suggest that targeting these risk factors is a cost-effective way of addressing the burden of disease. Ensuring adequate drug therapy for diabetes and hypertension control, especially in individuals with a history of cardiovascular disease, is a highly cost-effective intervention. So is educating patients on their diseases and risk factors. The developing world still grapples with low rates of patient awareness on diseases such as the silent killer (high blood pressure) and risk factors for cardiovascular disease, along with dismal control rates for those on treatment. Alcohol, tobacco, and drug use have been associated with violence and unintentional injuries, so providing education, resources, and treatment where possible is critical. People have to be educated on diet, reducing salt intake and saturated fats, and increasing consumption of fruits and vegetables. Task-shifting to enable greater realisation of some of the educational needs should be considered. Appropriate management of asthma, and influenza vaccination for patients suffering from lung ailments are equally important. Other risk factors that can be highlighted to patients include minimising occupational exposures/hazards and indoor pollution from cooking gas, which worsen chronic respiratory disease and increase the risk of lung cancer. Recognising the association between some NCDs and mental illness is also important for doctors, as well as underrecognition of NCDs in patients with mental illness. Finally, using available infrastructure for early detection — and stressing this to patients — is paramount, especially in light of the danger of delayed care for hypertension and its effect on chronic kidney disease progression. Health workers also have a unique role in acting as a safety net, as they influence the trajectory of patient care and refer patients who may otherwise never get looped into the healthcare system. Additionally, medical leadership may implement guidelines and protocols addressing treatment and prevention, as well as prioritise access to basic diagnostics and in-country essential medicines. Doctors have a golden ticket to influence the inner workings of an already strained system, and help in early detection. All in all, the problem requires communal awareness and urgency of action by all global health players. By recognising the problem as a significant concern, we can then consider NCDs with greater awareness as we address our patients, guide trainees, and refer patients to outside care. Health workers can also take part in efforts to raise awareness locally, both in their own communities and at the healthcare level. Along with further research to document specific population-based data on NCDs, there is need for greater prioritisation of NCDs by governments and policymakers. We each have a role to play in curbing the alarming rise of highly preventable diseases and their sequelae among the most vulnerable populations. The time for action is now.  Assistant professor, Department of Emergency Medicine, Yale
University