Governor Jackson Mandago yesterday said the three-month logging suspension should be extended to one year so plans can be developed to increase forest cover. On Sunday, Deputy President William Ruto said the government had imposed a 90-day moratorium on timber harvesting in all community and public forests “to allow reassessment and rationalisation of the entire forest sector”. This came after the National Assembly Committee on Environment, chaired by Kereke Mbiuki (Maara), asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare logging a national disaster because of its devastating consequences on water towers and the environment as a whole. Mandago yesterday said the ban will encourage review of conservation efforts. He said it must be implemented strictly and violators must be prosecuted. “The ban has come at a very critical time when our forests are endangered, our rivers are drying up and the environment is in poor shape,” the Uasin Gishu boss said in Eldoret town. “We have to take the ban seriously,” he said. Mandago said the counties will implement the ban and other measures to protect forests water towers. He spoke after touring dams. Water levels are at their lowest ever because of environmental degradation, the governor said. In the North Rift, measures will be taken to safeguard Kaptagat, Embobut, Cheranganyi and Mt Elgon forests, which are sources for the region’s main water bodies, Mandago said. “We’re not saying the ban should be in place forever, but we need to plant enough trees so in future we have something to harvest. We can’t just continue logging without caring about the future.” funding needed Governors Stephen Sang of Nandi and Trans Nzoia Deputy Governor Stanly Tarus separately told the Star on the phone that the ban was important as most regions are already grappling with ravaging drought. Forests are being depleted fast, the future looks bleak and action must be taken before it is too late, Sang warned. Tarus said, “We face water shortages all over because we are depleting our forests at a worrying rate.” The two said they were ensuring tree planting is done in their counties. The counties in the North Rift have urged the European Union to reconsider its decision a month ago to suspend Sh3.6 billion funding for forest conservation in key water towers. Tarus says the suspension will aggravate destruction of more than 10,000 acres in Embobut, Kaptagat and Cheranganyi forests. The EU suspended aid because of excessive use of force by the state to evict the Sengwer community from Embobut Forest in Marakwet. The EU wants evictions halted. The government said it only evicts criminals and cattle rustlers hiding in the forest and is not targetting the Sengwer. “We need partners like the EU in our efforts to conserve the water towers and we urge them to lift the suspension on funding as soon as possible,” Tarus said.