Igad wants South Sudanese rebel leader Riek Machar released from house arrest in South Africa as soon as possible. This is on the condition that he renounces violence, the East African bloc said in another sign of mounting diplomatic pressure on the Juba government. Machar, who has been held in South Africa since late 2016, should "be allowed to relocate to any country outside the region and not neighbouring South Sudan", read a statement issued after a meeting on Monday of officials from the eight member countries in the bloc. More on this: Machar seeks UN intervention to end 'forced detention' in South Africa Igad said it had designated officials to decide on a third country. It was unclear why a third country that does not border South Sudan would be preferable to South Africa. There was no immediate comment from South Africa's Foreign Ministry. Stephanie Sullivan, the US State Department's acting principal deputy assistant secretary for Africa, said the United States would like to see both warring factions renounce violence. "We don't have any particular need for Machar to be physically in South Africa, and the neighbourhood is fine, but he and his group need to renounce violence," Sullivan told reporters. South Sudan government spokesman Michael Lueth said Juba had no problem with the bloc's decision but that Machar should not be allowed to take part in peace talks in Addis Ababa. A spokesman for Machar's SPLM-IO rebel group said it was reviewing the statement by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development and would respond at a later time. Civil war broke out in oil-rich South Sudan in 2013, when troops loyal to President Salva Kiir clashed with forces loyal toMachar, then the Vice President. Tens of thousands have since been killed. Oil production has also been slashed while about a third of the population of 12 million have been forced from their homes. The warring parties signed a ceasefire in December in the Ethiopian capital, but it was violated within hours. A new round of talks is scheduled for late next month. Igad also announced that it wanted to impose targeted sanctions on individuals violating the latest peace deal or otherwise disrupting it, but referred the matter to the African Union. Last month, the head of the African Union Commission, Moussa Faki Mahamat, said it was open to imposing sanctions on leaders violating the ceasefire in South Sudan. His comments followed a chorus of other calls for action against those stoking the conflict. The United States imposed a unilateral arms embargo last month but has been unable to convince the 15-member UN Security Council to impose one. Click here for the latest local political news