South Africa-based retailer Shoprite supermarket is set to take over as the anchor tenant in Westgate shopping mall. The development came four months after cash-troubled Nakumatt exited the space. Knight Frank Kenya, the property manager who signed up the retailer, said the retailer will start trading by August 1. Shoprite's entry into the country is expected to stiffen competition in the retail market. The sector experienced a tough year in 2017 as some household brands faced financial difficulties. In a statement, Knight Frank retailer portfolio manager Ashmi Shah said Shoprite has more than 1,270 supermarkets and in excess of 2,700 stores in Africa. "It's offering includes butchery, bakery, deli, fresh food, and groceries. We are filling the gap in Westlands and its environs." "We believe shoppers will be delighted with the diversity and product range that Shoprite will bring them," Shah said. Knight Frank also disclosed that Shoprite has commenced fit-out for the 49,770 square foot flagship store. This will be done with the latest ‘Checkers’ specification to suit Westgate’s affluent clientele. "With Shoprite, we are extremely excited to introduce another strong international anchor tenant into our market and feel that its high-end fit-out will suit Westgate’s profile very well," Knight Frank managing director Ben Woodhams said. The retailer, which joins a list of other international supermarkets that have set base in the country, will occupy a gross lettable area of 263,142 sq ft. Shoprite has also concluded a second lease agreement in Nairobi and will follow up on other opportunities in the city as they become available. Currently trading in 15 African countries, Shoprite noted its entry into Kenya is meant to strengthen its position in East Africa. The entity plans to open 92 new supermarkets by mid-2019, according to its Interim Results announcement in Cape Town on February 26. The plan is to use its diverse portfolio of brands to better serve each market. Other international retailers that have recently entered the Kenyan market are Carrefour, Choppies, Game, and Souk Bazzar. They have taken over the management or space left out by troubled Uchumi, Ukwala, and Nakumatt supermarkets respectively. Also read: Shoprite seizes opportunity in Kenya to ramp up Africa expansion Click here for the latest political news  