Former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno yesterday asked MPs to take the lead in addressing corruption and negative ethnicity.Speaking at the conclusion of the post-election seminar for the members of the National Assembly, Otieno told legislators to take a lead role in putting the Cabinet Secretaries in check.He told them it is not the work of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to check the CSs.“You should be the ones warning the CSs, not the President. It is part of your oversight role. This can only be done with members who have the depth of what is happening in the ministries,” Otieno told the MPs. Read: NCIC probes Ikamba song for insults against KambasThe former long-serving MP who told the MPs he joined politics in 1987 made his presentation on his life in and out of Parliament.In his session characterised with laughter and clapping of hands by the attendees, Otieno said the turnover of new MPs is high and one should strive to be elected for at least two terms.In the current Parliament, only one MP is serving his fifth term, nine are serving their fourth terms while 25 are serving their third term. Some 192 are fresh. Read: Murkomen queried on action taken against Ikamba artistsOtieno cautioned the MPs to exercise their power well, telling them the positions they hold attract friends, and enemies.“Power and money attracts all sorts of people; men, women, conmen and fraudsters. You must be very careful, you never know who of all these may bring you down,” he said.Otieno told the legislators to avoid giving out handouts, saying in politics the practice is not sustainable.“Never allow people to make you a source of money. The generosity will destroy you when you don’t keep up with the public’s financial expectation.”Otieno urged the Parliamentary Service Commission to ensure MPs are remunerated well, noting that some of them could be taking home a net salary of less than Sh100,000.He said he advised the Salaries and Remuneration Commission not to cut the salaries and allowances of MPs, but instead stagnated them. In July last year, the SRC announced a significant salary cut for state officers, including the President, Deputy President, MPs, CSs and other officials. The slash was meant to reduce the national wage bill.According to the review, the President would earn Sh1,443,750 monthly, down from Sh1.6 million, while the Deputy President would be paid Sh1,227,188 monthly. Cabinet Secretaries would get a salary of Sh924,000, from Sh1,056,000 and PSs would earn Sh765,000, from Sh874,000.MPs would earn Sh621,000, from about Sh710,000. Speaker of the National Assembly would earn Sh1.1 million and governors would get Sh924,000.  Click here for the latest political news 