Governors yesterday resolved to be in the forefront in the war against deforestation. In a statement, Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said they are concerned with increased logging in the country's water catchment areas. He said the Council will work with the Environment ministry to create a policy for enforcement of logging regulations. "This will take into cognisance of the worrying logging trends that continue to devastate our forests," Nanok told journalists in Nairobi. Read: Kitui charcoal ban: Kalonzo defends Ngilu in incitement probe He said county bosses will not allow further destruction of water catchments, a situation that has left several rivers dry. "We will be part of the initiatives that will lead to the restoration of the forests cover to the required threshold of 10 per cent," Nanok told the media. He spoke after a meeting attended by all governors, the Kenya Red Cross, the National Treasury, the Environment ministry, Vision 2030, USAid and the Christian Association Ministry. The remarks came amid a confrontation between Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his Kitui counterpart Charity Ngilu over the ban on charcoal trade in Kitui. Read: No lorry was torched in Kitui charcoal crackdown, says Ngilu On Monday, Waititu moved to court demanding that Ngilu is restrained from issuing and making any inflammatory and inciting statements associated with the charcoal business. Waititu also wants Ngilu ordered, "not to harass motorists using roads in Kitui under the pretence of enforcing the charcoal management in her county." The Kitui governor has maintained the ban on charcoal and sand harvesting in the county remains in place to protect the environment. She dismissed propaganda the ban targets a specific community, saying she is ready to fight cartels. "This is the kind of misinformation and propaganda that criminal cartels use to discredit leaders and institutions that dare to stand up to them," Ngilu said. Read: Charcoal producers protest ban County chiefs thanked the Kenya Red Cross Society for its humanitarian role to save lives during emergencies. They asked the Vision 2030 team to work closely with the counties to achieve the blueprint plan. CoG also demanded the National Treasury come up with a policy on the proposed bill that seeks to streamline matters related to counties so that they can support.  Click here for the latest political news