The National Treasury has defended the plan to introduce 16 per cent tax on petroleum products from September 1 to collect about Sh34 billion revenue annually. Treasury CAS Nelson Gaichuhie told the Senate’s Energy Committee the government will implement the law in taxing petroleum products but the resultant effect will be an extra cost. Gaichuhie told the committee chaired by Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina that the International Monetary Fund has been pressing Kenya to revoke the tax exemption on all petroleum products for the country to raise more revenue to address the budget deficit and reduce the national debt. “There is nothing new about tax on petroleum. There is nothing new about IMF. We are just implementing the law. The taxation will take effect on September 1, 2018, unless Parliament extends the tax exemption period again,” he said. Parliament passed the Value Added Tax in 2013, introducing tax on fuel products. Its implementation was, however, given a three-year grace period to September 2016. The government further extended the period by two years to September this year after Treasury raised the Road Maintenance Levy on each litre of petrol and diesel to Sh18 from Sh6 in 2016. “Petroleum has been exempted from VAT although it remains one of the most taxed commodities in Kenya with about 42 per cent of what is paid for a litre of petrol going to the State in terms of taxes,” Gaichuhie said. The Energy Regulatory Commission led by director general Pavel Oimeke clashed with Treasury in the Senate committee after the ERC boss disclosed they were not aware of the Exchequer’s plan to introduce the 16 per cent levy on petroleum products. “We have not been informed about this 16 per cent VAT on petroleum and we are waiting for the National Treasury to guide us on implementing it. The current fuel pricing dates back to 2010, when pump prices were escalating,” Oimeke said. The ERC director general warned that the 16 per cent tax levy will see the price of petrol shoot to Sh122.75 per litre, diesel Sh111.07 per litre while kerosene will cost Sh86.71 per litre. Petrol is currently retailing at Sh107.92 per litre, diesel Sh96.96 while kerosene costs Sh76.75. “If introduced, Value Added Tax on petroleum products is recommended to be calculated on the landed cost plus demurrage plus duties and levies,” Oimeke said. Senators Maina and Ladema Kina (Narok) took to task the ERC and Treasury chiefs to explain how they will ensure Kenyans do not incur heavy costs on grounds the two institutions were only concerned with the interests of producers and suppliers. “We are serving the interests of Kenyans and we should be told the amount of money Kenyans are going to pay from the 16 per cent VAT on petroleum because it is going to be a matter of contention from September 1, when the levy comes into effect,” Maina said. “Is it the right time to implement this policy because it is to overburden Kenyans by paying more for petroleum products. What is Treasury doing to protect the consumer?” Ladema asked. Gaichuhie and Oimeke assured the committee the two government institutions will sit and compute the extra amount consumers will pay per litre after Treasury pointed out Kenyans will incur a “minimal charge.”