Starring: Christina Hendricks, Retta, Mae Whitman, Reno Wilson, Manny Montana DIRECTED BY: Comedy-drama RELEASE DATE: February 26  Good Girls is the story of three regular suburbia mums, whose different circumstances force them to engage in crime. Beth Boland is a housewife and a mother of four. She finds out her husband is having an affair with his secretary, and has gotten the family in debt until it risks losing its home. Beth’s best friend, Ruby, is a waitress and a mother of two. Beth’s daughter Sara has a kidney disease. Beth is fed up with the free Medicare system and wants to afford a specialist to treat her daughter. She also finds out there is a new drug in the market to treat Sarah’s disease and it costs $10,000! Beth’s younger sister, Annie, is a young single mother who had her daughter at 17. Annie’s daughter, Sadie, is struggling with identity issues and ends up being bullied for it at school. Annie’s ex wants to sue for full custody and tells Annie to hire a lawyer. When the three women meet to discuss their issues, Annie jokes that they should rob the store she works at. She says they will get $30,000 at least, and that the police don’t bother with investigations for that kind of money. The ladies rob the store successfully. But when they count the money they realise they got away with half a million dollars! They panic, knowing for sure that kind of money will bring them trouble. But they are tempted and spend some of it. Beth repays her mortgage, Annie buys things for Sadie and Beth goes to an expensive hospital and gets the treatment for Sarah. But when the ladies are visited by a dangerous gang leader who says they stole from him, they are forced to pay back the money. And since they spent some of it, they end up ‘running errands’ for the criminal. It’s been a long time since we have seen a good antiheroine comedy that just makes us double over with laughter. The acting is good, the story is compelling and the humour never runs short.  Star Rating: 4/5