The Appeal court will rule in April on whether a sugar dealer should pay tax for 40,000 tonnes of sugar they imported
during a tax exemption period or not. Kenya Revenue Authority wants the
three appellate judges to overturn judge Erick Ogola decision allowing
Darasa Investment to offload 40,000 tonnes of brown sugar and moreso not
pay the tax. KRA wants the importer to pay Sh2.5 billion as tax for sugar which the
importer claims to have been brought into the country during the tax exemption period. Last
month, Justice Ogola ordered that the sugar importer offloads the sugar
as it was proven to have been imported within the waiver period. Darasa had moved to court seeking the orders to stop taxman from taxing him for the 800,000 bags of sugar. The National Treasury, in a gazette notice, declared that foods imported between May and August last year were exempted from tax. Darasa,
through lawyer Fred Ngatia and Dennis Mosota, urged the judges to uphold
the High court decision to have the importer offload the cargo. They
said they had met the requirements and loaded the sugar in July with the same arriving in August. The importer said they could not offload the cargo as the ship could not berth
due to the size of the shipping vessel. Darasa said KRA failed to
prove under what circumstances the goods declared outside the
waiver and hence should be taxed. The importer further said they
could not appeal the decision by the tax authority at the tax appeal
tribunal since the decision was illegal and unlawful. They said the commissioner, who declared that the cargo should be taxed, did not have powers to do so. However, KRA has maintained that the judge erred in first allowing the matter be heard at his court without following the right procedures. KRA
claims Darasa ought to have moved to tax appeal tribunal to register
its displeasure in the decision by the authority to tax them. Through their lawyer David Otwenka, KRA said Darasa had 30 days appeal the decision to tax them. The
tax authority further claimed that the origin of the sugar was still
disputed as documents showed the sugar originated from Dubai. KRA
also noted that the owner of the sugar was still a mystery as bank
documents indicated it belonged to Sabina engineering company, a
Kampala-based firm. The taxman was on Tuesday put to task to explain
whether the importer met the fundamental requirement of loading the
sugar within the period. Read: Tax exemption: KRA loses bid to recover Sh2bn from sugar importer Click here for the latest political news 