IEBC chiefs were yesterday put to task to explain a Sh250 million payment for electronic devices that failed during the 2013 General Election. The team lead by the current chief executive Ezra Chiloba were questioned by the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee for making the payment to Face Technologies Limited in 2015. They were responding to the Auditor General report for 2014/2015. The devices were however procured before Chiloba took office after the exit of former CEO James Oswago. MPs led by Suna East MP Junet Mohammed tasked Chiloba, who is the Commission's accounting officer, to explain why funds from the exchequer were spent on equipment that failed during the polls that were later disputed in court. “Why did you incur such a huge expenditure knowing very well that there was no value for money? You paid people who failed and all Kenyans know that the equipment failed during the election,” Mohammed said. But Chiloba told the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi that the National Treasury and Auditor had given the Commission the green-light to pay the firm Sh460 million as an additional claim for what they had supplied during the elections. He said internal auditors were commissioned by the National Treasury to critically analyze the Commission's pending bill. Chiloba said he opted to pay Sh250 million instead of Sh460 million which had been recorded as pending bill. He said the amount was for the supply of 4,600 additional kits were the hand-held devises but were not paid for in 2013. “In respect to this matter, I agree with Junet that issues were raised about the legal obligation on the part of the Commission. We paid for the goods that we had already received and what the auditors had already observed. We did some due diligence to save the Kenyan people,” Chiloba said. “With the support of my team, we noted that given the nature of the contract, we could not pay them the Sh460 million but rather Sh250 million what we thought was supported under the particular contract. This is regardless to what the National Treasury and Auditor General had recorded.” He said that special audits were conducted for all the commitments that the Commission had entered into in respect to the 2013 General Election. Chiloba said that the Commission further incurred an additional pending bill of Sh5.2 billion from the poll. “Before any payments were done to any companies or individuals, due diligence process was put in place which entailed inviting auditors to go through each of the pending bills and making an opinion on what needed to be done,” he said. Chiloba named former IEBC CEO James Oswago, former head of procurement William Kamanga and former finance director Karisa Kenga as individuals who entered into the partnership with Face Technologies Limited, a South African firm. Read:24 IEBC officials facing prosecution over election - Tobiko