President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Solicitor General nominee Kennedy Ogeto was today approved by the National Assembly. The MPs anonymously approved the nominee after he was vetted and given the green-light by the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee. This is after the committee’s chairperson William Cheptumo (Baringo North) moved a motion for his approval by the House. Majority Leader Aden Duale, while supporting the motion, described Ogeto as a competent lawyer who is the best suit for the position. “I interacted with Kennedy Ogeto at the International Criminal Court where he was representing our leaders. Ogeto is a very refined, decent and seasoned lawyer. I urge this House to support this nominee,” Duale said. Read; Omtatah opposes Ken Ogeto's nomination as Solicitor General Uhuru plucked a key ally and long-time aide, Solicitor General Njee Muturi, from the powerful State Law Office where he was the accounting officer. He appointed him the Deputy Chief of Staff and replaced him with Ogeto. Lawyer Ogeto is expected to bring discipline, professionalism, strategic thinking and coordination to the government’s response to legal issues. During his vetting last week, Ogeto said he will push for Law amendments, through Parliament, to have top government agencies bosses charged with failure to provide information to the Attorney General on legal matters. He promised to reduce litigations against President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration and save taxpayers' funds. “We will check on whether there are certain amendments that we can effect to surcharge individuals who do not provide information to the AG on legal issues,” Ogeto said. Ogeto promised to ensure that the AG is involved in the drafting of Bills that end up becoming Laws. “If confirmed, I will endeavour to ensure that the State Law office is fully involved in all legislative processes so that all our Laws can withstand the test of constitutionality and to avoid unnecessary and expensive litigations,” Ogeto said. Ogeto told the Committee that the government is currently defending over five international arbitration proceedings that could cost the country billions of dollars. “Should the government lose in any of those proceedings, the effect on the economy would be significant. Some of these claims could have been avoided if there was proper coordination between the various government agencies and the office of the Attorney General,” the 55-year-old said. Ogeto who has practised Law for 27 years pledged to recruit adequate and competent staff at the AG's office so as to effectively defend the government in courts. He vowed to weed out corrupt staff in his office and put in place transparent systems to curb corruption from thriving. More on this: [VIDEO] Attorney General Githu Muigai resigns, Uhuru nominates Justice Paul Kihara  Click here for the latest political news