Two key allies of DP William Ruto have criticized Nasa leader Raila Odinga's leadership and cautioned him against attempts to wreck Jubilee from within. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and Senator Samson Cherargei accused Raila of having a bad record of destroying political parties. They said that they will not to allow him to do the same to Jubilee. "You have been assured of recognition and retirement pension but you won't get any position in the Jubilee government," they said. Read; New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Cherargei said Jubilee was well organized and would not allow any plans to destroy it. “We have told Ruto to organize himself. We will not allow Raila to get even the smallest seat in our house. We know Raila is used to wrecking parties but this time we won’t accept that,” Cherargei said. He said the Kalenjin community has known Raila very well and had nicknamed him ‘Arap Mibey’ in respect at one time and later on in 2013 they renamed him ‘Arap Lebey’ which meant "be politically swept away by floods". “The Bible says Satan comes to steal and destroy but we are ready to fight off demonic powers within Jubilee,” Cherargei said. He said they had called in preachers to ensure that any external demons do not interfere with Jubilee. “We will not allow the Raila "demonic powers of destruction" to interfere with DP Ruto in any way. In fact, we always carry our traditional cleansing waters which we sprinkle around Ruto’s office to scare away Raila’s destructive demons,” Cherargei said. He said Raila’s handshake with President Uhuru was only symbolic and did not mean anything beyond that. Cherargei and Sang were speaking at Tuloi primary school in Nandi during the homecoming for Kaptuiywa ward MCA Geoffrey Kevolwe. The event was also attended by NASA leaders Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetangula and Dr Bonny Khalwale among others. “What I saw Raila’s group doing is the exactly what he has been talking about. He has been claiming he doesn’t like nepotism but when he removed Wetangula and replaced him with Orengo that is nepotism and he did the same when he was prime minister”, Sang said. He claimed that when Raila met with President Uhuru recently he demanded to be given the title ‘His Excellency” and a pension which Jubilee leaders advised Uhuru to do. “That is clearly a person who is headed for retirement and we don’t need to fight him. Let him retire peacefully,” Sang said. The two said the Kalenjin community led by DP Ruto was ready to negotiate within Mudavadi and Wetangula for a political deal ahead of 2022 but the challenged the NASA leaders to organize themselves and unite the Luhya community first.  Click here for the latest political news