At least 800 Ilchamus victims
of insecurity living in temporary camps in Marigat, Baringo South subcounty, are in danger of falling ill as the rains begin. The victims, who include
some 400 schoolchildren, fled their homes in the volatile Mukutani and are currently
living in Eldume IDP camp. “Life if becoming
unbearable here in the congested camp. It is even getting worse now
with the heavy rains,” Bryan Kiriambu told the Star on
Sunday. He lives with his four-year-old son in the dirty IDP camp. His 25-year-old wife was among 11
people murdered during a revenge attack at Mukutani Full Gospel
Church on March 11 last year. Many people were injured, more than 1,500 livestock stolen, shops looted and more than
100 houses torched. Benson Sambui, another
victim, said the tents donated to them by the Kenya Red Cross Society in March last are worn out, exposing them to the cold
weather. “Most of the worn-out
tents were now leaking and letting in dirty water which might end up causing illnesses
such as pneumonia and diarrhoea,” he said. Sambui said the lack of toilets is a recipe for a cholera outbreak. The residents complained of lack of food and warm clothes, and
appealed to the government and well-wishers for help. Sambu used to run a posho mill and plant crops, but now he has nothing to do. He said they solely
depend on relief food, but “it has been long since we received the last
donation from the government and Red Cross,” he said. Mukutani assistant
chief Wilson Oletapi said he is traumatised after losing his
six-month pregnant wife and a three-year-old son during the church attack. “They slaughtered my
wife and boy like goats,” security officers
watched helplessly, he said. He blamed police
officers for not shooting the bandits to rescue innocent
people. He now raises his
five children at the IDP camp after the bandits burnt
down his house in Mukutani. “Although I
am a public servant, I am also bitter for losing my family to people I know very
well,” he said. Some 400 pupils are yet to go back to school as Mukutani Primary was closed following the attack. Some have temporarily enrolled at Ol-Samburmbur Primary School, which is cow congested. Schools that
remain closed include Rugus, Mukutani and Noosukro in Baringo South and Chepkesin
and Kapngetio in Baringo North subcounty. On Sunday, Marigat-based human rights activists Amos Olempaka urged the government to send more relief
food to the hungry residents. He urged Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to resettle the victims in Baringo. “It is unfair that even
after Kenya attained Independence in 1963, some citizens, including innocent
children, are still living in such dehumanising environment,” said Ole’Mpaka.   