Murang'a Boys' High School is being investigated following extortion claims from parents. County director of education Victoria Mulili on Saturday told the Star that a team has been dispatched to the school to probe why parents have been asked to pay Sh40,000 for development. The management said the fee is meant for construction of a multi-purpose hall, a swimming pool, dormitories, classes and a fully-equipped resource center with an ICT lab and offices. Parents have asked to pay the amount before April 6, when Deputy President William Ruto is expected to preside over a fundraiser for the school. Sources said the fee was approved during last year's AGM when it was reduced from the initial proposal of Sh50,000 following complains from parents. Parents have accused the administration of colluding with a few wealthy parents to force the decision down their throats. With a population of 1,136 students, the school will raise Sh45 million. Parents who haven't paid have been summoned and asked to sign a commitment form with a pledge to clear the amount before the year ends. “Most of us are already struggling to pay school fees. We can't afford to pay an extra Sh40,000," a parent who sought anonymity told the Star. He said they do not know what will happen to their children if they fail to pay. Principal Willy Kuria said parents will have to honour the agreement they made during the AGM. He said the school has lined up projects worth Sh79 million. The fee will be used to develop the face of the national school. “A swimming pool is not a priority for now, although it is in our plans,” Kuria said. Nearly half the students have paid with about Sh20 million collected. "Only a few parents have declined to pay," Kuria said. Mulili said the ministry was aware of the charges. Schools are allowed to make arrangements with parents to contribute towards projects. “The school must first notify the county education board of the plans before the board seeks approval from the Cabinet Secretary,” Mulili said. Investigations are expected to establish if the procedure was followed. Action will be taken against the management if due process was not followed, Mulili said.