Resentful MCAs say Embu Budget committee members pocket more than Sh400,000 monthly in allowances and retreat expenses. On Wednesday in the assembly, they accused them of being greedy, wasting money, not serving residents and hampering the work of other committees. This is because others cannot muster quorums in their absence. The 11-member committee is on a one-week training retreat at the Sun Star Hotel in Nairobi. Other committees have seven members only. Nominated MCA Sicily Warue accused the committee of ignoring the welfare of residents by being too money-minded and concerned about their personal interests. “It’s unfortunate to find a [regular] member after deductions for loans pocketing only Sh25,000, while a member of the Budget committee pockets a whopping Sh400,000,” Warue said. She urged temporary speaker Nathan Mwari to slash or reconstitute the budget committee to allow other committees to carry on with business. Mavuria ward MCA John Mbaka also accused the committee members of looking down upon other lawmakers. “Mr Speaker, those members feel they are senior and superior to other members, so we feel like juniors,” he said. Kyieni South MCA Salesio Kimarru said that all the ward representatives were serving the county equally and no committee is superior. Kimarru also said regular retreats of the Budget committee were interrupting operations of the other committee since they lacked quorums to do business. Nominated MCA Rose Kinyua said the regular absence of the Budget committee has become a habit, which other committees have been accustomed to. Assembly Minority leader Lenny Mwaniki said the assembly is regularly interrupted by the absence of the Budget committee while on their retreats. Mwaniki said each sectoral committee is important and when one of them is not functional, it affects county operations. Nominated MCA Edna Muisyo said having 11 members in the committee,while other committees have seven is a waste of time and resources since they were not getting value.