Barclays Bank has adopted mobile technologies that will offer instant credit to micro-enterpreneurs and individual borrowers on a mobile platform, a move aimed at growing its loan book. The Kenyan market has shifted away from traditional banking transactions to online banking for payment of bills, deposits and money transfers with the increased adoption of smartphones and technology. A survey of 2,600 banking customers in six African countries released by McKinsey in February showed 53 per cent of customers across the economic segments prefer either internet or mobile channels, compared to 26 per cent that prefer the branch banking. This has seen the rise of mobile loan applications such as Tala, Branch Alternative Circle and Saida with the newest entrant by Barclays Bank Timiza app. The digital platform which will also be available on USSD code for feature phone users is targeting SMEs and retail entrepreneurs. “We are trying to remain relevant and offer end-to-end digital experience for efficient and consistent mobile transactions,” Barclays Bank managing director Jeremy Awori said. With the influx of the mobile apps, product differentiation will increase the alternative lenders' competitiveness in the market. Non-collateral loans, low interest rates and long repayment period are among the strategies some of these firms are incorporating to increase their customer base. Both Tala and Branch provide loans up to Sh50,000 disbursing money into the consumer's mobile wallet within five minutes. Utunzi mobile loan app enables clients to apply for loans ranging from Sh500 to Sh100, 000 depending on a borrower’s credit score and considering information provided in the sign-up questionnaire. With a repayment period of up to 30 days, Barclays Bank has said customers will access instant loans of up to Sh150,000 at 6.17 per cent interest rate depending on ones credit level. Safaricom has been profiting from operational flexibility, partnering with most of these firms to facilitate access of loans by customers through M-Pesa and offering customer credit information. “A company needs to give good incentives and assurance to customers to prove of being the best service provider and get them on their online banking,” Safaricom director of consumer business Sylvia Mulinge said. Barclays bank has said the new online banking strategy offers saving opportunity, capital and access to the company’s insurance services to both customers and non-customers, with a key focus on "young professionals and hustlers in need of growing their business." According to the Communications Authority of Kenya, for the period between July to September 2017, active mobile money transfer subscriptions and agents stood at 28.1 million and 184,537 respectively. In addition, a total of 537.2 million transactions were made during the period which was valued at Sh1.65 trillion.