Cuba has honoured Kenya’s founding father as a towering figure in the African and Caribbean liberation movement. A bust of founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta was unveiled at the Park of African Heroes in Cuba on Thursday at a ceremony attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Cuban leadership said the unveiling was significant as it goes a long way in demonstrating the rich history Kenya and Cuba have in terms of liberation struggles. The park was built for heroes who relate to the liberation struggle of African independence from the colonial powers. Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s bust is the 17th of African Heroes on display at the park. The recognition of Kenyatta as one of African Heroes is a clear manifestation of his premier place among others in African history. Speaking during the ceremony, Uhuru thanked Cubans for their selfless and persistent solidarity with the African people. The President said Africa and and its people will forever be grateful to Cuba as they have been the biggest benefactors of its revolutionary stance. “Africa will forever cherish its relationship with Cuba. Together we will continue to forge mutually beneficial partnerships for the prosperity of our peoples and nations," he said. “I take this opportunity to thank you for your solidarity and comradeship in the African liberation movements against colonialism, settler imperialism and apartheid." Related: Kenya, Cuba bank on historical ties for stronger health, tourism sectors Uhuru pointed out that the Cuban people held strongly to the deep conviction that their freedom was inextricably linked to that of Africa. He also noted Kenya will not take for granted the recognition of its founding father, as the park celebrates the huge contributions Africans made in the liberation struggle. “In honour of our founding fathers, Kenya and Cuba will continue strengthening relations through the principled development of human relationships based on mutual respect," Uhuru said. The President added that that Kenya and Cuba's relationship continues to inspire a new generation of African-Caribbean leaders. “It is worth noting that during the Cuban revolutionary war, Fidel Castro named one of the brigades the ‘Mau Mau’ in honour of the freedom fighters in Kenya." Cuban Minister for Culture Abel Prieto termed Kenyatta an icon whose example of heroism inspired many to take up arms against the colonial masters. “Kenya’s rich liberation struggle story became a big inspiration to the Cubans resistance against imperialism," he said. Several African-Caribbean diplomats representing their countries attended the ceremony. Click here for the latest political news  