President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party has dismissed ODM’s demand that it comes clean on UK firm Cambridge Analytica’s involvement in the outcome of the 2017 polls. Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju yesterday said the 2017 election was won on the strength of campaigns and rallies the party mounted, not on social media propaganda as claimed. Opposition chief Raila Odinga’s ODM party demanded that Uhuru’s Jubilee Party come clean on the role of Cambridge Analytica in the 2017 polls which Uhuru won. Responding to ODM’s demand, Tuju said few Kenyan voters could be swayed by the social media campaigns the British firm is known for. “How many voters can you influence in Kericho, Kwale, Turkana and Siaya by social media? This President met more people during campaigns and did more rallies than any other campaigner has done in our history. He campaigned in all the counties except one. That is what won the election,” Tuju said on the phone. “If some people did not have a lot of work to do and are interested in talking about the emails, social media and Facebook for having been responsible for the results, then we invite them to do that next time and they will be defeated again.” Read:Jubilee hired consultancy linked to Cambridge Analytica - David Murathe The demand by ODM is likely to strain the less than three-week old marriage between Jubilee and ODM after the historic Harambee House handshake. British data mining firm Cambridge Analytica admitted – in a secret recording broadcast by British Channel 4 News on Monday - to helping Uhuru beat the NASA leader in the 2013 and 2017 elections. In an undercover news documentary, Cambridge Analytica Managing Director Mark Turnbull confirmed that the company worked for Uhuru. Turnbull disclosed how the firm played a leading role in branding Uhuru’s party, writing manifesto, carrying out up to 50,000 surveys, huge amounts of analysis, research and messaging, plus writing all the speeches read by the then Jubilee candidate. The company denied the revelations in the secret recording. Yesterday, Cambridge Analytica whistle blower Christopher Wylie revealed further that his predecessor in Kenya was found dead in a hotel room. He said the man, Dan Muresan, worked for Uhuru ahead of the 2013 polls before his death. It is from these revelations that Raila’s party yesterday demanded investigations into the influence that the firm – known for political propaganda and hate messaging - had on the outcome of the disputed poll. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna demanded that Uhuru’s party explains the company’s involvement in the last year’s hotly contested and protracted presidential election. “We would want our Jubilee counterparts to come clean on the role of Cambridge Analytica played in their campaigns, especially their campaigns, in the new found spirit of dialogue in the country. We need to openly deal with the rifts created by these political mercenaries on the fabric of Kenyan society,” Sifuna said in a statement emailed to newsrooms. Read:Cambridge Analytica whistleblower says his predecessor was found dead in Kenyan hotel room Also Read:Cambridge Analytica confirms involvement in Kenyan elections Sifuna said Raila is the target of the fear campaign and that as a party they are extremely concerned. “We indeed saw very distasteful propaganda and fear mongering directed at stocking ethnic animosity against Raila during campaigns, a most dangerous adventure.” Sifuna wants Parliament to pass a legislation banning foreign political mercenaries from any involvement in local politics.