A sombre mood engulfed a family and residents of Makunga village in Tongaren constituency, Bungoma North, after their son, a KDF officer, stabbed to death his two-year-old child before attempting to take his own life. Kennedy Simiyu stabbed himself in the chest after a domestic squabble with his wife. By presstime, he was admitted at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in serious condition. Simiyu works at Gilgil Barracks. He had gone home to visit his family at the weekend to find that his wife had gone to Nairobi. She had reportedly secured a job and left the baby boy with Simiyu’s mother. Jentrix Wekhanya, Simiyu’s aunt, said he locked himself in his house on Sunday morning with the child. He threatened to kill himself if his wife did not return. Ever since the wife went to Nairobi the two have been fighting and had bitter exchanges on the phone. Efforts by Mbakalu police officers, relatives and residents to persuade Simiyu to open the door bore no fruit until 7pm, when an officer broke the door. Bungoma North police boss Eliud Okello said they found Simiyu had killed the child. Wekhanya said Simiyu’s wife had taken a photo with another man and sent it to her husband through WhatsApp. He got upset and threatened to kill himself and the child if by the time he arrived home she would not be there. Wekhanya said, “While behind the locked doors, he casually told me his time on earth is over. I thought he was joking.” Residents thronged the homestead to condole with the family. MCA Bethwell Mwambu was the first politician to arrive at the homestead, saying it is unfortunate that the man resorted to killing his child. “I urge residents and families to have a proper way of handling domestic issues instead of resorting to killings. “If you have a wife and she is not cooperative, humbly divorce her instead of killing an innocent child,” he said. Mwambu said it is necessary to have a proper counselling programme for officers, especially the juniors. Cases of KDF soldiers attacking their families, residents or fellow officers have increased. In July last year, a video emerged of a person believed to be a KDF soldier shooting multiple times at a man seemingly tied up and on the ground. The shooter in a military uniform continued to fire after killing the victim while others, also in uniform, watched from a truck. It is not clear where, when and why the man was shot. One shouts “imetosha (it is enough)” while others say “Twende, kwani iko nini (Let’s go. What’s the problem)?” Two more gunshots were heard as the person recording the incident moved away. KDF Public Affairs officer Colonel Joseph Owuoth said they cannot comment on the video. “If it is a video from social media we cannot comment on that,” he told the Star on the phone. Muslims for Human Rights chairman Khelef Khalifa noted such incidents have become rampant in several parts of the country. Khalifa blamed the government, saying it has failed, so members of the public no longer abide by the law. “It is despicable to see officers who are paid to guard Kenya turn their guns against the people,” he said. On April 1, IG Joseph Boinnet ordered a probe into a viral video depicting the killing of two suspected gang members in Nairobi’s Eastleigh. The minute-long clip showed a person said to be a policeman in plain clothes apprehending a suspect. Another man in police uniform held an AK-47 rifle as a crowd fled.