The Jubilee administration should be made
squarely answerable to the massive plundering of public resources. Kenyans
should rise up and demand an immediate public explanation from the Jubilee
leadership. I call upon the NASA leadership to boldly speak in one voice
against this blatant misuse of public funds by the Jubilee leadership. We are happy that after a lot of condemnation
by Jubilee, we have been vindicated. As we fight for alternative ways of taking
over the leadership of this country, we must in unison condemn the misuse of
public funds in government. While in NASA we may be having our small hiccups,
condemning the loss of public funds must unite all of us. When we raised the
matter of the Eurobond, the Jubilee leaders were quick to accuse us of playing
politics. They came out guns blazing, calling us all manner of names. Now that part of the billions they borrowed
from the international market cannot be accounted for, we must hold them to
account. With Auditor General Edward Ouko’s disclosures that over Sh40 billion
has been lost through dubious deals, we feel vindicated and rejuvenated in our
fight against corruption and impunity. We have strong ideals and principles in
the fight against impunity and corruption that we must not let go in our
renewed effort to redeem this country. Jubilee’s insatiable appetite for loans is bleeding
this country. When the Auditor General says he cannot see where the money went,
all and sundry should know that these leaders have siphoned off public funds.
While we know they are in office illegally, we in the Opposition must continue
to hold them to account for every cent they spent as we continue seeking
options to have an alternative government in office. The public should be told clearly where this
money goes. The money cannot disappear into thin air. That various ministries
have blown billions in taxpayers’ money without justification is something that
should worry all Kenyans. This is an indicator that we have gone south and soon
Kenyans may even, through an uprising, demand that the Jubilee administration
get out of office. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto
cannot run away from the accountability issue. They are the men in charge of
this government and must tell Kenyans how they have spent their money. The writer is the ODM National Treasurer and former Kitutu
Masaba MP  Click here for the latest political news 