Suddenly and unexpectedly on February 28, the media burst out with announcements of ‘Jubilee’s plan’ to amend the Constitution to introduce a parliamentary system with a ‘powerful PM’ and a ‘weak president’. A Bill had been introduced by Tiaty MP Kassait Kamket, to make fundamental changes to the structure of the national legislature and the executive. In short, the political system would shift from executive presidency to parliamentary supremacy. An important consequence of the change would be to remove limits on the period for which the head of government can continue in office.  It was widely assumed that the scheme was to enable Uhuru Kenyatta to stay in power beyond the end of his present, second, term. Not much thought was given to what role William Ruto, whose sees himself as president in 2020, had played in this initiative. At best under the new scheme, he would become a ceremonial president, his tenure being restricted to one term of seven years. The media did not seem to have questioned how a person of his ambitions and love of power and money, could settle for a post without access to political and financial gains — while his friend Uhuru rolled in money and authority for the unforeseeable future. In the following days, little was done to clarify the real source of the proposed amendments. The possibility that Kamket might be presenting a Jubilee plot seemed to fade, as it was realised he was, after all, a Kanu member. There was little speculation how Gideon Moi, head of Kanu and ambitious to take over the executive presidency, would tolerate such betrayal from his party junior, Kamket. Even more ambiguous (and, therefore, subtle) was the statement, belatedly by Ruto, that Jubilee was fully preoccupied fulfilling Uhuru’s Four Principles of Development. Uhuru, as a dignified president, remained engaged fully in his services to the people, until Saturday, when he declared his intention to retire after his second term. As in politics there is no need to believe such disclaimers, I will move on. BRIEF HISTORY Kenya started Independence with a parliamentary system, with the prime minister as head of the government (the Cabinet), while a formal head of state had certain limited powers. The prime minister was the person who headed the largest party in the National Assembly, and ministers also had to be MPs. The government could be removed by a vote of no confidence — with the support of a majority of MPs. The system was radically changed within three years by Jomo Kenyatta — to one with the roles of head of state and of government combined into one with enormous powers and no time limits. Still, ministers (and the president) had to be MPs, and in theory, the president could be removed by a vote of no confidence. This, of course, was most unlikely in what was in fact, if not in law, a one-party state. On Kenyatta’s death, Moi succeeded to that system but made it even more draconian and less accountable, through a legally one-party regime, until intense local and foreign pressure forced him to restore a multi-party system, but retaining the executive presidency. A vote of no confidence remained a mirage, since MPs would all have to go to election if they had the temerity to pass such a vote. The entire constitutional system came under scrutiny in the late 1990s, with a series of national conferences that established fundamental constitutional principles. The Constitution of Kenya Review Commission proposed a parliamentary system. The general opinion was that placing most executive powers in the hands of a president — one who was not directly responsible to the people through a vote of no confidence — led to authoritarianism and corruption. Both Jomo and Moi demonstrated that well. It was widely recognised that the parliamentary system was more democratic and participatory. It was also believed it would be more likely to lead to the development of relatively stable political parties, with clear policies. The head of the government would be accountable on a daily basis to the people through members of Parliament, and could be dismissed on a vote of no confidence at any time. These principles formed the basis of the CKRC draft constitution, which was largely endorsed by the Constituent Assembly (known as Bomas), with Raila Odinga’s strong support. However, it was bitterly opposed by Mwai Kibaki (by then president) and one of his ministers, Kiraitu Murungi, who had abandoned their previous support for the parliamentary system. After the Bomas draft was hijacked by Kibaki’s government and revised to include an executive presidential system, it was roundly defeated in a referendum (with only Central Province clearly voting for Kibaki). The issue came up again as constitutional reform surfaced following the terrible violence after the 2007 elections. The Committee of Experts endorsed the CKRC/Bomas parliamentary position, but, surprisingly, when the Parliamentary Select Committee got its hands on the CoE draft, representatives of all parties restored the executive presidency in the 2010 Constitution. There is little doubt that most Kenya politicians would prefer to be executive president rather than prime minister. When Kibaki (having been in political exile for some years) addressed the CKRC on behalf of his party, he severely criticised what he called the “imperial presidency” and advocated a parliamentary system. But a few months later, when, with Raila’s help, he was elected president, his position changed 100 per cent: the presidency was the desirable thing, a view, in these circumstances, shared by his colleagues. Even Raila, deeply committed to the parliamentary system, began to advocate the executive presidency. Different explanations have been advanced for this about-turn: one that if he stuck to parliamentary, there would not have been an agreement on a constitution, after the violence of 2007, and the other that Raila saw the opportunity to be elected president. WILL CONSTITUTIONAL REVIEW SAVE KENYANS FROM OPPRESSION, DISCRIMINATION, AND ETHNICITY? The fortunes and impact of a constitution are determined by two factors, one internal and the other external. So far, attention has been paid to the internal. Kamket’s proposals are addressed to the first. It is unlikely that his proposals will make much of a difference in the system of government — and its tyranny, because they are determined by factors external to it (which I discuss at the conclusion of this essay). MPs, and even civil society, seem to think that if only we reformed (or, should I say, ‘further reformed’) the constitution, we will achieve democracy, restore peace, ensure fair policies, provide social and economic rights of the people, convert the police to the protector of the people, no longer their torturer — and ensure national unity. As a constitution writer, I wish we could change society by a re-drafting of the Constitution — as I did, indeed, think in my younger days when I first got inducted into advising on Constitution making. Our 2010 Constitution, despite its executive presidency, has been widely acclaimed as the one of the best in the world: it sets out fundamental principles of governance, has the world’s best Bill of Rights, the sharing of state powers at different levels, high standards of integrity for state officers, representation and participation of people in policies and affairs of the state, a wonderfully independent electoral system, clear structures and obligations of the legislature and the executive, many supposed checks and balances among the arms of government, the independence of the public service, a sensible scheme of state finances,  including sharing with counties (with ample safeguards), specification of the functions of security forces (primarily to serve the people), independent state commissions to safeguard in their own spheres the application of the Constitution — and most of all, an independent judiciary, with unprecedented powers to protect and promote constitutional values and restrict the legislature and executive to their proper limits. How far has the constitution achieved its purposes? Except for the judiciary (or most of it), state institutions have shown little respect for the Constitution. That is not surprising, given that Uhuru has constantly violated the Constitution. At his instigation, the police and other armed forces have violated their obligations most grievously; he has tried to undermine the rule for the appointment of the judiciary and threatened its independence; disregarded the number of seats for women in the Cabinet; refused to implement judicial orders against the government; has created senior posts without permission to accommodate his supporters; and has, altogether, shown little respect for the rule of law. Uhuru’s administration has failed not only for his interference with matters outside his authority, but also for disregarding specific duties imposed on the president, such as the protection and promotion of people’s rights, ensuring a life of dignity for the marginalised, safeguarding the country’s sovereignty, promoting respect for the diversity of the people and communities, and respecting and enhancing the unity of the nation, and above all, “respect, uphold and safeguard this Constitution”. SO HOW DO WE MOVE FORWARD? To fulfil the objectives of the Constitution (as endorsed by nearly 70 per cent of Kenyans in the 2010 referendum), we cannot just assume that there is something wrong with the Constitution itself. Before we embark on the review, we need to understand why the Constitution needs a review. The Kenyan Constitution is based largely on the values and to considerable extent the institutions of the South African Constitution. So why has our constitution failed when that of South Africa has been a great success? A simple answer may be that South Africa had Mandela, and we had Kibaki and now have Kenyatta. But that is too simple! It is clear that we do need to review the Constitution, but this should be done preferably not by people who have a clear personal interest, as the government or legislators. I applaud Kamket’s initiative, but I doubt if it really goes to the heart of the problems facing Kenyans. “This Bill is about the future of this country. It is about the stability of the Kenyan state and my interest was to develop a proposal that would give Kenyans a father figure, a symbol of unity that is accepted across the board,” said Kamket when he introduced his bill. It is not clear who is the father figure: surely not the prime minister, who really matters. Removing all restrictions on tenure of the head of government merely means that a person aspiring to a long tenure would choose prime ministership rather than president. If it was a question of periods, we already have a solution: a maximum of two terms of 5 years each. By creating an executive prime minister with no limit on terms, we will create a worse situation than at present. If the problem is, as Kamket (and many Kenyans) think, we could consider the Philippines’ solution: a president with only one term, of seven years! There are examples of excellent presidents and terrible prime ministers. The CKRC/Bomas proposal indeed envisaged that the mainly ceremonial president would be rather the unifying father (or mother) figure. The president in those drafts would have been elected by the people not by Parliament, as Kamket intends. So the cause of our malaise must be more than Uhuru — could it be his friends to whom he feels beholden, and whose wishes become state policies? This simple statement suggests that there is more to governance and administration than the Constitution. It is that ‘more’ that we need to understand. COMPLEXITY OF STATE: KENYA’S PREDICAMENT Historically, the formation of the national political community preceded the establishment of democracy. Today, in many countries, Constitutions have to perform these two tasks, now enormously complicated, simultaneously. As there can be serious tensions between the two tasks, establishing democracy in particular is exceedingly complex and difficult. Indeed, the point that emerges with sharp and sad clarity is that it is only by constant and systemic violations of the Constitution and the law that our political class is able to accumulate and establish its control over society — and its opponents. The economy has become closely intertwined with state patronage and ethnic politics, and this leads businesspeople to become architects of violence, and to collude in other violations of the law. There is little accountability for the exercise of public power. I have argued elsewhere that the fortunes of a constitution are influenced by three factors (in the second category): the nature of the state, economy and society. The 2010 Constitution has changed the form but not the reality of the state: its colonial legacy. It is still dominated by a small class, dependent heavily on armed force. The economy continues to be an administered economy, despite considerable economic development and a growing private sector. In an administered economy, the key levers are in the hands of the state executive. This increases competition for control of the state. The state becomes a major source for the accumulation of private wealth — something that can be secured only by corruption and the disregard of the rule of law or constitutionalism. The conflicts between different legislative bodies and executive authorities, particularly as manifested in the management of devolution, are not about principles but about power. In Kenya, the competition for the capture of the state is fought out through the mobilisation of ethnic support, which downgrades policies and robs politics of its significance. For political ‘leaders’, the mobilisation of ethnic support is critical. Sometimes this support is secured by prompting the denigration of the supporters of other candidates. Often it is bought by money but increasingly by appeals to ‘patriotic’ duty. Uhuru’s father won it by getting the Kikuyu to swear oaths of loyalty. This and the pervasive use of corruption to buy votes for and in Parliament, to secure contracts, to secure appointments, to undermine justice, and so on, negates most constitutional values and principles. The economy feeds into this system, conforming to its imperatives rather than influencing it, as market capitalism did in Europe and the US. This weakens the challenge to the practices of the state and its disregard for the Constitution. Despite the postcolonial rise of an incipient bourgeoisie and other social forces, the overwhelming political factor is the passivity of the majority of the people. By passivity, I do not mean that they do not care — they do care, but they are at the receiving end of the predatory and violent practices of the state, and see no way out. Although labourers, rural and urban, constitute a majority, they cannot translate their grievances into political clout or pressure, since they have allowed themselves to be divided by ethnicity. Thus, preventing the growth of their class consciousness is a critical strategy of the one class that does recognise that it is united by its many common interests — the political class. The most active popular political actions take ethnic forms and occur most obviously at election times. There are few political parties in the classical sense of aggregating, articulating and protecting the interests of key sectors of the public — despite legislation that requires these objectives, on pain of a party’s dissolution. Kenyan parties are just about elections. NGOs are still pursuing the politics of the 1990s, with their decreasing relevance. These weaknesses in civil society make it difficult for it to put any effective pressure on the state. Politics then becomes the occupation of a few professional politicians, and results in fluid parties, few of which are based on membership. Few other voices are given expression by a media that has fallen increasingly into political hands or under their influence, notwithstanding the hostile attitude to it of the Uhuru Kenyatta government. TO CONCLUDE I am not suggesting that our Constitution cannot be improved; indeed I believe a review by a truly specialist group would help. I would very much like to see a parliamentary system over an executive. I do, however, want to warn that even desirable constitutional change without commitment to implement and enforce that change and its implications will leave us no better off. Our real problem now is with people and our culture of greed and exploitation, not with our fundamental document. I am also worried that a change to the Constitution through Parliament will go through without the people understanding what is happening. Let the impetus come more from the people.