As Mt Elgon grapples with the emergence of a gang that has killed 35 people, residents long for a lasting solution to recurrent insecurity. Relative peace has taken hold after Interior CS Fred Matiangi imposed a 90-day dusk-to-dawn curfew, but residents fear it is the calm before another storm. The current spate of killings has echoes of the carnage by the Sabaot Land Defence Force, a ragtag militia led by Wycliffe Matakwei that haunted residents between 2005 and 2007, before the Okoa Maisha military operation restored normalcy. “After years of living under the mercy of criminals, we sighed with relief when Matakwei and his leaders were brought down, only to be disturbed by this new gang,” Masaek resident Peter Chemingwa said. Unlike the SLDF militia that was fighting for land rights, the new gang seems to be on a revenge mission and thirsty for money. They are involved in rape and robbery with violence. The SLDF did not rape, and it punished people involved in rape and alcoholism through kangaroo courts in Kamuneru. It was also involved in illegal taxation of residents, who paid protection fees allegedly used to fight for land rights. MASTERMINDS ARE BROTHERS Bungoma police commandant Munyoli Charles said the new gang has about 15 armed young men and is led by two brothers: Timothy and Ndiwa Kitai. Timothy has a Sh1 million bounty on his head and is nicknamed Cheparkach, or “he who strikes with a spear to kill”. Cheparkach hails from Banantega. When the Star visited the area, popularly known as “Kona Maiti”, we found it deserted. Everyone had fled and most houses been destroyed. Cheparkach’s home was destroyed by Nyumba Kumi members after they suspected he was involved in robbery. This is said to have annoyed Cheparkach, who never targeted his neighbours or surrounding villages. “It was wrong for those guys to burn his house. We all knew he was a robber but he was a friendly man to this village. He used to tell us he could not steal at home and was always involved in far places,” his neighbour, who sought anonymity, said. The Star has established that after the incident, Cheparkach set on a revenge mission. Two weeks later, he came and massacred the people involved in the arson. Though Cheprakach was a known criminal, and even jailed when he was still a minor, he was not involved in SLDF’s reign of terror, as at the time he was serving a jail term for robbery with violence. Although police have not established a political link to the raids, politicians have accused each other of supporting him. Speaking to the Star, area MP Fred Kapondi accused his predecessor and perennial rival John Serut of being behind Cheparkach. He said when Cheparkach’s accomplice, Samuel, was shot dead by the police, Serut called the area assistant county commissioner to complain. “Why was he saying the guy was innocent, yet he was armed and police had established he had connections with the gang?” Kapondi said. The MP added that most victims were his political supporters. He questioned why the killings had risen immediately he won the elections. However, Serut dismissed the claims, saying Kapondi should not play politics with serious matters concerning people’s lives. He said he is ready to be investigated, saying he has never seen Cheparkach nor communicated with him. He wondered why Kapondi was pretending to be the spokes person of the ACC to settle political scores. “If indeed the assistant county commissioner has evidence to such effect, why can’t he record a statement with the police? I insist I am an innocent person, whose only mistake is condemning extrajudicial killings,” Serut said. He said the government should seek permanent ways of dealing with historical injustices in Mt Elgon as away of dealing with the problem once and for all. STING OF EVICTIONS A directive by Lands CS Farida Karoney for residents to vacate public utility land by last Friday seems to have created a new crisis. Residents say most of them had moved to such land because they missed out on previous government allocations in the Chepyuk settlement scheme. “Where will we go? We had been promised land that has never been forthcoming. Some people were given double allocations, yet some of us are landless,” Masaek resident Alice Cherono, who is earmarked for eviction, said. Area assistant county commissioner Wisley Koech defended the directive, though, saying there will be no compromise on it. “People should get out of government land before we negotiate anything else. We don’t want to go into circles, we will get them out by force,” he said A report released by the Human Rights Watch-Western Kenya last week revealed massive corruption cartels during the government allocation of land in the Chepyuk phase three settlement scheme, with government officials and politicians being beneficiaries. Residents pointed to huge tracts of land owned by former provincial administrators and politicians while deserving parties missed out. “We will not agree to be evicted yet those were beneficiaries are politicians and government officers at the expense of squatters,” resident Nelson Kitai said. He said if they are evicted, they willl invade the lands owned by government officials and politicians. Karoney ordered a fresh survey to establish the current owners. The Star found chiefs and police visiting people believed to be on public land. Three chiefs had been fired by the Interior ministry for allegedly sabotaging this effort and collaborating with Cheparakach’s gang. They are Benson Chemorion (Masaek),Thomas Satia (Emia) and David Ndiwa of Kubura location. MILITARY OPERATION Although top commanders of the SLDF were killed during the Okoa Maisha operation, the government seemed to have failed to get illegal guns out of the hands of residents. Those who were arrested alive for being members of the dreaded group were later acquitted by the courts, and some of them went back to the villages and got back their guns. They include the likes of Ndiwa Kitai, the brother of Cheprakach. Moreover, illegal guns are still a menace in the region, with most residents getting them cheaply in the neigbouring Uganda. The guns are smuggled through “panya routes” in the Mt Elgon forests. Despite the heavy presence of police — GSU, rapid deployement unit,regular police and two military camps — residents still escape roadblocks to smuggle guns. Some leaders have called for the recruitment of police reservists, who they say will easily deal with the gangs because they know them and their panya routes. Despite the region being rich in terms of agricultural produce, most famers are disadvantaged because of poor road networks, and they end up being manipulated by middlemen. The region has no telephone network and communication is a big problem. The dusk-to-dawn curfew has made life more difficult, as it covers more than the worst-hit areas, namely Kapkateny and Kopsiro wards. “The people behind the crime and where they operate is known. Imposing a curfew in areas that are not affected is uncalled-for and only spoils our business,” Kapsokowny resident Millent Cherui said.