John Ogango has rejected President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nomination as ambassador and withdrawn from vetting, citing “private reasons”.The former Kenya Rural Roads Authority director general was among other three envoy nominees who were supposed to appear before the National Assembly Defence and Foreign Committee yesterday.He wrote to the committee, through the Clerk, saying he had decided to withdraw from vetting due to “personal matters”.  Ogango did not elaborate.“We have one nominee who has turned down the ambassadorial position,” committee chairman and Kajiado South MP Katoo Metito said.The team is at a crossroads on whether to vet Uhuru’s envoy nominees. It is confused on the kind of questions to ask them as there is no information on their specific designations or country of deploymment.The vetting was pushed to today, because the President had not given the destination the nominees were to serve. “The appointing authority – the President – is occupied on official duties today. We are in agreement with the Speaker that we postpone the vetting of these nominees,” he said.Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan questioned whether the Executive had a motive to appoint ambassadors without portfolios. He wondered why the nominees countries were not outlined, urging the committee to “take its job seriously” while handling the matter.“Is the Executive over-appointing ambassadors? Is there a budget for them? We need to know where these people will be posted to and what budget they will control,” Hassan said.The committee was supposed to vet former ambassador to Thailand and recent Correctional Services Principal Secretary Richard Ekai, former Migori Senator Wilfred Machage and former Ladgera MP Mohammed Shidiye.“Let the Executive explain and justify why they have not put positions. If the reason will be convincing, we will go ahead with the vetting. Let’s take our job seriously otherwise we will be heading on a wrong direction”. The committee, through the Clerk, had written to Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua on March 21, seeking information on their designations by March 23. It got no response.Parliament will proceed for a 10-day recess on Thursday after the President’s address.While submitting names of the nominees to the Speaker for vetting, the President did not outline their portfolios.Muturi submitted the names to the committee and urged it to ensure public participation is considered and the vetting conducted within stipulated timelines of the House.  Click here for the latest political news