Several markets in Homa Bay county are at risk of closure because traders have failed to comply with the plastic bags ban. County director of environment John Maniafu on Friday said banned plastic bags are still circulating. “We’re asking the Nema director general to consider closing markets where traders insist on using outlawed plastic bags,” he said. Maniafu said the bags still find their way into the county via Lake Victoria. He spoke to journalists after raids on shops in various estates in Homa Bay town. Two traders were arrested and plastic carrier bags were confiscated. He said some “big traders” use fishermen in Lake Victoria to smuggle the banned plastic bags from Uganda and Tanzania. The Nema official warned local retailers, who have ignored the ban. “Mama mbogas have disregarded the ban. We will continue with the raid to eliminate plastic carrier bags,” Maniafu said. He said the bags are used to package charcoal and other food items, including sugar and cooking oil. “Most of the traders conduct their operations late at night to avoid arrest by our officials,” Maniafu said. Homa Bay Nema officer Johana Ouma said the agency will inspect all markets to ensure they weed out unscrupulous traders. She said they have deployed officials on beaches around Lake Victoria to identify and arrest fishermen whose boats ferry the bags. “We’re keeping an eye on the activities on the lake because fishermen have become the medium of illegal trade,” Ouma said. The plastic bag ban came to force on August 28 last year. The government said the ban would protect the environment. Manufacturers of the bags argued that 80,000 jobs could be lost and they would lose a huge stock. Most Kenyans have adapted and are carrying bags of cloth and other material. Other African countries have outlawed plastic carrier bags, including South Africa, Rwanda and Eritrea. behaviour change In December last year, the UN Environment Assembly praised Kenya’s ban on plastic bags. Environment experts from all over the world said they were enthusiastic about the move and Nema said it would not turn back. Director general Geoffrey Wahungu said it took the country 15 years to reach an agreement with manufacturers on the prohibited packaging material. He said it takes a generation to change the behaviour, adding that young people need to be involved. Experts warned seas will be have more plastic than fish by 2050 if bags sill find their way into the oceans. Wahungu said the ban improved income as women and youths are now producing alternative bags with local materials. “We are comfortable with plastics being in dump sites as they can easily be dealt with as we look for investors to recycle them,” he said.  