Lecturers will tomorrow escalate their strike by holding street protests over government’s failure to negotiate the 2017-21 CBA. The protests will mark a fortnight since they downed tools on March 1. University Academic Staff Union Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said non-teaching staff affiliated to Kenya University Staff Union and Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers will join the peaceful march. “I urge all dons to come out in numbers as we fight for a better CBA. Keep away from any official responsibility; lectures, setting, marking, invigilating exams, research supervision, field trips, attachment and teaching practice,” he said in a statement. Last week Tuesday, the Employment and Labour Relations Court declined to stop the strike. Public university Vice Chancellors moved to court to overturn the strike accusing the dons of reneging on pay talks. They said the boycott is illegal since lecturers went on strike while talks were still ongoing. Justice Onesmus Makau said he could not issue stop orders before hearing both parties. On Friday, lecturers defended themselves saying the strike is in line with the Constitution. They accused the VCs of failing to table a counteroffer to their CBA. “We plead with the court not to give any interim orders to stop the strike as the applicants are misleading the court,” they said. The dons have also cited lack of goodwill from the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum. They accuse the body of having missed five deadlines to kick start talks on the CBA. IPUCCF asked court to stop the strike saying it will destabilize the academic and examination calendar, cause disruptions, frustrations and hamper reasonable class attendance for students who are currently in the middle of their school sessions. Justice Makau will give his ruling on the application on Friday. Wasonga urged lecturers not to be deterred. “At the end of the strike, UASU will craft a water-tight Return to Work Formula that will shield all dons from victimisation. Continue to ignore meetings, memos, threats and all communication from the management.” He accused some university managers and government officials of trying to incite students against lecturers. A week ago, a section of student leaders held protests demanding that the lecturers go back to class. “Such malice will not only boomerang in the faces of such university managers, but may also destroy the universities concerned. Universities are integrally made up of students and their lecturers and none may exist without the other,” Wasonga said. Meanwhile, UASU officials will today appear before the Education Committee of the National Assembly to explain the challenges lecturers face. On Thursday, they also appeared before the Senate Committee on Education.  