The Kiambu government has launched a cashless payment system to improve revenue collection by sealing loopholes. Governor Ferdinand Waititu on Friday said residents will use the *419# USSD code to make payments instead of going to the county offices. “The USSD code is faster and people can pay their taxes wherever they are without wasting their time going to county offices,” he said. The county has partnered with Cooperative Bank to collect the revenue and residents will get a payment confirmation. Waititu said the government collects Sh9 million a week and projects collections to shoot up to Sh46 million with the cashless system.  BANKING ON ICT “This money is meant for development. We have reviewed all licences and fees and have lowered them to help Kiambu residents conduct their business without high charges,” Waititu said. Finance executive Wilson Mburu said his department is banking on ICT to cut the loss of funds. “We assessed our problems and we decided to have a roadmap and start collecting money digitally. Our officers will not handle cash as it will be sent directly to the bank by residents,” he said.  KRA In 2015, then ICT CS Fred Matiang’i and then Governor William Kabogo launched the online integrated Kiambu County card in conjuction with KCB bank to enhance efficiency in revenue collection by tracking transactions. In 2016, the county government engaged the services of the Kenya Revenue Authority to collect property tax single business permit fees on its behalf. The move was later contested in court. In January, Waititu urged local companies to hire locals. He spoke at the Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology on Friday when he met the county bursary committee. Waititu said he will push Kiambu firms to hire 70 per cent of residents. The county has created a mobile phone application to apply for jobs. “Before we give out licences to investors, they must agree to hire our people,” the governor said. He said he will push for national high schools in the county to set aside one classroom for local students as well as have universities hire Kiambu residents. Waititu said presently, few locals work in companies operating within the county. He faulted the company management, saying they prioritise workers from Nairobi. Waititu said the trend must change where the locals should be considered first and paid well. He cited factories in Thika, Limuru and Ruiru as the worst affected.