Former Murang’a governor aspirant Moses Mwangi has thrown his weight behind Governor Mwangi wa Iria’s Hawkers Bill. Mwangi said even though wa Iria is his rival and defeated him in last year’s election, his Hawkers and Street Vendors Bill will revolutionise hawking and restore sanity in Kenyan towns. Mwangi said millions of youths work as hawkers and support their families with earnings from informal trade. He said the majority of youths working as hawkers in major towns are from Murang’a. Mwangi said the county is directly affected when hawkers are mishandled. “Even in Murang’a county, the majority of the youths throng the towns seeking to earn a living through hawking. They have to be supported and appropriately empowered,” he said. Mwangi urged legislators to support the Bill when it comes up for debate in Parliament. If passed into law, he said, it will bring diginity to the trade and make small-scale traders feel they are part of the economy. The Bill, which is set to be tabled in the Senate, provides for the formation of an authority to register, regulate and monitor the informal traders. It stipulates that hawkers be given 30-day notice before eviction. Mwangi said the political period that caused rivalry between him and the governor is over and it is time to encourage development. “I have no personal differences with wa Iria. I’m now only interested in the development of the county as I wait for 2022,” he said. Mwangi said President Uhuru Kenyatta has set a good example by shelving his differences with NASA leader Raila Odinga and other politicians should emulate them. “It behoves us to give credit where it is due, especially when a leader is putting serious effort to make the lives of Kenyans better,” he said. structured hawking Mwangi said Murang’a residents made their choice and it would be wrong to keep subjecting them to constant politicking. “I’m always willing to lend a helping hand to ensure people get the services they deserve and I will support the governor where necessary,” he said. Early this month, wa Iria said he wants hawkers mainstreamed into national business organisations, such as the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He sad they make a huge contribution to the economy. The governor said hawking in countries such as India has been successly structured. “We will set up a tribunal to deal with issues around hawking and dispute resolution mechanisms, because we don’t want to see what we have been seeing where hawkers are brutalised by the county inspectorate officers,” wa Iria said. He said they will engage stakeholders, including the county governments and those from academia, to get their views on how the Bill can be improved. They will also benchmark with countries that have streamlined hawking. Wa Iria said it is socially immoral for county governments to have officers chasing after hawkers and confiscate their goods every day. It is not illegal to be a hawker, he said.