Tourism CS Najib Balala on Saturday said that laws on conservation of wildlife will be reviewed as the penalty for the heinous crime is lenient. Balala said that poachers found guilty of killing wildlife should be jailed for life. "By increasing the penalties,no one will dare touch any of the iconic species.There's need to have zero tolerance to poaching. "Balala said. He spoke at Ol Pejeta Conservancy during Sudan's memorial service. More on this : Sudan, the last male northern white rhino, dies at 45 Currently, the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act of 2013 states the killing of endangered animals, carries life imprisonment as well as fines of up to Sh20 million. However, no one has been slapped with life imprisonment since the inception of the Act.  Wardens assist the late Sudan, who was the last male northern white rhino  as it grazed at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Laikipia national park, Kenya June 14, 2015./REUTERS Data from the Kebnya Wildlife Service shows that there are 1284 rhinos and 34,000 elephants in the country. Balala also tasked his PS Margaret Mwakima to look at the possibility of erecting a national museum where Sudan's rhino horn and the tusks of one of Kenya's largest elephant, Ahmed, will be housed to spread awareness on the fate facing iconic species. "The death of Sudan reminds each and everyone each day of the need to jealously conserve not only endangered species but all species. "We are here to pay tribute to Sudan and Ahmed" Balala said. Mwakima will work closely with stakeholders from the Kenya Wildlife Service and the private sector to make it a reality. Balala also said communities must benefit from proceeds from wildlife as the move will enable them to own and protect wildlife. Laikipia governor Ndiritu Mirithi said the extinction of species in the country, was a clear indication that we need to do more to protect them. "We have to ask ourselves what we are doing to all the species. What more can we do to protect them?" Mirithi posed? Also present at the memorial service were Ol Pejeta conservancy CEO Richard Vigne, Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui and Wildlife Direct communication manager Trish Sewe. Also read : Scientists bank on Sudan semen to sustain species