Miguna Miguna is slightly unwell but is keeping up, his lawyer Cliff Ombeta has said, after the defiant NRMKe General reported being held in a "tiny, filthy" toilet. Miguna, also a lawyer, was injured on his left arm during a botched attempt by airport security staff to deport him to Dubai aboard an Emirates plane. Ombeta, who spoke to the BBC on Wednesday, said his phone was confiscated, making accessibility difficult. "We spoke to him last night. He is slightly unwell but he is keeping up and we got someone to sneak a phone to him," he said. Ombeta said one of the officers who was watching him was a sympathiser and made it easier for them to give him a phone. "After that, we spoke to him and he told us that the Canadian consulate had gone to see him," he said. The lawyer noted that whatever Miguna is going through is not a publicity stunt as critics would want to put it. "Miguna has been given permission to enter the country by the courts," he noted, citing the court order for his client's release without conditions and the government's "intentional" refusal to provide his travel documents. On Tuesday, the High Court  justice Roselyn Aburili ordered the government to immediately release Miguna from JKIA. But he issued a statement earlier today saying he was being held incommunicado in a "tiny, filthy" toilet and that he had been denied access to his lawyers, food, water and other basics. More on this: Miguna moves to court, seeks unrestricted entry through JKIA Also read: [Statement] I won't let Kenya abuse my rights, Miguna says from 'tiny, filthy' toilet 'COWARDLY ACTS' On Tuesday evening, Miguna lawyers were forced to pin the court order for his release on a wall at the airport. This was after officials apparently went into hiding so as not to receive them. The document names Immigration officials and OCPD of the JKIA as respondents. Led by Siaya Senator James Orengo, the NRMKe leader's lawyers termed it a cowardly act saying they would bring it to the attention of the judge. Miguna returned to Kenya on Monday following his deportation to Canada in February but the re-entry at the JKIA was full of drama.  The Immigration Department says he has to apply for the citizenship he lost in 1998. Miguna earlier said he was born in Kenya and that nobody can take that away from him. More on this: Miguna has to apply for Kenyan citizenship, Immigration department says Also read: I've never renounced Kenyan citizenship, Miguna speaks from Amsterdam Click here for the latest political news