The surprise deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition Chief Raila Odinga has triggered a political earthquake that is promising to radically alter the 2022 succession matrix. The deal, which is still being drawn up by Uhuru and Raila’s trusted lieutenants, has thrown Deputy President William Ruto and the other three NASA co-principals back to the drawing board. The disquiet in Ruto’s camp has been palpable, despite the brave face the DP has been displaying, with his allies now asking Raila to back their man for the top job in 2022. For the first time, Mount Kenya politicians, who have been viciously attacking Raila, have made a sharp U-turn and now admit the deal is a political game changer. “Raila is a smart politician. A lot of people have started to warm towards him. You never know what happens if he decides to vie in 2022 because I think the dynamics have changed,” Murang’a Woman representative Sabina Chege said. In 2002, Raila was widely celebrated in Central Kenya for endorsing and leading the campaigns for Mwai Kibaki as the Narc candidate against President Daniel Moi’s preferred heir — Uhuru. Some analysts now say the truce will help Uhuru kill two birds with one stone — secure his legacy in his last term and tactically throw a huge obstacle on Ruto’s path to State House without taking blame for it. Unfortunately for Ruto, the deal came when a section of Mount Kenya politicians have been sending mixed signals on whether the region will support him in 2022 or not. Political analyst Herman Manyora alleged the possibility that Uhuru could have pledged to back Raila for the presidency in 2022 as part of the new pact. “I suspect strongly, but I could be wrong, that Uhuru must have agreed with Raila that he would support him in 2022,”Manyora said. The Star has established Uhuru and his family started courting Raila days before the repeat presidential polls as anxiety heightened that it would not be possible to hold the election. This was at the height of anti-IEBC demos that turned bloody, with the police firing live bullets on protesters. There was a global spotlight on Kenya, with powerful but behind-the-scenes lobbying by ambassadors as the country was teetering on the brink. First to seek out Raila during these tense moments was State House Comptroller Kinuthia Mbugua, in what insiders described as a daring move. Mbugua drove to Raila’s home without any appointment and delivered a message from Uhuru that the President was ready to work with him. A few days later, Muhoho Kenyatta, Uhuru’s younger brother and six influential tycoons from Mount Kenya drove into Raila’s compound in Karen. But in a clear indication of the suspicion in Jubilee, Raila was told that Ruto must be kept in the dark about the political overtures. For sometime now, there had been speculation that the Kenyatta Family was uncomfortable with Ruto. This was partly blamed on the delay in the naming of the Cabinet. In his address to the nation after meeting Raila, Uhuru made a telling statement: “Our future cannot be dictated by the forthcoming elections. Starting today, we will begin the process of bringing our people together.” The visits by emissaries to Raila’s home were the first signal that Uhuru was determined to work with Raila, even as they exchanged harsh words publicly. “Not even Raila’s security guards knew who was visiting. It was a closely guarded secret,” a source familiar with the details said. But Raila rebuffed the overtures as the country was deeply polarised. He was also convinced t there were little chances of having the election on October 26, giving him a real chance of taking on Uhuru in another “properly” organised election. For months, the talks remained top secret, only known to a few trusted lieutenants as well as the Odinga and the Kenyatta families. Curiously, as the State laid siege on Raila’s foot soldiers involved in his controversial January 30 swearing-in, the ODM leader remained a free man. “This [the deal] is something that was not hurriedly done, but it was a top secret. The two leaders knew that this nation is bigger than all of us and, so, they decided to lock out everybody else because they were the presidential candidates,” Chege said during a TV talk show. After the swearing-in Uhuru, roped in spy chief Phillip Kameru, Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and Ambassador Martin Kimani. Sources say Uhuru had been advised that the divisions in the country were becoming entrenched and would completely obliterate his legacy. There were also concerns the unending politicking was also taking a toll on the economy. From Raila’s side, the deal was only known to three people: Lawyer Paul Mwangi, former PS Andrew Mondo and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said the Raila-Uhuru truce has redrawn the political landscape. “Raila has not only proved he is a statesman but also placed himself very strategically to play a key role in 2022. All those with presidential ambitions will have no choice but to deal with him,” Ngunjiri said. Unlike the three NASA principals, who have publicly admitted they were surprised by the Harambee House, Office of the President, meeting, Ruto, a shewed politician has been acting unvexed. Immediately after the Friday meeting, to which he was not invited, opposite his own office, Harambee Annex, the DP took to Twitter to congratulate the two leaders. “You have risen to the moment for Kenya and against hate, negative ethnicity and division. The unity, stability and transformation of Kenya supersede all other partisan interests,” Ruto tweeted. But despite his confidence, his allies have spoken of the fear in his camp that Raila could shatter his succession game plan. First to speak about the disquiet was Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki, who recalled how Raila joined Kanu in 1997 and tore it apart from within. “It is true the pact has consequences for 2022. Raila could take advantage of this as a politician to reinvent himself,” warned Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny. However, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, one of the known hardliners around the DP, laughed off the claims, saying Raila coming on board was based on Jubilee’s “terms and conditions”. “Raila’s coming was under our own terms and he will not in any way complicate our 2022 succession politics. His coming is a small thing when it comes to our succession politics,” Duale said. Political analyst Benji Ndolo says Ruto is a shrewed politician, who is not easy to play. “It’s not very easy to mess with Ruto. Just the way he is by nature. Ruto is very strategic, very energetic,” Benji told the Star. “He [Ruto] has laid out an elaborate network. The issues within Jubilee, even though there are small dynamics and machinations, don’t rise to the level of an ultimate betrayal. The relationship between the DP and the President at a personal level is good”. He also says Ruto has built a strong network in Mount Kenya and acquired loyalists who are unwilling to dump him. “The kind of campaign he will do will be very damaging to whoever is betraying him. He is not like Kalonzo [Musyoka] who was being betrayed by [Mwai] Kibaki but he couldn’t even speak. Just look at how he dealt early with [William] Kabogo,”Benji said. “There are also members of the President’s community who are also committed for their own self-preservation to keep their word to DP Ruto. Therefore, Ruto, being who he is, will be the frontrunner. There is no deputy or Vice President who has worked as hard as him.” The clearest signal that Ruto would be no easy pushover was the latest high profile appointments in government littered by his men and women. These included John Mosonik (Chief Administrative Secretary Petroleum and Mining), Harry Kimutai (PS Livestock), Alfred Cheruiyot (PS Correctional Services), Fred Sigor (PS Irrigation) and Susan Komen (PS EAC). As news filtered through the country of the Friday deal, many Rift Valley MPs chose to adopt a wait-and-see strategy. But for almost a week now, the details of what Uhuru and Raila are planning are still not clear. Only Ambassador Kimani for Uhuru and Mwangi, Raila’s personal lawyer, are involved in drafting a framework on how the pact will be actualised. “Although it is generally good for the country to have peace and stability, we are watching the unfolding events and will make decisions as we go along. We still expect our colleagues in Jubilee to support Ruto in 2022,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. In NASA, the deal is threatening to tear apart the year-old coalition. In jibe aimed at NASA co-principals Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula, ODM urged Raila to refuse to be distracted by those positioning themselves for 2022. “The members encouraged the party leader to use this engagement to seek justice for the victims of post-election violence as a way to finding a lasting reconciliation and unite the nation,” the MPs said after a Parliamentary Group meeting on Tuesday. In Parliament, an agitated ODM chairman John Mbadi declared that his party would not tolerate any blackmail from its partners in NASA. “We are not ready to take blackmail,” he said at the end of his speech , as he moved the motion to debate the agreement between the top two political leaders. “We are committed to the cause and no amount of blackmail will take us off the track.”  Olick is Star's political writer    