It is not done to pummel a colleague pundit for their opinion. But one invites censure and exposure when they demean punditry with ‘fake’ political rhetoric disguised as analysis. A seismic political rebranding is underway in Western. The usual patronising and belittling attitude by other ethnic elites who browbeat the Luhya community into submission is on full show. In a simplistic and naïve uninvited advisory, former Cabinet minister Franklin Bett wears traditional blinkers about the Luhya. He falsely claims, “Western Kenya is Raila Odinga’s stronghold. The region teems with Raila supporters. I don’t think Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi have any strong grip on their strongholds. Raila has penetrated and succeeded in positioning himself as the kingmaker of the whole of Western Kenya, even in the presence of the two NASA co-principals.” If such claims were true, Raila wouldn’t have needed the two as entourage in three out of four unsuccessful presidential bids. Raila has always used Luhya leaders to access the Luhya voter. Numbers don’t lie. Despite voting for Raila because their leaders told them to, the Luhya and Kamba whittled down ODM’s parliamentary and county hegemony in favour of ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya. In the “‘Cowardice’ tag a permanent political scar for the three principals” opinion in the Star of Monday, March 26, Bett engages in old school obscurantism. No, crowded rallies don’t mean support anymore. Were it true, Raila would have been President three times over. And it gets worse. Bett engages in intellectual heresy with the blatant lie that “When you go through Western Kenya and Luo Nyanza, people are excited after Raila and Uhuru openly shook hands at Harambee House. The Luhyas and the Luos and even the Kambas are so excited.” First, get the geography right. ‘Western Kenya’ isn’t Luhyaland, but includes former Western, Nyanza and northern Rift Valley provinces. Second, Bett couldn’t have, within the short time since the infamous Harambee House handshake, traversed these regions and been met by ululations of jubilant Luhyas, Luos and Kambas. These communities suffer deep feelings of betrayal. It’s this betrayal that the NASA three co-principals have latched on to dismantle any vestiges of Railaism in their bases. Unfortunately, Bett’s ‘insight’ reveals mortal fear of Luhya nationalism awakened by the political truce between the community’s two strongest and fiercest competitors in what is billed as ‘Project Luhya Nation’. ANC and Ford-K have announced a merger in the making. It signals political unity of purpose in consolidating a vote bloc. This is an ingredient that causes political indigestion, as careers of those who thought they had a pass to the presidency via a slice of the Luhya vote face jeopardy. Deputy President William Ruto should seriously consider Bett’s caution “to rework his political strategy if he really wants to buttress his 2022 presidential bid”. The upsurge of Luhya nationalism is a resolve to front and vote as a bloc for one of their own, win or lose. This will deny any wannabe candidate’s desire to cannibalise and split the expansive Luhya vote. The Luhya are latecomers onto the bandwagon of ethnic bloc voting. The Kikuyu, Kalenjin, Luo and Kamba long mastered this strategy, whereas the Luhya practice ‘democracy’, which splits their vote. This meant no bloc-vote for one of their own. Who knows, a resolve to vote as a bloc for one of their own may just be what the doctor ordered for the numerically superior Luhya to finally produce a President. This move to Luhya nationalism is a backlash against Raila’s ‘betrayal’. His gratitude for the community’s two decades of support is to undermine and humiliate Luhya kingpins, labelling them cowards. For leaders who sacrificed presidential ambitions and committed enormous resources to the Raila campaign, the slur was unwarranted. ODM reneged on a NASA agreement to share parliamentary positions. On top of this Raila, according to Wetang’ula, went for the jugular, engineering his removal as Senate Minority leader. Their sin? Resisting ODM machinations to abrogate the NASA agreement that bars Raila and ODM from presidential candidature in 2022.  kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com 