Six hundred families in Wendano and Kisiiki villages in Thika East have been forced out of their homes by floods. The residents lived 400m from River Athi. They were displaced after the river burst its banks following heavy rains. They spent Friday night in the cold and chilling weather as their homes were submerged in the raging waters. Mary Njeri, 82, said she was rescued by neighbours after the floods flattened her hut. Her three goats, household items and clothes were swept away. Njeri settled in Kisiiki village in 1964 when the land was given to squatters by the government. She and many others have never had a permanent solution to the floods menace. Every time it rains heavily the river bursts its banks and displaces families. “It’s disheartening to see that 50 years on we are still being forced to flee because of floods. We hope that the government can hear our plea and settle us elsewhere and use this land to plant trees,” Njeri said. Resident Joseph Njoroge said their lives were in danger as hippos and crocodiles sought refuge in their homes as they too could not survive the raging waters. “Last night no one slept because we could hear sounds of hippos about 30m from where we had put up temporary camps,” Njoroge said. For three days, children who go to Ol Donyo Sabuk Primary School have skipped classes for fear of being swept away by the floods. “This water comes from Nairobi and parts of Ngong’ and Narok. So the heavy rains that have been witnessed in those areas end up here. We are in greater danger that those living in those areas,” Njoroge said. Rhoda Mumbi said the elderly, especially those living alone, are at high risk of being swept away by floods. Some blamed the local administration, saying they have been displaced from their homes and forced to settle on river banks. President Uhuru Kenyatta issued 1,700 title deeds in June last year, the local administration and local leaders, they claimed, colluded with tycoons to evict genuine squatters from prime plots, forcing them to live near the river. “I was one of those who were paraded before Uhuru at Thika Stadium. He gave me my title deed, but when I went to the DC’s office I was told my title deed belongs to a parcel near the river, only to find that my land has been given to a tycoon,” Felistas Njeri said.