Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu has accused owners of chemists and labs of vandalising public hospital facilities to create business for themselves. He said his administration will make it a rule that all chemists and labs be located at least 500 metres from public hospitals. Waititu spoke on Wednesday at the county headquarters in Kiambu town. “We want anybody putting up a private medical outlet, be it a pharmacy, clinic, laboratory or hospital, to come to the county government for a licence so we may know who they are, where they come from, how they want to do business and in whose premises the business will be put up,” Waititu said. He said he has received complaints that the many chemists, labs, clinics and hospitals next to the Kiambu Level 5 Hospital are to blame for lack of good services at the facility. “Some of our doctors have become greedy as they vandalise hospital equipment so they can send patients to the private labs, which are mostly owned by them,” Waititu said. WRONG But the doctors accused Waititu of putting them on the spot for all the wrong reasons. “It is wrong for the governor to say that we are involved in corrupting the hospitals yet we do not own private hospitals, chemists and labs,” said a doctor at the Gatundu South Level 5 Hospital who requested anonymity. “Investigations should be done to verify Waititu’s claims and not demonise doctors.” They said they have nothing to lose if the private facilities are closed. “The governor should be telling Kiambu residents to have confidence in public health facilities as they have reformed and they have medicine and personnel to treat them,” another doctor said. A spot check by the Star found chemists, labs, clinics and private hospitals doing booming business barely 100 metres from the Thika, Gatundu South and Kiambu Level 5 hospitals, as well as outside level 4 hospitals and public dispensaries. Chemists owners who requested anonymity said they operate legitimate businesses. “We do not work in the hospitals and we apply for licences and are accredited by the national government,” said one. “If there are any allegations of us vandalising main hospitals’ equipment, then investigations [should be carried out] and action taken. The governor should not threaten and intimidate people doing their jobs legitimately.” ILL - EQUIPPED FACILITIES Resident Susan Njambi said Kiambu Hospital refers patients to a certain laboratory, which charges more. Many patients from outside the county seek services at Kiambu Hospital, exceeding its capacity and as a result the private hospitals outside the main hospital reap big. Resident Michael Kang’ethe said patients have no options but to seek services at the private facilities as the public hospitals are ill-equipped. “When we go to public hospitals you will find no medicines or doctors only nurses and sometimes there is no operating equipment.”