A court has temporarily suspended directive by chairman of National police Service to reduce salaries of police officers who have acquired university degrees. Labour judge Byram Ongaya gave two police officers the go ahead to file for judicial review seeking orders to prohibit the chairman of NPS and Inspector General from implementing the directive of March 7,2018. The two are Ayub Mathenge and Oscar Misiko. Through their lawyer Albert Simiyu Murambi of the firm of Mudyoka and Murambi and Association Advocates moved to court under certificate of urgency seeking orders stopping the the respondents from reducing their salaries by over 46%. "Leave is hereby granted to the applicants to file judicial review proceedings for order and that the same leave granted to operate as a stay of the respondents directive'" said justice Ongaya. In their court papers the two applicants says that they have filed the case on their own and on behalf of over 4,000 police officers who have attained university degrees while in service on the basis of which they received a pay rise. They said that intended reduction in earnings would leave them and fellow university graduate officers in pecuniary embarrassment as they would be unable to service loans taken on the basis of new salary. "The intended reduction in earning would cause officers to default in payment of rent, school fees for their children among other financial obligations," said the police officers. Read : Salary reductions will intimidate police, cause more suffering - Atwoli They says that the respondents acted in bad faith and with improper motive in their decision as they acted without substantive fairness and without regard to the principles of fairness. On March 7,2018 the chairman of NPS issued a directive to the inspector general requiring him to reverse all the money being paid to graduate police officers in the service and or any other benefits including a tax exemption. The applicants says that the redirection instructing the IG to vary the salary of over 4,000 university degree holders within the NPS was issued capriciously, without consultation, without participation of affected officers nor the public. They said it was maliciously and in utter breach of fair labour practices as an employee's remuneration cannot be varied to his or her disadvantage. In the case the chairman of NPS is named as first respondent, Inspector General (IG) as second and Attorney General as third. Click here for the latest political news