Nasa strategist David Ndii has 'unpacked' the famous Opposition and government handshake by looking at the relationship between the Odingas and Kenyattas. Ndii explained why the National Super Alliance principal shockingly agreed to unite with the ruling Jubilee Party, after a prolonged and troubled elections season from voting day on August 8, 2018 to the President's swearing-in on November 28. While announcing the 'new dawn' at Harambee House in Nairobi on March 9, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga said they signed the deal for the sake of national healing and reconciliation. In a series of 12 tweets on Friday, Ndii started by noting that there were "different measures our founding fathers should have taken as they forged this young nation". "We are re-living the same divisive experiences the country underwent in 1963," he said and warned that if unaltered, these experiences will result in the same calamities experienced at that time. Of Uhuru and Raila, the strategist said: "The two leaders symbolise the many ways in which the country has gone full circle in its divisions. This Kenyatta-Odinga dynasty feud is a big part of the problem." He added: "Accept-and-move is not working. Elections in Kenya have become a threat to our lives. Kenya needs to overcome this negative cycle." Related: Miguna versus State a juvenile standoff - Kenya Diaspora Alliance Also read: Miguna woes: Did Uhuru-Raila handshake ignite more hate than love? Ndii further explained that the political leadership in Kenya is thrust in the same dangerous political dynamics that have played out over the years. Noting that Kenya is witnessing a continued deterioration of relationships between ethnic communities, Ndii said a strong nation cannot develop in those divisions. "The two leaders respect one another. They respect each other's communities. Every single Kenyan knows and needs respect," he said. "Seek ye first the political kingdom. [Ghana's first Prime Minister and President Kwame] Nkrumah, [Tanzanian politician and activist Julius] Nyerere and your Mzee [Jomo Kenyatta] were right. Kenyans must have their human and civil rights respected and enforced." The Opposition official also said it is imperative that efforts by counties - to coordinate development plans in clusters defined by geography and economic sectors - be strongly encouraged both politically and practically. "Corruption is an existential threat to our Kenya. [We] will stand together to ensure that political affiliation shall not be used to shield those who are found to be corrupt," he said. "Our political system has been unable to respond to feelings of alienation in sections of our people. Such real and imagined exclusion is an anathema to effective nation building." He added that the Opposition has agreed to roll out a programme that will implement their shared objectives and added that 2022 contestants should carry their own crosses. Raila said the handshake was difficult but that he did not have a choice. Some of his supporters say he sold them out and that they do not understand why, despite his emphasis at the joint press conference with Uhuru that the bigger pictures are national healing and reconciliation. More on this: It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru Read more: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Click here for fresh political stories