City Hall yesterday said it will start buying medicines and medical supplies from private distributors following Kemsa’s move to stop the supplies over a Sh285 million debt. Governor Mike Sonko has ordered the Finance department not to settle the debt until the ongoing audit on all pending bills of the county government is concluded. Sonko has directed the Finance and Health departments to purchase medicines from other suppliers. “This audit can take six months or even a year. That is why we have to look for other ways of restocking our facilities,” Health executive Hitan Majevda said. This will come as a relief to the majority of city residents who have been suffering for close to a year now, after Kemsa cut supply until the debt is cleared. “He [governor] has authorised me if Kemsa is not giving supplies, we buy directly from the distributors. We will do a quotation or a tender. I have already worked on documents and we are ready to go,” Majevda said in an interview with the Star yesterday. All the 47 county governments entered into contracts with Kemsa in 2013 to supply drugs to health facilities within their jurisdictions. This was after it emerged some counties were purchasing medicines and other equipment, whose safety could not be ascertained, from distributors. The devolved units do not need to go through procurement processes when dealing with Kemsa, thus the delivery time is shorter. Majevda said though Kemsa – that supplies more than 80 per cent of the medicines and items used in public hospitals – has not supplied the facilities since March last year, the county hospitals have been purchasing medicines from distributors using the money they generate locally. They have also been relying on donations by development partners like World Health Organization, Danish International Development Agency and the United Nations Children’s Fund among others. “Our hospitals charge for laboratory services, x-ray, MRI and other services and they use this money to buy drugs and other requirements,” he said. The executive, however, said the county does not know how much the hospitals generate or use in buying the medicines.