Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju has downplayed claims that negative social media campaigns against opposition leader Raila Odinga influenced the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. In an interview with Chanel 4 News on Tuesday, Tuju said the party never sought the services of Cambridge Analytica, as largely believed, to manipulate voters. He said the party saw no reason in seeking such services since Kenyan are seldom influenced by online messaging as is the case with the Western world. “I can assure you that even if they offered that kind of service we would not look for it because the dynamics of voter behaviour in this country is completely different from what you would have in your countries,” he said. Read: Cambridge Analytica confirms involvement in Kenyan elections The secretary general, however, admitted that Jubilee sought the services of Cambridge Analytica’s parent company Strategic Communications Laboratories (SCL) to run political adverts for Uhuru’s campaigns. “We did a lot of research especially focus group discussions and they were responsible for looking at focus group discussion results and which fed into production of communication material like posters and billboards.” Tuju said it wasn’t necessary to seek data assistance in crafting the campaign messages because the party understands the profile of Kenya’s political arena. He said campaign posters and billboards were developed based on the unique voting patterns of each county in previous elections. Tuju denied claims that Jubilee may have paid Harris Media, a US-based political media company, to run the polarizing online campaign adverts The Real Raila and Uhuru for Us. “No, and we would have no reason [paying Harris Media] to do it [run the adverts],” Tuju said when pressed further on the issue. In an interview with Chanel 4 News on Monday, Raila said he will sue Cambridge Analytica and Facebook for coordinating the propaganda during the campaign season. Read: I'll sue Cambridge Analytica, Facebook for 'devilish propaganda' - Raila More on this: Uhuru hires data firm behind Trump, Brexit victories In a report released in December, London-based Privacy International linked Harris Media to the inflammatory online campaign. The campaigns portrayed Raila as a bad person and touted Uhuru’s accomplishments. Tuju said Jubilee did not bother finding out the firm behind the smear campaign even after some of the messages painted Uhuru in bad light. “I saw some ads which were very adversarial to our own presidential candidate president Uhuru Kenyatta but knowing the penetration of social media and what effects it would have in voter behaviour modification, we would not be bothered by it.” The Secretary General said the government had no way of stopping the polarizing posts from circulating “because we don’t even have the address [of Harris Media]”. "It was very unfortunate that we had that kind of campaign," Tuju said, noting that similar campaigns caused the 2001/08 post election violence. "We are as a party hoping that we can make that transition from the very ethnic polarized campaign to a more and policy driven campaign," he added. Tuju explained that negative online campaign during politics was a global problem that wasn't unique to Kenya. “Was there a very acrimonious campaign, even racial in the United States? Even racial in the United Kingdom? You do have issues in politics and very polarizing issues,” Tuju said. Related: Did Cambridge Analytica use Facebook data to shape UhuRuto campaign? In a previous interview with Chanel 4 News, former Cambridge Analytica contractor Christopher Wylie said the data mining firm “exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles and built models to exploit what they knew about them and target their inner demons during the US elections”. He said the data mined was in turn used to create fake news based on the personalities of Facebook users to manipulate their voting patterns in favour of a particular candidate. SCL Elections managing director Mark Turnbull and suspended Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix boasted that they had worked in more than 200 elections across the world, including in Kenya’s 2017 polls. A later date survey found that 90 per cent of Kenyans said they had encountered false stories about the election.  Click here for the latest political news 