President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday steered clear of the controversial debate on the pay cut for graduate police when he presided over a passing-out parade at the Kiganjo Police College, Nyeri. Some 3,969 officers graduated. Reports that the National Police Service wanted to slash police salaries by almost half had elicited a public uproar. The police rejected the claims. The media reported that the NPS had annulled increases awarded to officers who had advanced their studies. Also affected were those who suffered injuries in the line of duty. Uhuru pledged to provide better housing for police and hailed the new police curriculum. “My administration has committed a considerable amount of resources to addressing the welfare and overall conditions of service. We are also in the process of constructing more and better housing units so our officers can live in a dignified manner,” he said. war on organised crime Uhuru said the government has radically revamped the police service. The Kenya Police Service boasts better modern equipment, is able to respond to routine requirements and emergencies and has improved the police-to-civilian ratio, he said. The President urged Kenyans to cooperate with police and provide information that would help in the war on terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. He said the multi-agency approach promoted by the government has boosted the fight against organised crime. He praised the new recruitment curriculum used at the institution, adding it has ample lessons for the officers. “You’ve heard from your instructors the fundamentals of leadership and the concepts of national security, as well as how to counter violent extremism,” Uhuru said. He told the officers to apply the knowledge to protect Kenyans and uphold integrity. Policing is at the heart of building a united and cohesive society, Uhuru said. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said the curriculum is the fruit of the institution’s reforms. Kenyans will witness a changed police service, he said. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said the curriculum takes cognisance of the contemporary threats to national security. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, his Nairobi counterpart Mike Sonko, MPs and senior security officials attended the event.