Kenya’s US-based pugilist Rayton ‘Boom Boom’ Okwiri is bracing up for a real test as he prepares to face former IBF junior middleweight world title holder Kassim “The Dream” Ouma of Uganda on March 30 in Nairobi. Okwiri’s manager Robert Crawford confirmed the fight, adding that plans to stage the event are at an advanced stage. Crawford, who was speaking to BBC Sports, said once everything is finalised, the organisers in Nairobi will release the full details of the much awaited fight. Okwiri, who has a 33 percent KO record, turned professional after his debacle in the Rio Olympic Games and has had his slim record standing at 2 wins (1KO), 0 lose and 1 draw. His much accomplished Southpaw Ugandan opponent Kassim boasts of a record 29 wins, 11 loses and one draw. Should Okwiri (31) defeat Kassim (42), he will improve his chances to vie for more gigantic contests including an African title in his weight category. “March 30th is the day and I’m putting God above everything,” said Okwiri who is ranked by (www.boxrec.com) 345 out of 1058 pugilists globally. Okwiri crowned his debut fight at the Crown Plaza Hotel, Nairobi in February 2017 with a KO victory against Salehe Mkalekwa of Tanzania. He then went on to settle for a draw against American Moshea Aleem (4-1-1) in Washington in October last year. The former Kenya Prisons welterweight, now at middle, demolished Imani Daudi (5-6-2) at Carnivore grounds also last year with unanimous points victory. Kassim will be seeking to redeem his fortunes after losing on unanimous points decision to German boxer Ilias Essaoudi in Hamburg in December last year. Meanwhile, the national boxing team will start its final phase of residential preparations at Madison Square Garden Nakuru. The team departs today, according to Coach David Munuhe. The team is currently training at the Police Deport on off residential basis. Munuhe said every boxer going to Nakuru will travel alongside their sparring partners. The team participated in the inaugural India Open Championship last month as part of preparations for the Commonwealth Games set for Gold Coast in Australia. “We will travel to Nakuru today to intensify our perorations,” said Munuhe. Among the boxers in camp are lightweight Nick Okoth, Benson Gicharu and Elly Ajowi.