Four ODM legislators want President Uhuru Kenyatta to stop top government officials from defying court orders before the country plunges into anarchy. They asked Uhuru to take stern action against Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General Joseph Boinnet for violating court orders at will. The four lawmakers are Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Sam Atandi (Alego-Usonga), Gideon Ochanda (Bondo) and Christine Ombaka (Siaya woman representative). Wandayi warned that the behaviour Matiang'i and Boinnet are trying to entrench will pave way for the public to blatantly disobey laws. “The way things are unfolding will force the public to defy orders and [engage in illegal conduct]," Wandayi said. He and the others spoke in Yiro, Ugunja constituency, on Thursday during a function to honour Wandayi's twin brother John-Mark Odongo. Atandi noted their support for the unity and peace pact that Uhuru and Nasa leader Raila Odinga signed but added they will not allow impunity to thrive in the hands of top government officials. “The violation of court orders will undermine democratic institutions and what the country has achieved,” he said. The MP said the purposes of the handshake will not be achieved unless every individual respects the law, irrespective of political and social positions. “We are anxious because of the disobedience some government officials are portraying. We will not allow it. ODM believes in the democratic space." Ochanda said the government should show the world that it respects the law by obeying court orders. Ombaka observed hat the Constitution clearly spells out that nobody, not even the President, is above the law so the glaring violation of the law is a disgrace to the country. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, Deputy Governor Samuel Okumbe and Siaya's ODM chairperson Emilly Awita were among those who attended the function. ODM, which is Raila's party has threatened to mobilise the public to apprehend the CS, IG and Immigration boss Gordon Kihalangwa for contempt of court. Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said the three and DCI boss George Kinoti are criminals who should be arrested on sight. He said on Thursday that a date will be set for the three to be arrested over blatant disregard of court orders to release lawyer Miguna Miguna and present him in court. Details: Raila's party threatens to arrest 'criminals' Boinnet, Matiang'i and Kihalangwa Latest on NRMKe General: [Statement] I'm in great pain in Dubai, awaiting ticket to Nairobi - Miguna Click here for the latest political news