The JKIA has won the 'Best	Improved	Airport in Africa' award for excellence	in	customer	service. The Nairobi airport was recognised in the aviation industry’s	most	comprehensive	passenger	service bench marking programme - the prestigious	2017 Airports	Council	International	Airport Service	Quality Awards. Managing	Director Jonny Andersen said the	recognition	was	timely as the JKIA is	undergoing major	reorganisation and	modernisation	works to stamp	it’s position	as a	regional hub. In a statement on Wednesday, Andersen further noted the award shows	that measures taken to	improve	services	are	beginning	to bear	fruit. "The benefits	of	all	agencies	working	as	a	team	are	clear.	We	still	have	a	lot	to	do	but	I believe we	are	on	the	right	track." The airport, which handles an estimated 6.5 million passengers annually, was ranked the fifth best in Africa during the 2014 ASQ Awards. It was followed by Asia-Pacific's Ahmedabad, Europe's Zagreb (ZAG), Middle East's Dubai (DXB), Latin America-Caribbean's Belo Horizonte (CNF) and North America's Cleveland (CLE). This time round, the best airport in the content, with more than two million passengers per year, is Casablanca (CMN). It was followed by the Mauritius (MRU) and Durban (DUR) airports. Mumbai's facility, which serves at leat 40 million passengers a year, scooped the first place for airports in Asia-Pacific. In North America, this top spot went to Toronto Pearson and in Europe it was to Rome Fiumicino. The ACI survey captured	passengers’ experience	at	all	airport contact	points at	more than	340 airports	worldwide. The ACI	ASQ	has	industry	recognition	as	a	world-class	bench marking	program that aims to allow airports to plan improvements and review their customer services. The awards ceremony will be held during the inaugural ACI Customer Excellence Global Summit at Halifax in Nova Scotia, Canada, from September 10 to 13. The Halifax International Airport Authority is the host. Read: JKIA ranked 5th best airport in Africa Click here for the latest political stories 