Terrorism has become a common threat the world over. Many nations have established institutions in the security and judicial sectors to deal with the threat. Terrorists inflict two types of damage. One is the physical destruction of property and lives. But there is a more lasting damage that is the singular purpose driving terrorist organisations. They intend to cause discord and disunity within nations. They pit parts of a nation against each other and instil fear and despondency. These threats pose irreparable harm compared to the physical damage. Nations have concentrated on mitigating and managing the latter. Prime Minister Tony Blair in a speech he gave after the bombing of the underground train in London gives an insight on how to approach the threat of terrorism. He said, "We are united in our determination, that our country will not be defeated by such terror but will defeat it and emerge from this horror with our values, our way of life, our tolerance and respect for others undiminished…Together we will ensure, though terrorists can kill, they will never destroy the way of life we share and which we value and which we will defend with the strength of our belief and conviction so that it is to us and nor to the terrorist that victory will belong” The recent killing of three Kenyans in Qarsa, Wajir county, provides a textbook example of how our nation has failed to deal with terrorism. The media, Knut and the TSC coined an alien word—non-locals—to describe the three heroic teachers who were the victims of the terror attack. In so doing they have become the terrorists' chief propagandists and agents. They have set in motion fear, division and hatred among Kenyans, the very aim the terrorist intended to achieve. In the eyes of the residents of Qarsa, the terrorists have cut short their aspirations as Kenyans. Representative of the security agencies, the county administration, TSC and Knut should have gone to Qarsa and projected a united country in action. They would have ordered a replacement of the teachers with immediate effect. This would have sent a chilling message to the terrorists that they may inflict physical damage and loss of life on Kenyans but they will not alter our way of life. It would have been a big blow to the terrorist and victory to Kenyans. The death of the teachers set in motion an unfortunate exodus of tutors from the entire county. This will further compound an already pitiable education sector in Wajir. An analysis of last year’s KCSE exam result paints a tragic situation. Eight-seven per cent of the 2,755 candidates scored less than C minus and would not be able to pursue any meaningful course in our tertiary colleges. In Eldas subcounty, all 87 candidates scored less than C minus, with 31 per cent scoring an E. In Eldas Girls Secondary 23 out of the 29 candidates got an E! Performance in languages and sciences is terrible. In another school, out of 178 candidates, 158 got less than a D plus! The Education ministry and the elected leaders must realise that there is crisis in the education sector. This requires sustained and long-term solutions, not knee-jerk reactions. They must tame the rogue actions of the TSC of compartmentalising the teaching staff into locals and non-locals and ensure all transfers made by the TSC are reversed. They have to think long term and seek legislative measures for affirmative action for a 10-year period to ensure that all schools are fully staffed. Leaders must partner with county and school boards and be involved in the management of the schools. They should also hold Knec and the Education ministry to account. Knec’s role is not only to examine but to evaluate performance. In areas where students perpetually fail, the ministry should spring into action and arrest the situation. The ministry’s apathy has confined generations of students to a bleak future. The county will not able to surmount the modern challenges of our society if we don’t equip our future leaders appropriately. It’s time we went beyond press conferences and condemnations and demanded real solutions to the problems in the education sector in Wajir. The writer works with the County Government of Wajir