Two businessmen suspected to be selling banned plastic bags were arrested yesterday by the National Environment Management Authority. Manish Shah and his brother Shailesh — both directors of Styroplast Limited — were found with more than 75 tonnes of banned plastics in Nairobi. They will be taken to court and charged with violation of the plastics ban. If found guilty, they will be fined between Sh2 million and Sh4 million, or jailed for between one and two years, or both. Read: Kenya imposes world's toughest law against plastic bags Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu led the operation that started as an awareness campaign at Muthurwa market and ended in Industrial Area, where the bags were found. Nema chief enforcement officer Robert Orina and Nairobi county director of environment Njoki Mukiri were part of the sting operation. “We got a tip off from members of the public that there was an industry in this part of Nairobi still having the banned plastic bags. We decided to come to the place and inspect,” Orina said. “We have opened the godown and there is a lot of plastic bags, especially the career bags that we expected to have been finished by August last year.” Read: Burma market shut down over use of plastic carrier bags The bags were of different colours — green, yellow and black. Orina said the incident showed some of the problems they face in implementing the ban. Some firms keep the banned plastic bags and release to the market when people least suspect, he said. The crackdown targets manufacturers, distributors and users. He said Styroplast Limited had been allowed by Nema to recycle plastics, but decided to recycle banned plastics from other industries, keeping theirs intact. When Nema officials got wind of what was happening, they laid an ambush and found out that the firm was sneaking plastics into the market. Related: Plastic bags manufacturers shut down as ban takes effect those breaching ban warned Orina said when they went to Styroplast Limited’s recycling plant, they did not find the new papers being recycled. Shailesh said they had plans to take the remaining batch of plastics for recycling. “We needed only two weeks to remove them from here and take them for recycling,” he said. Orina urged those with plastics to rush to Nema and declare their stock so they can be recycled. Orina warned those who fail to surrender their stocks that they will be nabbed and the plastics seized. “If you are caught with them, it will be at your loss. Destroy it at your cost,” Orina said. Former Environment CS Judi Wakhungu banned the use of plastics through a Gazette notice on February 27 last year. She gave manufacturers and traders six months — until August 28 — to clear their stock. Mukiri thanked members of the public for being alert. He said about five people called to inform them that the firm was selling banned polythene bags. “We feel compliance has hit 90 per cent within Nairobi, following the closure of Burma. They now do self-regulation,” Mukiri said.  Click here for the latest political news