Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Prisons women's volleyball teams are through to the quarter finals. They have a game to spare as the African Club Championship group stages matches comes to a wrap on Saturday in Cairo, Egypt. The East Africans and local rivals prior to Friday matches had won two of their opening  group stages matches. They needed wins on Friday's ties to book slots in the last eight and therefore, it didn't come as surprise when both teams recorded wins. In the quarters finals, they will join champions Carthage of Tunisia who had qualified on Thursday. National champions, Pipeline who were drawn in tricky pool 'C' won 3-0( 25-6,25-10,25-13) against  DGSP(Congo) on Friday night. This saw them remain favourite to finish top of the pool as they play FAP of Cameroon on Saturday. On the other hand, Africa bronze medallist, Prisons, who were pooled in a relatively easy group D won against Douanes of Burkina Faso 3-1( 25-10, 25-5, 23-25,25-11). The team will now play their last on Saturday against Injs of Cameroon on Saturday and just as their local nemesis, they are favourite to emerge top of Pool D. In the match against DGSP, Pipeline coach Japheth Munala made noticeable changes in the starting line up. The adjustments gave a starting berth to experienced right attacker Esther Wangeci who begun on bench in the match against El Shams on Tuesday. Leonida Kasaya and Noel Murambi were employed in the left attacking department. Teams captain and regular Triza Atuka and promising Yvonne Sinaida took charge of  centre positions. Long serving setter Jannet Wanja and libero Aggripina Kundu took care of setting and libero departments respectively. The East Africans were a better side by far as they earned points at will with their superb attacks and water-tight blocks. Having received less competition from their opponents, the team bagged the first set with an easy 25-6 win. Perphaps keen not to surrender a set as they did to Vision Club of Uganda on Thursday, Pipeline were clinically in all the department as they took the second set 25-10. And it was all for the oilers to lose in third set as extended their good run in the match with a deservedly 25-13 to seal the win. Click here for the latest political news