Recently, there was a story that went viral, where Canadian doctors rejected a pay rise. The hundreds of doctors in Quebec protested against their pay raises, saying they already make too much. “We, Quebec doctors, who believe in a strong public system, oppose the recent salary increases negotiated by our medical federations,” their petition said. The petition ended by asking the salary increase be canceled and the money be redistributed throughout Quebec's healthcare system. This was totally out of the norm, especially for Kenyans, who had to endure a 100-day doctors’ strike last year. They were agitating for higher pay, as their way of delivering the important service to Kenyans. But that report on Canada led me to look at the Canadian health sector, and specifically in Quebec, as I reflected on our own. This is at a time when we are in the process of putting together the structure of a Universal Healthcare as part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ‘Big Four’ agenda. Canada has a universal healthcare system, which, as in many other countries, does not include coverage of prescription medication. Approximately 70 per cent of health expenditures come from public sources. One, therefore, realises it is actually possible to provide affordable healthcare to all Kenyans. This, however, requires good planning and commitment in execution. Uhuru’s plan for healthcare started during his first term, when he launched the Managed Equipment Services Programme for hospitals across the country. This equipped many hospitals and many Kenyans do not have to travel far for specialised services. However, we are not there yet and this is why we need to look at how to effectively rollout the plan under the Big Four. Universal and free healthcare is a game changer as it will affect every Kenyan positively, and make medical treatment within reach to all. President Uhuru met governors at State house to discuss a pilot for 100 per cent access to universal healthcare in four counties, a programme supported by the national government. With health being a devolved function, the government and the counties must work together to ensure implementation of a universal healthcare is a success. This will help in the mobilisation and enforcement of NHIF registration through schools and colleges, as well as capacity building of human resources. There is no need of having a good health system that is not backed by enough qualified and well-paid medics. As part of the plan, the UHC plan under the ‘Big Four’ aims at increasing the number of Kenyans enrolled under the NHIF to 25.74 million from the current 16.5 million by the end of 2018. NHIF scale up is important as it helps the government keep track of who is covered and who is not. Community-based health insurance, social healthcare coverage and strengthening and broadening primary health care system are also key to UHC. In this day and age, we must also think in the lines of digitising health such as telemedicine. There is no reason why one has to travel from Turkana to Nairobi for specialized treatment when doctors can exchange notes. Ensuring availability of medical commodities and equipment in all health facilities is equally important and we must continue making this investment, even if it requires public-private partnerships. The government must ensure it implements the plan to increase the current seven per cent allocation for health to at least 10 per cent. This will ensure there are no gaps in funding the reforms. Let’s all support the Jubilee administration to successfully implement Universal Healthcare as this will transform every aspect of how we live. The writer is a political and communications consultant   