More than 18,000 children in Bungoma
County are yet to receive their birth certificates to enable them be registered
in schools. Bungoma county Civil Registrar,
Patrick Odunga, said he office was grappling
with the shortage of the documents meaning that parents could not collect the
certificates,despite having paid for them. “We are waiting for these documents to
arrive from Nairobi. Our director usually procures the same from the government printer then we get them and issue to the parents,” Odunga said. The registrar said the department was awaiting the
delivery of B1 Registers and birth certificates to be delivered and issued to
those that have applied and already paid for the service. Odunga said parents were given an entry number that will be used to register students in the NAMEIS
system.  He said he had hoped the exercise of
student registration would be extended in order to give the parents enough time
to get the document. The Bungoma office serves seven sub counties forcing parents to travel long distances seeking the vital document. Odunga said they were facing a shortage of
staff to help clear the long queues that were being witnessed outside the
office. “This office is currently serving
seven sub counties and with the limited personnel I have it would be hard to
clear the long queue quickly but we are trying our best to serve our clients as
fast as we can,” he said. Odunga said they had partnered with a
few schools where the parents take the forms and are collected and brought to
the office in one batch. He said many parents were getting the
birth certificates faster when they visited the school and presented them in
one file. “Some headteachers have opted to
collect the forms from parents and bring them in one file from the school to us
and we see many opting to use that route and this is also helping in
decongesting the office,” the registrar said. However, parents have called on the
government to extend the deadline of registration of students in schools. Speaking at the Bungoma County Civil
Registrar’s office, the parents said they have spent many days on the road
seeking birth certificates that is a prerequisite for the registration process. Elizabeth Nandako, said she had been
forced to spend a lot of money seeking the document. “We are traveling long distances and
spending a lot of time on the road in order to get this document. We are
appealing to the government to ensure that they provide this service to the sub
county level,” she said.   