Senators have differed sharply with National Treasury on the budget they should get in 2018-19 financial year by demanding Sh7.2 billion for their affairs against the exchequer’s proposed Sh5.8 billion. The 68 senators apart from demanding Sh2 billion to oversight counties are asking Treasury give them Sh196 million to fund their sittings to be held in all 47 counties in discharging their duties. Senators cite witnessed a litany of impeachment motions against governors in the last five years, inquiry into audit queries on the misuse of public funds in counties and devised initiatives such as county visits as the main reason for demanding Sh2 billion oversight funds. “The Senate as a custodian of county governments ought to collectively have a better understanding of the actual situation and the environment in each county in order to provide better oversight and legislation,” reads part of Senate committee report poking holes in the Treasury’s Budget Policy Statement tabled in the House. “One of the strategies to achieve this is for the Senate to hold some of its sittings in the counties.” Treasury has proposed Sh31 billion for Parliament for 2018-19 financial year. The report by Senate Finance Committee chaired by Senator Mohamed Mahamud (Mandera) raises a concern that senators have been participating the East African Parliamentary games without adequate funding and that Sh120 million should be allocated to them to cater for the event. The senators demand Sh150 million for capacity building workshops among first time and members serving their second term together with their staff to get apprised on discharge their duties effectively. Senators together with their National Assembly members are set to benefit from official cars at a cost of Sh238 million from the proposal by the Parliamentary Service Commission. “Senators in the 12th Parliament have not had adequate facilities to support the discharge of their duties. This includes furniture, computers and other related equipment and facilities,” reads the report. “This had been planned for the current financial year but could not be procured because the money was reduced during the Supplementary Budget to finance the election. Sh100 million will be needed to support this process.” The senators are also pushing for Sh100 million funding to help the review legislation proposed by the Executive in supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s key Big Four agendas for the country. The Big Four agendas including revolutionizing the manufacturing sector, provision of affordable 500,000 housing units, food security and healthcare. A sum of Sh2.2 billion, according to senators, is required to compensate their employees and their predecessors’ while Sh2.1 billion is needed for recurrent expenditures and purchase of goods. Read:Senate pushes for more funds to counties Also See:Senate may add county allocations, says Kembi