Where were DP William Ruto and Nasa principal Kalonzo Musyoka as their bosses addressed a joint press conference on Thursday? Kenyans on Twitter asked after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga faced reporters alone following a meeting at Harambee House in Nairobi. The Deputy President and Wiper leader, who was to be sworn-in as the People's Deputy President, were not seen at the talks. Uhuru and Raila came out laughing and seemingly happy with the outcome of their discussions. They referred to each other as 'brother' and told Kenyans of their resolve to quash their differences and heal Kenya. More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Twitter user Wamagata Waweru joked about Ruto having an afternoon meeting with his equals - Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma Senator, Ford Kenya leader). '@fullangenges' said: "Correction. Kalonzo should meet Ruto ... his equal when it comes to national issues. Have you ever seen Baba (Raila) meeting Ruto?" One Njeri told the others that the meeting was for 'Presidents'. Raila, who had been leading a National Resistance Movement before today, had himself sworn-in as the People's President on January 30. '@itsnjosh' wrote: "Kalonzo, uwoga umefanya usiende Harambee House. Umeharibu bet ya Ruto pia since watu wenye waliena pale ni wenye wako in the same rank (Kalonzo, cowardice caused you not to go to Harambee House.  You have ruined Ruto's bet since those who went to Harambee House were those of the same rank)." Joel Oduor said: "This should be clear even if Raila joins Jubilee Party - we will follow because he is not a joker like Kalonzo, Weta, MDvD and Ruto [sic]. The #RailaUhuruTalks have been done in broad daylight not in the dark as watermelons do. The journey still alive." Morgan Muchera added: "It has come to pass, Miguna Miguna alluded earlier in January that dialogue can only occur among equals. Have you have spotted Ruto and Kalonzo at Harambee House? It' s only the two Presidents addressing Kenyans." Miguna stamped documents during Raila's oath and was deported to Canada for this reason. He is planning a grand return but needs financial help. More on this: Miguna plans 'mother of liberation struggles' in Nairobi on March 26 Also read: Miguna appeals to well-wishers for air ticket, lawyers' cash Victor Tubei said that politically speaking, the biggest winner of this latest development is Raila while the biggest losers are the other Nasa principals. Martin Silshere said he wouldn't be surprised if it turns out that Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula learned about the meeting through the media "like the rest of us". '@NotRuto' asked where the two leaders' meeting leaves Raila's three partners. But Lawi Ruto noted: "Kalonzo and Raila are not in the same level politically." '@Tintoidrissou' added: "Kalonzo is not Ruto's equal. He was never been sworn-in while Ruto was sworn." John Ndaiga said: "Apparently, Raila pulled a Kalonzo move first before kalonzo did his thing. Anyway, Wanjiku wins. Kalonzo can now consult with Ruto." '@Adler_b' noted the meeting vcame hot on the heels of ANC Secretary Barrack Muluka's allegations about events that took place on the day of Raila's swearing-in. "MaDVD, Weta and Kalonzo are finished. Ruto should be very afraid," he said. Related: How Raila tricked Nasa chiefs out of swearing-in: Barrack Muluka speaks out Click here for the latest political news 