Ready yourselves, look sharp, for I am about to drop some knowledge that relates to sight, light and Isaac Newton. I can make only one promise: I’ll keep it as light as possible so it doesn’t feel like you’re reading a science journal. We begin. As many of us probably know, we see objects because of the light reflected off of them. This is to say that light from the Sun, or an artificial light like from a torch, travels in a straight line, bounces off objects, and into our eyes. Light receptors within the eye then transmit messages to the brain, which produces the sensation of colour. Now here’s the knowledge-drop part: Isaac Newton observed that colour is not inherent in objects. Think of any object, that red rose you got over Valentine’s, that yellow banana you ate two hours ago, your neighbour’s shiny new blue car that is earning him dirty looks of envy from everyone in the neighbourhood, all these colours, the red, the yellow and the blue are not ‘in’ the objects, it just appears that way. What these colours actually are is an interpretation of light wavelengths. This is how it works. Sunlight, or white light, consists of all the colours in the spectrum; think colours of a rainbow. Each colour in the spectrum has a different light wavelength. On a superficial level, light wavelengths are not so different from sound wavelengths. Thus, just as the wavelength of sound determines the pitch that we hear, the wavelength of light determines the colour that we see. For example, our red rose, what’s happening there? Well, light waves of different lengths from the Sun strike earth. The petals of the rose then absorb all the short wavelengths of light but reflect outwards long wavelengths of light. This reflected long wavelength of light is what we see as red. In other words, colour is the way our eyes and brain perceive the different wavelengths of light. Long wavelength light = red. Short wavelength light = violet. And, an object appears white when it reflects all the wavelengths of light into your eye, but black when it absorbs them all. Mind blowing, isn’t it, if you think about it. One more thing; as to which wavelengths are reflected or absorbed depends on the properties of the object. Our banana, for instance, has different properties from the rose. Same goes for the paint used on your neighbour’s shiny car; different properties. So there, you know a little more today than you did yesterday. If, however, you already knew all about the relation between wavelengths of light and colour, good for you. I bet you, though, you don’t know everything there is to know about everything, or seen everything there is to see. My point, don’t be too quick to say, “I saw it with my own two eyes,” as incontrovertible proof of things. Stop, ask yourself, “What did I see exactly?” Look again, closer this time. When you stay curious, and have a sense of wonder about everything, you’ll find that there’s a lot more to the things around you than just what is in front of your eyes.