Lawyers James Orengo, Nelson Havi, Cliff Ombeta, and Julie Soweto were on Wednesday roughed up by GSU police officers when they attempted to serve court orders at JKIA. The lawyers had sought to serve the orders issued in relation to the detention of Opposition politician Miguna Miguna. The orders, issued by High court judge George Odunga, requires the police to release Miguna unconditionally. A contingent of GSU officers dispersed the lawyers as they attempted to read the orders to the officers manning the premises where Miguna is being held. "Jambo. We escaped from the airport and are all safe: Orengo, Ombeta, Soweto and I. However, we think they are deporting Miguna Miguna again," Havi tweeted. "Miguna Miguna has just been seized and we are reliably informed of a scheme to unlawfully remove him from the jurisdiction tonight in further defiance of the court order made today," the lawyer added. Justice Odunga has convicted Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa, and IG Joseph Boinnet for contempt of court. The three were ordered to appear before court on Thursday at 10am for sentencing in the contempt proceedings. This followed their defiance to produce Miguna in court for the hearing of the matter where the lawyer wants the state compelled to grant him entry. "Having considered the issues raised before me, the matter before me is no longer a dispute between the parties but a matter of the court," Odunga said. The latest orders were issued after the officials defied another one issued by Justice Roseline Aburili on Tuesday. They also failed to show up in court even after Odunga asked them to do so. Miguna has been detained at JKIA Terminal 2 for three days for lack of a Kenyan passport to allow him enter the country. He arrived on Monday but was not cleared by immigration leading to a standoff that has persisted since then. He had been deported to Canada on February 6 after being declared a persona non grata. Read: Matiang’i, Boinnet face jail after failing to produce Miguna Also read: Miguna lawyers want Matiang'i, Boinnet jailed six months for contempt Click here for the latest political news