Most MPs are products of corruption and can hardly be expected to be its worst enemies. Graft has helped many MPs to get to Parliament and to use their stay there to become wealthy. Despite public condemnations of corruption, it is their friend rather than enemy. My experience was that Parliament as currently constituted cannot be relied upon to root out corruption and nor can incorruptible MPs be expected to fight corruption. This is why: When President Daniel Moi in 1986 moved against the Controller and Auditor General, it was Parliament that took away his constitutional protection against presidential pressure and intimidation, allowing the President to put him under his heel and limit his freedom to expose corruption, particularly if it touches on the presidency or those close to him. The Controller and Auditor General would then only function as a political tool of the President, exposing corruption selectively to destroy his political enemies. Corruption runs through every vein of our body politic. Even the Public Accounts Committee, the last institutional safeguard against corruption, is not free from the scourge of this cancer. Using the state and Parliament, the forces of corruption have managed to emasculate the PAC and turn it into a voiceless and toothless watchdog. Parliamentary committees no longer have the voice to bark at and frighten or the teeth to bite the thieves of public funds, whether at levels of national or county governments. The so-called anti-corruption committees and constitutional commissions can only silently watch as the thieves come and go, taking with them whatever they are able to carry. When I was elected chairman of the PAC in April 1981, the state moved against me, with President Moi threatening to dissolve the committee. Corrupt civil servants protested that as chairman of the committee, they feared that I would use my leadership to witch-hunt them. But since the President’s threat was neither fair, right nor proven by evidence, and the civil servants’ charge was baseless, I refused to budge. Budging would have meant conceding that the Executive has the right to interfere with the functioning of the committee. But the President and his Executive had the muscles that I lacked, and after two or three attempts, they finally managed to coerce members of the committee into a government-sponsored election that voted me out, supposedly in order to “save” the committee from presidential dissolution. However, in reality, it was to subject the committee to the dictates of the President. Once the Executive had succeeded in imposing a chairman on the committee, it became helpless and it could only conceal corruption. Despite all this, the PAC was the greatest eye-opener to the extent of corruption in Kenya. But the mere fact that what I saw and heard in the committee meetings was a mere tip of the iceberg of corruption in this country frightened me. The entire fabric of the government is impregnated and rotting with corruption. After some time in the PAC, I no longer wondered at the universal prevalence of corruption. Rather, I only wondered how the country and the people managed to survive so much haemorrhage. It was like watching a cow, unable to stand panting with extreme exhaustion, as it continued to be milked and bled by monsters, whose thirst was unquenchable and didn’t care whether the cow died or not. In fact, contrary to what many people think, it is not possible for the Kenyan government to root our corruption. It is the greatest promoter, protector and prisoner of graft. Steeped head-deep in the mire of corruption, it can neither pull itself out nor pull the country out of it. But what frustrates me most and causes me a lot of pain is not so much the government’s involvement in graft but the fact that Parliament and the PAC are themselves not free from it, and can’t help free the country. Tragically, Kenyans seem to have lost any determination to fight corruption. Even as the scourge makes a few of us trillionaires and condemns the rest of us to destitution, we seem to resign ourselves to live with it or perish, should God not fight it for us. Our leaders have completely crushed our will to fight this terrible evil.    