I dropped in on a friend the other day. I don’t usually do drop-ins, mainly because I’m not a fan of people showing up to see me unannounced, but I did it anyway, and just showed up. Naturally, the person was very happy to see me. And over a pot of tea, we had a chat. The last time I saw this person two years ago, they were on the verge of turning 40. So as we sat down that day, some quick arithmetic will tell you they had crossed that threshold and were now in the 40-plus territory. Thus, the conversation organically drifted towards: how are you finding life as a middle-aged person? Their answer was the usual: midlife crisis, identity crisis, the whole shebang. Seeing as I’ve been at this 40 thing a little longer than they have, I offered some words of encouragement, shared some insights, and also warned them on a few psychological breakdowns to look out for. It’s as we were talking that it occurred to me I should write about this. Specifically, why is middle age such an emotional rollercoaster? What’s with all these questions at that age about what to do next with our lives, and the rest of it? And then it hit me, a possible answer. The problem with getting older is there is no guide on how to live as a middle-aged person or even an old person. Everyone knows how being young is supposed to feel, and what you’re supposed to do. I’m talking about being full of energy, partying, dating, getting a job, getting married, having kids, and anything else you can think of 20- and 30-year-olds doing. But, more often than not, when you’re middle-aged, you’ve done all of the above. Plus, you’re on half tank on the energy bit. Added on to that is the little fact that middle-aged people are a neglected lot. I mean, when was the last time you saw fashion trends geared towards the 40-plus market? Quick, name two middle-aged superhero characters. Here’s a hint, it will take you a while to think of any. Nobody pays attention to over 40-year-olds, except over 40-year-olds. There are no rules, no guide, not even role models on how to live past 40, and with good reason. Turns out that we (people over 40 ), are supposed to be dead. Here’s a snippet of a monologue by a character over 40 from the TV series, Billions. ‘For most of human history, we would’ve been dead by now. We get to this age ( 40-plus) and think “what the (swear word) am I still doing here?” It’s disorienting.’ Yes, research does show that human life-spans only began to increase — that is, past the age of 30 — about 30,000 years ago. When you consider we’ve been around for about 200,000 years, 30,000 years is late in the span of human evolution. Improved healthcare changed all that, and now humans are living longer. But what to do next? Wat are the rules in this old-people place? The solution is in the problem. No rules and no guide for the middle-aged, right? Why not make it up then? The field is open, my fellow middle-aged ladies and gents. Every option is on the table. Pick any and run with it. My only suggestion, pick new, don’t repeat.