Jubilee MCAs have defended majority leader Abdi Guyo against reports he has been funding criminal activities, including terrorism, in the city. The reports in a section of mainstream and social media also claim that the Matopeni-Spring Valley MCA has been having sexual affairs with nominated MCAs. But the ward reps defended Guyo and protested what they term attempts by some ‘outsiders and cartels’ to tarnish his name and undermine the leadership of the House. “We are disturbed by the personalized attacks that have been circulating in sections of the press,” majority chief whip Mwaura Chege said. “When you bring up an issue and mention a member to be related to al Shabaab, I think that is a very grave allegation and it cannot go without saying that we are also not very comfortable with our leadership being undermined,” he said. Addressing a press conference at City Hall on Thursday, Chege said that an attack on Guyo was an attack on the House leadership and, by extension, the entire assembly and vowed to fight back to protect the integrity of their leaders. At least 58 out of the 66 Jubilee MCAs attended the presser. Other members were attending committee meetings in Mombasa. Deputy speaker John Kamangu challenged whoever was behind the false and alarming stories to face Guyo in person, instead of hiding behind the press. “There are some people outside City Hall who want to spoil other people’s names. We are telling whoever is doing this that if he has any issue with Honourbale Guyo, he should face him as a man but don’t tarnish his name,” he said. “We are behind him as Jubilee. Guyo has never been an al Shabaab member, I have been with him as a councillor for 10 years and he has never been involved in those issues that they are telling us now.” Guyo said he has been maligned and his character assassinated by the reports in social media and said they are being sponsored by cartels out to silence him over his hard stance against corruption. “I want to reiterate that I will stand very firm against the cartels, I won’t change my stand, I will be very firm on it. Let those who think that by tarnishing and assassinating my character I will change my resolve. It won’t. We are not going to allow post-Kidero cartels in Nairobi County,” he said. The MCAs also reiterated their firm support for Governor Mike Sonko and his administration.       