Meditation is a word that is often used loosely and inaccurately in today’s world. Some use it to mean thinking or contemplating. Others use it as a way to describe daydreaming or fantasising. Meditation is none of these. Instead, it is a technique for resting the mind and attaining a state of consciousness different from the normal waking state. It is the means by which one grasps all the levels of oneself to finally experience the centre of consciousness within — and here you thought the weekend paper was supposed to be a light read, ha. But seriously, when you meditate, properly that is, your mind is clear, relaxed and inwardly focused. The idea is to silence the mind so you’re no longer distracted by the thoughts that continuously bombard us. The goal is to attain stillness because when you are still, you get to know yourself. By knowing yourself, I don’t mean the information that is on your national ID, like your name and the sublocation you come from. I’m talking inner self-knowledge. On the specifics of how to meditate, and the techniques, I suggest you look it up on Google, but generally the requirements are a quiet place, and the ability to sit still for about an hour without nodding off. Why am I talking about meditation? Well, I’m actually talking about self-understanding, which is what you get when you meditate. Knowing yourself and accepting who you are is good for a couple reasons. It helps reduce the fears, anxieties and the general confusion that besets the human condition. Far more importantly, knowing what you are will lead you to what you’re supposed do in life. This all came to me when I was watching the movie Along Came a Spider, starring Morgan Freeman. In one scene, Freeman’s character, Alex Cross is talking to a female colleague and he says: ‘You do what you are.’ She then says: ‘You mean, you are what you do.’ But Cross says: ‘No, I mean, you do what you are. You’re born with a gift. If not that, then you get good at something along the way. And what you’re good at, you don’t take for granted. You don’t betray it.’ ‘What if you do betray your gift?’ she asks. ‘Then you betray yourself,’ says Cross. We live in times where it is easy to betray ourselves. Our busy lives distract us from taking the time to search within ourselves, to know our gifts and our passions well enough and so that we can find that which fulfils us when it comes to work. When we’re thinking about what to do, we think about what will make us money rather than what will make us happy. We chase material success, not happiness, and this leaves us a frustrated lot. Have you never wonder why we’re so mad all the time, shoving each other aside in traffic, pulling guns on each other at night clubs over a parking space dispute? ‘Everyone one has been made for some particular work, and the desire for that work has been put in every heart.’ – Rumi. Listen to that desire in your heart, know who you are, only then will you know what you were made to do.