A group of MPs yesterday vowed to impeach Health CS Sicily Kariuku for sending KNH CEO Lily Koros on compulsory leave. The 15 MPs, led by Aldai’s Cornelly Serem, said they have collected more than 100 signatures to support the motion. They addressed the press on the sidelines of the ongoing post- election seminar for members of the National Assembly at Pride Inn Paradise, Mombasa. Serem said the motion will be presented in the House next week when they resume sittings. “She has no legal mandate to fire or even to direct the board to send the CEO on compulsory leave. We are concerned at what is happening at KNH,” he said. Read: KNH CEO Lily Koros sent on compulsory leave over brain surgery saga Last Friday, Kariuki said Koros had been sent on compulsory leave following an incident in which doctors at the hospital nearly performed a brain surgery on the wrong patient. Koros and an officer in charge of clinical affairs were sent home to make room for an investigation. The legislators accused Kairuki of victimising the CEO. They said Kariuki has teamed up with cartels at the largest referral hospital to have Koros sacked. Kipkelion West MP Hillary Kosgei and Ronal Tanui (Bomet Central) said cartels targetting the hospital’s huge funding are behind Koros’s ordeal. Read also: Doctors defend KNH surgeon who operated on wrong patient More on this: KNH suspends surgical staff after brain operation on wrong patient Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi said there is no reverse gear in their quest to impeach the CS who took over the docket recently. “There is a trend we have started noticing in the way she is handling issues. Let her know that we’re very disappointed. We’re ready to pass this motion to send her home,” she said. Bungoma Women MP Catherine Wambilianga and her Nakuru counterpart Liza Chelule concurred, saying the CS should have allowed the KNH board to investigate without interference. “It’s clear from the word go that there is a mission to have the CEO sent on compulsory leave. She was setting the stage for her removal. Koros was not the doctor who carried out the process. She should not have been victimised,” she said. Meanwhile, Northeastern MPs questioned why Kariuki has ordered readvertisement for the position of the Kemsa CEO.  Click here for the latest political news