The underground fault lines along the Mai Mahiu-Narok road were caused by floods washing away deep deposits of volcanic ash, the Geological Society of Kenya has said. It sought to allay fears by some people that the phenomenon could lead to parts of the African continent drifting apart. This emerged when the experts visited the area as fault lines continued widening and getting deeper, raising fears amongst residents. GSK chairperson Gladys Kianji said the fault lines occurred after volcanic ash in underground trenches was washed away. The geologist said the areas with gaping faults between Mt Longonot and Mt Suswa experienced volcanic activity years back, creating underground tunnels. “It has nothing to do with splitting of the continent. Gushing water is sweeping away the volcanic ash,” she said. Kianji, a lecturer at the University of Nairobi, accused KeNHA of constructing major roads without involving the organisation of geologists, leading to such cases. She said sand collected from Mai Mahiu was not fit for construction, as it could cause buildings to collapse. “Volcanic ash from this area has been used to construct buildings in various parts of the country. Because of its weak nature, we have seen an increase in buildings collapsing,” Kianji said. GSK vice chairperson Marietta Mutonga said they were mapping out areas mainly in the Rift Valley that have similar problems. She said had geologists been consulted, they would have advised road engineers to avoid the area owing to the underground fault lines. “Change in land use has also played a part in the crisis. This is a seasonal phenomenon that will end once the rains subside,” she said. Mutonga said movement of underground tectonic plates happens at a rate of 1mm each one million-plus years or so.. “The claim that part of the country could be split into two is not possible, but we should invest more in research in the affected areas,” she said. Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara, who visited the area, expressed concern over the safety of families living there. “Families have been advised to relocate to other safer places, but the main issue is they do not have other homes,” she said. Read:Volcanic activities may split Rift Valley into two - expert   