You must have witnessed or fallen victim to Kagwe
Mungai's infectious charm. As he lives his life in the spotlight, he can have
girls and other interested parties swooning over his effect. He is quite the
trendsetter, despite not having a visible personality. Again, you must give it
to him for attempting to atmospherically transcend genres. Since he joined the music industry in 2011, his music has
always aimed directly at the core of the issues. He has never shied away
from expressing love, lust and his hedonistic nature. Again, he has always been
familiar with the dynamics of recording party tunes: he understands how to fit
in. But, unfortunately, that could be as far as his success story goes. Throughout his career, we've
experienced moments when his tracks don't stray away from the formula
of good music. His latest release featuring Nigerian singer Niniola, "Till
The End", is a perfect example of a track where he appears to be aware of
his strengths. His extensive catalogue seems to present more of these
moments, but somehow, there are various incidences of unsteadiness. Once in a while, Kagwe seems to be exerting serious
effort towards the creation of his works. At other times, he completely loses
touch with his inner stillness and creative power. It's in instances like
"Nyumbani", "Doctor" and "Baas" where listeners
are left thinking that the artiste has mistakenly fallen into the
contemporary urban category. Maybe the criticism regarding his work ethic might be
considered harsh, but it is what it is. For a fact, Kagwe basks in the delight
generated by his admirable qualities and often forgets that it's about being
profound rather than fun. He doesn't seem to want it as bad as any great
creative would. It is every fan's desire to enjoy music with a sense of
comforting warmth and familiarity. It's only right if a track's creative touch
is compatible with its successor as well as its antecedent. Only that way will
an artiste be considered the epitome of good taste. Moving forward, this is
one quality that Kagwe ought to incorporate in his works.