Nominated MP and Knut secretary general Wilson
Sossion yesterday suffered a setback after a group of teachers threw their
weight behind the decision to sack him. The primary school teachers filed an application at
the Employment, Labour and Relations Court yesterday, saying Sossion’s continued
stay at the helm of Knut “is killing the once-vibrant union”. “The role of the SG is crucial and therefore no
one can perform it with divided loyalty. If he is allowed to continue holding
the two full time jobs, we who pay monthly subscription are likely to suffer
irreparable damage," said Gladys Andambi. [VIDEO] Chaos at KNUT meeting as officials demand Sossion exit Sossion was nominated to Parliament by ODM. He has
also filed a case in which he is contesting a decision by the Teachers’ Service
Commission deregistering him from the service through a
dismissal letter signed by CEO Nancy Macharia on January 15. The commission, while communicating its decision, said
Sossion is obligated to resign or retire in compliance with the Teachers’ Code
of Conduct and Ethics, 2015, upon being nominated to Parliament. But he says sacking, only because he joined
politics, is illegal and unprocedural. The TSC says by assuming a state
office while serving as a public officer in the teaching service, Sossion engaged
in gross breach of statutory and regulatory provisions. Sossion slams TSC over his sacking Further, the teachers' employer says by
holding two conflicting public offices, he was engaged in two positions of
gainful employment from the same government, violating the Leadership and Integrity Act. Thus, it says sacking Sossion is within the law. “He was subjected to a fair administrative process
and was accorded full benefit of the rules of natural justice, before he was
shown the door,” Josephine Maundu, the director in charge of human resource
management, said in court documents. Andambi, Kenneth Wahwai, James Kungu, Elly Wafula, Elija Maruga and Hellen Wanja, on behalf of the teachers, say their rights
to effective representation have been compromised as a result of Sossion's diminished
capacity. They further say Sossion is a secondary school teacher and he does
not qualify to be a member of Kuppet. The teachers appeared before Justice Onesmus Makau
who told them to file and serve Sossion and Knut. Parties will
appear in court on April 9. Read: TSC denies political motive in Sossion, Milemba sackings  Click here for the latest political news