Chants of ‘Ruto must!’ rent the air in Eldoret town immediately Nandi Hills Jubilee MP Alfred Keter’s victory was nullified yesterday. Angry supporters flooded the streets singing songs and accusing Deputy President William Ruto of being behind the nullification. The nullification sets the stage for a bruising political battle between Ruto and rebel MPs, who said they would shortly make a decision on the way forward. Keter, together with his colleagues Silas Tiren of Moiben and Johana Ng’eno of Emurua Dikirr were escorted by hundreds of supporters on the streets. They addressed residents outside Safaricom House and dared Jubilee to kick them out of the party. “I’m being fought for standing against cartels and corruption in this government. But I will stand firm because I know God is with me,” Keter said. The legislator, who seemed on the brink of tears, told the crowd he was being targetted by the Jubilee administration. As he spoke the crowd chanted ‘No Keter No Ruto!’ Justice Kanyi Kimondo ruled the IEBC did not conduct a free, fair and credible election in the constituency. “Keter engaged in unlawful campaigns, which tainted the fairness and integrity of the poll,” he said. The judge ruled that petitioner Bernard Kitur proved that Keter campaigned outside the stipulated time, giving him an unfair advantage against his rivals. Keter won with 28,923 votes, while Kitur, an independent candidate, got 13,872 votes. Evidence showed Keter carried out illegal campaigns in Labuywo, Kapkoris, Sitima and Ainapngetuny on August 6 last year, yet official campaigns ended on August 5. Keter said although he visited the three areas, he did not solicit for votes. He said he had only gone to the area to visit a friend, only identified as Mzee Maiyo. The judge largely relied on the evidence of the first petitioner, Robert Kemei, who was a voter, but withdrew from the case and was replaced by Kitur. “Although Kemei withdrew from the case, his evidence remained intact,” Kimondo said. He said evidence showed Kemei was indeed in Labuiywo, where Keter carried out one of the illegal meetings. Kimondo said Kemei took a photograph of the meeting, which was presented in court as evidence. Keter was also accused of trying to downplay the numbers of people who attended the illegal campaigns, but the judge said when the MP was cross-examined, the numbers increased. “Initially Keter had said about two or three people were present, but when cross-examined, he said they were about 15 people. He deliberately tried to downplay the figures,” Kimondo said. He rejected claims that Keter bribed witnesses, saying the evidence was scanty. IEBC returning officer Peter Resa was accused that despite getting reports on the electoral offences from the petitioner, he ignored them. During the rally in Eldoret yesterday, Keter said President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto had shortchanged the Kalenjin community during the formation of the Cabinet. He said some key dockets had been removed from ministries headed by CSs from the Rift Valley. “The Energy docket was given to Charles Keter, but after Petroleum was hived out. Lands was given to Faridah Karoney, but the Housing docket was removed. Water was given to Simon Chelugui without the Irrigation docket,” Keter said. Tiren said, “DP Ruto himself asked us to resign so we would be given other positions as a region, but that was not true.” Tiren and Ng’eno said they are ready to fight within Jubilee Party. See:Ruto must go! Eldoret chants after court nullifies Alfred Keter's win Click here for the latest political news