How did Chief Justice David Maraga lose his way to Consolata Shrine and find himself at the Consolata School, despite being escorted by an elite police unit? Besides, the CJ's way was also cleared by police based in Westlands to the Requiem Mass for the University of Nairobi don Oeri Tumbo on Wednesday. The two teams had sandwiched the CJ's car all the way. ***** A city lawyer and broker from northern Kenya has been heard chest-thumping in Nairobi restaurants how he has influenced and has prior knowledge of the verdict in the ongoing appeal by a governor whose election was nullified by the High Court. The broker, who was also involved in the sale of the Laico Regency Hotel, is however believed to be only squandering money from the embattled governor because the three judges involved in the case are known to be no-nonsense judicial seniors with high integrity. Well, time will tell whether the broker is a magician or prophet, or both. ***** Tourists on Sunday complained how hundreds of armed forest guards at the Kenya Wildlife Service headquarters were threatening their peace. They included those on patrol, some in the parking lot, and others guarding the building at the facility. Corridors heard one tourist protest: “Why would someone in charge of a parking bay be armed and use a gun to show you direction?” When the immediate former US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson arrived, the security was reorganized and most of the armed guards moved away. ***** All is not well at Jogoo House, the AP headquarters. New boss Noor Gabow is said to have fallen out with senior AP officers at the head office and many unit commanders accuse him of disrespecting them. The officers seem to have taken offence when their boss summoned the Rural Border Patrol Unit commander Joshua Wambua for a dressing down after sacked Principal DIG Fred Mwei visited him at APRBPU headquarters in Kitui on his way home. Some senior officers have reportedly given Gabow's office a wide berth, for fear of being lambasted. Among the few said to be close to the DIG is head of training and reforms, Ibrahim Jillo. Could it be the old politics of the AP and regular police at play? ***** Did a county in Western Kenya spend Sh200 million on non-existent CT-Scan equipment? Well, insiders have intimated to Corridors how the governor in question, determined to keep a lid on the scam, has set aside a whopping Sh10 million to ensure the story does not see the light of day in any of the county's mainstream media and blogs.