132 suspects have been arrested with
fake recruitment calling letters at the Moi Barracks Recruits Training College
(RTC) in Eldoret where they had reported for admission. Brigadier Martin Ong'oi who is Chief
of Personnel at KDF said the suspects had presented the fake letters on arrival
at the college where they were put under arrest. "The letters cannot be authoritatively confirmed to have been issued by
the KDF and we have handed the owners of the letters to the civil police to
carry out investigations", said Ong'oi. He said more suspects had escaped after arriving at the gate before they were
detected. Read: Mombasa youth claim harassment during KDF recruitment, wants rules changed "When we started the
recruitment on March 12th it was made clear that the recruitment is free and no
money or corruption would be allowed", said Ong'oi. He said hundreds of people had been
conned of millions of shillings paid to conmen who gave out the fake
recruitment letters. Brigadier Ong'oi said many more letters were still in circulation and the
public should be aware of the fake documents which are not from KDF. Ong'oi said they had talked to those
who produced the letters and they confirmed the victims confirmed that they had
paid out money to individuals to get the fake letters. He said last year the fake letters
were about 65 and it appeared the conmen involved weer increasingly taking
advantage of the recruitment to con the public. "We are going on with the
admission and only genuine calling letterswill be accepted", he said. Read: Latecomers and sickly people locked out of Kenya Defence Forces recruitment The suspects were handed over to the
police and taken to the Eldoret police station where Ong'oi said investigations
will be done to determine if they will be charged in court or not. Last week Police in Eldoret  arrested two men who
were found masquerading as KDF officers involved in military recruitment. Eldoret West OCPD Samwel Mutunga said the two were found
were with fake KDF letters for admission of recruits to the Moi Barracks
training college. Mutunga said the two would be taken to court once
investigations are completed and he has cautioned the public to avoid being duped
by such conmen. "We are still going on with investigations and we will ensure that all those involved in this major rip off against the public are brought to book", said Mutunga.  Click here for the latest political news 