The Court of Appeal recently helped to defuse a dispute that was threatening to cripple Kenya’s tea sector. The court slashed the 30 per cent increase in basic wages awarded to tea pickers in 2014 by the Labour court to 16 per cent. Had it become reality, the 30 per cent award would have led to an additional wage bill of 54 per cent of the tea multinationals’ turnover. It would have put immense pressure on smallholder farmers, or cooperative producers. These can ill afford to pay similar wages and this would have resulted in social disquiet among communities in tea-producing areas. To replicate the bonuses paid out to farmers in the last four years, so much needed to have been done to raise outputs, especially for exportation. The higher wage bill would have adversely affected the incomes realised by growers and processors, whose loss would not only raise the wages, but also eradicate the growers’ income. The multinationals account for 40 per cent of Kenya’s tea output, almost exclusively employ the growing cadre of world-class trained agri-scientists in the industry, and have heavily invested in research and development. The huge, existing route-to-market infrastructure, in which port logistics, warehousing, brokers and tea tasters owe their existence to these multinationals. In a digital age where progressive agriculture is turning to robots to control cost of production and keep the industry competitive, dialogue on Kenya’s tea industry is still stuck on tea pickers’ wages. Yet, this is not a new debate. Minimum wage has been a battlefield for workers’ unions and employers dating back to Independence. Labour standards, like environmental standards and investor protections, are essential to a functional economy. Properly set and enforced, these check exploitation, pollution and speculation. They promote broad and rising prosperity, as well as public confidence. The sector is one of the most transparent industries, with a large chunk of labour costs visible through the unions and revenues visible through the Mombasa auction. This has made the industry a favourite hunting ground for the KRA and non-state actors. According to industry statistics, the minimum piece work per picker per day in the plantations has been 33kg since the 1960s. However, due to industry investments in high yielding clones of tea bushes, improved crop husbandry practices and continuous training, workers are able to pluck more than 45kg per day. With the plucking labour rate (Sh13.65-15.65 per kg), it implies that the minimum daily wage for tea plucking ranges from Sh450.45 to Sh516.45 while the monthly wage is between Sh11,712 to Sh17,043. This is at par with or far outstrips the minimum Sh12,926 stipulated for their contemporaries in high-cost towns and cities. Plantation enterprises also incur other labour-related costs (free housing, medical facilities and treatment, sick off, electricity, water, education, gratuity, annual leave and travelling allowances. These add up to close to 50 per cent of the total labour costs. The benefits push the total cost of plucking labour per person to a high of Sh23.48 per kg of green leaf (a minimum daily wage of Sh675.68 ). By raising the cost of labour, a higher minimum wage would have hurt both small and large-scale producers, leading them to cut jobs and harming the low-wage workers it was intended to help. It would also have hurt our exports by pushing up prices. Tea plantations are the largest manufacturing industry. They don’t just grow but also process tea. Agro processing-manufacturing is one of the big thrust areas of government, hence the large infrastructural investments. Kenya naturally has the ability to produce tea, even without irrigation and the use of pesticides. A huge advantage compared to other tea-producing countries. We are throwing away that advantage with incessant squabbling and the trade unions’ insatiable appetites. Environmental issues such as degradation of the Mau Forest have fuelled climate change, affecting rainfall distribution. The shrinking lush season and longer dry spells have further raised the cost of production. Ignoring these crucial factors would have been counterproductive in the push for higher unsustainable wages. The writer comments on social issues billy.williams114@gmail.com