On October 27, 2016, Allan Kimani, 13, suffered serious burns while trying to save his younger sister from their burning house. The young hero has been detained in a Thika hospital over Sh1.6 million bill. He was discharged in January, but could not go home until the bill is paid. Kimani unfortunately lost his sister Blessings Favor Wangui, aged four, whom he was trying to save from a fierce fire that engulfed their house in Ndenderu, Kiambu county. The incident left Kimani fighting for his dear life. He sustained 40 per cent burns. He has been in hospital for the past one year and four months. Kimani has missed one and a half academic years. He was a Standard Five pupil at Wangunyu Primary School in Kiambaa when tragedy struck. He is supposed to be in Standard Seven. The brave boy is now pleading with well-wishers to come to his aid and help to clear the bill so he can go back to school. “I feel bad that I will have to learn with those who were in Standard Three then. I wish my teachers would allow me join my classmates in Standard Seven,” Kimani said Narrating to the Star about the ordeal of that fateful day from his hospital bed at St Matia Mulumba Mission Hospital in Thika, Kimani said he was playing with his sister Wangui when their mother Susan Muthoni arrived with a gas cylinder she had gone to refill. They all went inside the house as dusk was setting in and their mother connected the gas cylinder to the cooker. But little did she know the gas was leaking. His mother asked Kimani to light a jiko as she got busy with other chores outside their house. Before he could light the jiko, he heard a loud explosion inside the house and saw a huge fire. “The first thing that came into my mind was that my sister was inside the burning house. My mother was calling for help as she rushed inside the burning house to rescue my sister. I couldn’t stand seeing my mother in a burning house. I pushed her aside and jumped into the fire,” Kimani said. He said he went straight to their parents bedroom, hoping to find Wangui hiding there, but she was in another bedroom. “I couldn’t get to the room where she was, because the fire was rapidly spreading, but I could hear her calling for help. The smoke and the flames in the room overwhelmed me and I fell unconscious. I woke up in a hospital bed,” he said. His mother told the Star neighbours who responded to her distress calls rescued Kimani. “I thought my two children had died in the fire. I had no hope that one of them could come out alive. Luckily, my neighbours managed to pull out Kimani,” Muthoni said. She said they rushed him to the Kiambu Level 5 Hospital, where he was given first aid, before being referred to the Kenyatta National Hospital. At KNH, Kimani spent one month at the Intensive Care Unit. His predicament was aggravated by the doctors’ strike that started on December 22, 2016, and lasted for three months. Muthoni said they transferred Kimani to Ruai Family Hospital, where he stayed for three months. “The temperature there was too high and he couldn’t recuperate well. We had to find another hospital. We decided to take him to Medilink Hospital in Muthaiga, but it was too costly and was wiping out our resources,” she said. In June last year, she said, they took Kimani to St Matia Mulumba Mission Hospital in Thika, where he has been receiving treatment. On January 21 this year, Kimani was discharged from the hospital, but is still detained because the bill has accumulated to Sh1.6 million. Even after he is released, Kimani, will also need to undergo plastic surgery. His face got disfigured by the fire. Muthoni said they are struggling to raise the money. She said they have held two fundraisers and have managed to get Sh570,000. The money has been paid out to KNH and Ruai Family Hospital. “We lost our properties in the fire and we have also sold the only plot we had for Sh175,000. We have nothing more left to sell and we are worried because the bill is still rising,” Muthoni said. She said the family is planning another fundraiser on March 11. The fundraiser will be held at Ruaka Deliverance Church. “Wangunyu Primary School, where Kimani is a student, has organised a walk that will coincide with the fundraiser,” she said. Despite the hefty bill, the mother of three could not hide her joy to see her son smiling and walking again. “I thank God for giving me back my son. It was hard to believe he’d survive with the injuries he had,” she said. A senior staff at St Mulumba Mission Hospital, who declined to be named, said the facility will let the boy go once the bill is settled. She said they have allowed the family to clear 80 per cent of the bill as a show of commitment to clear the rest of the bill. “When we admitted Kimani here, we only requested for a deposit. We made sure he received the required medical attention and treatment until he fully recuperated. Our aim was to save the young boy’s life and it’s our joy that we’ve done it,” she said. “We are not and cannot detain the boy because of the dues. All we want is for them to appreciate and clear the bill so they can be allowed to go.”   