Some 147 Embu political, religious leaders and professionals have defended suspended Kenya Forest Service director Emilio Mugo and embattled Health CS Sicily Kariuki. The leaders yesterday held a press conference at Gerish Hotel in Embu town. They expressed concern at what they termed the unprocedural sacking of Mugo by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko. The leaders were led by chairman Johnstone Nyagah. They said Mugo’s suspension and Kariuki’s planned impeachment target Embu leaders. Rift Valley legislators are pushing the CS’s impeachment after she suspended Kenyatta National Hospital CEO Lily Koros over a mistake that led to the wrong patient undergoing brain surgery. The leaders, under the Embu Reforms Caucus, said they are unhappy that Mugo was suspended without following the rules on disciplining public servants. TARGETED? Embu County Parents’ Association chairman John Kathangu said Tobiko did not give Mugo a chance to defend himself through the KFS board. The leaders also say it was embarassing for Tobiko to suspend Mugo through the media. During the press conference attended by eight representatives, Tobiko was asked to unconditionally reinstate Mugo. The caucus says if there are any grievances against Mugo, the matter should be handled through the board, where Mugo will get an opportunity to be he’ard. “If there are any grievances let them be forwarded without politics and ethnic considerations,” Nyagah said. A Kirimari ward aspirant in the last General Election, John Mugo, said Mugo and Kariuki’s woes are a wider scheme by senior politicians to edge out leaders from the Embu community. He said it started with the sacking of former Alliance Boys’ principal David Kariuki, then the KFS Finance Controller. Nyagah said the net is being spread to catch Mugo and Kariuki, a trend they say they will not accept. “Embu leaders have been under siege for unknown reasons. We are not going to keep quiet,” the ward aspirant said. FIGHTING BACK The Parents Association chairman said Embu leaders are being oppressed and have therefore decided to come out and voice their concern. They urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto to intervene and have Mugo reinstated. They want the two to stop the impeachment against Kariuki, adding that they played a great role in campaigning for the Jubilee leaders. Ward representatives debated the planned impeachment and Mugo’s suspension over illegal logging. Deputy Speaker Steve Munene, Majority leader Michael Njeru and chief whip Margaret Kariuki said senior Embu government officers are being unfairly removed. OUR PEOPLE VS THEIR PEOPLE They said Jubilee politicians from other parts of the country and senior officers are targeting Embu senior public servants to create space for their own people. “While we appreciate that investigations need to be done and we need to continue planting trees, this should be done equally and with justice,” Munene said. Njeru said Mugo and Kariuki greatly participated in ensuring Jubilee won the elections. Their intended impeachment and the suspension show Embu people were used during campaigns, and dumped later, the Majority leader said.