It is said the biggest mistake most new players make in poker is overplaying their hand. “They spend so much time thinking of the ways they can win that they forget all the ways they can lose,” so goes a not too infrequent observation about this phenomenon that’s also alive in politics, where politicians overplay their hand all the time often to their detriment. President Donald Trump is the latest example of this in American politics, where, after an improbable win, he made the mistake of continuing being Trump in the belief he can win the presidency much as he did the campaigns. Had Trump not overplayed his hand, he would have entered the presidency a much humbler person, rolled up his sleeves and surrounded himself with not only smart people, who could help him govern, but also those who could help him expand his core support base from the current about 30 per cent to a much higher percentage by now. To the contrary, the accidental President has never ceased chest-thumbing about how good he is Back in March 2016 during the primaries, when asked on a morning TV show who he consulted on foreign policy, he responded: “I am speaking with myself, number one, because I have a very good brain and I have said a lot of things.” If that assertion alone wasn’t enough to disqualify the man from vying for the presidency, nothing would, as we now know. That beating one’s drum continues to this day, as he continues to fumble through the presidency, busy sacking accomplished men who were forced on him to bring about stability at White House. It has never been steady since he entered, and few believe it ever will with Trump at the helm. That’s overplaying one’s hand on steroids and the end outcome can only be counterproductive and a disaster on so many levels. Jubilee hardliners are making the same mistakes Trump is making: After assuming power in the unlikeliest of all circumstances, given the mood of the country, these hardliners are not only chest-thumbing that they “beat” Raila and the opposition yet again — they’re doing so in a manner that’s ill-advised, reckless and counterproductive, even to their own selfish interests. Take for example how they have made a mountain out of molehill in the ongoing Miguna Miguna saga. The wiser counsel for any of them was to simply lie low and then let him and NASA answer the next pregnant question “now what?” A question no doubt, even Raila himself must have known there was no “what” that would not have involved the legally sworn government of Uhuru Kenyatta by way of a compromise as the one currently in the offing. Instead, the Jubilee hardliners saw everything in the opposition as a nail, and they have taken a hammer to fix. Starting with Miguna, whon they arrested, detained and deported against the law, while purporting to uphold the law. If that’s upholding the law, then we might as well do away with all the laws and declare the country a lawless land. The events unfolding since Miguna’s attempted return only go to underscore this tragedy. Notwithstanding the triviality upon which these hardliners have taken the hammer, the fact is they are acting in wanton disrespect of the courts and rule of law. And this cannot be and will never be anything good for the country. It is bad for the country, for Uhuru and is bad for those in government. It would behoove President Uhuru to call off these hardliners and take the lead in restoring respect for the courts and rule of law, which is clearly being eroded by the actions of these individuals, who are clearly overplaying their hands and must be checked. Only Uhuru can do that and the time to do so is now for the sake of country.   The writer is a legal expert and political commentator in the US           