The National Cereals and Produce Board has begun moving more than two million bags of maize from its depots in the North Rift to create space for more deliveries from farmers. Board CEO Newton Terer said the maize is being moved to Bungoma, Kisumu and Lodwar where stores are empty. He spoke in Eldoret on Saturday during a stakeholders' meeting from the agriculture sector. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and several MPs from the region attended the forum. Hundreds of farmers are still queuing with lorries to deliver maize at the NCPB depots in Eldoret, Kitale and Moi's Bridge. The government has so far bought 3.2 million bags of maize valued at Sh 10.2 billion. CS Kiunjuri directed the Board to move the maize. The ministry has asked the National Assembly to approve a supplementary budget for an extra Sh3 billion to pay maize farmers.The Board had suspended maize intake from farmers at depots in Eldoret, Moi's Bridge and Kitale because the stores are full. “We made a mistake because when we realised we were getting more deliveries than anticipate, we should have started moving the maize early enough," Kiunjuri said. He said the delayed payment for farmers was a result of the government over shooting its Sh7.1 billion budget allocated for maize purchase. Meanwhile farmers in six North Rift counties have asked the government to write off a Sh1.7 billion debt they owe to the Agricultural Finance Corporation. The farmers said the debt has accumulated for long and most of them cannot repay the old loans. Uasin Gishu Governor Mandago, who is chairman of the North Rift Regional Economic Bloc said the National Treasury should set side funds to strengthen the AFC so that it is able to give farmers more assistance. “We have asked as a region that the debt be written off and more money be given to the AFC because farmers cannot operate without adequate credit," Mandago said on Saturday. The AFC debt is owed by farmers in six counties in the region. Click here for the latest political news