The political handshake between the scions of the founding fathers of the nation, the late president Jomo Kenyatta and the first vice president the late Jaramogi Oginga Odinga marked an end to decades of bitter rivalry between the families. If anything, it evoked the sweet memories and experiences Kenyatta and Jaramogi enjoyed before and after the former release from detention and subsequent independence. Despite the fall out the two leaders, the close families tie remained close knit and was jealously guarded by the leaders and their scions. On the political platform, Odinga and Kenyatta went different paths and the feud was to be inherited by their sons namely Raila and Uhuru. The two became bitter political rivals but maintained a close relationship and often referred each other as Big Bro and Small Bro. A sense of respected was a common feature among them despite the tense political rivalry and orientation. The handshake at Harambee House marked a new journey that reconciled the two families on the political front and subsequently thawed the melting tension between the Gikuyu and Luo communities. What is really happening We are back to 1963 when the Kenyattas and Odingas were in the driving seat of the country's political and economic destination. With a likelihood of a coalition government, "RaKe" (Raila-Kenyatta) are moving towards fulfilling their fathers' dreams of a united nation and prosperity. Similarly, Rake's political move is meant to bury the opposition politics in the country with Raila now joining the government. This implies that the Luo community, that have been the fulcrum of the county's opposition, might find it difficult to rejoin the opposition politics but enjoy the strapping of power. Raila had previously during the campaigns told his community that he would not leave them out of the government and he has actually returned the Luo to the government. Co-PRINCIPALS Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka political fortunes seems to be dwindling day by day with Governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) becoming more visible. His unpredictability could have been his waterloo and with the new political trends, he can not brag to hold sway of Kamba votes. Day by day, the path becomes slippery for Kalonzo and it will take a miracle to salvage his political ambition of presidency. However, he will benefit from the RaKe's new political arrangement but from an inferior position. MUDAVADI Indecivessiveness has been his main undoing. But he stands not to lose to so much clout in the game. He is a constant in arithmetic. He is needed in the game as a catalyser and may fit in the emerging power game. WETANG'ULA The Ford-Kenya leader could be counting his days in the emerging political arrangements. He doesn't have total control of Bungoma county politics and may be shadowed by the emergence of youthful ODM secretary General Wakili Sifuna. Despite, the changing trend, he will benefit in the new political arrangement but from an inferior position. GIDEON MOI He is the new kid on the block. Unknown to many, he is the third important player in RaKe politcal game plan. The unseen hands of his father, is fast pulling strings and tightening noose for him to be a major player once RaKe exits the platform. WILLIAM RUTO He is the main challenger to the dynasties and must be stopped at all cost and that is why the have regrouped. William is a shrewd politician and very tactful but he is faced by daunting task of dismantling the dynasties. However, history is on his side but how he plays his cards will determine his victory. Already, his enemies are keeping him busy at his backyard by trying to prop MP Alfred Keter and other dissidents. The move is purely aimed at dismantling his vote rich rift valley and leaving him limping. Equally the entry of Raila into the government, has dented the steps he had made in Western Kenya where some governors on their final term had started switching alliance to him instead of Jakom [Raila]. Raila's famous word that Ruto needs him to be president could come back to haunt the deputy president and it will depend how he plays his cards. Kenya could be walking to a more interesting path and within the next four weeks major political events will unfold. The writer is a former editor at The Standard