The UK will expel 23 Russian diplomats after Moscow refused to explain how a Russian-made nerve agent was used on a former spy in Salisbury, the PM says. Theresa May said the diplomats, who have a week to leave, were identified as "undeclared intelligence officers". She also revoked an invitation to Russia's foreign minister, and said the Royal Family would not attend the Fifa World Cup later this year. Russia denies being involved in the attempted murder of Sergei Skripal. The Russian Embassy said the expulsion of 23 diplomats was "unacceptable, unjustified and short-sighted". A list of the 23 names has already been sent to Moscow, a foreign ministry spokeswoman told Reuters news agency. It is the largest mass expulsion since 31 were ordered out in 1985 after double agent Oleg Gordievsky defected. Former spy Mr Skripal, 66, and his daughter, Yulia Skripal, 33, remain critically ill in hospital after being found slumped on a bench on 4 March. Det Sgt Nick Bailey fell ill while responding to the incident, and is in a serious but stable condition, but is thought to be improving. Mrs May told MPs that Russia had provided "no explanation" as to how the nerve agent came to be used in the UK, describing Moscow's response as one of "sarcasm, contempt and defiance". The use of a Russian-made nerve agent on UK soil amounted to the "unlawful use of force", she said. The PM, who was earlier briefed by senior intelligence chiefs in Downing Street, added there was "no alternative conclusion other than that the Russian state was culpable" for the attack. She said it was "tragic" that Russian President Vladimir Putin had "chosen to act in this way". Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was jeered by Conservative MPs as he asked Mrs May how she had responded to Russia's request for a sample of the nerve agent so it could run its own tests. He condemned the Salisbury incident as a "dreadful, appalling act" and called for multilateral action in response, saying it was a matter of "huge regret" that the UK's diplomatic network had been cut by 25% in the last five years. The Foreign Office has updated its advice on travel to Russia, saying "heightened political tensions" mean Britons should "be aware of the possibility of anti-British sentiment or harassment at this time". In a statement, the FA said it would work closely with the UK government and authorities regarding its participation in the World Cup in June. Meanwhile, the police and army have sealed off areas of the north Dorset town of Gillingham as part of the attempted murder investigation. A wide cordon is in place around a truck, thought to have recovered Mr Skripal's car from Salisbury, about 20 miles from Gillingham. About 180 troops have been deployed to Salisbury to help remove vehicles and objects from affected areas. Zizzi restaurant and Bishop's Mill pub, where the Skripals visited before falling ill, remain closed. Police from 15 forces across England and Wales have been sent to Wiltshire to support the investigation.