Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has welcomed
the resolutions by President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga to unite the country. The two leaders met at Harambee House and agreed set aside their political differences and work together. Kuria, who has been a critic of NASA's political machinations, described the move as
"statemanly". More on meeting: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya The MP said the two leaders have proven that they would like to leave a legacy worth emulating and are concerned
about their motherland. "I welcome that [meeting], it
is good for the country and especially the future of the country," Kuria said. "People are
going to disagree but the key thing is not whether
we agree or disagree but whether we still agree on things that do not divide
the country." Kuria said while Kenya is not the only country that has gone to an election and ended up in an economic slump, it was not a cycle anyone would want to see repeat itself in the next 50 or 100 years. He added that the two leaders have exhibited we can still find unity in diversity. Kuria spoke to the Star after attending the funeral of
Peter Mukui at Karatu village in Gatundu South constituency. His sentiments were echoed by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui who also welcomed the pact. The first time county chief said the damage caused by prolonged political battles has finally been put to rest. "The economy remains weak due to the uncertainty that was created by the election aftermath," the Governor said. He encouraged the lieutenants of the two leaders sides to follow suit and drop their hard-line stances. "With the acrimonious divisions gone, Kenyans have a reason to smile. Our economy will thrive and employment for the youth will be created," he said. He thanked the two leaders for living up to the words of our national anthem - "May we dwell in unity peace and liberty." Kinyanjui spoke on Friday at Nakuru GK prisons while donating medicine, bedding, sanitary towels and other personal effects to inmates at the prison. Also read: Ruto gives Uhuru, Raila pat on the back for Harambee House meeting Read: [Statement] Miguna rejects Raila's 'betrayal' after waking up in Canada Click here for the latest political news 