NASA leader Raila Odinga is punishing Senator Moses Wetangula for missing out on his illegal oath on January 30, Sports CS Rashid Achesa has said. Rashid said this on Saturday during the burial of Nzoia sugar chairman Joash Wamangoli’s mother Loice Maora at Namawanga village, Webuye West. Maora died two weeks ago at Webuye sub-county hospital aged 94. Read; Ford Kenya trashes Wetangula’s ouster, say will strip ODM of minority posts 'We cannot have Raila victimising one of the Mulembe sons simply because he did not attend the swearing-in thing that has not achieved anything for him(Raila) nor his supporters," Rashid said. The CS said it is Raila who is behind Wetangula's woes the latest being his removal from the Senate minority leader. ‘As we speak we all know that Raila got a lot of support from here and he should not take the community for a ride,’ he said. He said that the three NASA core principles did a wise thing by not attending the swearing-in that was against the constitution. "Raila was sworn-in the way he had planned and after that what has he achieved,? we will not allow him to take Luhyas as puppets,’ he said The youthful CS said that Western leaders should use the opportunity to unite and tell Raila what he has done to the community is wrong. "We also want to call upon Ford Kenya party boss to ditch Raila and stop embarrassing the Luhya community by still clinging to Raila," he said "We cannot have someone ousting you today from a position you agreed to hold before polls and tomorrow he is telling you he has organized a retreat that will get you back to the job," he added. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa Wamalwa said that politics is now over and resident should focus on development and not too much politics. "If you were a Nasa supporter or Jubilee we all have to now come together to ease the tension that was in the country that had affected economy badly," he added Webuye west Mp Dana Wanyama said Raila has been on record for being a shrewd politician who has been using the Mulembe nation to gain political mileage. "We will not allow him to do that again. We want to tell him that our marriage as Luhyas with him is totally broken and there is no any other time he will come and seek support from Luhyas," he said. Kimilili MP Didimus Barasa said the Nasa leader will not be allowed to step foot in Bungoma. Former Westland’s MP Fred Gumo said that Raila ought to have picked Busia senator Amos Wako or Kakamega senator Cleophus Malala to replace Weta and not his fellow Luo Siaya Senator James Orengo.      Click here for the latest political news 