The Lake Victoria South Water Services Board in partnership with the African Development Bank will release Sh200 million for water connectivity to more than 100, 000 residents in Migori. The residents have faced water crisis for three months. Migori Governor Okoth Obado met with the LVSWSB management in Kisumu to find a lasting solution to the water problem. Last month residents took to the streets of Migori town, demanding an explanation from the county government’s Water department. The Board chief executive, Eng Petronila Ogut, said plans are underway to shuffle operations at the Migori Water and Sanitation Company to improve services. Ogut said in collaboration with the county government, areas such as Macalder and Sori in Nyatike subcounty, Rongo and Kehancha have been identified for water connectivity. “We have a plan for Migingo Island, but we shall discuss that later with the county government. Water management was devolved and we shall work with the county government,” she said. Obado said the collaboration with the LVSWSB and other investors will ensure a steady supply of water to Migori residents. STEADY SUPPLY The governor criticised locals who do not pay their water bills. He said refusing to pay the water bills is among factors that have frustrated effective operations. He said the managerial challenges that have bedevilled the water company in Migori will be dealt with. On February 14, Migori town residents and traders threatened to stage a “jerrycan protest” if water supply is not restored. Their taps have been dry for three months after the county failed to pay a Sh4 million power bill. Kenya Power disconnected electricity at the Sh1.2 billion water project set up by the AfDB and handed over in 2014. The project has a capacity to produce more than two million litres of clean water daily, but it is lying idle as residents use untreated water. The project draws water from the River Oyani, Uriri constituency, and comes complete with 15 water kiosks to serve residents. The kiosks have been closed. "We will not pay any taxes and levies to the county government, we will organise residents and traders to move with empty jerrycans for a peaceful demonstration to the governor’s office," Kennedy Odongo, chairman of Migori Small Traders’ Association, said. Water chief officer Donald Jaleny on Monday blamed the shortage on the national government’s delay to release county funds. Click here for the latest political news