Meru Senator Mithika Linturi has urged the High Court to quash a decision to deregister him and order his readmission to the University of Nairobi’s School of Law. His lawyer Tom Ojienda told Justice George Odunga that a degree to the applicant will be of great relief since the matter has immensely affected him. Linturi was deregistered by the university in December last year for presenting fake papers to get admission. Ojienda accused the university of acting in bad faith, saying Linturi joined the school in 2015 and completed his Bachelor of Law studies in 2017. The university said it followed due process by deregistering Linturi. Through lawyer Donald Kipkorir, the university yesterday said Linturi was accorded a fair hearing before he was deregistered. “Once the university found out that the student’s admission papers were fake, it acted accordingly because something which was generated illegally cannot be allowed,” Kipkorir said. The parties made their final submissions yesterday ahead of the ruling on April 5. Kipkorir said he had all the minutes of the meetings that the university management held before it arrived at the decision to deregister Linturi. “Lintuli was present throughout the whole process and he even had a chance to defend himself,” Kipkorir said. The university knew about the doubts raised about Linturi papers after the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission raised the issue in a letter. Kipkorir said Linturi is no longer a student at the university. “The petition by Linturi lacks merit and legality and accepting it is like awarding a thief who has stolen from a bank and build a hospital,” Kipkorir said. Last month, the High Court temporarily barred the arrest and prosecution of Linturi over allegations of having forged academic papers. Justice Chacha Mwita barred the Director of Public Prosecutions, the anti-graft agency and the Inspector General from summoning, arresting or charging the lawmaker. The judge also ordered that Linturi should not be declared unfit to hold public office pending the hearing and determination of the case. 