Kenya has made gains in ensuring her citizens are food
secure, a report from the Kenyan National Bureau of Statistics shows. This is despite a World Bank report indicating that 1.3
million Kenyan are food insecure. The 100-page report called "The basic report on well-being in Kenya 2015/2016" shows Kenyans living in urban areas and who spend less than Sh2,551 per month and those living in rural areas and spend less than Sh1,954 per month were considered food insecure. “The notable poverty decline could be attributed to the fact
that more resources have been devolved to the counties," Planning
PS Julius Muia said. "There have also been
many pro-poor programmes in arid and semi-arid areas
where both the incidence and depth of poverty are high.” Households in Mandera (38.9 per cent), Marsabit (23.8 per cent), Turkana (52.7 per cent),
Samburu (42.2 per cent), West Pokot (26.3 per cent) and Busia (26.8 per cent) counties were identified to
be extremely poor. A total of 21,773 household were sampled in the study. Most of them could not afford to meet their basic food
requirements. With such grim figures, the health of the children and other
vulnerable persons in the community, such as the elderly, is wanting because
of the poor nutrition levels. The report also showed that 29.9 per cent of the
children in the country were stunted. “Overall, 13 per cent of children were moderately wasted,
while 6.7 per cent were moderately underweight,” the report reads. Data from the Health ministry shows that close to 2.8 million children aged below five are stunted. These children are at risk of not achieving their optimal growth – physically and mentally. The data also shows that 64 per cent of the children under five are wasted due to lack of adequate food and are at risk of death due to malnutrition. KNBS director General Zachary Mwangi said the national
food poverty declined
significantly from 45.8 per cent in 2005-06 to 32 per cent in 2015-16. This shows that in the last 10 years, the incidence of food insecurity dropped
by more than 13 per cent. The report also shows that 81 per cent of
Kenyans do not have a health insurance. These people depend on out-of-pocket expenditure
to access health services. What this means is that these patients are spending money
meant to buy food items to cater for their medical
expenses. In terms of seeking health services, 55.5 per cent of Kenyans with
sickness or injury visited a health facility for diagnosis. 