Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai has demanded the beefing up of security in Endau-Malalani and Kyamatu wards. The body of a Somali camel herder was found on Sunday at Imuumba area of Kyamatu ward. The Somali pastoralist community has encroached in the area. They believe he was killed by the Kambas. Mbai said, “Some herders were spotted in the area armed with AK47 riffles after the body was discovered. It is believed the display of guns is a sign they plan a retaliatory attack. It is time security teams moved with speed.” The lawmaker addressed journalists at Kinanie in Kyamatu ward after visiting the scene. WHO KILLED HIM? He said it is clear the Somali herder could have been killed by a fellow herder in a brawl as he had stab wounds in the neck and chest. “It would be wrong to assume the Somali herder was killed by the Kambas. If it was an attack by the Kambas, he could have be been shot with an arrow. Therefore, any revenge attack by the armed herders on Kambas would be misdirected,” said the MP. The majority of residents in the surrounding areas where the body was found have fled their homes for fear of revenge attacks by the armed Somali herders. “Locals have started fleeing their homes to hide in the bush,” Mbai said. He said unless the government sends a contingent of security officers to the volatile area, normalcy is unlikely to return soon. Mbai said there is a need to flush out the Somali camel herders who have infiltrated Kitui, to end frequent killings and other acts of lawlessness. Meanwhile, a man and his son have been transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital for specialised treatment. They were attacked with knives by Somali herders in Kaningo, Tseikuru district, about a week ago. MAN, SON HOSPITALISED Musyoka Kalonzo and his son Mwendwa Musyoka were repulsing Somali harders who had driven their camels in their farm in Wikitoo, Kaningo location, on March 5 when they were attacked. Kaningo elder Daniel Kyambo said the boy spotted the camels grazing in the farm and attempted to drive them away. He was attacked by a group of Somali herders who stabbed him on the back. When his father heard his distress calls, he rushe dto his rescue. He was also confronted by the herders who raptured his abdomen with a knife. The two were left for dead as the herders fled. “After the attack, the two were taken to Mwingi Level 4 Hospital but their condition had deteriorated and had to be transferred to KNH,” said Kyambo, the Tseikuru subcounty Council of Elders chairman. Click here for the latest political news https://twitter.com/Wishfmradio/status/973207617358180352 https://twitter.com/Wishfmradio/status/973207617358180352