Mbeere South MP Geoffrey Kingangi has supported the distribution of Mwea Settlement Scheme into 7,232 parcels for squatters. Genuine squatters who were left out should also benefit from the land, Kingangi said. He made the remarks a week after thousands of squatters and leaders rejected the division of the scheme. The MP told the Star on the phone yesterday that people opposed to the division are arguing as if there are no people living on the scheme. The MP said they cannot be left out. Kingangi said if a person who is over 40-years-old is allocated land, and his father is also given his, he cannot be asked to return the land go back to his father’s compound. No one should be told to return land, the MP said. He criticised people who are opposed to the distribution of the scheme, saying they are not being practical. “If the 7,232 beneficiaries are asked to return the land, they will go to court to challenge the decision,” Kingangi said. During a charged meeting convened by Mbeere South subcounty commissioner Beverly Opwora at Mashamba village on March 12 in Makima ward, squatters rejected division of the land. Kingangi attended the meeting. More than 2,000 settlers on denounced leaders supporting controversial subdivision of the settlement scheme into 7,232 parcels. The settlers said most of the land had been distributed to outsiders and leaders’ cronies and legitimate beneficiaries sidelined. Led by Makima and Mwea MCAs Philip Nzangi and Kisingu Mwaluko, respectively, the lot further demanded the subdivision be declared null and void. It was completed in 2016 and title deeds issued. They also demanded that a fresh subdivision be carried out with full involvement of the MCAs and committees comprised of the settlers. Kingangi concurred with the settlers that the subdivision was bungled and thousands of old people who lived on the land for decades had been left out. Last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered a review of title deeds in Mwea Settlement Scheme to ensure fairness in the allocation of land.