There is no sign that the current torrential rains will subside this weekend and as such, organisers have asked all participating drivers to brace up for a wet and slippery event as the 66th edition of the ARC Safari Rally starts this morning at Kenyatta International Conventional Centre (KICC). Heavy rains currently pounding the country will indeed set the tone for this weekend’s event, which will count towards the second round of the Kenya National Rally Championship and the second of the FIA African Rally Championship (ARC). “The weather man has indicated that it will rain even more this weekend but in the event that some sections are impassable, we have alternative route notes for the crews. We anticipate depressed rains in the Rift Valley to continue through the weekend but there is no cause for alarm as all stages are well planned in terms of safety,” Safari safety officer, Nazir Yakub said yesterday. The bad weather has compelled competitors to consider changing tact and fit puncture proof mud compound tyres to achieve the much-needed traction on the demanding circuit. The Safari rally this weekend will be under observation of FIA technical expert Gilles Simon and WRC promoter (Media and Commercial Rights) managing director, Olivier Ciesla. Kenya lost it’s WRC status in 2002 and is now keen to get back onto the world series with plans already underway to run next year’s rally as a candidate event in anticipation of 2020. “It will heavily depend on the two gentlemen to approve Kenya’s capability to handle event of such calibre,” read part of the press release from WRC Safari Rally project. The rally will be flagged off at KICC tosat at 11am after, which crews will tackle a 98km transport road section through to Sopa Lodge Naivasha into first service and onwards to the 31.69 SS1 opening stage at Kedong Ranch just opposite Sopa. Among the notable absentees are 1994 winner Ian Duncan and Flying Finn Tapio Laukkanen, who won the event last year. Duncan is reportedly preparing for the forthcoming Top Fry Safari Classic over Easter while Tapio who also skipped the opening round in Nakuru is said to have moved from Multiple Rally Team to Kabras Sugar Racing. In Duncan’s absence, the likes of Carl “Flash” Tundo (Evo10), African Champion Manvir Baryan (Skoda Fabia R5) and Onkar Rai (Skoda Fabia R5) and seed one Jassi Chatthe (Evo10) are expected to call the shots. Tundo, the son of veteran Safari drive Frank Tundo, is seeking to win the Safari this year to equal Shekhar Mehta’s record of five. The only difference is that Shekhar won the event when it was a round of WRC and Tundo in the ARC era. Safari follows hot in the heels of the iconic Rallye Bandama of Ivory Coast where Kenya was represented by Piero Cannobio last February. Cannobio who is seeded 11th in the Safari is lying third on the ARC log behind Gary Chaynes who is giving Safari a wide berth due to lack of sponsorship.