There was never any assumption on the part of both President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga that their handshake provided a magic wand for the instant solving of Kenya’s problems, nor was the it meant to put in place a government of national unity which would absorb all interests left out in the current Jubilee administration. Genuine as these two issues are, they need to be discussed within a certain agreed framework. The handshake was meant to open the window of opportunity to arrive at this framework while, at the same time, giving a wide latitude to discuss many outstanding issues that bedevil the future of Kenya. And that may explain why our political system has so far been so dysfunctional. One of the problems that has faced us since the advent of multiparty politics in 1992 is elections. By themselves, they do not provide the necessary solution for our political conflicts and disputes over the use and distribution of national resources. One such important resource is access to state power and its use for self and ethnic interests. Notwithstanding our attempts after the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution to slay this dragon through a much more improved electoral process, we have been badly let down by retaining the presidential system of government and an extremely powerful Executive (the presidency, the civil service, the military, the intelligence and the foreign service), which does not seem to be accountable either to the people of Kenya or to the Constitution. This issue needs to be revisited, discussed and a long-lasting solution found. Otherwise, the mystery of the Eurobonds, wanton disobeying of court orders, skewed use of public resources and their deliberate waste will stifle this nation’s development for decades to come. Fortunately, Kenya is now ripe for such a discussion. The standoff between the two political camps following the extremely mismanaged presidential elections that led to the coming into play of two centers of power cannot simply be wished away. Paying homage to Uhuru as the President of the republic is a sizable fraction of Kenyans one cannot ignore. Swearing total loyalty to Raila as the People’s President legitimised by a mammoth peaceful assembly at Uhuru Park is yet another conglomeration of people one cannot wish away. But Kenya is not going to make much progress, if every five years we experience such phenomena, leading every government so produced to feel permanently insecure from spontaneous public rebellion. As James Mwangi of Equity Bank puts it, the demographic profile of Kenya provides a fertile ground for the advent of an Arab Spring any time. And the outcome of such uprising is full of uncertainty. It may lead to perpetual and continuous chaos or it may provide an opportunity for the ruling elite to reengineer the political system to be more inclusive and more progressively developmental. We cannot therefore assume it is business as usual and begin campaigning for the next elections, hoping we shall get different results. We will not. It will not matter who the candidates are. Under the present rules of the electoral game and the primacy we put on access to the presidency and executive power so that “we get our time to eat”, the outcome will be the same. It will be ethnic polarisation as usual; opportunistic coalitions that do not stand the test of time; wanton misuse of public resources in electioneering, primitive accumulation by those who capture state power and missed opportunities for development. As I have argued in other fora, human beings are a unique type of species compared to other animals and insects. We do not simply do “our thing” through instinct. We think, we are imaginative and we are capable of inventing new and better ways of doing things so as to survive better on this earth. In that regard, we are different from the spider which weaves an extremely beautiful web but has been doing so in the same pattern since time immemorial. We, on the other hand, have been changing our architectural designs incessantly from one generation to the other in multiple civilizations. But we humans can be very myopic, self-centered, self-regarding and hopelessly foolish and exclusive in pursuing our narrow self-interests justified by beliefs, ideologies and cultures. We have, therefore, gone into destructive wars and conflicts setting back the advancement of many civilizations, and totally destroying others, in the history of human kind. One would have thought that the advent of the United Nations after the Second World War would have put an end to this potential for human kind to enter into destructive conflicts within and among nations. Unfortunately not. We still have such conflicts tearing African nations asunder even today. The second important thing the handshake draws our attention to is that, if we continue going the way we are going today politically, we have a very high potential of going the South Sudan, Somali or Congo way. So why should we so consciously dig our own graves? Please remember the time-tested eKwendo Opanga warning: “When you find yourself at the bottom of a hole, stop digging.” I have a feeling our two leaders simply found themselves at the bottom of a hole and they decided to stop digging. Ideologues on both sides of the political divide, however, want them to dig on ‘to the logical conclusion’: “Kama mbaya ni mbaya”, is the war cry in certain quarters on both sides of the political divide. But that does not lead us anywhere. It is not a sign of great statesmanship. There is a Luo legend which says that when a general leads his troops to war, he must always keep on running ahead to attack the enemy, but he must never forget that part of the war is the possibility of retreating and re-strategising. Hence, the battle song “Ring ilokri thuon nyaka oringo ochweyo.” in other words, “Keep on running ahead but the brave one never fails to look back and re-strategise.”We all applaud our freedom fighters who have fought and brought us this far politically. We appreciate the sacrifices the heroes of the Second Liberation made to break down the presidential authoritarian regime and usher in the new Constitution. Thank you very much, but these achievements have still left us with tremendous problems. Let us look back to where we came from, recognise the false starts and re-strategise for a better future. If this is the opportunity the handshake is giving us, please let us not vilify Uhuru and Raila. Let us give them the opportunity to have their day in court. They have said they have set up a secretariat to work on the terms of reference for a national discourse for a new “and more perfect” republic and nation in Kenya. Let us embrace this opportunity. In the meantime, it would be better to put on hold premature campaigns for 2022, which assume that the present constitutional framework will still hold. My own feeling is that it would be an exercise in futility if anybody thinks Kenya will be another Singapore in the next 20 years, if we continue with our current electoral regime in 2022. Doing the same thing in the same way will get us the results we have gotten in the past. Only animals behave that way.  Prof Nyong'o is Kisumu governor