Many Catholic priests have expressed intentions to abandon priestly celibacy, join the Renewed Universal Catholic Church and get themselves wives. This is a splinter group of the Catholic Church which allows priests to marry. It also has a diocese in Meru. The church’s Mt Kenya region Archbishop, Peter Njogu, said people will be in for a rude shock in the next five years. The bishop disclosed that many priests of the Catholic Church have been calling him expressing interest in joining them. "We have a good number and more are ringing us and declaring interest. We will welcome them because they are ordained and we believe in their ordination," he said. "We feel the church should be reformed because it has messed up and is responsible for the departure of very many Christians who are regretting some of its actions." He spoke at Gachatha in Tetu sub-county, Nyeri county on Thursday, when he presided over the ordaining of new priest Phillip Muiga. Muiga, a father of five from Othaya sub-county, said he has experience in church work and will perform his duties diligently. The church has 15 priests, three having abandoned priestly celibacy and gotten married. Njogu added that most priests say they are tired of pretending. He disclosed that some call but are hesitant as they fear losing the privileges that come with priesthood such as vehicles, the comfort of their parish and job security. The Archbishop criticised the idea of celibacy saying its beginning was the end of the church. The bishop said many catholic priests in Africa have secret families and wondered why they should continue living in denial. He claimed there were 11 married Popes until 1123 when Gregory VII introduced the rule. "Celibacy was not biblical but just a discipline and it does not sanctify priesthood. There is a difference between celibacy and a call to priesthood," he stated. "Making priestly celibacy optional would encourage more people to join priesthood, reducing the shortage of priests in some parts of the world and increasing transparency in the church." The Mt Kenya church was started by Emmanuel Milingo who was the archbishop of the Catholic Church in Zambia. Njogu was ordained by Milingo in 2011 at an event held at Kamukunji grounds in Nyeri town. In March last year, Pope Francis said he was willing to consider ordaining older married men as priests in isolated communities to tackle a shortage of clergy. But he ruled out making celibacy optional. Celibacy is seen as a virtue that frees priests to devote their lives fully to serve God. "Voluntary celibacy is often discussed in this context, especially in places where there are shortages of clerics. But voluntary celibacy is not a solution," Francis sai. More on this: Pope considers old married men for priesthood, celibacy a must for others Also read: How did celibacy become mandatory for priests? Click here for the latest political news