 Many Catholic priests want to abandon celibacy and marry wives, a clergyman has said. Renewed Universal Catholic Church Mt Kenya region Archbishop Peter Njogu said they want to leave the church and join them. People will awaken to reality in the next five years, he said. Njogu was speaking on Friday at Gachatha in Tetu, Nyeri, during the ordination of a new priest. He criticised celibacy. Renewed Universal Catholic church is a splinter group of the Catholic Church. The church allows priests to marry. Njogu said many Catholic priests have called him and shown an interest in joining the church. We will welcome them because they are ordained priests and we believe in their ordination, he said. “Priests are tired of living pretentious lives. The Catholic Church needs reforms. It has been messed up. Christians are leaving the church because many things have gone wrong,” Njogu said. He claimed priests are hesitant to leave the church because they fear losing the privileges that come with priesthood such as vehicles, the comfort of their parish and job security. Njogu said many Catholic priests in Africa have secret families. He wondered why they church should be in denial. He said, before celibacy for priests was introduced there were 11 married popes until 1123 when Gregory the Seventh introduced the rule. “Celibacy isn’t Biblical,it is just discipline. It does not sanctify priesthood. There is a difference between celibacy and a call to priesthood,” Njogu said. Making celibacy optional would encourage more people to join priesthood. This will address shortage in some parts of the world and increase transparency in the church, he said. The Renewed Universal Catholic Church was started by Emmanuel Milingo, a former Archbishop of the Catholic Church in Zambia. Milingo, who practiced exorcism, faith healing and created a scandal in the Catholic Church when he married a Korean woman Maria Sung, was defrocked by the Vatican in 2009. Njogu was ordained by Milingo in 2011 at Kamukunji grounds in Nyeri town. The church has 15 priests - three are former Catholic priests. IT has a diocese in Meru. 