Chepochebunyo Mekela, an 80-year old granny at Lodengo in Tiaty subcounty, said last year she was dying of hunger. Her story was highlighted by the Star last year, but nothing has since been done to change her life. Her physically emaciated, light-weight body and deep voice is clear indication she really stares death due hunger. “I have not eaten food for four days. I only survive with a cup of uji mix porridge, which I cook daily with little water,” Mekela said. She said she is about to finish the kilogram of uji mix she was donated to her a week ago by the nurse in-charge of AIC Lodenyo dispensary, Clara Lotuw. Lotuw said the cartons of relief Uji mix were donated by the World Vision Kenya three weeks ago, targeting to cushion the hungry lactating mothers and malnourished children aged below five years. “But I was forced to share a portion to the hungry granny who approached me on Monday last week, saying she is dying of hunger,” Lotuw said. The grandmother says her four sons have deserted her to go and herd their livestock in Kolowa, along the Kerio Valley border of Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties. Currently, she is among over 10,000 hunger-stricken Pokot residents in Tiaty subcounty. She has nowhere to run to as she attributes her entire lifeline to relief handouts. Lotuw said she had little to offer every time the hungry women and children lie down outside the health facility, shivering while crying for food.  NGOs CHIP IN In May last year, Kenya Red Coss in collaboration with MTRH-Eldoret launched donation of over 3,000 bags of foodstuff at Lodengo, Kolowa division, to feed hungry residents of entire Tiaty. At the same time national government supplied 1,000 bags of maize. The NGOs donated bags of maize, beans, uji mix and salt to feed over 3,000 residents at among other 144 villages Lodengo, Chepkararat, Kakabul, Chebelion and Kaisakat in Kolowa in East Pokot. “We were targeting over 10,000 residents in the entire subcounty” Red Cross North Rift regional manager Michael Ayabei said, adding, “although our capacity may not be sufficient.” Ayabei said Red Cross is also issuing some Sh3, 000 cash transfer fund to the hungry victims to afford their basic commodities. “We are doing much we can to cushion the lives of the hungry population, although more is needed to be done,” Ayabei said, adding that the situation is as a result of long droughts and ongoing security operation. He said the residents in these drought-ravaged localities cannot continue depending on relief handouts year in year out. “The government must do something, be it sinking more boreholes, opening up pan dams and embracing irrigated agriculture to ensure constant supply of food among the communities throughout the year” he said, adding that insecurity has adversely affected development. Since the beginning of this year, the residents have been left in destitution not knowing where to get their daily food after the last relief supplies donated by the government stopped three months ago. The government issued some 200 bags of rice the hungry pokot community in Koloa on Monday last week, although this has turned out to be a drop in the sea. Last year, the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) Assistant Director Finance Mathews Birgen distributed some 400 bags of maize through their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).