Free maternity services in Nairobi could be hurt as City Hall and the National Hospital Insurance Fund engage in blame games over a Sh80 million debt owed to public hospitals. The county says the NHIF has not reimbursed its three main facilities – Mbagathi, Mama Lucy Kibaki and Pumwani Maternity hospitals - for the last three months for the Linda Mama, Boresha Jamii Programme. The Linda Mama, Boresha Jamii Programme is a free NHIF cover that meets all the maternity expenses in public and selected private facilities. It is one of the Jubilee government’s flagship programmes aimed at reducing child and maternal deaths. The delay, coupled with lack of medicine and other essential medical supplies in the county hospitals have threatened to jeopardise the programme. Those likely to be affected are mothers from low-income areas such as Kibera slum, Kayole and Mukuru slums. About 80-100 babies are delivered at Pumwani Maternity Hospital every day. The Mama Lucy Kibaki and Mbagathi hospitals each receives between 20-40 mothers daily. But the NHIF has denied the accusations and blamed the county for failing to claim the money. “We have been engaging them, but there has been no response. I have filed a report of all the claims from our maternity hospitals and submitted them to the governor so he can follow it up with the CEO,” Health executive Hitan Majevda said. NHIF’s CEO Geoffrey Mwangi did not respond to our phone calls and messages. But an official, who did not want to be named, said they have not received invoices from the county hospitals seeking reimbursement. “We don’t deal with county governments, but with individual hospitals. They make the claim and provide the necessary documents and we refund them within 14 days,” the official said. The programme was first launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013, to encourage women to seek maternity services in established health facilities. Initially, the Health ministry was reimbursing the hospitals through the county treasury, but it moved the programme to the NHIF. All expectant mothers registered with the NHIF have access to antenatal, delivery, postnatal care and one-year child care in all NHIF-accredited facilities. The government pays an annual premium of Sh6,000 per mother. The county has issued a circular to all its hospitals offering maternity services, to offer services free of charge, whether the pregnant mothers are registered with NHIF or not.