Teachers from Northeastern have defied the Teachers' Service Commission and refused to work in the region because of terror attacks. Many have fled the region bordering Somalis as attacks by al Shabaab have increased. They have camped at the TSC headquarters in Nairobi for a week, demanding immediate transfers to safer regions. The commission's CEO Nancy Macharia said, however, that non-local teachers are posted to safer "cosmopolitan" areas. Macharia has asked all county directors to send teachers back to the Northeast. She was taken to task last week by the National Assembly Education Committee for posting non-locals to dangerous areas in Wajir, Mandera and Garissa counties. Teacher Albert Makori told the Star the commission cannot guarantee their safety, saying teachers have lost their lives in areas termed cosmopolitan. “There is no cosmopolitan region in Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and all those northeastern regions. We demand transfers because safety is paramount," he said. BARRIERS Teacher Kinyua Kihara in Garissa told the Star said the posting is difficult because of resentment by some people. He also cited language barriers, cultural differences and poor housing. “Locals in some regions are hostile and do not want non-locals, mostly because of cultural gap. Most people are Muslims and feel unhappy when some teachers do not adhere to their customs, such as modest dressing, not mingling with the opposite sex, among other things,” Kihara said. In February the TSC announced it would review teachers' welfare countrywide to improve their terms and conditions of service. On February 16, al Shabaab killed two non-local teachers and the wife of one of them in Wajir; they seriously wounded six other teachers. Early this month, al Shabaab militants burnt a school and abducted two teachers in a night attack in Fafi in Garissa county. The militants carrying small arms and explosives also vandalised a mobile communication mast. On March 2, al Shabaab fighters killed five soldiers in Mandera. Click here for the latest political news   