The UK government has asked Kenyans not to politicise the unity talks between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga. British High Commissioner Nic Hailey on Tuesday told political leaders to support the initiative to move the country forward on matters development. He noted that Uhuru-Raila unity pact has seen business activities pick up steadily, adding that the same will impact positively on the lives of Kenyans. Read: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya The envoy spoke in Kisumu when he paid courtesy call to Governor Anyang' Nyong’o before visiting the county assembly. At the August House, he urged the MCAs to focus on development for the betterments of electorates. However, he pointed out that the country still needs to expand the dialogue to include everybody so that the unity pact to be realised effectively. "There is need to extend olive-branch to other leaders across the country,” Hailey added. He noted that the country cannot achieve any meaningful development without peace, hence the need for every leader and citizens to strive for unity. The High Commissioner said his government fully support initiatives aimed at unifying the country as enshrined in the law and for the benefit of Kenyan citizens. He added that the reconciliation process should be accompanied by an open dialogue involving politicians, religious, and civic leaders. "The talks should include strengthening institutions such as IEBC, Judiciary and reform of the security services," Hailey said. "Politicians should stop tearing down and attacking each other for political gain. Kenya’s democracy is precious and all citizens need to work together to protect and strengthen it." Further, Hailey pointed out that dialogue should also include matters geared towards strengthening devolution. The envoy said the talks should not only be aimed at resolving issues that emerged after August 2017 elections but also how to deal with underlined issues which will the country to develop. Also read: It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru On his part, Governor Nyong’o echoed the envoy's sentiments saying dialogue is right on course and appealed to other political leaders to support Uhuru-Raila unity deal. He noted that the handshake between the two leaders has brought conducive environment that Kenyans should take advantage of to empower themselves economically "instead of too much politicking." "We acknowledge that more efforts are needed to bring everyone on board because Kenyans are more divided," the county boss said. See: [VIDEO] Raila, Uhuru hang out at Muthaiga Golf Club after 'famous handshake' Click here for the latest political news