Weeks after the glaring absence of Nasa principals at Raila Odinga's swearing-in, ANC Secretary General Barrack Muluka claims he tricked them. In a Citizen TV interview on Wednesday night, Muluka gave yet another version of events on January 30, when ODM leader Raila became the People's President. "DIRTY GAME PLAYED" Muluka said principals Kalonzo Musyoka (would-be People's Deputy President, Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) had agreed to meet that morning before proceeding to Uhuru Park. "I was there and I was waiting. Even Boni Khalwale (former Kakamega Senator) was there [alongside] the other principals ... they were thrown into a spin, into a state of confusion." The SG noted the possibility of the swearing-in not taking place. He said the veteran Opposition leader was to call the principals to inform them of a meeting place before going to the venue. "Raila knows in the name of God that what I am saying is the truth. He told the gentlemen to switch off their phones and that he would reach them with a foreign number from Nigeria," he said. "... that call never came ... and they were not foolish enough to switch off their phones ... " Muluka said that as they waited, Raila later phoned a principal whom he did not name. "One of them got a call from him. In that phone call, which was put on speaker [mode], Raila said 'I am marooned' and was asked 'marooned by which people' and he said 'these people'." He said they asked Raila whether it was by police of the military but that his answer remained the same. "He was asked and he said 'these people' then he later said he would call us and tell us how we would meet," he said. "Then he goes to the park ... and you come here and call us cowards. We have never been cowards." Raila took the oath surrounded by lawyers Miguna Miguna, Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang and Siaya Senator James Orengo. As the public and the world wondered where his coalition partners were on the crucial day, he told their charged supporters that there was an explanation and allayed fears of cracks in the National Super Alliance. The trio have since issued conflicting statements for their no-show and have been termed "irredeemable cowards" for not standing with Raila, who once said their actions were part of a grand strategy. More on this: Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth Also see: [AUDIO] Raila tells Zimbabwe why he took oath as the People's President SOMEONE PLAYING DIRTY TRICKS? Muluka concluded that "someone" is playing a dirty trick on the four Nasa parties. "Somebody is playing a dirty game. You make the victims look like the villains and you drag them through the sewer so that by the time you are done with them, they are so dirty, stinking and nobody want to talk to them," he said.  Supporters of the National Super Alliance during ODM leader Raila Odinga's inauguration as the People's President at Uhuru Park in Nairobi, January 30, 2018.  /JACK OWUOR Last week, Mudavadi claimed Raila tricked his co-principals into missing his controversial swearing-in ceremony. The Amani National Congress boss alleged that his ODM counterpart “sneaked” into Uhuru Park as the other principals waited for him at a location in Nairobi. They were to continue discussions that had extended late into the previous night at the location believed to have been Serena Hotel. Khalwale also said Raila reneged on a last minute-minute agreement with the UN to call off his self-inauguration. “Whoever is calling the co-principals cowards does not have the information the co-principals had,” he said. Read: Mudavadi to Atwoli: Raila betrayed us More on this: Raila reneged on deal with UN to call off oath plans, says Khalwale On the 2022 presidential election, Muluka said his boss will not vie but termed him the President in waiting. "I have to tell the country the truth. The Nasa Agreement states that the 2017 presidential candidate will not be the presidential candidate in 2022. Trying to demonise people as cowards and betrayers is wrong," he said. He added the coalition sealed the deal and that succession games were within Raila's orange party. "The mantle will be carried by one of the principals," he said. MULUKA A NOISEMAKER? ODM Communications director Philip Etale commented on Muluka's remarks via Twitter on Thursday morning. The day [host Jeff Koinange] shall invite serious pundits with knowledge in matters, ECONOMY; to discuss the country's dwindling economy and how Kenya can get out of the current economic situation, [is when we] shall we take his show seriously. Discussing [Raila] and peddling lies is not good." "You know what, nobody cares about [one, two or three] noisemakers on unproductive TV talk shows, trying hard to serve the interests of our enemy. We choose to ignore them. For as long as the FOUR PRINCIPALS can convene meetings, have tea and talk, the rest is just TEST TUBE noise." Raila’s possible sixth stab at the Presidency continues to stir heated debate within Nasa amid conversations about whether he should retire. While a section of his lieutenants from Luo Nyanza are pushing Raila, 73, to take another attempt at the highest office at age 77, two of his deputies are angling to succeed him. Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) have both declared their 2022 presidential bids, erecting a roadblock for Raila, even within ODM. Read : Signs Raila will run in 2022, NASA co-principals back to drawing board Also read: Even Kenyatta became President in his 70s, Amos Wako tells 'young' Raila ODM’s move to revamp itself and lieutenants launching vicious attacks on the three Nasa principals has also been described as a strategy to exit the coalition. Insiders told the Star that ODM's alleged pending exit has pushed other principals in the coalition together. As a result, the principals are back to the drawing board to solidify grassroots support. Details: Is Raila planning to leave Nasa ahead of 2022 election? Click here for the latest political stories