There was a sigh of relief within the rank and file of Kenyan champions Gor Mahia after they avoided North African clubs and instead drew SuperSport United in the last 16 of the Caf Confederations Cup. Gor will host the first leg between April 6-8. K’Ogalo had probably gotten weary of falling at the hands of the likes of Tunisian side in recent years but club official Ronald Ngala was adamant that SuperSport will equally be a tough opponent. “At this stage of the competition, there is no easy draw. What is important maybe is where the second leg is played and how you prepare for the game. I know as a club, we have been frustrated by being knocked out by North African sides but with all due respect to SuperSport, it’s good we are meeting a team from another part of Africa, who will provide us with a different challenge,” Ngala remarked. It will be the first time in decades that K’Ogalo venture into this stages of continental competition and Ngala revealed they want to leave a lasting impression. “Obviously, we are proud to be still in continental competition. Our aim was to do well in the Champions League but here we are in the Confederations Cup and our target is to do as well as we can,” Ngala said. Gor returned to the country on Tuesday afternoon and after the exertions of their Champions League duel with Esperance, the players got a welcome break from coach Dylan Kerr and will resume training today. “The team was due to return to training yesterday but the plans were shelved as they were required to be at Kasarani for the Adak forum. Again some of our players are away on international duty but according to the coaches, those who are available will train today,” Ngala disclosed. With the controversy over the withdrawal of Ugandan international Godfrey Walusimbi from the trip to Tunisia for the return leg clash of the Champions League still simmering, Ngala was unsure if Walusimbi will play a part in the Confederations Cup. “The issue of Walusimbi was about money and that is yet to be resolved. So I am not sure how the matter will play out but we hope for the sake of the club and the player, a solution will be found soon,” Ngala concluded. Gor’s next match will be a Kenyan Premier League clash against Vihiga United a week on Saturday. The tie had been slated for Machakos Kenyatta Stadium but the latest communication from the Gor secretary general suggested it may be moved to the Moi Stadium in Kisumu. K’Ogalo who have played a game less are top of the table on goal difference to arch rivals AFC Leopards.