Laikipia county commissioner Onesmus Musyoki yesterday issued a shoot-to-kill order against cattle rustlers. He ordered recently recruited National Police Reservists to deal ruthlessly with the bandits, who have killed and maimed residents and stolen their livestock. Musyoki said the reservists’ rigorous training was meant to prepare them to fight invasions by the raiders. “You have the authority to shoot those criminals. That is the work of those guns. There is no way two or three people will be allowed to terrorise a whole location or division when you are here,” he said. Musyoki was speaking in Wamura village, Laikipia Central, during a peace meeting. On Monday, a man was shot dead at Nandung’uru, Laikipia North subcounty, by suspected cattle rustlers who also stole five head of cattle. Mukogodo East MCA Daniel Nyausi said Ntooti Parmashu was attacked while watering his livestock. The county has recruited at least 800 police reservists and deployed them in hotspots in Laikipia North. The majority of the reservists were deployed in private ranches, which have come under increased invasion by herders seeking pasture for their livestock. In March last year, Briton Tristan Voorspuy was killed by pastoralists who had invaded his Sosian Ranch. In January scores of armed attackers burnt down the main tourist lodge in the 44,000-acre Suyian Conservancy and international visitors were evacuated. RESIDENTS FLEE Musyoki asked politicians to stop politicising the recruitment, saying the officers were employed under the national government. He said those who will be found with stolen livestock will face the full force of the law and their animals will be confiscated. County police commander Simon Kipkeu said officers had received their three-month stipend. He urged the officers to use the weapons provided by the government to protect residents and their property. Some residents have fled following perennial cattle rustling and killings. National Drought Management Authority officer Henry Mustafa urged residents to learn to coexist and shun violence to give government an opportunity to develop the region. Click here for the latest political news