“I imagine things and make them a reality”: Kenyan youth about what creativity means to them.  I asked young Kenyans ‘what is creativity?’, ‘what is art?’ and ‘why are these important?’. I share with you their thoughts.  Patrick Mulinge, 14. Creativity helps me to live a wonderful life, especially when I see good things I have made. I imagine things and make them a reality.  Mesaidi Juma, 13. Creativity helps children to develop their talents and know where they can go after they finish school. Creativity helps me to go towards my ambition. I know my talents are my survival.  Regina Mwihaki, 17, and Anne Njeri, 16. We designed an eco-friendly seedling bag out of sisal and banana stalk fibre as we were concerned about the plastic menace in Kenya. This is creativity. Art is an expression. While subjective, it unites people. Without creativity and art, the world would come to a standstill, and we humans would be unwell. Creativity and art are the engines of Mother Earth.  Saumu Hamadi, 13. Children use their minds to create many things. Creativity makes our minds more creative. It makes our minds to think big.  John Mutahi, 20. Creativity is where I use my imagination. Art is where I express my creativity. Art and creativity make us innovative and lead us to the inventions that make the world a better place.  Rukia Hassan, 13. Creativity and innovation help people to earn a living. Children who are more creative and innovative will be more able to make and sell things.  Simon Kariuki, 24. Creativity is what sparks change and improves quality of life. It is the little things we do to live every day. From the simple technology of boiling water to the high-end medical practice of cancer treatment. Creativity is the very fabric of humanity. It brings prosperity to a nation. Lack of creativity is a sign of a nation’s downfall.  Jesie Otumba Otieno, 21. Art is something that can move people just by looking at it. It makes us feel. Creativity is the act of changing and recreating things in a unique way.  Amina Seif, 14. Creativity helps me to achieve goals and to come up with things of my own. It also helps me inspire other children who think they cannot be creative.  Samuel Otieno, 21. Creativity is the ability to open up to the new and not to rely on the old ‘truths’. Art helps us to look and understand what we see, and act on what we have learned.  June Wambua, 23. Creativity is a gift we are all born with. It is the ability to add value. For example, I painted using my palette knife and created textured paintings, adding a 3D aspect to my works. Creativity makes our life better and exciting. As we express ourselves, we bring change and through that change, we evolve socially, technologically and spiritually. Art is the outcome of creativity. It is a physical expression of one’s imagination, emotions and ideas.  Miriam Savala, 13. Creativity helps me do things the way I wish.  Claire Kuria, 17. Creativity enables me to think outside the box. The result is innovative approaches to tasks. Art is a visual expression of my creativity. I express my thoughts in pictures that words cannot describe. In drawings, there is a lot you can say that carries meaning.  Mariam Ronald, 12. The person who creates is a creator.  Alla Tkachuk is the founder of the MASK Prize creativity competition for young Kenyans. Enter the MASK Prize before 1 April to win prizes on www.mobileartschoolinkenya.org/MASK-Prize 