A bank housed in Nyali premises where Nakumatt was evicted last week was broken into on Saturday night. A report filed at Bamburi police station on Sunday shows that Charterhouse Bank was broken into at around midnight. Police said the demolishers gained access into the bank by drilling its walls and breaking doors. The extent of the damage, of the bank- under receivership, is yet to be ascertained. City Mall management said they will respond on the said demolition on Monday. The incident occurred a few days after Nakumatt holdings was evicted from the premises over rent arrears. Sources, who did not want to be quoted, said no receiver managers were at the site. Police are probing if the two events are related, an officer privy to the case said. Charterhouse Bank was placed under statutory management on June 23, 2006 for alleged engagement in illegal activities. Read: Central Bank occupies Charterhouse Bank and stays mute... for 10 years Nakumatt estimates that it lost Sh300 million in items which were destroyed during the eviction. Court appointed administrator Peter Kahi issued a statement quoting the figures. The retailer was thrown out by Ideal Location - the landlord, over a Sh27 million rent arrears. About 100 hired casuals removed Nakumatt's property. The eviction was executed by Makuli Auctioneers. Ideal Location said rent was not paid between October and November last year. Nakumatt has challenged the eviction in court. [VIDEO] Nakumatt evicted from City Mall a day after court order Read; Nakumatt evicted from mall in Nanyuki, goods looted at dawn The suit was filed by manager Isaac Koli last week on Wednesday seeking to stay the process that led to their eviction. The case was before Justice C. Yano who certified the case as urgent but the applicant was asked to take a date at the registry. Nakumatt on Friday further filed a judicial review for the court to quash proceedings taken before Justice Oyano on March 6,  approving a decree of even date,  without regard to the due procedure as provided in law. They also sought an order quashing the execution  and sealing of a decree. They want the Deputy registrar to execute and seal a proper decree with regard to the due procedure as provided by the law. They argued that the process was to take seven days but hours after the order was issued,  the auctioneers moved in to evict Nakumatt,  leading to loss of property worth millions. On Monday, (tomorrow),  Nakumatt will move to the Court of appeal and file a certificate of urgency before appellate judges Alnashir Visram,  Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome,  to stay proceeding at the high court and also quash orders earlier issued by the court.*  Click here for the latest political news 