The handshake between Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga last Friday has been has been likened to the coming together of tectonic plates that had been ripped apart through time. Their handshake reverberated across the nation and it was not just felt in Kenya but across the region, and you could even say right across the world. It ushered in a blanket of goodwill that has not been witnessed in this country perhaps since the Duke of Edinburgh shook hands with Jomo Kenyatta in Jamhuri Gardens, handing him the instruments of Independence. Since then, more people have shaken hands, including MPs Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and Charles Njagua, aka Jaguar (Starehe). The two had engaged in a fistfight earlier on in Parliament that epitomised the political divide in the House. The two shook hands for the first time since their famous fight and were seen in amiable laughter in Parliament. Many other Kenyans have also been shaking hands — in offices, churches, clubs and other social places. The handshake has been billed as the balm the nation needed to heal. So it is over? Did the Uhuru-Raila handshake wipe out everything? Did the deep divisions witnessed during the last electioneering period end just like that? No, not quite. Although it gave us a much-needed truce, there is a class of Kenyans that feels betrayed. They feel it came in the place of a proper resolution of matters that had caused the divisions in the first place. In fact, Raila, in his speech, was categorical he did not understand when the rain began beating us. But is it really true we do not know when the rain began beating us? Or is it because he is shielded from the ‘rain’ and now forgets when the rain started? There are those asking why the handshake did not come sooner. If bringing such calm into the country happened so easily, why did it wait this long? Perhaps the timing wasn’t good, but then, again, was there any effort made to create a truce or were we left to watch as Kenyans got butchered by the police, as they protested the outcome of the election result? Did we have to wait until things got this bad? We saw the law politicised and the Judiciary become a playing field for political foes. Many people got into — political and legal — trouble and many lost their lives. At the last count, it was 380 people said to have died in the last round of the election. So it all ended with a handshake?  WHERE THE RAIN BEGAN BEATING US Raila should have known when the rain began to beat us. He said in his speech, “No two Kenyans agree on the origins of the differences and what they portend.” That was the most peculiar statement, as, indeed, for, as a leader, he actually knows when the rain began beating us. When we politicised practically everything, from our resources to our ethno-geographical spaces to our ethnicities. That was when the rain began to beat us. The narrative of ‘them vs us’ laced by artificial typecasts and stereotypes dominated political conversation. The architects of these divisions happen to be the very same ruling class on both sides of the political divide. We probably need a national conversation about this.  THE AGE OF ANTI-POLITICS Political thinkers such as Ted Tieze say the kind of politics connected to the State and based on representation (through elected leaders), is collapsing internationally. He argues the people are moving out of the current state of politics and have little faith in elected representatives and national leaders. This skepticism is incubated by the highly unpredictable nature of politics and this is what he calls anti-politics. One moment a leader is standing for something, and just as we are getting used to that position – it changes like really immediately. Raila’s U-turn, while it has given us much-needed peace, has moved a constituency to a degree of anti-politics. Now there are people who consider the new position a betrayal of their faith in him, particularly when they recall past incidences when such handshakes never yielded much.  THE WIND OUT OF MIGUNA’S SAILS One of those who was raring to go the whole hog against Jubilee was self-styled NRM ‘General’ Miguna Miguna. He had prepared himself to incubate a popular revolution in Kenya and even when he was deported to Canada, he has been preparing to return and mobilise five million people to march in the capital. Riding on the continued narrative of the illegitimacy of Uhuru’s presidency, he planned to ran him out of town and (presumably) install Raila as President. He had already created the position of ‘People’s President’, making Raila take the oath on January 30 and the next phase was to give him State power. All the energy that went into all that action has been dissipated into the cold by the handshake. He will return to find an anti-political nation.  WAVE OF ANTI-POLITICS But we are not alone in this deflation from politics. There is a wave of anti-politics sweeping across the world. Ever since Donald Trump came to power, a good number of Americans are now completely apolitical. They do not think the electoral system still makes any sense to them. The handshake has sent us towards this reality. There is a wave of detachment from elective politics, elected leaders and the individuals that run our political affairs. We in Kenya are virtually over-represented, with several tiers of leaders. But these leaders are not really felt by the common man. Already, many people live like they do not exist.  HOW WE GOT HERE When our MPs made themselves among the highest paid representatives in the world, they received lots of flak from most of us. But the truth is that those who castigated them the most are those who do not need them after all. I was once invited to a meeting at the private residence of a Rift Valley county governor. As we drove into the expansive compound, I was surprised to see so many people standing at his gate. I wondered what they wanted and my guide told me these are people with all manner of problems who need to see the governor. I began to see where the seven-figure salary goes to and why the MPs and other representatives are always clamouring for more. If we had moved towards full employment, we would see much less of this. And while you and I may not need these leaders financially, there is a class that needs them, that is why they will camp outside their residences for hours on end. This is what makes it very difficult to get to your elected representative. Their phones are fully jammed by financial demands so that other serious issues requiring their attention are often ignored. In the United Kingdom, for instance, the representatives live like everyone else. They hassle the London tube or travel using its extensive public transport system to get to work as everyone else. If the Prime Minister needs to go to Birmingham, for instance, they will most likely take the train from London. Kenya’s Deputy President perhaps spends more time in the air than he does on the road. Now, if you don’t need him again, you behave like he does not exist. As more people move out of the clutches of poverty, we are increasingly going into an era of anti-politics. It will reduce the level of clamour for political leadership. This is why you see Kenyans who become citizens of foreign nations, easily becoming elected into public office because many people really do not give politics the kind of attention we do. They became anti-political.   Sang is a writer and biographer, researcher, publisher and commentator on leadership and social issues