Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen is today expected to brief the House on the progress of the NCIC probe into an alleged derogatory Kikuyu song against Kamba. National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairman Francis Kaparo was yesterday under fire from opposition senators who accused him of taking the matter lightly. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka directed Murkomen to respond today. Read: NCIC probes Ikamba song for insults against Kambas The senators, led by Minority Leader Moses Wetang’ula, responded to a statement tabled by Senator Enock Wambua (Kitui), demanding to know what the government is doing over the issue. Wambua said although the song is directed at Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and her county’s ban on charcoal trade, its message targets the entire Kamba community. Related: Prosecute artistes behind 'derogatory' Ikamba song, Mutula Jr tells DPP “Kaparo has remained silent and making faint noises on the derogatory audio against the Kamba community,” Wetang’ula said. The Bungoma Senator and NASA co-principal said Kaparo should have summoned the musicians the way he summoned Ngilu after residents in her county razed a lorry while enforcing the county’s law banning charcoal. The debate in Senate over the matter at some point put the Jubilee and NASA members at loggerheads. More: Wiper condemns 'Ikamba' song, asks all counties to ban charcoal trade The Jubilee senators, including Murkomen, Ephraim Maina (Nyeri) and Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu) accused their opposition counterparts of exaggerating the matter and that the issue was already under investigation. The artistes, Isaiah and Waharaka, in their new song on the ban of charcoal in Kitui, have sparked off an outcry. They are accused of mocking Kambas. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr on Monday wrote to the Director of Public Prosecutions, demanding the song be pulled down from the internet on grounds it threatens Kikuyu and Kamba unity. “If not pulled down, they will do more harm than good...the artistes should be arrested and charged forthwith for fuelling ethnic hatred against a community with no justifiable cause,” Kilonzo said. Kilonzo Jnr wrote to acting DPP Dorcas Oduor, despite the Kaparo-led NCIC launching investigations. Kilonzo said the song’s suggestion that Kambas will eat dogs and wild birds when the mango season is over, is derogatory, distasteful and unnecessarily provocative.  Click here for the latest political news 