Mt Elgon killings are as a result of historical land injustices which should be addressed urgently by the National Land Commission. This is according to a report by the 11 members of the Bungoma Assembly’s adhoc committee on insecurity in Mt Elgon and Bumula Sub-Counties. Bethewel Mwambu, MCA of Mbakalu ward in Tongaren, is the chair while Jane Chebeti of Cheptais in Mt Elgon Constituency is the deputy. The team was formed at a special siting of ward representatives in January, as convened by Speaker Emmanuel Situma. It was tasked with keenly looking at the escalating incidents of insecurity in the two sub-counties. The members noted that more than 500 people have been displaced from their ancestral land and more than 30 killed in the last five months, a major violation of human rights. Read: Man killed, three raped, SLDF ex-commander shot dead in Mt Elgon Also read: 2 brothers shot dead in Mt Elgon gang attack, two others injured While tabling the committee's 51-page report at the Assembly on Wednesday, chairman Mwambu said many land injustices have grown into "wounds that need to be healed before more lives are lost". "We have renown leaders who have grabbed huge acres of land for framing. Whenever they are asked to surrender it becomes an issue," he said. "Mr Speaker, we recommend that the state, through the Lands ministry, settles the landless people in Chepyuk and the squatters. It should also give title deeds that will assure ownership and encourage environmental responsibility. "In the process of settling down Chepyuk residents, we require an audit on beneficiaries of phases one, two and three, who could have benefited twice at the expense of others, causing these wars." Mwambu noted that Kenya Police Reservists should be recruited in areas affected by insecurity to help police who are not familiar with the terrain. The report recommend that serious disciplinary actions be taken against state officials and officers who are hiding criminals and working with them to fuel crimes. "There is need to overhaul all security details in Mt Elgon and transfer police officers who have overstayed and are now liaising with thugs to terrorise residents. The incompetent should be sacked," he added. "Corruption by police and others state officials is the order of the day in Mt Elgon. Quick intervention is needed as thugs easily bribe their way out of trouble." More on this: [VIDEO] Gangster Mt Elgon police will be arrested and prosecuted, Ruto warns The MCA further noted that national and county governments should provide mechanisms for employing youths who are idle and are being recruited into militia groups. Boda boda businesses should be streamlined and closed by 6pm daily as criminals use them, he also said. The report also recommends that the national and county government initiate joint border disarmament exercises in Uganda and Kenya. Dialogue and other non-violence methods were also proposed in the bid to restore peace. The committee further said the government should provide adequate security at porous border points to prevent the smuggling of weapons "Community polices should be encouraged and militias disbanded and rehabilitated [through joint efforts by Mt Elgon leaders]," the report states. The committee also asked the county and the national government to build roads and work with service providers for strong networks as they have been neglected since independence. The team reported that some of the thugs are people who were promised land by some politicians after polls but missed out after their candidates lost. Musikoma MCA George Makari said the report should be adopted to save Mt Elgon which is the county's economical hub. "Let the implementation of the  report not focus much on Bumula where we have petty crimes by people addicted to sex and chang'aa. Let it deal with Mt Elgon where we have guns in wrong hands and people being raped and killed day and night," he said. "Last year we heard on news of a woman from Mateka in Bumula whose child died while she was having sex in a room with a mpango wa kando. She locked the child in a car and it suffocated. We also heard of a father who married off his daughter to settle a debt at an illicit brew den." Politics has also been cited as another major cause of wars in the region. Click here for the latest political news