Scientists are cracking their heads on how to save the northern white rhino from extinction. They include veterinarians, conservationists and wildlife managers from the Czech Republic, Kenya, the UK and South Africa. Efforts to have natural breeding are practically impossible. Scientists are exploring in-vitro fertilisation with southern white rhino surrogates. This has never been done before.Sex cells have been harvested from living rhinos with preparations having started in December last year. Eggs from southern white rhino females in European zoos have been retrieved and stored. Read  : Bleak future for Sudan, the last male northern white rhino on the planet They will be fertilised in in-vitro conditions. The plan is to isolate the potential southern white rhino female surrogates from any males, ensuring they are ‘empty’ and ready for receiving a northern white rhino embryo. The procedure will involve using northern white rhino sperm from several (now deceased) males stored in Berlin, Germany. male in poor health The only northern white rhino eggs in the world can only be implanted on the two live females at Ol Pejeta - Najin and Fatu - who are 28 and 17 years old respectively. The last male northern white rhino on the planet is in poor health. Sudan’s health is failing, putting the subspecies one step closer to extinction. Ol Pejeta chief executive Richard Vigne said “Sudan could die soon.” Sudan has been showing signs of remarkable improvements in the face of adversity. “Man has driven another species to extinction,” he said.The surgery required to harvest the eggs carries inherent risks. The fate of the northern white rhino subspecies depends on this operation going smoothly. Rhinos have a life expectancy of 40 to 50 years. Vigne said even though death is inevitable, it is worrying that only two females will be left in the world. “It will have implications to the species. The prognosis is that because of his old age, he is suffering and it is just a matter of time,”Vigne told the Star on the phone yesterday. all’s not lost The conservancy said Sudan’s health had deteriorated on Thursday. On Saturday, the conservancy said in its official Twitter account Sudan came out of his boma,before taking a stroll in the larger enclosure and grazed peacefully. “Our beloved Mzee has clearly not lost the will to live and is not going down without a fight,” the conservancy said. On Friday night, Sudan is reported to have walked around, taking a mud bath after the long-awaited rains. Vigne said veterinary officers from the conservancy and Kenya Wildlife Service are giving him the best possible care and monitoring him round the clock to ensure he gets better. Also read : Horny male seeks mate: Kenya's last northern white rhino joins Tinder The conservancy is appealing to wellwishers to provide funds that will go towards saving the species. It targets to raise $10,000 (Sh1,012,858 ). By midday yesterday, 31 supporters had raised Sh142,811.85. The rhino arrived at Ol Pejeta in 2009. Sudan is now 45, about 90 years old in human years. He developed an age-related infection on his back right leg at the end of 2017. A team of vets from around the world took care of him, and he responded well to treatment, healing quickly. Sudan resumed normal movement and foraging habits in January to mid-February. However, a secondary and much deeper infection was discovered beneath the initial one. This has been treated, but the infection is taking longer to cure. Click here for the latest political news