President Uhuru Kenyatta has mourned renown physicist Steven Hawking and hopes his distinguished work will inspire Kenyans. Hawking lost his battle against the motor-neuron disease on Wednesday morning. Read: Physicist Stephen Hawking, who conquered the stars, dies at 76 Hawking was a distinguished physicist, Uhuru noted in his condolence message via Twitter, adding he was dismayed by the news. "[His] distinguished work gave us a new understanding of the universe and its history. Hawking overcame severe disability and difficulty to give us a new understanding of human possibility," he said. The President hopes Hawking inspires Kenyans and others in the world to seek knowledge as relentlessly as he did. "Hawking's ideas live on in his books, including ‘A Brief History of Time’, which inspires new generations of inquirers." Hawking died peacefully at his home in Cambridge at the age of 76. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration eulogised him as a superman, renown physicist and ambassador of Science. Via Twitter, Nasa said the physicist's theories unlocked a universe of possibilities. "Nasa and the world are exploring the universe through Hawking's theories ... may you keep flying like superman in micro-gravity." Many mourned Hawkings via the social media platform, '@neiltyson' saying his passing has left an intellectual vacuum. "But it's not empty. Think of it as a kind of vacuum energy permeating the fabric of spacetime that defies measure." Amit Shah 'said said the professor was a great mind and human being, and an intellectual giant who held hope for the future and humanity. "He contributed massively to our understanding of the universe. Stephen Hawking will undoubtedly echo through the years." '@daraobriain' said: What a privilege it was to know Stephen Hawking. His work elevated us to the extra-ordinary; his life pushed down a terrible, limiting disease so that he could enjoy the full joy of the ordinary. In both, he was a triumph of what can we, as humans, can achieve. '@Hersyndeerk' wrote: "You make me want to work even harder and contribute to our world of Science." Caroline Lucas posted: “Remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see and wonder about what makes the universe exist. However difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do and succeed at. It matters that you don’t just give up.” Mystically, Hawking died on Pi Day when annual celebrations of the mathematical constant π take place. March 14 is also the birthday of Albert Einstein, a German physicist who developed the theory of relativity. Hawking was born on the 300th anniversary of Galileo’s death. Also read: How physicist Stephen Hawking defied the odds for 55 years Click here for the latest political news