Could the chickens be coming home to roost a little too early? The unfolding events in the last week demonstrate a strain in the national body politic. The March 9 handshake was expected to make things flow smoothly for the rank and file on both sides of the political divide. However, indications are that from the steps of Harambee House, nothing significant has taken place to move the cooperation beyond the handshake. Political happenings following immediately after the much-hyped encounter indicate a not-quite-rosy relationship between Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta. The NASA co-principals had earlier on promised to support their captain in the realisation of a national unity agenda as agreed upon at Harambee House. When they emerged from a closed-door meeting in Athi River, the NASA leaders assured Kenyans of their unfailing commitment to the coalition agenda. They also took the opportunity to reiterate their strong unity and vowed to remain together, each as their brothers’ keeper. But no sooner had the media carried this story than the ODM wing threw out Senator Moses Wetang’ula from the plum seat of Minority leader in the Senate. Wetang’ula promised a messy and noisy divorce. The Raila brigade was determined and the Bungoma Senator saw the sense in relinquishing the position, albeit grudgingly. Together with brother Musalia Mudavadi of ANC, they retreated to their home turf of Western region in a bid to rejuvenate the ever-elusive Luhya Unity Project. The results of what had been billed as a whistle-stop tour of their bedrock support base were nothing to write home about. But it was now crystal clear that Mudavadi as well had jumped out of the sinking NASA ship. Wetang’ula was jettisoned by the ODM right wing and found it difficult to plead his innocence in the court of hyenas, as he called the retreat planned in a fortnight. In the Wiper den, Kalonzo Musyoka has maintained a studious silence. His last and only public statement was in support of the Harambee House handshake. All in all, it is a foregone conclusion that NASA is dead and each of the four principals is on his own. They will seek to find relevance in the unfolding political environment that is currently very shaky and dynamic. While Uhuru appears to maintain control over his backyard, Raila seems to have exposed himself to isolation by throwing away his co-principals. His erstwhile allies have applied the pressure and sought to find their respective political fortunes or fates individually. However, they have not left happily and have promised to avenge the humiliation they suffered at the hands of Raila’s lieutenants. The Western duo have made it clear that Raila must be taught a lesson so that nobody will ever take Luyhas for granted again. These painful lessons will be served in small but deadly potent portions. What these claims or threats show is a determination to get back at Raila, not a strategy to find a strong footing within the national political arena. They thus pose immediate danger to Raila’s stratagem because they know him much better. Their intention to take revenge — rather than reorganise themselves — puts them in the category of political suicide bombers. They would rather die politically, if that is the only and surest way to retire Raila from the national political grid. More worrying are the internal forces within ODM that are unhappy with the handshake. They constitute the left wing of the party that has been extremely radical and sustained the struggle for justice anytime the leaders floundered. They have not registered their disapproval publicly but are convinced the pact will contribute nothing significant in reforming the national leadership structure. They still follow the Raila of the late 1980s and 1990s. They continue to follow him because of his charisma but have disdain for his mellowing and warming up to the status quo conservatives. The proponents of the twin movements of resistance and People’s Assemblies are revolutionary in thought and character unlike their right-wing counterparts, who are progressive and legalistic. They are, therefore, sure that the truce between Raila and Uhuru will never last, and the return to the streets is a matter of when — not if. In the circumstances, therefore, Raila has to contend with ODM internal turmoil and spend more efforts in keeping his troops together. The majority of NASA supporters were in the opposition because they felt excluded from government by the first UhuRuto administration. They banked on Raila to take them to Canaan, where they would also enjoy the nyama, as it were. They are thus hoping and expecting a better life after the handshake. They expect to see their solders absorbed into the rank and file of the mainstream government agencies: They hope to profit from lucrative government tenders; and they expect to be accorded VIP treatment, befitting the dignity of owners of government. Raila is supposed to make all this happen and his supporters do not want to know how he makes it happen. They never seem to care that their Baba has to lobby Uhuru, who in turn has to respect government processes for such requests to be granted. Raila supporters are aware Uhuru has another four years in office and has nothing to offer post 2022. Yet, they have to deal with the likelihood of a William Ruto presidency — and the DP feels slighted by the grand handshake, in which he was not consulted. The future for Raila supporters, therefore, looks bleak and they will put immense pressure on him to squeeze any political fruits within the short four years of Uhuru’s term. Since Raila has not stated whether he will vie again or not, the succession politics within ODM is going to rear its ugly head again. While the NASA fallout has helped him sort out Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula, within ODM there are people who have been cooling their heels in hopes of succeeding him. It comprises the third generation of the Second Liberation movement. The most notable are Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya. The two ODM governors and deputy party leaders have not only distinguished themselves as diehard Raila supporters but also as performers in public service delivery. They have thus endeared themselves to the core of ODM’s support base on the one hand, and are serving their last terms as governors on the other. Being ambitious and having considerable resources, they are likely to seek to rise in their political careers. They may choose to work together in this journey of seeking the ODM ticket and compete as gentlemen, or each may decide to be Machiavellian and employ ruthless tactics. In the latter, one would come out as a fierce defender of the unity between Uhuru and Raila, while the other would by default take the opposite position. These would prove to be trying and difficult moments for Raila. His efforts to reorganise and rebrand ODM, as the most dominant and vibrant political party, would be seriously threatened and might fail. ODM may suffer the fate of NASA and many other parties before it in Kenyan political history. It would splinter into factions and eventually fade into oblivion. In such a scenario, all accusing fingers will point at Jakom as the man who burnt his house as he left for a long journey. His legacy of uniting the country will not be appreciated by his hitherto loyal support base.  UHURU SITTING PRETTY Matters are not helped by the fact that President Uhuru does not appear enthusiastic about reciprocating the goodwill from Raila. Ever since they pleasantly surprised the country with that famous handshake, nothing tangible has been witnessed. It has been left to Raila to single handedly explain to the country the reasons behind their coming together. The ODM leader has struggled on many occasions to counter claims that the move was self-seeking and has no agenda for the country. The situation has become worse with the continued harassment of opposition leading figures. Save for the brief appearance at the Kenya Open Golf Tournament, no joint activities have been undertaken. The much-hyped joint nationwide rallies have not started. The clearer demonstration the union is not as tight as Kenyans had been made to believe was when the National Resistance Movement self-declared general, Miguna Miguna, arrived on Monday afternoon. Miguna’s return had been billed as one of the quick gains of the UhuRao handshake. The drama that unfolded in front of media cameras left many wondering whether NASA’s ODM and Jubilee were really in a union. Raila went to the airport ostensibly to intervene without success. Some media sources claimed he made a call to his brother Uhuru but what is certain and baffling is that Janyando is not in the country. Some unverified reports claim that he is sojourning at the Canadian Embassy in Dubai. Not even numerous court orders issued earlier could secure his release. In the face of all this, Uhuru has maintained a studious silence on the unity pact. He has never made reference to it in the many public fora that he has had occasion to address. Maybe he is waiting for the report of the two-man committee of lawyer Paul Mwangi and Ambassador Martin Kimani to decide whether or not to proceed with the union. Questions are emerging among ODM supporters on whether their captain got the short end of the stick. Could it be the deal was rushed because of fears the other three principals would make a deal with Ruto? The trio had earlier reached out to the Deputy President for a pact that excluded their captain. Only time will tell the outcome of the current political imbroglio. It is, however, clear that Raila is walking a tightrope and, like the Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, he is alone and may soon be lonely. How he balances the delicate interests within and outside his stable; and how he navigates the volatile and hostile political waters will test his mettle as the enigma of Kenyan politics. If a day is such a long period in politics, then the Jubilee brigade have eternity to recover from the shock of the handshake, reorganise, regroup and lay new counter strategies. The details of the unity handshake should be made public to assuage the growing disquiet among the supporters on both sides of the political divide. Meanwhile, it is not far fetched to consider the possibility a process is a foot to enable Miguna to succeed Raila. The treatment he is being subjected to could be meant to strengthen his will for the bigger national responsibilities he would soon assume. He will be presented as a martyr, a principled leader who surmounted obstacles beyond Raila. That he came back to his country of his birth on terms between himself and the government without the intervention of his captain. He will be a hero and masses adore heroes. While Uhuru may be enjoined in this grand Miguna project, either knowingly or inadvertently, Raila on the other hand is a helpless cog in the wheel. The Miguna script mirrors the Raila script.