It is now clear the talks between President Uhuru Kenyatta and the People’s President Raila Odinga laid down the broad principles that should guide a national dialogue towards establishing a national democratic and developmental state we so badly need. The two leaders came out to state the issue of inclusivity will be central to this discourse. Further, that the structure of government must depart substantially from the present one where a ‘winner-takes-all’ presidential electoral model always leads to conflict every five years. This nurtures perpetual hatred among and between communities to the detriment of our peace and national development. And more important, that we should honestly examine where the rains started beating us so that we can honestly correct our past mistakes as we build a nation that cherishes national unity in peace, liberty and democratic governance. I believe that a parliamentary system of government, in which individual and people’s rights are guaranteed, would go a long way to safeguard the future of our people in a democratic republic. In my contribution to national discourse in the columns of this newspaper, I have consistently advocated for the parliamentary system of government, very much in the same way my senior academic colleague Yash Ghai has done. Indeed, in his contribution to this paper last weekend, Yash had a brilliant exposition of how the parliamentary system of government was laid out in the Bomas Draft Constitution as well as in the Report of the Committee of Experts. We shall forever cry bitterly regarding what happened in Naivasha when that good work by the Bomas delegates, as well as the Committee of Experts, was thrown out the window by a committee of MPs, only to leave us with a mongrel of a Constitution, which has been our undoing since then. But as the Kiswahili saying goes, “Yaliyopita si ndwele tugange ya jayo.” In other words, “Let us not cry over spilt milk; instead, let us now build for the future.” The two leaders have decided that now, we must build for the future, learning from our mistakes and honestly confronting the devils within us. This is partly why I was calling last week for “honest men and women” who should sit down, review our Constitution and our political culture, and see what changes we need so as to establish a POLITICAL SYSTEM that will facilitate the building of a viable national democratic and developmental republic in Kenya. Please note the three values: national (not tribal), democratic (not authoritarian or autocratic) and developmental (not backward with a permanent poverty stricken population). As we begin this dialogue journey, we need to have certain basic rules of the game. One, that the ideas from each and every one of us is useful. Two, that when you disagree with the idea of anybody, you have the responsibility to reason out, not to shout or abuse. Three, that the goal is to reach where we are going and not to arrive there the moment we begin the walk. Asthe Chinese saying goes, “A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.” Let me stop there for the time being and reexamine what I have said. First, since the post-election crisis of 2007-08, we, as Kenyans, have only sat down to dispassionately discuss our national predicament once; and that was when we reviewed the Constitution and then produced a draft for approval at the referendum. But we made one big mistake: We did not give sufficient time for the discussion on the final draft submitted to Parliament. When attempts were made to amend that draft in Parliament, it turned out that there was just no time to accommodate the amendments. Hence, the Naivasha draft was accepted lock, stock and barrel. A big mistake, since no time was given for the opinion of other parliamentarians, who were not in Naivasha — and they were the majority — to influence the final draft. We should learn an important lesson from that experience on how to structure dialogue on the new Constitution in such a way that it becomes an open and popular process guided by honest men and women who mean well for this country. Let a thousand thoughts contend as we review this Constitution and let a million flowers bloom as we celebrate the final product of our joint endeavour. Second, the political silos in which we have found ourselves have very often been inimical to holding progressive national discourse, given the manner in which they have been tailored to compete in elections to win one coveted price — the presidency. This has meant the ruling party does all it can to win, including using very unorthodox methods of electoral malpractice — rigging. The opposition parties, on their part, must always seek to spend unnecessary energy and resources protecting their voters and votes against political scavenging from the ruling party and its state functionaries. A situation like this cannot auger well for democracy, let alone democratic elections. It will not, therefore, matter how many times we change our Constitution as long as the objective for the competition for political power remains the same: The presidency. This objective must be changed to change the structure for competition and the nature of our political parties. We shall stop being silos of rigid and unproductive competition and start being a flexible aggregation of interests providing individuals with ideas on how best to govern ourselves. We shall, thereby, stop shouting at each other and begin discussing ideas that persuade people to change from one party to the other on the basis of ‘reasoned preferences’ and not predetermined silos geared towards conquest of presidential power. Three, Uhuru and Raila have realised it is high time we change tack, and have thrown the door wide open for the discourse to begin. It is not an opportunity to find an instant solution such as forming a government of national unity and that is it. No. In the meantime, based on the principles we are engaging in for discourse, the Jubilee government needs to change tack to realise that facilitating this national discourse must be accompanied by a substantial change in the way government is run. The politics of exclusion needs to progressively give way to the politics of inclusion. A public political culture of ‘us and them’ must also progressively be relegated to the dustbin of bad manners. In other words the foundations of honest discourse can only be laid where an enabling political environment is seen and felt by the democratic political culture practiced in government. Kenyans are tired of continuing with business as usual, hence, the joy with which this rapprochement has been received. All must be done to safeguard, nurture and build on this optimism. There is no doubt in my mind that Kenya is a nation of great potential but a disappointing underachiever, mainly as a result of its bad politics and awful political culture. We got it right for a brief period in 2002-05 during the first three years of the Narc government. Great things happened. People were arresting police on the streets for receiving bribes from motorists. The rate of economic growth increased from -1 to 5 per cent annually within three years, and would have hit the coveted 10 per cent had we laid down a sound political culture for democratic governance. Fortune knocks on one’s door only once. We are lucky it is knocking on our door a second time with this political rapprochement between our two leaders. Let us not disappoint ourselves by continuing with sectarian, selfish and inward looking politics.  