Bereaved striker Ezekiel Odera believes his AFC Leopards side has what it takes to challenge their eternal rivals Gor Mahia for this season’s Kenyan Premier League title. Odera, who lost his mother to illness over a week ago, put aside his sorrow to net the equalising goal as Leopards overturned a two-goal first half deficit to beat Mathare United 4-3—the latter’s first defeat of the campaign. “For sure, we have the talent and mentality to challenge for trophies particularly the league title which Leopards have not won for twenty years. With the right attitude and commitment from everyone, it is something we can achieve,” said the soft spoken striker. On Sunday, hundreds of Ingwe fans thronged their Umoja home to condole with Odera and his family as they finalise plans to inter their mum. The win over Mathare was Leopards second on the bounce under assistant coach Dennis Kitambi, who was put in full charge of the first team as Ingwe mull over what to do with coach Robert Matano After five matches, Leopards who play their game in hand against Wazito tomorrow, are fifth in the league standings with ten points— six behind leaders Gor who have played a game more. K’Ogalo once again showed their strength in depth as a largely second string side easily overcame Nzoia United 1-0 to move five points clear at the top. Hot on their heels are the unlikely duo of Chemelil Sugar and Bandari. The two sides registered huge victories over the weekend to emerge as the teams capable of challenging K’Ogalo’s supremacy this season. Chemelil are second on goal difference after their come from behind 4-1 mauling of Nakumatt with Bandari third following their 3-0 walloping of Sony. Having lost their unbeaten record, Mathare slipped to fourth—their lowest ranking this season albeit on goal difference as they have 11 points same as the two teams above them. Leopards complete the top five Nzoia are back at the bottom of the standings with three points from their six matches. Joining them in the relegation zone are Zoo Kericho, Vihiga United and Thika United, who have four points in 17th,16th and 15th respectively. Coincidentally, all the sides were involved in goal-less stalemates over the weekend with Thika frustrating Tusker in Ruaraka while Zoo and Vihiga cancelled each other out in a goal-less stalemate. New boys Vihiga are the only team yet to win a match this season and unless their fortunes change pretty soon they are in danger of being a one hit wonder in the top flight league.