The SGR is a critical investment for East and Central Africa so nobody should interfere with it, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia has said. Macharia said this in reference to protests by clearing agents, truck transporters and owners of Container Freight Stations for cargo not to be transported via the railway. He has given KPA and Kenya Railways directors 48 hours to make sure all un-nominated cargo is transported by this means. This directive concerns shipment destined for Nairobi and beyond. Read: Clearing agents up in arms with government over new directive Related: Missing the boat: Cargo arrives late after vessels leave the port Macharia said on Thursday that their intention is not to force the railway down people's throats. "We do not mean to be draconian, but if need be, we shall be draconian," he said during the second review of the Mombasa Port Community Charter at Pride Inn Hotel. The Minister accused cartels of "trying hard' to frustrate SGR freight services. But he added: "We cannot allow people [to interfere with] this project for their personal businesses. The SGR is not an individual's investment therefore we need to come together and support it." He continued: "The Kenyan government will not allow a few individuals who [think] things should not be done a certain way to oppose it. The things being raised about the SGR are logistical issues. I'm therefore directing the directors responsible (KPA and KRA) to fix all the loose nuts and bolts within the next 48 hours." In an interview with the Star, Macharia said cartels that own CFSs have been against the SGR freight services. "The CFSs were established when we had congestion at the port. Now that we have expanded the port and have an efficient mode of transport, why do we need to continue storing cargo destined for Nairobi and beyond at local CFSs?" Macharia said they will make sure six SGR freight trains leave the Port of Mombasa daily from June. He said they had wanted two trains to be leaving by end of February but that challenges got in the way and that uptake was lower than expected. "We will resolve all the hiccups," he said. Also read: Cargo owners question extra SGR freight tariff Some stakeholders who spoke to the Star on the sidelines of the meeting said focus should be on the marketing the SGR, "rather than forcing importers to use it". Kenya Shippers Council Chief Executive Officer Gilbert Langat said the owners of CFSs should not be worried. Langat said they and the clearing agents have the authority to nominate a cargo to either a CFS or the Inland Container Depot in Nairobi. "The only cargo that will be transported to Nairobi via the SGR is the unnominater cargo destined for Nairobi and beyond," he said. "CFSs have a role to play. They can still be used to store cargo destined for Mombasa. They can also be used if an importer wants to de-bulk the cargo. Therefore they should not be worried." Click here for the latest political news 