Raila Odinga is not Nasa leader, ANC Secretary General Kibisu Kabatesi said in a statement on Friday. Kabatesi noted that he gave his views in his capacity as an adviser of Nasa principal Musalia Mudavadi, who is the leader of Amani National Congress. He said there is no title of leader in the Memorandum of Understanding that Raila's ODM party, ANC, WIper (Kalonzo Musyoka) and Ford Kenya (Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula)n signed. "ANC has noted with concern that media coverage of Nasa is dotted with erroneous attribution and discrete distortions. This is to clarify that Nasa doesn’t have the title of Nasa leader," he said. "The only honorary title shared by the party leaders has been either Nasa principal or Nasa co-principal." Kabatesi noted Raila was the coalition's presidential candidate on August 8, 2017 elections but that his tenure candidate ended when he pulled out of the October 26 repeat poll without consulting his co-principals. He added: "The infamous handshake wasn’t a Nasa initiative but a personal cessation of hostilities between two individuals. We at Nasa interpret the handshake as a Jubilee ploy to split Nasa and scuttle its stated inclusive and structured national dialogue agenda with connivance with our former partner." Mudavadi fellen out with Raila after claiming the ODM leade tricked the others into
missing his controversial swearing-in ceremony on January 30. But he later denied saying this. Read: Mudavadi to Atwoli: Raila betrayed us Kabatesi further claimed the tribulations befalling the "nag shake" - the victimisation of lawyer and NRMKe General Miguna Miguna - were inflicted by the ODM leader. "ODM understood the handshake as political cooperation between Jubilee and ODM. ODM went ahead to operationalise this cooperation on its own volition without the prompting of Jubilee at all levels, especially Parliament. ODM turned its arsenal on Nasa partners," he said. He added that for all practical purposes, ODM became part of the ruling majority in Parliament thus ceding its claim on minority status. "By the same token, ODM vacated its partnership in Nasa. ODM therefore owes Kenyans some decency; it should vacate minority leadership seats in Parliament. ODM cannot eat the cooperation steak and the same time hold onto minority entails. That’s called double-standards, greed and dishonesty, which is are the operating manuals for Jubilee." Read:We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say The Secretary General also said the orange party must take the bold step of officially vacating its membership in Nasa since by promoting the Jubilee agenda at the expense of Nasa, it stated its objective as constituting a democratic government and not dictatorship. "ODM is in continued violation of the Political Parties Act," he added. He also hit at the media claiming they are doing a disservice and confusing Kenyans by mislabeling a presser called by ODM MPs as a Nasa presser and belittling a presser by Nasa MPs as one by ANC/Ford Kenya. Also See:NASA fallout as partners cry foul over ODM tyranny Click here for the latest political news