NASA leader Raila Odinga reneged on a last minute-minute agreement with the UN to call off his swearing-in," former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale has said. Khalwale on Wednesday told a television interview that NASA principals had agreed to drop the oath plans on the eve of the ceremony at Uhuru Park on January 30. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres secured the deal through former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo at a meeting held at Raiala's Karen home on January 29. Obasanjo convinced Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula to call off the controversial swearing-in plans. Obasanjo chaired the dinner meeting. His visit was part of the diplomatic efforts to resolve the political stalemate following last year's hotly contested elections. Khalwale who is the deputy Fork Kenya party leader said the principals agreed to call off the function before they left for the night. Raila made a last-minute change of heart, disregarded the agreement and heroically made his way to a parked Uhuru Park, where he took oath as the People's President before thousands of supporters. “Whoever is calling the co-principals cowards do not have the information the co-principals had,” Khalwale said. The principals had agreed to meet the following morning to agree on how to pass the decision to their supporters who had been mobilised for the event. The meeting did not take place. “Earlier on before the swearing-in, we were where where the meeting was to take place for a common stand in regard to what had been agreed. Raila made his way to Uhuru Park to avoid leaving the crowd hanging,” Khalwale said. The former senator poured cold water on Raila's swearing-in, saying it fell short of basic constitutional requirements for a presidential oath. Raila, holding a green Bible in his right hand, uttered a 90 word oath in the presence of lawyers Miguna Miguna and Tom Kajwang as Senator James Orengo and businessman Jimi Wanjigi watched. Both Miguna and Kajwang were later arrested for their roles during the ceremony. The government had earlier banned the swearing-in. Read:Mudavadi to Atwoli: Raila betrayed us Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula snubbed the function. Raila told supporters the three would explain why they were not present at Uhuru Park as he fought to allay fears of cracks in the alliance. The trio have since made conflicting statements for their no-show. Kalonzo initially claimed they were under house arrest. He later said their absence was a strategy. Khalwale said the principals also failed to agree on the kind of oath they would take. “Kalonzo was of the idea that if he takes oath, then it should be that which takes him to state power. Miguna was of the idea that any kind of oath takes place,” Khalwale said. Miguna, who was later deported, dismissed Khaklwale and called him a hypocrite. “Rubbish! Khalwale is not everyone. He is a certified coward and hypocrite,” Miguna tweeted. Also Read:[AUDIO] Raila tells Zimbabwe why he took oath as the People's President Click here for the latest political news   