The Election Observers Group has demanded an audit of the 2017 polls saying they were neither free, fair, nor credible. In a new report dubbed One Country, two elections, many voices, launched at a Nairobi hotel on Thursday, the team cited insecurity as having had a negative impact on the outcome of the vote. ELOG also cited numerous cases of intimidation of voters, fear, coercion and the indefinite postponement of voting in 25 constituencies. The body holds that IEBC's decision to call off the polls - mostly in Nyanza - denied millions of Kenyans their right to participate in the election. "Political problems require political solutions. We recommend a broad-based and inclusive process for national dialogue," ELOG coordinator Mule Musau said. Also read: Absence of party agents, observers compromised poll outcome -ELOG Mule said there was also the absence of agents from parties other than Jubilee and observers who provided an environment which was not conducive for credible elections. The group says the audit will help identify and prosecute perpetrators of violence and election malpractices. It will also help establish new laws and enhance logistics preparations to ensure free, fair and credible polls in the future. "The IEBC should ensure its decisions are independent, transparent, accountable, legal and guided by the best interests of the country," Musau noted. Alfred Rotich, ELOG Advisory and Peace panel boss, added: "All stakeholders – including civil society groups – must remain steadfast, vigil and demand accountability from duty holders despite threats." Related: ELOG defends findings from August 8 poll The group blamed police for murder, rape and intimidation in the election period during which more than 200 people dead. "Dealing with the scars of violence and investigations into numerous incidents of assault and murder should be expedited and perpetrators brought to book," the report reads. ELOG notes that prosecuting those involved in election malpractices will ensure criminals don’t manipulate future elections. The observers blamed the IEBC on the lacklustre implementation and enforcement of the law, especially the Election Offences Act and the Electoral Code of Conduct. "ELOG recommends that a clear electoral calendar for the next cycle, beginning with reforms, be developed by the IEBC in consultation with all stakeholders." Also SEE: What the ELOG observed on Election Day The team also blamed the commission for not taking all stakeholders' views into consideration during the elections peiord. "The eventual nullification of the August 8 presidential election by the Supreme Court called for closer scrutiny and observation of the electronic transmission of election results processes," the observers said. They added the mandates and roles of key duty bearers in elections and other stakeholders were undermined by intense political pressure, intimidation and lack of political goodwill. The legal framework even though fairly comprehensive, they pointed out,  was undermined by lack of strict implementation, late amendments, claw-backs, and numerous lawsuits. ELOG further advises that the Judiciary, having placed a high threshold on the legal management of elections, should consistently demonstrate its independence, neutrality, and impartiality. The observers asked political parties, as agents of democracy, to conduct their affairs in a participatory and inclusive manner. "Parties need to have updated and accurate members’ registers and should conduct their activities in a transparent manner," the report stated. The report was funded by the ELOG steering committee members; Fida; Center for Governance and Development; Institute for Education and Democracy; National Council of Churches; United Disabled Persons of Kenya; Youth Agenda and Supkem. Click here for the latest political stories  