Former Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter should not go to the by-elections on a Jubilee ticket, EALA MP Mpuru Aburi has said. "You must respect the party that gave you a ticket to parliament," Aburi said. He said Keter has proven he is a corrupt leader after he was arrested trying to forge treasury bills. "Keter does not respect President Uhuru Kenyatta neither does he respect DP William Ruto so after his election was nullified it is clear he will not be given Jubilee party ticket," Aburi said. Read; Ruto must go! Eldoret chants after court nullifies Alfred Keter's win Aburi even lauded the Judge who nullified his election. On February 17 Keter and two others were arrested for allegedly forging Treasury bills valued at Sh633 million. The youthful, outspoken MP was arrested alongside two co-directors of Desai Industries - Madat Chatur and Arthur Sakwa. But Central Imenti MP Moses Kirima said the court was independent and said Jubilee should not be blamed for Keter woes. "Those who are losing election petitions should not blame Jubilee government as the executive, judiciary and legislative each has its mandate," Kirima said. Kirima exempted DP Ruto from blame following nullification of Keter's and Bowen's win in an Eldoret court Read: Alfred Keter loses Nandi Hills seat, court cites poll malpractices The two spoke at Kibirichia, Buuri Constituency, Meru county during the burial of Buuri MP Mugambi Rindikiri's father Rindikiri Murwethania. On February 27 High court annulled the election of Bowen Kangogo as Marakwet East MP over irregularities. Judge George Kimondo of Eldoret law court said the legislator did not win the elections in a free and fair environment. "This was a simple petition and did not raise issues of law," the judge said when he made the ruling on Tuesday. Two days later after Bowen's nullification the Eldoret High court nullified Alfred Keter election as Nandi Hills MP The court nullified the results citing poll malpractice. His supporters blamed Deputy President William Ruto for his woes. Justice George Kimondo said the elections were not held in a free and fair environment. Both MP have been seen as Jubilee rebels in Rift Valley after they refused to be ousted in various parliamentary committees. Read more : Election petitions: Nandi Hills voter wants MP Alfred Keter's win nullified  Click here for the latest political news   