The office of the Director of Public Prosecutions has filed an appeal challenging the acquittal of 23 former senior NYS officials in a Sh47.6 million graft case. Through senior state counsel Joseph Riungu, the DPP moved to the High Court seeking orders to quash the lower court’s decision of acquitting former Devolution PS Peter Mangiti, former NYS deputy director general Adan Harakhe and ex-Ministerial Tender Committee chairman Hassan Noor and 20 others. The DPP said trial magistrate Kennedy Bidali, who is since transferred to Naivasha, acquitted the officials without analysing all evidence. Read: 23 NYS scandal suspects acquitted for lack of evidence In his renewed bid to have the suspects held liable, the DPP says the decision to clear them was wrong and should be reversed. He said the magistrate failed to analyse the evidence before ruling that there was insufficient evidence. “Bidali was wrong to clear the three on counts of conspiracy to commit corruption and failure to comply with the procurement law, despite making a finding that there were many violations of procurement procedures,” Riungu says. On March 8, the magistrate acquitted 23 out of 24 suspects for lack of evidence. The magistrate said the prosecution failed to establish a prime facie case against Mangiti, Harakhe, Noor and 20 other suspects. Bidali found former secretary of opening tender committee of NYS Selesio Karanja has a case to answer. Karanja is accused of engaging in fraud by inserting the name of Dama Services Ltd in the tender opening register for the procurement of training materials in the Automotive Engineering faculty tender No. NYS/RT/29/2014-2015. The firm had not been approved for the tender. The magistrate delivered his ruling after the prosecution, led by Riungu, closed its case after investigating officer Mark Ndiema finished giving hisevidence. He told the court the ministry’s tender committee erred in granting authority for use of restricted tendering for the training materials. Ndiema told the court Blue Star Enterprise was suspect, and may have been set up to receive the Sh47 million kickback at its Paramount Universal Bank Ltd account, Koinange branch. He said the suspects asked for authority to use restricted tendering as an alternative procurement method. Ndiema told the court Mangiti irregularly executed a contract with Blue Star Enterprises for the supply of automotive engineering material for Sh47.6 million. He said the procurement was not captured in the 2014-2015 procurement plan. Ndiema also informed the court the goods supplied to NYS were grossly overpriced by the bidders, and there was no value for money. The court also heard Blue Star Enterprises was not a pre-qualified supplier of goods and services for the Ministry of Devolution. The manner it was selected from 10 contracted firms was irregular. ”It was not a specialised firm to supply training materials and had never supplied such equipment. It should not have been selected,” the prosecution said. Ndiema said the tendering process was rushed and it lacked due diligence. Mangiti and Harakhe are accused of executing the contract and appointing the evaluation committee on the same day they issued the notification for the award. The suspects were each released on a Sh1 million cash bail.   Click here for the latest political news