Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has admitted mistakes in the collection of maize from farmers following the closure of depots that are fully stocked. Kiunjuri noted on Wednesday that the NCPB is facing a crisis as stores in the North Rift are full. But he said the board's CEO Newton Terer has been directed to move some of the maize to empty stores in Bungoma and other areas. “We made a mistake ... when we realised we were getting more maize than ever before, we should have started moving it ... we should have started moving it early enough," he told a press briefing. Read: NCPB denies buying imported maize from traders as Eldoret farmers protest over 2 queues at depot Kiunjuri reported that the government had bought 3.2 million bags of maize from farmers at a cost of Sh10.2 billion. The government has been buying the maize at Sh3,200 per a 90kg bag. The CS added that he asked Parliament to approve a supplementary budget of an extra Sh3 billion so the farmers are paid. He said delayed payments were a result of the government overshooting of the Sh7.1 billion allocated to the purchase of maize. “We will reallocate resources within the ministry to raise Sh1 billion which will be released to pay farmers. After that, we will use the supplementary budget to get the balance of payments,” he said. He noted the government committed last year to buying all maize produced by farmers in the country. Kiunjuri addressed the press after touring NCPB depots in Eldoret and Kitale, accompanied by Terer Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Moiben MP Sila Tiren. He later met with farmers' representative from the region who presented demands for the streamlining of operations in the agriculture sector. Many farmer have been queuing at depots in the region to deliver their produce. They held protests on Monday after queuing for hours, only to be told that their maize could not be collected. Read: Farmers protest ill treatment, no pay after NCPB stops maize intake STOLEN MAIZE Meanwhile, more than 7,000 bags of subsidised fertilizer stolen from the National Cereals and Produce Board has been recovered in Western. Three suspects have been arrested amid investigations into the possible involvement of officers in the board. Kiunjuri said: “We will not tolerate such corruption at the NCPB. A government employee who engages in theft will go to jail after getting sacked. Such people will not be transferred as we have done in the past." The NCPB has been facing a crisis in distributing the subsidised fertilizer as it is diverted in many cases by cartels that include traders and government employees. “If you are part of cartels that have stolen from the NCPB, be satisfied with what you have already taken because we are going to act like never before." But Governor Mandago accused the board of being part of the problem by refusing to have the fertilizer taken directly to co-operative societies for sale to farmers. He accused Terer of laxity in dealing with the matter, saying: “You never go to the field to visit farmers and see the problems they are facing. You only come when the CS is around." Click here for the latest political news