NASA leader Raila Odinga’s Capitol Hill Square office has become a beehive of activity weeks after the historic handshake between the opposition chief and President Uhuru Kenyatta.
The private office in Upper Hill has seen a number of political delegations from both sides of the once sworn rival political divides.
On March 9, Uhuru and Raila - in a handshake that cooled political temperatures in the country - announced they will work together.
The truce which has been christened Building Bridges, has seen a series of meetings between Raila and a number of political players, some who were ardent critics of the opposition leader before the truce. Read: Raila-Uhuru handshake erased poll feud, ended opposition politics
A source at Capitol Hill yesterday told the Star it sometimes gets ‘hectic’ at the former Prime Minister’s office ushering in hundreds of visitors ‘who all want to express their support for the unity initiative’.
Topping the list of Raila’s sworn critics who have visited the Upper hill office include Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. Kuria’s meeting with Raila is seen as part of building bridges.
Yesterday, members of the controversial Nairobi Business Community were at Capitol Hill Square. They met Raila and former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero in a meeting believed to have centered on promoting peace and unity. The group which NASA supporters branded members of the outlawed Mungiki sect many times confronted opposition supporters during anti-IEBC protests.
The group claimed to be protecting their businesses from destruction by NASA supporters. On Monday, Raila’s office hosted Uhuru’s cousin and former Kiambu Woman Representative Annah Nyokabi. He endorsed her as the best suited candidate to replace Polycarp Igathe as Nairobi Deputy Governor. Read: Why Uhuru-Raila pact is best way forward for Kenya
“I have known Nyokabi for a long time and her record as an MP speaks for itself, especially when it comes to promotion of gender equality, economic empowerment and wealth creation,” Raila said.
The meetings meant to diffuse the tensed political moments after the disputed and protracted 2017 polls have extended to Western envoys who were equally on Raila’s bad books.
According to NASA, the Western envoys led by US ambassador Robert Godec contributed to the political stalemate in the country by openly siding with Uhuru’s Jubilee.
On Wednesday last week, Godec visited Raila’s office, a visit that was perceived to mend the strained diplomatic relationship between Raila and the Western nations.
Raila has hosted Commonwealth  secretary general Patricia Scotland and National Democratic Institute president Kenneth Wollack.
The political handshake between the scions of the founding fathers of the nation, the late president Jomo Kenyatta and the first vice president the late Jaramogi Oginga Odinga marked an end to decades of bitter rivalry between the families.
If anything, it evoked the sweet memories and experiences Kenyatta and Jaramogi enjoyed before and after the former release from detention and subsequent independence.
Despite the fall out the two leaders, the close families tie remained close knit. Read: Please allow Uhuru to visit and explain handshake, Siaya told  Click here for the latest political news