The historic handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was important for the sake of the country. It was good and it was much-needed. After months of a political standoff in the country, many Kenyans looked up to such a moment when their main political antagonists would rally the county together. Kenyans had lost lives, others were maimed and property had been destroyed, hence the need for the two leaders to show statesmanship. They eventually decided to put their political differences aside and unite for the sake of Kenyans. For the sake of peace and tranquillity as a nation, everyone was happy after the handshake. However, the handshake has its own implications. In respect to its implications on Raila’s support base of Western Kenya - one of his most loyal strongholds- I don’t think his pact with Uhuru affects the ex-PM’s popularity in this key vote-rich region. There have been other developments in NASA that I would say have significant effect on Raila’s popularity in sections of Western Kenya. The decision by senators to kick out NASA co-principal and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has a major impact on Raila’s fortunes, particularly in the county. Remember Wetang’ula hails from Bungoma and this is his home turf. It is important to note that the removal of Wetangula as leader of Minority in the Senate doesn’t augur well for Raila’s influence and political strength in the region. The community would be looking at Raila as one who has betrayed one of their own. The community is unhappy with the developments and feels betrayed by a man they have stood with for so many years. The vote-rich Luyha community has been very critical in enabling Raila to consolidate the whole of Western Kenya and thereby enhancing his political bargaining power. This crucial vote-bloc is sliding from Raila’s grip with a huge impact on his political ambitions. Looking at Raila’s character and actions, he doesn’t strike one as being able to win back the hearts and minds of the Luyha community after the developments in NASA. His options are very limited and, going by his behaviour and actions, it makes it even harder for him to get back that support. As to whether Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi would be able to lock Raila out of Western, that is a different question. The writer is a political analyst and university lecturer