The national athletics team have threatened to boycott training over unpaid local allowances. The athletes observed that the remittance have taken long despite daily promises that their dues would be paid, destroying the morale at the Milele Hotel-based residential training camp. Yesterday, the team was meant to meet Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Achesa, who canceled his short trip across the capital after learning all is not well. Sources close to Kencom, however, revealed that the CS, instead, decided to concentrate his energies shuffling between his office and treasury as he sought to secure the allowances. The athletes have been at camp for the last two weeks and are expected to draw at least Sh1,500 daily. “We are aware there are issues to do with allowances but we have asked the athletes to keep training as we wait on the government to tackle their grievances,” said AK president Jackson Tuwei. “The issue of the kit is being handled by the National Olympic Committee of Kenya, who have promised that the full kit will be availed this week.” While meeting the athletes last evening, Tergat apologised to the athletes for the anguish caused by the kit delay, adding that it was not intentional. “The order was placed long before we came into power and it is sad that this was delayed by the lengthy Nock election process,” said Tergat. “What I can promise you is that once this is over, we are going to sit with Nock and re-look at the contract we have with them as we seek to ensure that this doesn’t happen again in future.” He added that allowances are an obligation of the government and the least they can do is push them into paying up. “We are going to work with the government and ensure that the allowances are paid by Friday as the team first batch departs on Saturday.” Meanwhile, Kenya boxing national team head coach Patrick Maina is upbeat win medals in at the games. The team has been in camp in Nakuru since March 5 and they are expected to close camp tomorrow as they prepare to jet to Australia. Maina, said he is happy with preparations, adding that all his boxers are upbeat and raring to go. “We are working on tactics and speed which has been our main undoing at such forums,” said Maina. Kenya will be represented in all weight categories from light-fly to super-heavy. Besides, light fly weight boxer Veronica Mbithe who was dropped, Kenya will be represented by a 1o-member squad consisting of three women and seven men. Captain Nickson Ambaka, Edwin Owuor, Brian Agina, Benson Gicharu, Elly Ocholla, Nick Okoth, and Shaffi Hassan will form the men’s team while Christine Ongare, Lorna Simbi, and Elizabeth Andiego will represent the country in the women’s category. Captain Nickson Ambaka from the KDF exuded proving a point at the games. “We are just polishing up on techniques and everything else will fall in place,” he added.