US President Donald Trump has suggested that former US Vice-President Joe Biden would lose a fight with him after Biden openly fantasised of a punch-up. Trump called him "crazy" and "weak" after Biden said: "If we were in high school, I'd take him to the gym and beat the hell out of him". This is not the first time the two septuagenarians have discussed the prospect of a tussle. Biden has been a vocal critic of Trump since the presidential election. On Thursday morning, Trump, 71, took to Twitter to accuse "crazy Joe Biden" of "trying to act like a tough guy". "I'm a pretty damn good athlete. Any guy that talked that way was usually the fattest, ugliest SOB in the room." During the 2016 presidential campaign Biden said that Trump's 2005 recorded comments about how his fame allowed him to "grab" women by the genitals made him want to fight the then-Republican candidate "behind the gym". It's revealing that Donald Trump, who has a knack for finding a political opponent's weakness, could only muster a "Crazy Joe" nickname and "no, I'd beat YOU up" rejoinder. Joe Biden has his political shortcomings - he ran for the president twice and barely made a ripple - but the career politician's carefully cultivated blue-collar image makes him a challenging target for Trump. A 2016 presidential matchup between the two would have been a rollicking affair and has generated countless "what ifs". Would Mr Biden have won the Midwest and bested Trump? Such speculation may not be all academic, as Biden still hasn't ruled out a 2020 campaign. He'd be 77 on election day, four years older than Trump, but he's made the kind of early manoeuvres that could lead to another run at the presidency. If his health holds, the Trump-Biden tussle - in the ballot box, not the schoolyard - could end up as more than just tough talk. Axios reported on Thursday that Biden - who is rumoured to be considering running for president in 2020 - has hired a group of "big-name" policymakers to serve on his Biden Institute Policy Advisory Board. Last month both men campaigned for rival candidates in a congressional election in Pennsylvania. The district, which Trump handily won by 20 points in 2016, voted to elect a Democrat.  Click here for the latest political news