National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has warned the TSC against posting non-native teachers to the Northeastern counties. He said the region must not be used as the hiring ground for nonlocals. The Teachers’ Service Commission has advertised vacant posts after it granted transfers for about 960 non-natives. This followed last month’s attack in Qarsa, Wajir, which left two teachers and the wife of one of them dead. “We’re telling the TSC not to employ nonlocals for our region. We don’t want them at all,” Duale said. “[Knut secretary general [Wilson] Sossion, you can as well stay with your teachers. We don’t want them completely. But I can assure you that we’ll have a plan. It’s the obligation of the Education ministry and the TSC to give a solution. The Northeastern children also have their rights.” Another group of nonlocal teachers from Wajir and Mandera have camped at the TSC offices in Nairobi to demand transfers. They don’t want to return because they could be killed by terrorists. On Thursday, they told the House Education committee they suffer discrimination from residents. But Duale dismissed the claims as “far-fetched”. He said the teachers are insincere and used Northeastern to secure jobs and once they achieved that now seek transfers. “I want to make it very clear to those teachers: If you want to get a transfer, go ahead and get one, but don’t smear our community,” he said. “Just because you want transfers you call the Somali community all manner of names. Give us a break. We will not accept it.” Duale added, “This culture of teachers coming to Northeastern, getting jobs, taking our slots and then when there is a small incident of insecurity, they start asking for transfers, will not be accepted.” He said he is obliged to defend his community against lies. He urged students from the region to enrol for education courses so they can fix the teacher shortage crisis. Duale was addressing hundreds of students from Garissa Township during a career and motivational talk organised by Kenyatta University students.