The cost of fuel is expected to reduce after completion of a Sh48 billion Mombasa-Nairobi pipeline Line 5 in the next two weeks. Petroleum and Mining CS John Munyes said the Sh10 million demurrage charges that the country incurs daily due to the amount of time ships have to wait in the high seas to offload petroleum is passed on to consumers. Currently, ships wait for more than a week at high seas for them to discharge petroleum to storage tanks in the country. The country does not have sufficient storage capacity and transmission outlets to handle the petroleum demand, according to the CS. Kenya faces a demand of about six billion litres per year but can only supply about 1.5 billion litres per year. Kenya supplies petroleum and petroleum products to a host of countries including Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan and Congo. “We are facing lack of capacity. There is high demand. Even what this country has provided today after we complete it, is still not enough,” said the CS. He spoke at the KPC yard in Mombasa after touring the new pipeline from Maungu to Mombasa. “We need to enhance the capacity three times to meet the demands of this country. We need to increase our capacity in order to compete with countries like Tanzania,” he said. “With the completion of this project, Kenya is going to be competitive as a country and the ultimate cost of fuel will come down once the line is fully in operation,” said Munyes. According to Kenya Pipeline Company managing director Joe Sang, the new line will increase supply capacity by about one million litres per hour by the end of this year. Currently, KPC supplies about 730,000 litres per hour through the current Line 1, which has been in existence for over 40 years. “We intend to run the two lines together bringing the capacity to 1.73 million litres per hour,” said KPC managing director Joe Sang. Munyes said the new line will start transporting petroleum on March 23. At 20-inhes in diameter and 450km long, the new Line 5 is the country’s second largest infrastructural undertaking, which began in 2014. Additionally, Munyes said, the completion of the project will help lower road maintenance costs because it will remove hundreds of trucks from the roads. “With a one million litres per hour flow rate, the new line will remove about 700 trucks from the road daily at maximum utilization,” Munyes said. This will enhance safety because pipeline transportation of fuel is the safest and most cost effective way of transporting petroleum products the world over. “There will therefore be reduced accidents, fuel fires, and siphoning on our roads hence saving lives and conserving our environment,” the new Petroleum CS said.       