Embakasi East MP Babu Owino has pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to keep his political career from going down the drain. Babu, whose real name is Paul Ongili, said the dialogue between Uhuru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga must continue for him to be saved. Read: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Speaking outside Parliament buildings on Wednesday evening, he said he has already "burned" so Uhuru should "release me from the furnace". "In the Bible, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego were put in a furnace to burn to death for failing to obey the king but came out of the furnace stronger," he noted. "I would like to tell the President that he has put Babu Owino in fire and that he has burned and he is strong. I do not want to be stronger than this. Let him remove me from the fire." This was Babu's first time to ask for help from the President following the nullification of his election by the High Court. When his election was cancelled, Babu claimed Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto had a hand in the court verdict. "The whole nation knows that this is a war of the President and DP versus Babu. It is sad that the government is controlling the Judiciary," he said. "No one can destroy me. If either Uhuru or Ruto decides to vie against me in Embakasi East, I will beat them seriously." More on this: [VIDEO] Babu Owino accuses UhuRuto of influencing court case Babu often issues controversial remarks at rallies by the National Super Alliance and was once on the spot for allegedly referring to Uhuru as the son of a dog. Last year, Uhuru warned him against instigating violence in the constituency during polls. The President said the youthful legislator is "at liberty to insult him" as long as he doesn't incite his electorates to cause violence. He said the politician's remarks do not cause him sleepless nights as many would wan to believe. "That young man keeps on hurling insults at me but let me tell him categorically that if he tries to sprout violence, he will know people were born." The MP was charged subversion, insulting Uhuru and incitement to violence over the 'mtoto wa mbwa' remarks he made at a public rally in Kibera. More on this: Babu Owino insults cause me no sleepless nights - Uhuru Also read: Kiambu bursts with demos after Babu Owino's 'Uhuru is a puppy' remarks Click here for the latest political news 