The UK is soon expected to deport Yagnesh Devani, mastermind of the Sh7.6 billion Triton petroleum scandal, to face fraud and corruption charges in Kenya. Outgoing Attorney General Githu Muigai yesterday said the process has been made possible by the Mutual Legal Assistance Guidelines launched at a Nairobi hotel yesterday. The MLA Guidelines provides guidance to authorities outside Kenya and provides the roadmap for global cooperation in the war on crime. “Today marks an important chapter in our criminal justice sector reforms. My office will continue to support international cooperation in the fight against transnational organised crime, corruption and money laundering. Regional and international cooperation is critical for any nation to combat transnational crimes,” Githu said. It is only “a matter of weeks” and tycoon Devani will be in the country to face prosecution, he said. “Devani and Bishop Gilbert Deya, who is currently being prosecuted over the miracle baby’s saga, had claimed Kenyan prisons are deathtraps,” Githu said. “Of course, our prisons are not five- star hotels, but our British counterparts can attest that they are indeed habitable.” Devani was a director of Triton Petroleum Limited. He is accused of engineering the release of the oil company’s stock of fuel from the Kenya Pipeline Company’s storage tanks without informing the financiers. He applied for asylum in the UK in 2016, after he exhausted all legal avenues to stop his extradition to Kenya. Meanwhile, the Jersey government will be making a fresh request to have billionaire Samuel Gichuru and former Cabinet Minister Chris Okemo extradited to the island to face money laundering charges, the AG said. He said his office will move swiftly and expressed hope that his successor will process the requests without being hobbled by excessive bureaucracy. The Mutual Legal Assistance Act was enacted in 2011. Since then, no guidelines have been provided and competent authorities have been making requests that sometimes have not been acted upon or responded to because of noncompliance with laws of the receiving states, Githu said. The MLA Guidelines emphasise Kenya’s commitment to international cooperation in criminal matters. They also provide a coherent, structured and effective mechanism for cooperation among states in combating organised crimes such as corruption, money laundering, tax crimes and other illicit financial flows. UK High Commissioner Nic Hailey commended Kenya for launching the guidelines and said it was proof that the country is committed to fighting organised crimes. “Kenya is the first country in the East African region to have these guidelines. We’re currently being faced by threats that are global in nature and you will often find offenders running to foreign jurisdictions for their own sordid gratification. Let’s work together to counter these threats,” he said. EACC chief executive officer Halakhe Waqo said the guidelines will ensure offenders do not benefit from crime. “One of the greatest challenges in investigating a crossborder case is the duration it takes to process and receive assistance from foreign jurisdictions,” he said. “I’m delighted the guidelines offer step-by-step suggestions on how best to initiate and follow through on the MLA process.”