Was a senior NASA official from Kakamega county behind a failed plot to hire goons to heckle Deputy President William Ruto during the homecoming ceremony of Sports CS Rashid Achesa? Corridors are informed that alert police officers on Friday evening thwarted an initial planning meeting for the heckling, following a tip-off. It is alleged that one of the senior NASA officials from the county planned to hire youth to cause a disturbance and boo the Jubilee delegation during the fete. Armed police stormed a popular hotel in the neighbouring county, when the meeting was underway, but failed to make any arrests after the young men took off. Security agencies are following possible leads to nab the suspects. ***** Events at the Kenyatta National Hospital, which initially were purely an administrative matter after the suspension of CEO Lily Koros over the surgery mix-up, have taken a political angle. A section of Jubilee politicians from Kericho have stoked political embers, saying the suspension could be part of a ploy to sack the CEO. One of the most vocal leaders from the county was overhead saying over the weekend that a faction within Jubilee is pushing for the firing of Koros over the mistakes of other employees. “This is a plot to sack one of our own and we are not going to lie low,” the politician claimed over the weekend. ***** Is a Deputy Governor from Central Kenya planning to resign over irreconcilable differences with his boss? The DG is said to have fallen out with his boss, months after taking office. Indicative of the raging sour ties at the county, the governor recently merged two crucial dockets, leaving his deputy without portfolio. A furious Deputy Governor has reportedly told his allies that it is only a matter of time before he quits. Perhaps the county will become the third county without a DG after Nyeri and Nairobi. ***** Former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba, who was sworn in as the Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary, has sent tongues wagging as to whether he is the de facto dean of his colleagues. The flamboyant former Labour Party leader was given a special dedication to recite the Integrity Pledge on behalf of his colleagues during their swearing-in ceremony last week. As he read the lengthy pledge, his colleagues were upstanding. While Interior CS Fred Matiang’i is considered senior among his colleagues and therefore his opportunity to take the pledge on others’ behalf was comprehensible, Namwamba’s opportunity caught many by surprise. Is he being groomed for a higher standing among the CASs?