An fourth minute strike by Bill Oporia was all Ushuru FC needed to shoot down visiting Green Commandos at Camp Toyoyo in a National Super League match yesterday. The former Kenyan Premier League side dominated the encounter but saw Benson Amianda, substitute Lwamba Bebeto and Oscar Mbugua squander clear cut chances against the students. At the same venue, hosts Talanta and Kisumu All Stars laboured to a barren draw in a match characterized by wastefulness by both teams. Talanta, under the stewardship of former Chemelil Sugar head coach, Abdallah Juma, were bitterly frustrated by the visiting league newbies, who held fought nail and tooth for the crucial point on the road. Western Stima rallied from two goals down to hold St Joseph Youth to a 2-2 draw at Moi Stadium Kisumu. Stima, who were seeking to revenge their 3-1 at the hands of Kibera Black Stars, were starring at another defeat but Johana Mukisa proved the saviour with second half goals. St Joseph took the lead in 38th minute through Martin Oduor’s strike and barely seconds to the half time whistle, Fadhili Adam doubled the scores from the spot. However, Mukisa had other ideas as he rescued Richard Makumbi’s side with a second half double. Today, promotion hopefuls Kibera Black Stars and KCB clash at Camp Toyoyo. The mid morning duel brings two sides who are on form and have depicted signs of bagging the two promotion slots five matches into the 2018 season. The unbeaten Kibera, who have four wins and a draw, will be hoping to extend their good run in the second tier and the confidence gained in gunning down Western Stima 3-1 in their last match will be crucial when they tackle the bankers. KCB, who narrowly missed out on promotion last season, will be out to not only end Kibera’s run but improve their tally to 10 points. The encounter will pave way for a clash between misfiring Administration Police and GFE 105. The law enforcers bagged their first point of the campaign following a 3-3 draw against St Joseph Youth in a midweek clash last week and will angling for nothing short of maximum points today. Lukewarm GFE 105, meanwhile, will hope to build upon a 1-0 win over Nakuru All-Stars in their last match. High-flying Kenya Police face Kangemi All-Stars at the Karuturi Grounds. Police are one of three teams yet to taste defeat this season and will be hoping to carry on their fine run.