The Kenya Squash and Racquets Association will know on Friday this week whether two representatives they selected for commonwealth games will represent the country in Australia in early April. The association had moved to court challenging the decision by the Sports Dispute Tribunal to recall the two athletes who were selected to represent Kenya in the Common Wealth games. They obtained orders temporarily suspending the decision by the tribunal until the case is heard and determined. Khaaliqa Nimji, who is an aggrieved player went to the tribunal and asked that the selection process be done afresh arguing that it was not done as per the rules. Justice George Odunga issued the order prohibiting the Tribunal and Nimji from using the ruling to harass and intimidate the members of the KSRA and the players who were selected to represent the country in the forthcoming Commonwealth games as they prepare to travel to Australia. The games are scheduled to start on April 4 and the two are expected to travel and represent Kenya in Australia. In their petition against the tribunal, the association through their lawyer argued that the decision was arbitrary and made to late in the day with barely two weeks to the Commonwealth Games in Australia. Katunga Mbuvi told the court that unless the decision is stayed, the players who were selected stand to be harassed based on the decision of the tribunal. Mbuvi also argued that the complaint which the Tribunal entertained was already overtaken by events since the selection had already been done. According to the association, the decision by the Tribunal has caused unrest, confusion and interfered with the applicant members and officials preparation for the upcoming Commonwealth games. Mbuvi said the association conducted countrywide trials and picked the two best players who qualified to represent the country in the games. The association said that the two athletes they selected have met the conditions and qualifications set by the Commonwealth host country Australia. They further argued that the said tribunal’s decision to recall the two athletes would invariably reverse matters. “There is no way the association can repeat the pre-trials qualifications because the deadline for reporting and presentation of names was March 7 2018,” Mbuvi said. The lawyer said the Tribunal made an arbitrary decision to order fresh trials as it did not involve all parties in its proceedings. Mbuvi also asked the court to render the Tribunals decision void in law and enforceable. Judge Odunga will make a final determination on the matter on Friday this week.    