Governor Jackson Mandago has said DP William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid is alive, even as Rift Valley leaders welcomed the newfound Uhuru-Raila unity. President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga on Friday pledged to work together to move the country forward. Analysts say the development could signficantly influence the political landscape ahead of the 2022 General Election. Mandago (Uasin Gishu) said on Friday that they firmly remain behind Ruto to succeed Uhuru. He said the deal will not hurt the plan. Also read: Raila might scuttle Uhuru succession plan, Kithure Kindiki cautions Jubilee Mandago said although the other NASA co-principals were left in the dark, “they should catch up quickly and join Raila in working with Jubilee”. He said the deal will heal the country and avert crises. “We warned them that they would be left stranded at a political roundabout, but they insisted they wanted to be principals in NASA. Let them wake up and join the rest in uniting Kenya,” Mandago said. Complaints about the pact will not help them, he said. The county chief urged “small parties” to fold up to join the “main parties” — apparently referring to ODM and JP. Governors Stephen Sang of Nandi and John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), and Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri also backed the deal. “Our main interest for this country is unity and such a move was long overdue,” Sang said. Kiunjuri said Raila and Uhuru displayed statesmanship that will end deep ethnic divisions. Dialogue between leaders is key to resolving the country’s problems, he said. “Leaders come and go, but our country shall remain. The two leaders showed they’re not selfish by putting aside their political differences to unite the country,” Kiunjuri said. He urged leaders from all parties and regions to join hands for the benefit of wananchi. Rift Valley clerics, led by Abubakar Bini, also praised the deal, but urged that Kenyans moves forward together so no one is left behind. “We’ve been calling for dialogue. We urge the two leaders to lead the process and involve everyone,” Bini said. Kanu officials, led by Paul Kibet, said the deal would eliminate politics of dominance by individuals who are “only interested in the 2022 election so that they continue amassing wealth”, at the expense of the country’s wellbeing. “The deal will seal the fate of some well-known political brokers, who don’t care about the unity and future of the country but are only interested in power,” Kibet said. Click here for the latest political news 