Claims the government of Kenya has run out of cash are not new. While the current debate was sparked by National Treasury CS Henry Rotich, the same claim was made a number of years ago by the then Finance minister and now President, Uhuru Kenyatta. More recently, in 2015-16, cash flow challenges again hit the government and in the current case, Rotich was quick to deny claims the country is broke. His reason? We have cash expected from the Eurobond sale. So is Kenya broke or not? Kenya has always run a deficit Budget since Independence, meaning our spending plans have always been beyond the income we generate internally. We, therefore, borrow domestically and externally to cover the difference. Although this is done every year, we do not hear of the country being broke. This is because being “broke” refers not to the fact that we have to borrow, but to mean at a particular time, we do not have enough cash at hand. What makes this current situation different? What has caused such a severe cash crunch that has seen the counties go for months without paying their staff? The disbursements to the counties were very low in the first half of the year. As of December last year, the counties had only received 28 per cent of what was approved by Parliament, compared to an average of 37 per cent since the onset of devolution. Suppose the counties had received all their allocations, would the situation be any different? Could we be gazing at a system that is going through a slow but sure leakage? In a bid to make sense of this situation, we look at publicly available data from the Treasury on revenue inflows and disbursements to different agencies in government and the counties up to December of 2017, which forms the first six months of 2017-18. Based on the numbers available to us, we cannot establish the extent of the cash crunch that the country is in. All is not so glossy though. What we need is information on Budget implementation and cash flow projections, as well as disbursements. We are, of course, concerned that our debt is growing faster than revenues, and that could be an indication of tough times ahead. What can explain this?  REVENUE COLLECTION LOWER As of December last year, revenue inflow was at 38 per cent of the annual target. This is below expectations and much lower than the average of 47 per cent in the past five years. One might assume this was due to slow business and the unstable political situation, reducing economic activity and revenue. However, tax, which is the largest contributor to government’s revenue — making up over 70 per cent of the revenue raised in the first half of 2016-17 and 2017-18 — performed quite well, with 44 per cent collected in the first half of both years. Thus, we cannot say revenue collection is the problem. The big issue seems to be around the timing of receipts from borrowing. As of mid-year, the government had only realised four percent of the target for commercial loans. Money from Eurobond had also not checked in yet. So, is the issue poor mobilisation of these loans or outright setting of unrealistic targets? Do we actually set targets based on what is possible or based on the existing budget deficit that has to be met to get a balanced Budget for Parliament’s approval? Receipts from domestic borrowing are also lower this year compared to 2016-17, as only 30 per cent of the targetted amount had been received by December. In addition, the government revised the target of domestic borrowing from Sh466 billion to Sh531 billion. That said, do we have realistic expectations of when the money borrowed would come in, and if it would be the full amount or part of it? What then can explain the crunch?  INCOMPLETE EXPLANATIONS For starters, if this is simply a cash flow problem then we expected it to be resolved in the next two-quarters of 2017-18 as more cash comes in. But there is a general belief that debt repayment is the cause of the current cash flow problem. We take note that the size of the allocation to debt repayment in 2017-18 is Sh209 billion, higher than in 2016-17. Debt repayment to December had grown by 11 per cent compared to revenue at eight per cent. This is significant but not too huge a margin and, thus, may not be the full explanation. What then? Our thinking is that it may have to do with the projections of borrowing. Could we have expected to raise more than practical? And will all that is committed come through or will we receive part? Further, on the expenditures, did the elections and the related activities cost much more than what the Budget had anticipated and that is publicly available? How much would that be to cause a crunch? What about the ongoing KDF operation in Somalia? All these questions need answers. We worry that we may be heading to harder times. Now, more than ever, Parliament must facilitate a public debate on our borrowing and cash flow, and call out where the problem is exactly. We need a clear strategy for local revenue mobilisation, debt investment and repayment.  The writers work at the International Budget Partnership-Kenya. The opinion is theirs.     