Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo wants the Privatisation Commission and National Land Commission to adequately address land ownership of sugar factories before privatisation process takes effect. He supported privatisation of the state-owned millers but said thorny issues of land and benefits of farmers who are major shareholders must be comprehensively discussed. Koyoo said locals donated land to the government to set up the mills and therefore their interests must be given priority. His constituency host Muhoroni, Miwani and Chemelil factory. Yesterday, Koyoo said privatisation of the three companies should be done independently. “Nobody is against privatisation because it is for effective management and proper service delivery in the sugar sector. But the process must be inclusive and addresses concerns of shareholders,” Koyoo said. The legislator told the commission to avoid hurry in the process which might lead to legal action. He added that hastening of privatisation of the factories will negatively impact on cane farmers in proper policy are not put in place. He was speaking during public participation at Miwani and Chemelil factories. Koyoo accused powerful individuals in government of hurrying the privatisation process without proper engagement of all stakeholders. “It is high time the Henry Obwocha-led commission make independent decision which will benefits stakeholders and not for few selfish individuals,” he added. Koyoo is of the opinion that the selling of the state-owned mills should not proceed until proper mechanisms are put in place to ensure major shareholders remains in the hands of farmers. He said Nyando and Muhoroni which are the cane growing zones will suffer immensely if hurried and unprocedural privatisation is done to the sugar industry as it will expose locals to a lot of loss. “A number of resolutions have been made in the past but no implementation. The commission has also ignored our opinions on how best privatisation should be done,” he said. “What is the hurry to privatise the companies without following right procedure and taking into consideration of the interest of land owners?” He vowed that his constituents not be party to privatisation if it is only meant to arm-twist citizens as the industries are on lands that belong to them. “Large numbers of our people are cane growers and their livelihood depends on the sugar sector. We will only support the process if the interest of farmers is effectively considered,” Koyoo said. He further called for a new valuation to be conducted with independent body saying that the current report is questionable. Obwocha said views of stakeholders will not be ignored saying that the commission is determined to find strategic investors.  