Former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando has lauded the unity bid by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. Kabando, who lost his seat in the last general election, said the two leaders had shown that Kenya has reached a new level of maturity in politics. "Last year, after Uhuru's win was nullified, we called for talks but our brothers threw stones at us saying we had been bought." "What we witnessed yesterday (Friday) has vindicated us," Kabando said in a phone interview on Saturday. Read: Why Uhuru opted to work with Raila Also read: Raila took calculated risk to avert bloodshed - Salim Lone "We are, however, glad that the President and former PM have taken it upon themselves to ensure that we close that chapter of unnecessary exchange of words at the expense of growth and development in Kenya," he added. He said some leaders even lost their seats because they joined them in calling for talks between Uhuru and Raila to avoid chaos. "It was a sad turn of events as some people lost their seats because they stood for the truth. The country is moving forward in the right way with the two leaders coming together." Also read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say Kabando was among Mt Kenya leaders who asked Uhuru and Raila to end the October 26 poll stalemate. Former Gichugu MP Martha Karua and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo were at the presser where the call was made. Samwel Ragwa and Peter Mositet were present. The Mt Kenya leaders asked the two top politicians in the country to hold talks to avert a repeat of the 2007/8 post-election violence. "One of them should have the courage to pick up the phone and call the other. That is the only way this country will go into the election on October 26." They vouched for a parliamentary caucus made up of both the Senate and National Assembly to spearhead the dialogue. More on this: Mukurwe-ini residents burn Kabando effigy over Uhuru-Raila dialogue call Click here for the latest political news