Earlier this month, I envisaged the eminent collapse of the Revitalisation peace talks in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The talks on the Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan were brokered by Igad. From where I sit, the failure was prearranged and orchestrated by the numerous briefcase rebel groups who are not interested in peace and stability in South Sudan. Going by their immutable demands, it is clear that their aim is to negotiate out the democratically elected government of President Salva Kiir Mayardit rather than to consider the common good of every citizenry. This is irrational and partisan. The government on Thursday rejected a proposal to establish a collegiate leadership body made up of four vice presidents and led by President Kiir. The opposition groups called for Kiir’s removal during the transitional period, saying he hinders the implementation of the peace agreement. The opposition’s proposal of (four vice presidents) is obscure, incongruous and opaque in so far as South Sudan’s Transitional Constitution is concerned. There is no country or government on the face of the earth that accommodates four vice presidents. It is an undeniable fact that the proponents have an insatiable hunger for political power and do not care about the suffering South Sudanese civil population. I would recommend to the international community — the AU, UN and Troika — to rein in such divisive elements and to set the pace on what the upcoming talks should focus on. The meeting is called the revitalisation peace forum and is not an avenue to negotiate a peace deal where a new government is established. The talks must revolve around the existing deal that saw the establishment of the current transitional government led by SPLM/SPLM IO, rather than renegotiating another government without any particular people on board. It is sad that the world views the sitting government as the only obstacle to peace and stability in South Sudan. The vast majority of the rebel groups have stolen public funds and are living in luxury overseas. It’s unlikely that the South Sudan government will sign and adhere to peace agreements until the international community opens its ears and ceases to turn a blind eye to the opposition warlord groups as well. During the struggle for Independence from the Khartoum regime, our late hero Dr John Garang clearly painted the predicament bedeviling our country South Sudan with the following words: “[The] Khartoum government came to Kenya recently and told Igad that ‘we give you one more chance to achieve peace in Sudan.’ I was amazed because that is like a patient telling the doctor that ‘I give you one more chance to cure me.’ I believe it is we the Sudanese people, the Sudan government and the opposition, that should be pleading with the Igad mediators, ‘Please help us to achieve peace in our country.’ We should not be [giving] an ultimatum to the mediators, threatening them, saying ‘we give you one more chance.’ Peacebuilding is a lifelong journey. Do not be deceived, ousting President Kiir will not be the panacea to the ills facing our country. The cure for our self-inflicted mess is with each and every one of us, the government and the opposition alike. We must desist from blame games, violence, ethnic cocoons, corruption and selfishness. Let’s work towards enacting a new constitution, after which we will conduct free and fair elections. The constitution must be one that strengthens all independent institutions that safeguard the interests of all citizens. The elected leadership must toe the line and uphold the rule of law, democracy and guarantee social liberties. We need to set the right platform for economic stability and social well-being for the young and the old, women and children, fathers and mothers and the youth from every corner of the state.