Several people are feared trapped in rubble following the collapse of a building in Ruai at about 7am on Saturday. The four-storey structure along Kangundo Road contained a restaurant and a lodging. Reports indicated at least four people were inside the building at the time of the collapse. Via Twitter, Red Cross said one person was rescued and taken to Mama Lucy Hospital.  The remnants of a building that collapsed in Ruai on March 17, 2018. /COURTESY  Search and rescue efforts following the collapse of a four-storey building in Ruai, March 17, 2018. /MAUREEN KINYANJUI The society's officials, NCC fire brigade, the National Disaster Management Unit and police are among those in the search and rescue team. It is not clear why the building caved in but heavy rains have been wreaking havoc in Nairobi and other parts of the country. Read: Don’t celebrate, heavy rains will not last – Met Also read: Zero chance of storm from Indian Ocean on Sunday - weatherman Area MCA John Kamangu, who is also Nairobi Deputy Speaker, said the eight-year-old building had been marked for demolition. It was reported that it started shaking on Wednesday and that cracks developed but that the unidentified owner refilled them and repainted affected sections. "The owner had been warned several times ... he did not comply with regulations," Kamangu said in a televised interview. He added: "Not many people were inside at the time of the collapse. We have been informed of a couple who checked in last night and are still trapped. Majority of others people had already left."  Search and rescue efforts following the collapse of a four-storey building in Ruai, March 17, 2018. /MAUREEN KINYANJUI  Ruai residents watch as rescue teams work at the scene of the collapse of a building in Ruai, March 17, 2018. /ENOS TECHE Several buildings have collapsed in Nairobi and other parts of Kenya following heavy rains. In Nairobi, collapses have taken place in parts such as Huruma and Mathare. In Juja town's Joyland Estate on Wednesday night, a six-storey structure that was under construction collapsed during torrential rains. The building did not have occupants, so nobody was injured, but authorities said construction was substandard and that orders had been issued for the site to be closed. Red more: Building in Juja collapses, no approval papers  Search and rescue efforts following the collapse of a four-storey building in Ruai, March 17, 2018. /ENOS TECHE Over the years, buildings have been marked for demolition but most of them are still standing. Last week, the county asked people to vacate buildings marked for destruction. An audit report indicated 1,437 such buildings are in Imara Daima, Zimmerman, Huruma and Mathare and that 650 of them were termed most dangerous and 826 unsafe. Click here for the latest political news 