Central Bank of Kenya Governor Patrick Njoroge and his
deputy Sheila Mbijiwe have been sued in their personal capacity by Imperial
Bank (IBL) shareholders. In application filed at the Employment and Labour Relations
court yesterday, the shareholders together with their respective companies
claim that the two officials mismanaged IBL receivership. “We are seeking orders from the court declaring the two
liable and should be compelled to lead recovery efforts into liquidation,” said
Lawyer Philip Murgor. They claim the new suit does not in any way affect the
ongoing transaction, rather seeks to ensure that the end game is not
liquidation The Shareholders have fought the bank’s liquidation since it
went into receivership in October 2015. CBK applied for a 12-month extension to receivership period
to work on a recovery deal and the period comes to an end in 14 weeks. According to the court documents, Kenya Deposit Insurance
Corporation (KDIC) confirms that they have continued to collect loans and have
so far cumulatively collected over Ksh.10bn The shareholders lead by Kenblest limited, Alnashir popat, Anwar
hajee, Jinit shah, Hanif Mohamed, Amiralji somji, Mukesh kumar patel and Vishnu
dhutia said that Njoroge and the CBK have refused to avail them with the
relevant and pertinent financial information. “The information that they are withholding would enable us
to put in place our proposal in line with the parallel process,” said Murgor. Patel and the others in the court documents said they are
aggrieved by the conduct of the Central Bank during the period of the Bank’s
receivership and omitting their statutory powers. They claim that Njuguna and Mbijiwe ought to have known that
Peter Gatere was not only an employee of CBK, a staff member of CBK’s
supervision unit and a close confidant of the named culprits in the FTI Report
and shown as having exchanged emails with the senior management of the Bank. They added that they could have known that he was involved
in the fraudulent activity of W.E. Tilley as far back as 2012, but culpable and
otherwise complicit in the irregular disbursements from the Bank. In the court documents the two are said to have aided and
abetted the appointment of Peter Gatere as receiver manager or otherwise failed
to prevent his appointment in the circumstances with such appointment having
been made with a view to covering up the truth behind the fraud at the Bank. “In allowing DTB access to the Bank and/or the Bank’s
records and data, Njuguna, Mbijiwe and Mohamud Mohammed have aided to cover up
DTB’s role, if any in handling the funds carried out on the Bank.” the
shareholders argued. They contested that the governor, his deputy and the Chief
Executive Officer of KDIC have not only failed to investigate , and or trace
the money trail of the funds defrauded from the Bank through  Fidelity and DTB, but have actively protected
and or propped  them up  with a view to burying the truth . They further argued that the CBK and its officials have also
failed to trace or otherwise take steps to trace, the funds known to have been
disbursed from the Bank, to various companies whose accounts were held at Fidelity
and DTB. The shareholders in the complaint said that Njuguna has also
allowed another financial institution, NIC Bank Limited (“NIC”) to benefit from
the receivership process and the unrestricted access to data with the result
that NIC has been able to open branches in the same vicinity as several of the
Bank’s branches which could only have happened if NIC had access to the Bank’s
customer base and data. “Failure to protect the Bank’s value will result in further
losses to depositors,” they said. They said that In failing to trace the sums irregularly and
illegally disbursed from the Bank, the three have refused to confirm that they
were indeed not the beneficiaries of the amounts irregularly disbursed from the
Bank, yet they still persist, acting at the behest of the Fourth and Fifth
Defendants in maintaining unsubstantiated allegations against the Plaintiffs as
relates to their alleged fraud as evidenced in various documents filed in
Court. The malicious conduct of Njuguna and his deputy is further
compounded by the fact that there have been unjustified overheads maintained at
the Bank since the commencement of its receivership, which has a net effect of
eroding the Bank’s commercial.