Suba MP John Mbadi has faulted the National Police Service following reports that it plans to slash salaries of graduate officers. Mbadi said it’s unheard of for an employer to reduce salaries of his employees. Read: Salary reductions will intimidate police, cause more suffering - Atwoli He said police spokesman Charles Owino’s explanation that some of the graduate police officers were wrongly awarded salary increments does not justify the pay cuts. "If someone awarded a salary, there is no way you can reduce the salary under the excuse that it was awarded illegally yet this person has been paid this salary for some time," Mbadi said. "If someone awarded this salary wrongly, that person should be sworn the door," Mbadi said. The NPS is reportedly reducing the salaries of graduate police officers from Sh36,000 to Sh18,000. Mbadi said the reduction was demoralizing and an indication that the service should only be a reserve for illiterate people. Read: Police service reviews salaries, lowest paid cops to get 19% raise Also read: Uhuru pledges to improve police welfare, offer robust medical insurance He said if anything, the police service needs to recruit more graduate officers to improve the profession. "We want intelligence also. Police service is not just about carrying a gun and shooting. That is why sometimes they make mistakes. We also need some level of intelligence." Mbadi challenged police spokesman Charles Owino and NPS chairperson Johnstone Kavuludi to clear the air on the salary reduction saga. On Tuesday, Owino said the salaries were being reduced because they were awarded wrongly while Kavuldi, on the other hand, denied that there were such reductions being implemented. The legislator laid the blame on the salary reductions on the Salaries and Remuneration Commission saying it set a bad precedent when it adjusted the salaries of MPs downwards. "This bad habit is brought to this country by SRC. When it affects members of parliament Kenyans clap. You cannot give someone a salary then reduce it." He said if indeed there were wrongful awards of salary raises, the matter should be investigated as the concerned officers continued to enjoy their new pay. The Minority Leader also criticized the police service for taxing disabled police officers saying it was against the law. According to the law, disabled Kenyans are not supposed to be subjected to taxation. "Sometimes you wonder what is wrong with our top police leadership. I am not sure whether they did a good job," Madi said. He added that it was also not right for fresh police graduates to be sent on assignment in risky areas saying most of them lose their lives for lack of enough experience on the front line. Mbadi said police officers do not enjoy the rights in regards to Article 24 of the Constitution which allows all Kenyans to be members of a trade union and also go on strike. He said there is a need for parliament to find a way to protect them concerning the protection of the rights under the Bill of Rights. Mbadi said most police officers live under deplorable conditions as the country is yet to implement Agenda 4 on the reforms in the police service. He said the bad living and working conditions have led to an increase in the number of police officers who are committing suicide and killing their colleagues and family members. "The failure to make their lives comfortable is a consequence of the stalled police reforms." According to Mbadi, the police service is ‘dead’ and is not giving Kenyans value for their money. "If you feel you have realized that you have reached your limit please just exit and allow Kenyans to look for another person to serve them as envisaged in the Constitution." "If a police officer can take a gun and shoot a university student in cold blood, there must be something wrong. This person is either protesting or there must be something that has affected this officer," Mbadi said. He said police officers are suffering in silence as top police leadership arrogantly deal with their plight. This was in reference to Owino's remarks on Tuesday that it doesn't matter how many police officers will resign over salary reductions because they are planning to hire 10,000 more. Mbadi suggested that the top police leadership should be vetted afresh to determine their leadership abilities and a special commission set up to evaluate grievances raised by juniors. Also read: Court puts on hold directive to reduce graduate cops’ salaries  Click here for the latest political news 