Conservationists have faulted Environment CS Keriako Tobiko for constituting a task force to look into illegal logging without consultation. They yesterday told the star that the team lacks professionalism. "We are a professional body that ought to have been involve," Forest Society of Kenya national chairman Joram Kagombe told the Star. The 1,500 member-society has asked for a meeting with Tobiko over the matter. The CS named the team on Tuesday. He gave them two weeks to unearth illegal activities in all forests countrywide. Green Belt Movement chairperson Marion Wakanyi will lead the task force. Environment Institute of Kenya vice chairperson Linda Munyao, Rhino Ark executive director Christian Lambrechts, Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga and Kenya Water Towers Agency chairperson Isaac Kalua are members of the team. Others are KCB Bank director Adil Khawaja, KEPSA Environment Water and Natural Resource Sector Board chairperson Duncan Kimani, COTU official Ernest Nadome and lawyer Faith Waigwa and Gideon Kilakoi. We have code of ethics and conduct that has been adhered to over time,"he said at the Nairobi Arboretum. Joram wondered why all those named into the task force were not all inclusive as none among his team was consulted. FSK plays pivotal role in the growth and development of forest sector in the country. The society was a key partner in the development of the draft forest policy in 2015,development and implementation of various forest related legislations and National strategies that includ forest act 2005,climate change act 2017,The forest conservation act and management 2016 and the national forest programme 2016-2030 The Society has already written to Tobiko seeking an appointment with him over the matter. Forest Society of Kenya a non-profit organization of professional foresters . It has over 1500 members drawn from various public and private sector institutions. Tobiko named the task force on Tuesday, giving them two weeks to unearth illegal activities in country's forests. Green Belt Movement chairperson Marion Wakanyi will lead the task force. Environment Institute of Kenya vice chairperson Linda Munyao, Rhino Ark executive director Christian Lambrechts, Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga and Kenya Water Towers Agency chairperson Isaac Kalua are members of the team. Others are KCB Bank director Adil Khawaja, KEPSA Environment Water and Natural Resource Sector Board chairperson Duncan Kimani, COTU official Ernest Nadome and lawyer Faith Waigwa and Gideon Kilakoi. Kagombe's sentiments were echoed by East Africa Wildlife Society Executive Director Julius Kamau. Kamau told the Star that the task force members has no single forest professional. "Who will inform the committee,?" Kamau posed. He said there is a possibility that the report the task force will lack legitimacy. Kamau said the Kenya Forestry Working Group as well as Kenya forest society must be represented in the task force. The forest cover in the country is about 4.39 million hectares. The natural forests on public,community and private land at about 4.159,279 representing 94.7 percent of the national forest cover. The plantation area within gazetted,community and private forest constitute about 232,298 hectares representing 5.3 percent national forest cover KFS is responsible for 905,357hectares of plantation area. Over 80 percent of domestic energy supply is got from fuel with about 90 percent of rural households using fuel for cooking. Another 80 percent of urban families depending on charcoal as the primary source of fuel for cooking. The current wood deficit is projected to increase from 10 million meters cubic to about 15million meters cubic by 2030. The Society said the country is facing unprecedented serious and acute water crisis attributed to deforestation degradation and encroachment of the water towers.   