A businessman yesterday petitioned MPs to allow him to make food additives from bhang after all state agencies rejected his request. Simon Mwaura, who claims to be a biochemist, said bhang is highly nutritious once the components that make people high are removed. “What remains can be blended with tea, beer and spirits, and doesn’t have psychotropic effects,” he told the House Health Committee. He proposed that the plant be grown in national parks, military barracks, or in controlled farms by licensed individuals. Mwaura said he will buy a kilogramme of bhang at Sh10,000 and farmers would make Sh1 million per acre in one season. “The pilot programme, if granted, will involve 150,000 licensed growers only allowed to grow in a maximum of one acre each,” he said. Mwaura is the proprietor of Nairobi-based firm Hyraquip. His request was first rubbished by the Agriculture ministry in March 2014. He had sought publication of a gazette notice to declare bhang and miraa special crops to enable him undertake a pilot programme in all the counties. Johnson Irungu, on behalf of the Agriculture Principal Secretary, said the ministry could not offer advice on food additives. Mwaura was referred to the Kenya Bureau of Standards and the Public Health department to determine whether bhang has beneficial nutritional properties. In April 2014, Pharmacy and Poisons Board registrar Kipkerich Koskei rejected Mwaura’s application. He said marijuana and its products remained prohibited in Kenya. “There’re other legal sources of the extracts you want to produce and the Health ministry would advise you use the other sources in your intended production,” Kipkerich said. Matungulu MP Stephen Mule said the committee would invite all state agencies involved to explain why they rejected Mwaura’s request. Seme MP James Nyikal told Mwaura to subject his claims to scientific analysis, rather than take shortcuts to market them under the unregulated food supplements. “When we have an indication something works, we want to quickly market it as food supplement because we don’t want to isolate the active compounds,” he said. Also Read:Legalise bhang to free Kenyans from 50 years of colonial oppression - Ogot Click here for the latest political news 