The Kenya Forest Service Chairman Peter Kinyua has called for a total ban on harvesting of Sandalwood. Kinyua said the over-extraction of the tree will soon make the species become extinct. The tree is highly valued for its essential oil that is used in the cosmetic industry. "There is need to have the extraction banned," Kinyua said over the weekend. Read; New life for sweet smelling sandalwood Kinyua was speaking during a working visit in Kitichi, near Wamba in Samburu County. During the visit, several suspects found engaging in illegal forest activities were nabbed. KFS and its partners have intensified patrols to combat illegal harvesting of indigenous trees in the forest. The trees are targeted by the illegal loggers because of their high demand in the market. The patrols follows a directive by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko targeting those undertaking illegal activities inside the forest. After taking over the office, Tobiko warned that those engaging in forest activities with be dealt with ruthlessly. Sandalwood is listed under endangered species the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. The tree species is found in Northern Kenya, Baringo and Kajiado counties. Sandalwood oil is commonly known for its woodsy, sweet smell and is frequently used as a base for products such as incense, perfumes, cosmetics, and aftershave. It is easily blended with other oils, making it desirable as a mix into other fragrances. Products from the wood are highly valued in China and the Middle East, a move that has seen underground business increase. The Kenya Wildlife Service is the nationally designated authority to managing sandalwood. Therefore, KWS bears the law enforcement responsibility where sandalwood is concerned. Kinyua has consistently called for a total ban on the tree species. He wants the Kenya Forestry Research Institute to provide the necessary detail to allow the Ministry of Environment and Forestry implement a total ban on the species. During the operations, Kinyua was accompanied by Kenya Forest Service Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests, Natural Forest Conservation and Management Charity Munyasya. Also read: Four APs arrested ferrying sandalwood in Nakuru town  Click here for the latest political news