Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong finally has unveiled his nominees for cabinet and chief officers after a long wait. Officials said the delay was caused by the desire to come up with a diverse and highly qualified team to serve the people. Director of communications Winston Mbanda issued the list in the absence of the county chief. Three CECs and five chief officers from the previous administration take up their roles immediately, as they will not have to be vetted afresh. “The highly motivated individuals, who come from diverse backgrounds and communities across our county bring a wealth of talent and experience that will complement our existing wealth,” Ojaamong said in a statement. He said the county was committed to sustainable development, strengthening diversity and offering equal opportunities to everyone. “This team will work tirelessly to honour the trust of the people of Busia,” he said. Seven nominated CECs and 11 nominated chief officers will have to be approved by the county assembly. The CEC members who have made it back to the cabinet are Osia Mwanje (Agriculture and Animal Resources), Lenard Wanda Obimbira (Finance, Economic Planning and ICT) and Benard Yaite (Youth, Sports, Tourism, Culture, Youth and Social Services). Yaite, has been been moved to another ministry. The retained chief officers are Moses Weunda, Gilbert Oduory, Allan Omachar, Ezekiel Otieno and Richard Achiambo. New CEC nominees are Isaac Alukwe (Water, Environment and Natural Resources), Phaustine Barasa (Health and Sanitation), John Mwami (Education and Vocational Training), Grephas Opata (Lands, Housing and Urban Development), Janet Munyasi (Public Service Management), George Ekirapa (Public Works, Transport) and Judith Maketso (Trade). Chief officer nominees are David Nyongesa, Ruth Mukhongo, Andrew Namunyu, Prisca Omoit, Isaac Omeri, Clementina Oundo, Lidya Nabwire, Joy Wanga, Nelson Kwamini, Maurice Odundo and Stephen Nasiagi. CECs who failed to retain their seats include Mkaujrice Siminyu, Martin Kafwa and Hellen Muchuma. Nicodemus Mulaku has, however, retained his position as the county secretary. Some 11 chief officers were sent packing. Ojaamong had assured residents he would crack the whip on lazy officers. “During our campaigns last year, the people of Busia county told us what is important to them and our whole team will work together to deliver on those priorities.” 