At least 26 slums, including Kibera, will be redeveloped with decent low-cost housing, sanitation and security. The city is partnering with private investors in the multi-billion shilling Urban Regeneration of Informal Settlements programme. Prospective partners are required to submit letters of interest, innovative designs and proposals for redevelopment. The estimated investment was not immediately known. Calls to acting county secretary Leboo Morintat and the Housing executive Charles Kerich yesterday were not answered. Morintat yesterday invited investors to submit letters expressing interest by April 5. He said the programme will improve living standards through better planning, housing tenure, better infrastructure, amenities, business opportunities, among other improvements. Kibera — Africa’s largest slum — and other settlements are on prime land, highly desired by developers. Slums to be upgraded include Kibera, Kitui, City Carton Buruburu, Githogoro, Mji wa Huruma, Mukuru, Fuata Nyayo, Kisii, Site Village, Hazina Sokoni, Maili Saba, Mihango and Mwengenye. INNOVATIVE DESIGNS Others are Jua Kali, Mahira, Huruma Ex-Grogon, Kahonoki, Kiamutisya, Baba Dogo Kasabuni, Baba Dogo Kariadudu, Gathecha Lucky Summer, Glucola Lucky Summer, Korogocho, Ngunyumu, Muriambogo and Kabiria. Mathare is not on the list. Successful investors will mobilise finances, technology and managerial expertise to roll out the programme. About 2.5 million people live in more than 200 informal settlements, representing more than 60 per cent of the capital’s population. Slum dwellers occupy six per cent of the land. Kibera, which houses approximately 250,000 people is the biggest slum in East Africa and one of the biggest in Africa. According to former Governor Evans Kidero, Nairobi need 150,000 to 200,000 housing units annually, but only 3,000 development plans are approved by City Hall yearly. Approximately 15,000 units are developed. In 2016, Kidero announced a Sh300 billion Urban Renewal Programme to upgrade the county’s old estates through Public Private Partnership. The project failed because City Hall lacked a title deed. “This rehabilitation programme will help achieve Kenya’s Vision 2030 and the County’s Integrated Development Plan 2018-2022,” he said. Click here for the latest local political news