The Banking Fraud Investigation Unit has opened a probe into Nakumatt directors Atul Shah and his sons as it seeks to find out whether they may have siphoned billions of shillings from the retailer that is now on its death bed. The Star yesterday spoke to a source within the BFIU who agreed to confirm the ongoing investigations only if his identity was not revealed as he is not authorised to talk to the press. He confirmed the unit had early this month obtained a court order allowing it to probe bank accounts owned by Shah and his sons. The BFIU recently received a fresh complaint that implicated Shah and his sons in diversion of large sums of money from Nakumatt, which is now facing a real threat of liquidation. Our source, however, declined to reveal the complainant, arguing the probe is still in its early stages hence it is still crucial to protect identities of the individuals instigated investigations. Nakumatt administrator Peter Obondo Kahi last week confirmed officers from the BFIU had requested several documents relating to the retailer’s finances, and that the detectives clarified investigations are ongoing into Shah and the other two directors. But Atul earlier this month moved to court and obtained a court order suspending the investigations. The Nakumatt owner has in his suit asked the High Court to stop the BFIU from probing him in relation to the fresh complaint. Atul was Nakumatt’s managing director since its inception in 1987 to January this year when Kahi was appointed administrator. His sons Neel and Ankur are the other two directors. Nakumatt is facing liquidation, following two insolvency petitions filed in the High Court against it in May and July last year by Africa Cotton Industries and Gold Crown Beverages respectively. The retailer owes creditors Sh35.8 billion against assets valued at Sh9 billion. High Court judge Fred Ochieng in January allowed the appointment of Kahi as administrator as he looks to determine whether Nakumatt should be revived or liquidated. The Star’s source at the BFIU said at the time, Atul obtained the court order, detectives had established that he is a dual citizen of Kenya and the United Kingdom, and that he may have prime properties in Dubai. “The BFIU had obtained a court order to investigate bank accounts of Nakumatt’s directors and that is what they have now challenged in the High Court. It is still early and in the interest of protecting parties it is still not wise to reveal parties’ identities but there is an investigation going on. They (Nakumatt directors) went to court and got orders temporarily blocking investigations.” “The BFIU is still waiting for the ruling on the case in April, but investigations into the directors’ bank accounts had been commenced,” the source said. He added the probe will consider the possibility funds may have been diverted by Atul and stashed offshore, beyond the jurisdiction of Kenyan courts. Nakumatt Holdings, which runs the retailer’s branches in Kenya, is a subsidiary of Mauritius-registered Nakumatt Group Limited. Atul is the sole owner of the Mauritius entity. The Kenyan operation is 99.999 per cent owned by Nakumatt Group Limited, while Atul owns the other 0.001 per cent of shares. Kahi, the retailer’s administrator, has proposed that Nakumatt’s suppliers waive 25 per cent of their debt and convert the other 75 per cent to equity. The administrator has also suggested that he be allowed to oversee Nakumatt’s revival. Under Kahi’s proposal, creditors may have to wait for over seven years before receiving full payment.Creditors are later this week expected to decide, through voting, whether to accept Kahi’s proposal as it is, make amendments to it or reject it entirely. Their decision will be among the factors judge Ochieng will consider when making a determination on whether to rule in favour of liquidation or revival.