Love him or hate him, Raila Odinga has a way of maintaining consistency in his commitment to his publicly stated principles of struggling for a progressive state. He has demonstrated a rare quality and knack for enduring numerous setbacks in his quest for a united and democratic nation. He has proved to be the quintessential beacon for social justice, who always champions prosperity and equity for our society. On many occasions, he seemed to have succumbed to the weight and inefficiency of his political missions, only to emerge stronger from the rubble. His stratagem often gets misconstrued as a cumbersome and unnecessary burden in Kenya’s oft short-cut political processes. However, it is now apparently clear Raila’s leadership plan and strategies are well-thought-out and long-term in nature. Today he is the longest-serving active national leader, having participated in every important epoch in Kenya’s statehood, except the Independence process. He has survived the occupational hazards that have been associated with the volatile nature of every historical moment of the nation since 1969. He has steadily expanded his influence, from the humble beginnings among academia, to the lowly proletariat of the slums, then painstakingly inheriting his father’s Luo nation, and eventually building one of the largest political parties, ODM. ODM was at one time the single largest political party, with the most widespread nationwide grassroots network and national legitimate leadership since Kanu and until Jubilee merged. Since the reintroduction of multiparty politics, it is the only party that has survived three electoral cycles. However, the rise and eventual dominance of national politics by Raila has brought mixed fortunes to both the country and some leaders. Careers and leaders have been built and destroyed almost in equal measure. The Second Liberation was the historical moment that pushed Raila firmly to the core of the national leadership framework. Having survived the harrowing conditions of nine-year detention without trial, he got thrust into the Ford fraternity of the Young Turks. The Young Turks had been the force behind the clamour for the reintroduction of multiparty democracy and eventual registration of Ford as the alternative to the Kanu monolith. Ford was unable to withstand the government’s machinations that exploited the tribal inclinations of its older and founding officials, and thus split into Ford Kenya and Ford-Asili. Raila, together with the Young Turks, joined the elder Jaramogi Oginga Odinga at Ford Kenya and later became Official Opposition Leader. Raila would regularly challenge some of the decisions taken by his father and this put him on a collision path with his Young Turk colleagues. When Jaramogi died mid-term of the Eighth Parliament, Raila sought to succeed him and thus begun the attrition with the Young Turks. He had been the least visible of the group and yet he was scheming to sidestep his compatriots and leapfrog to the pinnacle of Opposition leadership. Friendships were compromised, networks were shaken and loyalties were tested to the limit. When the chips were finally down after the 1997 election, many prominent political careers had been crushed and new leaders emerged. Raila had made a landmark entry and maintained a strong foothold at the national leadership stratum apex. From the ranks of the Young Turks, Raila had stamped his authority and political acumen. However, his later efforts to galvanise the old liberation movement leaders to unite with renegade Kanu apparatchiks have not borne much fruit. They have not been able to build a critical mass around Jakom for the necessary momentum for State leadership takeover. The luminaries have variously played prominent roles in successive governments, but in ancillary roles. They have been at best a supporting cast to Kanu offspring and the old order. Raila is the last standing man standing among the Second Liberation movement stalwarts with clout enough to stake a claim at the high table of State operations. The 2022 election was poised to be an internal duel of old Kanu loyalists and apologists. The clear candidate for Jubilee is a dyed-in-the-wool Kanu operative, while the NASA possible successors to Raila are Kanu orphans and latter-day regime apologists. The decision by Raila and Uhuru to work together in whatever form and content, has thrown the succession battle into an open field. What appeared to have been a concluded deal for Jubilee’s William Ruto is no longer guaranteed. Kalonzo Musyoka was a clear NASA candidate for the next election, but that was before the Friday Harambee House, Office of the President, landmark announcement. As before, those who had worked with Raila in the hope of attaining their political dreams have now to contend with the possibility of losing their modest but hard-earned investments. They are staring at the brink of being annihilated and lost to oblivion. For the Jubilee potentials, their schemes were hinged on Railaphobia for their current support base. On the other hand, they had hoped to intimidate the Raila base into submission in the absence of Baba as a candidate. The twin approaches would bring into the fold the 50- per-cent-plus-one win without much fuss and sweat. It was predicted that the Opposition without Raila would fumble and be insignificant at the close of the vote count. Ruto, or whomever Jubilee chose as their candidate, would rule the country with a comfortable majority and the Opposition would be subdued to submission and do the government’s bidding without much nudging. On the other side of the aisle, the Raila co-principals had angled themselves to gain vantage positions for easy succession. While the three claimed an equal stake at the candidacy of NASA, Kalonzo appeared the first among equals. He had been running mate to Raila on two occasions. However, the entry of Musalia Mudavadi at the tail-end of last year’s election unsettled the applecart. Mudavadi arrived at the Cord enclave with the enticing NASA clarion call and outfit that was not only enticing but also irresistible. Cord gave way to NASA and Mudavadi was once again at the helm of opposition leadership, having been scuttled by the first Jubilee in 2013. Mudavadi’s energy at the rallies was unmatched and endeared him to the crowds and this appeared to threaten the position of Kalonzo. Moses Wetang’ula had nothing new to offer and, therefore, just managed to retain his position at the Summit but as the last among equals. He did not appear to consider demanding the NASA flag with the seriousness of a presidential candidate. The tussle, therefore, was clearly between Kalonzo and Mudavadi. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho occasionally threw spanners into the works with claims of ODM going it alone and him being a candidate. Each of the NASA hopefuls had banked on benefiting from the huge Raila fanatic following, his charisma, vast local and international networks and deep resource outlay. However, these hopes have now gone up in flames. It is clear Raila will play a direct role in 2022, a role that is not subservient and arm-twisting. ODM is keen on divorcing the NASA partners and the process of the Opposition nominating its flagbearer was never made any clearer. As such, death is the natural consequence for NASA. Raila has just but hastened the process of the coalition’s disintegration and each of the principals has to fend for themselves now. Anyone of them with serious presidential ambitions must pitch tent and be seen to act the part and command his troops to State House. As it is the four principals Ruto, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have been thrown under the bus if not scattered to the four winds! It is a fresh start to the 2022 race. The 52-year-long Kenyatta-Odinga dynastic rivalry and cyclic feuds could be coming to a close.   The writer is a public policy analyst