Title: The Kids Are Alright Artiste: Chloe x Halle Genre: R&B/Soul Release: March 23  Beyoncé’s endorsement of the Bailey sisters played an important role in impacting their musical careers. You have to give credit to this sibling duo, comprising Chloe and Halle,  for always wanting to create good music. They started off by creating covers of popular tunes for their YouTube channel, and in 2016, they had gained enough mastery to the extent of releasing their first EP, Sugar Symphony. However, their actual break came when they cameoed on Beyoncé’s visual album, Lemonade. In the first quarter of 2017, Chloe and Halle, who are 19 and 18 years old respectively, released their debut mixtape, The Two of Us. They kept their fan base entertained with their vocal capabilities and creative complexity. Now, they’ve released their debut full-length LP, The Kids Are Alright, an actual testament of where they are in their careers. The 18-track album immediately introduces us to their intricate vocal disposition on the intro, “Hello Friend”. This spills over to the title track, “The Kids Are Alright”, and further to “Grown”, tracks that embrace their generation’s will to want to exist, work and thrive in the modern world. Throughout the project, you can identify moments where they moderately incorporate the contemporary R&B sound, but still find themselves embracing their alternative R&B proclivity. Rappers GoldLink and Joey Bada$$ deliver their verses on essential tracks “Hi, Lo” and “Happy Without Me” respectively.  Kari Faux also appears as a guest appearance on the tuneful “Fake”. For what it’s worth, for any music enthusiast, this is an album worth listening to. Clearly, a lot has gone into the creation of this project. Compared to previous attempts, we can agree that there’s significant artistic growth every time the American R&B duo release a new project. As usual, their album is deliberately inspired by the brilliance captured in its production. It is a masterful study of being young adults out to face a world full of opportunities. With utmost care and wisdom, they offer their fanbase a compilation packed with enjoyable harmonies and immersive bliss. This certainly is the year for their lights to shine.  Star Rating: 3.5 out of 5