New financial regulations International Financial Reporting Standards 9  and interest rate cap laws will negatively affect mortgage uptake, shareholders in the housing sector have said. The investors represented by Genghis Capital, real estate developers Paradigm Projects and National Housing Corporation said the laws will make affordability of homes more difficult due to their tight credit standards. For instance, IFRS9 regulations requires that credit provisions are made on the basis of expected, rather than realised loan losses Besides the regulations, the three said that the 18 months old Intrest rates has extensively frustrated mortgage uptake for it is too expensive for many developers. Home Afrika Limited MD Dan Awendo said the rates should go to as low as seven to 10 per cent for Kenya to realise an increase in Mortgage uptake and for Agenda 4 on housing to make sense to home owners. He said that there are only less than 30,000 mortgages issued in the country. Latest Central Bank supervision report indicates that the number of active mortgage accounts dropped by 1.5 per cent to 24,085 at the end of December 2016. National Housing Corporation managing director Andrew Siasi said they are working to attract external financiers to see that the credit rates on housing can be reduced to as low as six per cent. "There is possibility to reduce the rates to a single digit only if we are able to get external financiers," Siasi told journalists at the launch of a Home ownership plan by Genghis and Paradigm Project. The Home Ownership Made Easy-HOME product will allow home buyers acquire property in residential areas around Nairobi without the need for a conventional bank loans. This is in addition to obtaining a long-term purchasing facility from the developer at favourable credit terms, with monthly repayments priced at equal or close to prevailing rental rates in the target areas. Genghis Capital chief executive Geoffrey Gangla said in the plan, they will handle the finance aspect whilst Paradigm Projects will handle the technical aspect. “ The main aspect of the plan is to bring the private sector to play, bring down the cost of Mortgage so that is affordable, and thirdly look at a much longer tenure of the credit repayment,” Gangla said.