President Donald Trump on Wednesday appointed Senator Kyle McCarter of Illinois to replace Robert Godec as the US Ambassador to Kenya. McCarter, an ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary — a diplomatic official of the highest rank — has been a senator in the Illinois State General Assembly since 2009. He has been actively involved in charity activities in Kenya. “It is an honour to be asked to represent President Trump and our great nation in a country where I have lived and served for many years,” McCarter said in a statement. “I look forward to bringing about a closer relationship that will benefit both our nations.” If his nomination is approved by the US Senate, the 56-year-old will take over from Godec, who has served in Kenya since January 16, 2013. McCarter was nominated last year by the Illinois Republican congressional delegation for the ambassadorial post. “While the US Senate considers Senator McCarter’s nomination, the US Embassy team and I will continue to advance our shared US-Kenyan goals and prepare for a smooth transition,” Godec said in a statement. Reports indicated Godec's term expired in July and was extended following the disputed 2017 elections. It is the norm for US envoys to stay in host countries during an election period until all issues are addressed. Read: Godec to remain in office, as other US envoys resign President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga agreed on March 9 to push for reforms together. “During my time here, we have made progress in healthcare, education,
agriculture, trade, investment, security, governance, and many other
areas,” Godec, a career diplomat, said. The 62-year-old
was the first US ambassador in Kenya since Independence to face
demonstrations from the opposition, who accused him of supporting the
status quo. He
defended the Sh300 billion ‘thank you gift’ road project single-sourced
to an American firm to build the superhighway between Mombasa and
Nairobi three days to the disputed polls. Read: Godec's passionate appeal for Kenyans to protect 'precious, fragile' democracy Also read: Godec denies US bribed to support Jubilee, calls for leaders to dialogue  Click here for the latest political news