The Kiambu government has launched a tree-planting drive to protect water resources. Governor Ferdinand Waititu yesterday said the county will plant one million trees in one month in forests, homes and public land. Waititu said the efforts will boost the national government’s plan to conserve the environment. The county’s initiative comes after Deputy President William Ruto imposed a 90-day moratorium on logging in public and community forests. “Deforestation, degradation and encroachment on water towers and other catchment areas, coupled with uncontrolled human activities including wanton logging, have threatened and undermined our country’s capability to ensure food security,” Ruto said. “Sacrifices must be made to restore the lost forest cover in the country.” Ruto directed the Environment ministry and other agencies to jointly take prompt and decisive actions to enforce the order. Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko on Monday launched a tree-planting drive. He has also formed a 15-member task force to look into wanton destruction of forests. The reforestation drive comes amid an unprecedented acute water crisis running into three years because of long dry spells. Water levels in rivers and streams have dropped and some have dried up. Waititu said they supported the logging ban. The county has identified dry areas where drought-tolerant trees are to be planted. Indigenous trees will be planted elsewhere. “We have partnered with the national government to boost its plan of conserving the environment and saving our forests from extinction,” Waititu said on Wednesday in Roromo area of Uplands Forest. drought-tolerant trees He led environment officials in planting more than 1,000 seedlings. County leaders present included Water and Environment executive David Kuria, MCAs Jacque Nungari (Bibirioni), Nyutu Wamwere (Kijabe), Joseph Karichu (Lari Kirenga) and Samuel Mugwanja (Karai). Others were Uplands Forest station manager Caroline Njeru and assistant county commissioner Mary Njuguna. Kuria said the forest is the source of many rivers. Rivers could dry up if reforestation is not carried out, he said. Kuria cited River Kamiti in Riara, whose water is treated and piped to Kiambaa residents. He said river levels had dropped because trees were felled and the forest destroyed. “Our love for cutting trees for financial gains has threatened our forests. Some people steal them, which is so bad,” Kuria said. Kireita Forest is the source of River Bathi, which feeds Ruiru Dam. The dam serves parts of Kiambu, Limuru and Nairobi. Governor Waititu urged the Kenya Forest Service to arrest anyone cutting trees, or doing anything that destroys the environment — even on private farms. The county chief distributed 5,000 drought-tolerant avocado seedlings to residents. He urged farmers to join efforts to protect the environment for the benefit of the current and future generations.