I need a firm guarantee for my personal safety and security from the illegitimate government, Self-proclaimed NRM General Miguna Miguna has said. Miguna who is expected to jet back on Monday said the government must obey court orders and return his VISA. "Please ensure that the illegitimate government fully complies with the court orders so as to avoid what appears as a pre-planned continued violation of my rights," he said. The lawyer was deported to Canada on February 6 after the government stripped him of his citizenship. This followed his role in the swearing-in of opposition leader Raila Odinga as "the people's president". Read; Miguna 'deported' to Canada - lawyer Nelson Havi In a letter to his lawyers from Canada on Saturday, Miguna said he does not intend to apply for a visa to Kenya upon his arrival. "...doing so would facilitate the illegitimate government’s continued disobedience of court orders and further infringe on my constitutional rights," he said. Miguna said he was particularly concerned by a statement from some of his advocates expressing satisfaction with the "compliance," which has not occurred. "I need a firm guarantee for my personal safety in strict compliance of the numerous court orders," he added. Read: Miguna given go-ahead to return as court overturns CS’s directive Also read; I have a ticket, Miguna says ahead of his return to Kenya on Monday Miguna said the government has failed to comply with Court orders to return his valid Kenyan passport, facilitate his return ticket and guarantee his safe return and entry into the country. On Friday night, Miguna told BBC in an interview that he has already secured an air ticket for the March 26 trip to Nairobi. Upon his return, the lawyer said he will "lead the mother of all struggles" adding that his aim is to remove President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto from office. Miguna maintained that he was abducted by police against the law adding that his detention was in violation of seven court orders. More on this: I have a ticket, Miguna says ahead of his return to Kenya on Monday  Click here for the latest political news