Kenya will lose more than NRMKe General Miguna Miguna in the crisis it is currently facing, Opposition leader Raila Odinga's adviser Salim Lone has said. Lone made this observation in an interview with the BBC following the lawyer's second deportation, this time to Dubai. Miguna earlier said he was drugged and that he woke up at this location, with "despots" forcing him to leave for London. Read: I woke up in Dubai, despots forcing me to go to London - Miguna In a brief of the interview that he shared with the media, Lone said: "I made sure listeners knew that more than Miguna was at stake in this growing crisis." He was pleased that the three BBC interviewers were following the saga closely and that they were "astounded by the level of impunity and lawless actions of three very senior government officials, despite strong high court orders regarding Miguna". Yesterday, Justice George Odunga spent nearly the entire day adjudicating on an already messy situation after the government refused to obey an order to produce Miguna in court as ordered the previous day by Justice Roselyne Aburili of the High Court. Odunga had ordered Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and  Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa to appear before him in person, but none honoured his directive. Details: Matiang'i, Boinnet face jail for holding Miguna Asked for Kenyans' views on the drama, Raila's adviser said they are "hardly surprised" by lawlessness as they have seen worse since the two presidential elections last year. He cited the torture and murder of IEBC's acting ICT manager Chris Msando who had said he would ensure an honest votes count. "The election was subsequently so utterly rigged that the Supreme Court courageously annulled it – which led to the justices being abused and threatened by President Uhuru Kenyatta," he claimed. Related: Msando's widow pleads for 'any job anywhere' for their children's sake Lone noted Miguna's popularity but added that his persecution has to do with other key dynamics, including an aroused and mobilised citizenry that is keen on driving change, not leaders merely enjoying their people's support. "It was this mass movement that had scared the daylights out of the often-murderous regime elites which control the state," he told his hosts. "These groups, I said, are therefore trying desperately to crush these people’s movement and the challenge it poses to their hold on Kenya." He said Raila is also facing tough times as these groups want to undermine him as he has led the reforms movement for years. He noted that contrary to the people's expectations, Raila agreed to a "risky accord" with President Uhuru Kenyatta, "to tackle the deep-rooted ills and reduce unrest, instability, ethnic tensions and sharply reduced economic activity that was racking Kenya". The official said powerful people deported Miguna to make it seem that Raila no longer has power and influence in the Kenyan political scene. Regarding the implementation of the deal with Uhuru, Lone said: "Of course Raila is worried. As Kenyans dug deeper into the handshake, Lone once told them that the Opposition leader, who has had his sites set on State House since 1997, is not naive and that he will call off the deal if it fails. Raila termed his deal with the government a tough one but noted he had no choice and that is was for the sake of Kenya's interests. Details: [Statement] Raila not naive, will call off Uhuru deal if unsuccessful - Salim Lone Also see: It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru Click here for the latest political news 