Embattled Kenyatta National Hospital CEO Lily Koros could be away for as long as 60 days, even if she is cleared. More system failures were revealed at a parliamentary committee, including revelations the hospital’s adherence to World Health Organisation checklists is at a paltry 19 per cent. Health CS Sicily Kariuki said the hospital’s human resources manual allows the KNH board to keep the CEO on compulsory leave for 30 days and it can be extended to 60 days. “Compulsory leave is anticipated in the HR manual. There is no mischief in trying to address a problem that is real,” Kariuki said on Friday. Read : KNH boss on leave in brain surgery mix-up Koros and head of clinical services Dr Bernard Githae were sent on compulsory leave on March 3 to allow for a special audit of KNH systems after the brain of the wrong patient was opened in a horror mixup. Kariuki appeared before the parliamentary committee of Health, which is investigating workings at KNH after the wrong brain surgery on February 19. RAPE The CS said she supports the board’s decision to send the CEO and Githae on compulsory leave because there was urgent need to restore public confidence in KNH. The incident came just weeks after anonymous mothers complained they had been raped at the hospital’s maternity ward. Sigowet-Soin MP Kipsengeret Koros demanded to know when the CEO will be restored to her position apparently because “people back at home are demanding their daughter be restored.” Munene corrected MP Koros and said the problem at KNH was real and it was wrong to defend the CEO before investigations are over. “Since I became an MP, we have only been hearing discouraging news from KNH. Even before the surgery we had already realised KNH is rotten. We have a situation where we are KNH is not running well but at the same time we want to protect our people. But the buck stops somewhere,” he said. Kariuki said there are at least three different investigations going on at KNH. One is being done by the regulatory units for doctors, nurses and clinicians, a separate one by the KNH board and a separate firm is carrying out a systems audit of the entire hospital.