WAS NASA chief executive officer Norman Magaya’s (pictured) letter from the principals to the Senate Speaker to save Moses Wetang’ula from Minority leader ouster sincere? Some angry Ford Kenya MPs were overhead within Parliament terming Magaya’s letter to Speaker Kenneth Lusaka as ‘childish’. The MPs argued that Magaya only tried to fool them and NASA supporters that ODM leader Raila Odinga was for co-principal Wetang’ula, but in the real sense he was shedding crocodile tears. WHAT surprised the MPs most was Magaya’s deliberate failure to approach NASA Minority Whip Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr to present the letter to Lusaka and the gaping absence of minutes from the four principals to back their resolution as required by the Standing Orders. SO, is it over for the former Senate Minority leader Weta? Well, a bird whispers that during a meeting on Tuesday immediately after he was formally kicked out of the position, the usually exuberant Senator looked utterly deflated. PANIC has gripped staff at a state oversight agency after a controversial decision by the board made weeks before the expiry of its term on May 23. It is said the board’s action borders on refusal to renew the term of the CEO, who was in March sent on terminal leave before his four year-term ends on May 30. So, how will the process be concluded without a substantive CEO whose vacancy was advertised on Tuesday? Well, Corridors is aware of the procedure where the occupant proceeds on leave, pending the recruitment of the successor, but is it in order when the board is also retiring? A city politician is having many a bad evening of late. Reason? A little bird tells Corridors the man has been forced to be deleting messages of his flirting with young girls on WhatsApp. The source whispers to Corridors the man, who lives in Karen, Nairobi, takes up to 20 minutes every evening deleting all suggestive conversations with the more than five young girls who keep him very busy. While he is said to be contemplating quitting the popular platform on the one hand, he feels he will miss the fun on the other hand. WHAT could be happening around City Market in Nairobi? For almost three weeks, a bad smell almost similar to that of a skunk, has been emanating from the area and neighbours now want the county’s department of Health to find out the cause. Most affected are the hotels around the market, whose customers have kept off. Some residents have started avoiding roads around the area too.