Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo now wants ODM MPs to clarify which side they will support in parliament following the unity pact between Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Maanzo said Wiper and ANC expect ODM MPs to associate themselves with the Jubilee side during Tuesday's parliamentary session. He said Friday's meeting between Uhuru and Raila at Harambee House indicated that ODM was no longer in the Opposition. Read: Not consulted? Accept and support unity pact, Ruto tells Nasa principals "On Tuesday when we get to parliament, minority leaders [John] Mbadi and Junet [Mohammed] must tell us if they will seat on the Jubilee or the minority side. This is as we wait on the answer that Raila will give us on Monday," Maanzo said. He spoke on Saturday at a Makueni hotel during a closed door meeting that was attended by Makueni Wiper leaders, MCAs, MPs and deputy governors. The closed door meeting lasted for ten hours. Maanzo's remarks, however, appeared to contradict Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. Read: 'My heart is at peace', Kalonzo says of Uhuru-Raila deal Also read: I'm ready to work with Uhuru - Ngilu While speaking at a funeral in Mua, Machakos on Saturday, Kalonzo said his heart was at peace following the Raila-Uhuru pact. He said the meeting had vindicated him since he has been calling for dialogue between NASA and Jubilee since last year. “About our country, we have agreed to meet as NASA on Monday and know what exactly happened yesterday (Friday), but my heart is at peace, I feel vindicated, what I have been preaching will happen,” Kalonzo said. However, Maanzo said until the Monday meeting clears the air, as things stand, they believe ODM MPs have crossed the floor of the House. "The way (Raila) got into government and how he announced that he will work with Uhuru, we expect ODM to automatically move to Jubilee side," he said. NASA comprises of four parties namely Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), Wiper Democratic Movement (WDM-K), Ford Kenya and Amani National Congress (ANC). Details: Why Uhuru opted to work with Raila Maanzo said Wiper and Musalia Mudavadi's ANC will now seek alternative minority leadership in the house. "If ODM moved to Jubilee, then Wiper Kenya and ANC are still in NASA. And if that is so then Kalonzo [Musyoka] is the presidential candidate without going back." In a joint statement on Friday, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula said they knew nothing about Raila meeting Uhuru until it was highlighted in the media. On Saturday, Mudavadi dismissed the pact between the two leaders saying NASA was rooting for constructive dialogue on matters of national interest and not talks between two individuals. Read: Mudavadi trashes Uhuru-Raila pact, says not reflecting the will of Kenyans More on this:  We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say   Click here for the latest political news