Nairobi Governor
Mike Sonko failed to nominated a deputy within 14 days as advised by
the Supreme Court. The grace period
elapsed last Thursday. The apex court had
on March 8 gave Sonko and his Nyeri counterpart Mutahi Kahiga two
weeks to nominate their deputies and forward the names to the
respective county assemblies for approval, or otherwise within 60
days. But lawyers opine
that the Court only gave an advisory and not an order that the
governors had to comply with. “The court only
expressed its opinion in form of an advisory. It was not a Court
order. So the governors can still nominate their deputies,” lawyer
Edwin Sifuna said. The county assembly
majority leader Abdi Guyo said Sonko neither violated the law nor
disobeyed Supreme Court as the highest court in the land only
expressed an opinion. The Constitution is silence on the filling of
the vacancy in the office of the deputy governor. Polycarp Igathe
resigned as Sonko's deputy in a huff in January, while Kahiga took
over from Governor Wahome Gakuru who died in a road accident. The Supreme Court
Judges - Chief Justice David Maraga, his deputy Philomena Mwilu,
Justices Mohamed Ibrahim, Jackton Ojwang’, Njoki Ndung’u, Smokin
Wanjala and Isaac Lenaola – said the position could not be filled
through an election. They held that the
deputy assumes office through nomination by the Governor and that the
two offices are inseparable. “We are therefore
of the definite opinion that the office of the Deputy Governor ought
not to remain vacant until the next General Election,” Justice
Wanjala, who read the statement on behalf of the judges said. It is not clear when
the city boss will name his preferred deputy. He did not return our
calls yesterday. Last week, Sonko
published at least 10 names on his Facebook page, asking the city
residents to help him nominate one as his deputy. But sources at City
Hall said the city boss had settled on businesswoman and Jubilee
Party activist Agnes Kagure as deputy. Sonko was said to
have given in to influential politicians and businesspeople who
fronted Kagure for the position. Former Starehe MP
Margaret Wanjiru, lawyer Miguna Miguna, EALA MP Simon Mbugua, Citizen
TV anchor Anne Kiguta, former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru,
current Nairobi Woman representative Esther Passaris and current
Education CEC Janet Muthoni.