The ICC has assigned three judges to cases against President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto and former journalist Joshua Sang. The three faced crimes against humanity charges in relation to the 2007/8 post-election violence. More than 1,300 people were killed and at least 600,000 internally displaced. The judges of Trial Chamber IV are Robert Fremr, Reine Alapini-Gansou and Kimberly Prost. Their appointment was announced in a statement on the website of the International Criminal Court on March 16. "The assignments as well as the re-composition of chambers will be effective March 20." Kenya's situation was assigned to Pre-Trial Chamber II that will be composed of judges Antoine Kesia-Mbe Mindua, Tomoko Akane and Rosario Salvatore Aitala. The judges will also handle the situations in the CAR, Uganda, Darfur, Sudan, Cote d'Ivoire, Afghanistan and Burundi. The cases against the three collapsed after key witnesses withdrew and others recanted their evidence. The one against Uhuru was dismissed in 2014 for lack of evidence and political interference. In April 2016, the court ruled that Ruto and Sang had no case to answer but said the prosecution can appeal. Judges argued that the prosecution failed to present sufficient evidence to convict the suspects. In a 95-page no-case-to-answer motion, Ruto had said the witnesses used to confirm his charges never took the stand, leaving the prosecution with a “case built almost entirely on hearsay”. He had been charged with murder, deportation (or forcible transfer of populations) and persecution. More on this: ICC terminates cases against Ruto, Sang Also see: [VIDEO] No other Kenyan will face the ICC, President Uhuru vows The President once said that no Kenyan will ever be tried at the ICC but while still the Attorney General, Githu Muigai later announced support for the court but with the giving of priority to Africa's systems. He also said Kenya will not withdraw from the ICC. Read: Kenya will not withdraw from ICC, says Githu Muigai Click here for the latest political news 