KCB retained the bragging rights as Kenya Cup champions after beating Kabras Sugar 29-24 on Saturday to retain the cup in the final played at KCB Sports Club in Ruaraka. The match kicked off with both sides having the best of the other in the first half but Kabras soon found themselves a man down courtesy of Asuman Mugerwa’s sin bin. KCB took advantage of the situation and took the lead 7-0 with Darwin Mukidza with the conversion. Kabras reduced the deficit to 7-3, 11 minutes into the game after the bankers were penalized for a shoulder charge. Later, Johnstone Mung’au put Kabras in the lead 8-7 after intercepting the ball but Philip Wokorach missed the conversion. Kabras kept possession for the better part of the game with Mugerwa landing a try to stretch the lead to 13-7 with 25 minutes of play. Peter Kilonzo grabbed a try with fullback Mukidza converting it for KCB to take a marginal lead 14-13 with nine minutes left for in the half. Mukidza missed a penalty moments later but Jacob Ojee restored KCB’s hopes after landing a corner to make it 19- 13 at the break. Second half saw the bankers setting camp in the Kabras half but the visitors pushed back winning a penalty KCB. Wokorach made no mistakes with the penalty and reduced the deficit to 19-16. KCB suffered an injury forcing Nick Ongeri to leave the pitch with Martin Owila coming on a replacement. Tension was running high with just three points separating the teams as the clock ran down. KCB soon landed a penalty midway in the second half with Mukidza taking the shot. The Kakamega-based Kabras responded swiftly after a fantastic individual performance saw Nichodemus Barasa set up Wokorach for a try. Substitute Owila in turn put up an impressive display and shoved off two tacklers before pinning the ball between the sticks with Mukidza extending KCB’s lead to 29-21 with the resultant conversion. With eight minutes to go, Kabras got a penalty and reduced KCB’s lead to 29-24 via Wokorach’s kick. As time raced down, Kabras vehemently tried to grab a try under the posts but a threatened KCB put up a spirited fight to cling on the marginal lead until the final whistle.  Click here for the latest political news 