The government could be losing revenue amounting to billions of shillings due to gaps in the remittance of taxes by bar owners. Officials carrying out a crackdown on illegal operations said this on Friday but did not give details. Nacada, KRA, Kebs, public health departments and security officials will give their full report after completing the exercise. During their raids on Friday, they confiscated assorted wines from South Africa at Kasarani after finding KRA stickers that did not reflect their contents. Officials of the Kenya Revenue Authority who are taking part in the operation were also taken aback by their findings at outlets including TusTax Wines and Spirits. The owner of Tus Tax shop was asked to close down the shop until he secures a licence. A Lebanese operating a club at Thika Road Mall had assorted wines and other drinks for which taxes had not been paid. Alex Njeru from Nacada said shisha was also smoked in the club late in the night. The owner will face the KRA and other authorities to answer to these offences. Related: Intensify illicit brews crackdown, deal ruthlessly with gangs, Central police told Also read: Matiang'i orders Kiambu bars closed, fresh licencing of liquor dealers Next was Kasarani Sports View Hotel where food and beverage manager Patrick Kahoro was put to task to explain allowing revelers to take alcohol as their children swam in the pool. Kahoro was given up to end of day to ensure the smoking zone was clearly marked and secluded. "Those who don't smoke are affected the most," said Njeru, who is Senior Programmes Manager at Nacada. Monaco club in Kasarani was closed indefinitely for operating at odd hours. The officials also established that some outlets have two licences - for day and night operations. Njeru said at least 10 people were arrested and set to appear in court. Since the crackdown started, more than 30 have been apprehended. Some were released on bail ahead of appearances before the authorities or courts. They will be arraigned for various offences from Wednesday. "My team is not spoiling the party now that it is Easter," he said. He noted challenges including interference by local officials, some of whom collected money from bar owners with the promises of securing the licences. Establishments that were found to be dirty were given two weeks to clear the messes. At some, washrooms were next to kitchens. Related: [VIDEO] Two popular Malindi bars closed indefinitely for illegal operations Click here for the latest political news