Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has reiterated his intention to contest the presidency in 2022 on the ODM ticket. Oparanya said he will be seeking a higher office when his term ends. Speaking at a funeral in Khwisero on Saturday, Oparanya challenged NASA affiliates to brace themselves for battle in 2022. “It is time for constituent parties in NASA to go back to the drawing board and strengthen themselves for 2022,” Oparanya said. He praised NASA leader Raila Odinga for joining hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta to reconcile the nation after last year’s divisive campaigns. Oparanya asked the NASA co-principals to support Raila in his quest for reconciliation. On Friday, co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula said they were not privy to the meeting between Raila and Uhuru. RAILA TO RETIRE The two leaders met at Harambee House, the Office of the President, where they jointly addressed the nation and called for reconciliation. “There was no point for squabbles among the principals,” Oparanya said. Oparanya spoke during the burial of MCA Swaka Limera’s mother. He said he was not warming up to Jubilee and will instead seek the top seat on the ODM ticket. Speaking in Ikolomani last Thursday, Oparanya asked Raila, also the ODM party leader, to retire from politics. Oparanya said the presidency has eluded Raila on four occasions and that it was time he backed another person. The governor has also asked both Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to support his 2022 presidential ambitions. The two NASA co-principals are also keen on the presidency. There have been suggestions for Raila to make a fifth stab at the presidency in 2022. During last year’s campaigns, Raila committed to serve as a one-term transitional president if he won, in a coalition agreement signed with Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula. On Saturday, Oparanya asked Raila to concentrate on national healing and assemble a united team that will clinch the presidency in 2022. DEVELOPMENT RECORD MPs Elsie Muhanda (Kakamega Woman Representative), Tindi Mwale (Butere) and Justus Kizito (Shinyalu) and Kakamega county assembly speaker Morris Buluma attended the funeral. Oparanya will be banking on his track record as governor to vie for the presidency. He said he has performed exemplarily well and has what it takes to run for a higher office. “You have seen how we have worked to transform Kakamega. In 2022, I will be looking for a higher seat because my development record at the county can be seen by everyone,” Oparanya said at another funeral in Butere last month. He said he had on many occasions helped politicians from the Mulembe nation, including Mudavadi and Wetang’ula, to seek the presidency and it is time they reciprocated. “I can’t be helping people every day. It’s time they also help me. As they have been unable to clinch the seat, let them leave this thing and pave the way for me,” he said. He said Musalia and Wetang’ula have “stagnated” for long and the community should focus on helping another leader to ascend to the presidency. “You can’t be helping a child to walk and two years after birth he still can’t walk. You better try another one,” he said. Click here for the latest political news