The Likoni Channel troubles have worsened after another ferry was withdrawn yesterday, undermining travellers’ schedules. The services of the MV Nyayo were halted, causing massive delays and complaints. Motorists and commuters had to wait for hours before they could cross the channel. The delays caused a stampede, which was, however, contained by police and guards. The MV Nyayo has been in use for the past 20 years. It frequently broke down. Just days earlier, the MV Jambo was withdrawn. The management cited minor technical problems. The Turkey-made ferry was launched barely six months ago. Kenya Ferry Services MD Bakari Gowa said the ferry developed hitches after it was overloaded by commuters and vehicles. It had surpassed its maximum capacity and operated beyond the permitted hours, he said. “The MV Jambo has been withdrawn, but our engineers are working tirelessly to ensure services are back to normal very soon,” Gowa said. The water transport agency also withdrew services at the Mtongwe Channel. It relocated the ferry that operates at the Channel to Likoni. Only three ferries are now in use in Likoni. The channel is used by 30,000 commuters and 6,000 vehicles daily. Bleak future The situation is expected to be worse during rush hour and the Easter holidays. The Channel links the Island to Ukunda — one of the world’s leading holiday destinations. The launching of the MV Jambo was met with opposition from a company that was contracted to offer consultancy during its purchase. Bornriz Marine Surveyors Limited said it was unsafe for commuters. The engines used in the building of the ferry were weak, it said. Bornriz said the engines overheated during a sea test — an indication the ferry was not safe. It sought a court order to stop the KFS from launching the ferry and also petitioned to have consturction of another ferry, the MV Safari, stopped. Judge Erick Ogola allowed the launching of the MV Jambo, but suspended the building of rhe MV Safari. But the KFS appealed the decision and requested the court to allow construction of the new ferry to resume. Judges Alnasir Visram, Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome will rule on April 26. Through lawyer Nani Mungai, the KFS wants a three-judge appellate bench to consider the plight of Likoni residents, whom it says are in dire need of the new ferry.