Ngong and Kajiado towns will be upgraded to municipal status having surpassed the population benchmark of over 200,000 people as required by law. Governor Joseph Lenku made the announcement in Ngong on Thursday after unveiling several water projects in the area. The Constitution gives a governor, on the resolution of the county assembly, powers to confer the status of a municipality on a town. This is as long as the said urban settings meets the criteria set out in sub-section (3) of the Urban Area and Cities Act No. 12 of 2011. The procedure set out under Section 8 (1) to (4) of the Act No. 13 shall apply with necessary modifications to the conferment of municipal status to a town. Sub-section 3 of the Act says a town is eligible for conferment of municipal status if it has a population of at least 250,000 residents. This should be in accordance with the final gazetted results of the last population census carried out by an institution authorised under any written law. Lenku told the Star the two towns qualify because they have integrated development plans in accordance with the law. He added that the urban areas have a demonstrable revenue collection potential. "The two towns have demonstrable capacity to generate sufficient revenue to sustain its operations, which is also another requirement," he said. The governor said he has realigned the county's revenue department and put ceilings on revenue collection each financial year. He appealed to tax payers to duly remit to banks what is due to the county government so that services can be taken to their door steps. "We do not want to hear stories of uncollected garbage in our urban towns. I want to leave unprecedented legacy in my leadership by ensuring that in my first five years in office most households in towns and rural areas have clean water," Lenku said. He said exuded the confidence that the county executive committee members will deliver his governance mandate by serving the people to their satisfaction. Other requirements stipulated by the Constitution for a town to be conferred in to a municipality includes the capacity to effectively and efficiently deliver essential services to its residents. It is also supposed to have institutionalised active participation by its residents in the management of its affairs, and sufficient space for expansion; infrastructural facilities, including but not limited to street lighting, markets and fire stations. Click here for the latest political news