Eric Bengi is looking forward to the forthcoming 2018 African Rally Championship Safari Rally with great expectations. The event, which counts towards the second round of the ARC and the Kenya National Rally Championship will be held in the Delamere Farm between March 16 and 18. After a disappointing season last year, Bengi, who is a former KNRC Two Wheel Drive Champion, hopes to find some reliability on his Subaru Impreza N12. He will be with lady navigator Tuta Mionki and both are eager to fly Menengai Cream colors with zest and vigor. “It was a tough season for us last year. However, we are excited after starting on a high in the season-opener in Nakuru. It is an indication of the season ahead. We hope to shine this time round. We are preparing for it and we pray it will be a good one for us,” said Bengi. Meanwhile, scrutineering which is Safari’s most significant pre-rally event will be done outside Kasarani Stadium Gate 9 and 10 on Thursday next week, according to the Clerk-of-Course Gurvir Bhabra. The area is big enough to accommodate two 100 people sitting tents which will be hoisted to accommodate scrutineers and cars. Their tasks amongst other things is to seal some components like turbo chargers,  check eligibility of  cars as competition machines and ascertain safety standards as per the International  Motorsport Federation (FIA) set standards. Besides technical staff, other officials will also be able to do documentation on location and if need use office equipment at the permanent rally headquarters next door. On settling on Kasarani for scrutineering, Bhabra said the concrete surface is flat with the ideal gradient to check out cars at Zero Level and for mounting mechanical equipment compared to the Kenya International Convention Centre. The area fronting the ticketing booths at Kasarani will be turned to parking bays which will allow drivers and their crew to park awaiting being served, added Gurvir. Kasarani is also the headquarters of the WRC Safari Rally Project with more than 3000 square feet office space. But the headquarters of the rally will be moved to Sopa Lodge 14km from Naivasha town via the old escarpment road until March 18 at the end of the Safari which will also end there unlike in the past in Nairobi. Bhabra said the drivers will leave Kasarani on Thursday but must park their rally cars at the KICC Parc ferme on Friday by 9:00 am and be seated by 10:00am, an hour before the first car is flagged off as per FIA regulations and protocols of the day. First car is expected at Sopa Lodge, 94km from Nairobi,  by 12:30 for service at the Service Park within the same facility before heading for the first and only competitive stage of the day Aberdares 1  (12km long) via the main road. The road towards Abrades is behind Delamere heading towards the Aberdare ranges, 49km from Sopa Lodge. The cars will be back to Sopa for overnight halt ahead of the next day’s action in Soysambu Ranch about 20km from Gilgil towns on the left side on Nairobi/Nakuru highway. Organisers are expected to release a proper spectator guide in the closed sections for their own safety and those of competing cars.