President Uhuru Kenyatta must publicly apologise to Miguna Miguna, his family and Kenya for the "dreadful behavior of his government as Kenya is not a banana state", Muhuru has said. Muslims for Human Rights noted the NRMKe General has been subjected to inhumane and degrading conditions so Uhuru should immediately facilitate his return to Kenya. Miguna said he was forcefully deported to Dubai on Wednesday after he was injected with a "noxious substance" that made him unconscious. He had returned after a first deportation. Court orders to have him freed and presented in court have been ignored. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, IG Joseph Boinnet and Immigration PS risk jail for this. Related: Why Miguna Miguna was deported a second time Also see: Mudavadi condemns Miguna deportation, says citizenship by birth non-negotiable In a statement on Thursday, Muhuri Executive Director Hassan Abdille said: "This is actually impunity of the highest order. Civilised societies do not begin to water down their laws and institutions based on a political regime." Abdille said Matiang'i and Boinnet must be held to account. "Kenya is not a banana or police state so we cannot allow ourselves to return to the dark days of impunity and massacres," he said in a hard-hitting communiqué. The official further said the passport-stripping and deportation of Miguna will polarise Kenya further. "[It] has implications for social cohesion and integration. It is very sad to see a situation where State officials are making the country their property,where the rule of law is no longer valued and court orders are never obeyed," he said. The rights group blamed the GSU and CID, which he said have  "replaced force of law with law of force" and taken part in intimidating and disorganising Miguna. "This is not only illegal but also irresponsible and will lead to further unnecessary tension in the country. This type of behavior is an anathema to the Constitution and inconsistent with our fundamental notions of liberty and freedom," Abdille stated. The government has a responsibility to ensure the safety of all its citizens, he went to say, adding it must maintain a positive environment, free from intimidation and harassment. Quoting Article 16 of the Constitution, that states that "a citizen by birth does not lose citizenship by acquiring the citizenship of another country”, Muhuru said the continued crackdown on Miguna is a recipe for violence. When Miguna was blocked at  the JKIA, supporters in Kisumu protested by lighting bonfires and demanding his freedom. The Executive Director said: "The public [see] mere witch-hunt [in the actions taken] by the national government," he said. Abdille urged on all responsible agencies - including Parliament and commissions - to come out boldly and act against impunity. "We equally call on Kenyans to speak out. The time to defend our rights is now. Everyone must be held individually accountable for their utterances and actions." More on this: Miguna refused to cooperate to be allowed entry - KNCHR Also read: More than Miguna at stake, Kenyans no longer shocked by impunity - Salim Lone Click here for the latest political news