Gor Mahia jet out today for Tunis for the Caf Champions League representatives return leg clash against hosts Esperance. The match has lately been shrouded with uncertainties after the postponement of the original date for the clash. Gor had earlier protested the decision by the host federation to have the match pushed back by a day but after deliberations between Gor’s chairman Ambrose Rachier and his Tunisian counterparts, Sunday was settled as the match day. Meanwhile, Gor Mahia head coach Dylan Kerr has cautioned his players against succumbing to pressure and trickery from the North Africans. Kerr was optimistic his side will reap positive results in Tunis despite history and odds being stacked in favour of their opponents. He said: “I spoke to my players and I urged them to prepare to play under pressure. I know the fans will turn up in large numbers and try to intimidate us but the boys should just concentrate on playing and getting results. We must get everything right from the first minute to the very last since this is a must win tie for us. In the first leg, we were unlucky not to score at home and I believe the boys will score in the return leg despite odds and history being unfavourable to us. We know it’s a must win situation for both teams and all we need is to have the right focus and concentration.” The tactician praised the character depicted by his players and their endurance during tough financial period currently being experienced. “My boys have shown maturity and professionalism during the tough financial times and I must congratulate them. I also congratulate players from other clubs who have been patient with the situation and I hope a solution will be found soon.” Gor’s secretary general, Ben Omondi, confirmed that a contingent of the playing unit and officials will leave for Tunis through Doha today. He said: “In consultations with the club’s chairman, who has been in constant communication with the concerned authorities ( CAF, Tunis and the Federation ), I can now confirm that the second leg CAF match pitting our side Gor Mahia FC against Esperance de Tunis will be played on Sunday from 4:00pm Tunisia time at Stade Olympique Rades, Tunis. The team leave tomorrow (tonight) through Doha to arrive in Tunis on Friday around 2:00pm.”