The
Law Society of Kenya has noted with great concern the events of Monday
afternoon at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport regarding Dr Miguna’s
re-entry into the country. The LSK stands for adherence to the rule of law and
lawful and fair treatment of citizens. We are also concerned about the manner
in which Dr Miguna was treated by security officers. Every citizen
should be treated with decorum and respect. The discourse on the rule of law is,
however, only aided by honest discussion centered on law and facts. On
February 26, 2018, Justice Chacha Mwita ordered Miguna be allowed back into the
country. Regulation
7 of the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Regulations, 2012, provides that a
dual citizen holding a Kenyan and foreign passports shall be entitled to use
either of the passports held for entry into or exit from Kenya. Regulation 8(3)
provides that only where the foreign passport of a dual citizen has been
endorsed to indicate that the holder is a Kenyan citizen, will such an
individual shall be exempted from visa requirements. Regulation 18(3) provides
that an application for a visa for a person not exempted must be accompanied by
the passport or other travel documents. The court order had two limbs that
allowed Miguna’s travel back to the country. If the first limb failed then he
was allowed to use his Canadian passport to re-enter Kenya. We
are concerned by the failure by the Directorate of Immigration to issue Miguna
with travel documents as required by the first limb of Order No 4, which would
have allowed him re-entry. We also note that Miguna was not exempted from
normal Immigration procedures either by Mwita’s orders or endorsement of his
Canadian passport. Consequently, Miguna was still expected to comply with Immigration
procedures to produce at the point of entry a travel document duly stamped at
the point of exit. At this stage, it is not clear how the court order was
implemented and further investigations are being conducted in consultation with
our members. The
Law Society of Kenya shall not hesitate to demand for any appropriate action to
be taken against any State officers who may be found to have willfully failed
to facilitate the compliance with the Court Order. The
LSK takes this matter, which affects not only its member but, more importantly,
a Kenyan Citizen. very seriously.  The writer
is the LSK President  Click here for the latest political news 