Wanton forest destruction under
current and former governments have come back to haunt millions of Kenyans, who
are now going to bed on an empty stomach. Some 3.4
million Kenyans have no food. Experts blame the devastating effects of
deforestation in the 1990s. The country is
facing an unprecedented and acute water shortage that has run into three years
now. Drought cycles have become intense, while rain patterns have completely
changed. The country’s
critical water towers are Aberdare Mountains, the Mau forest complex, Mount
Kenya, Mount Elgon, and the Cherangani Hills. Water towers
provide invaluable ecological services, in terms of river flow regulation,
flood mitigation, water storage, recharge of groundwater, reducing soil erosion
and siltation. They also purify water, promote biodiversity and regulate
micro-climate. However, they
have been encroached on. The Kenya Forest Service recorded an annual reduction
of 12,050ha of forestland between 1990 and 2010. This represents 2.8 per cent
loss. Two categories
— the Indigenous Closed-canopy category and the Open Woodlands category —
reduced by 5,000ha per year. MOI FAMILY BENEFITED In 2009, an
inter-ministerial committee approved the dispossession of powerful individuals
who own land in the Mau complex. The government
task force on the conservation of the Mau Forest complex compiled a list that
included the Kiptagich tea estate, associated with the family of former
President Daniel Moi. However, the tea factory is still running to date. Moi's son
Gideon also owned parcel 46 of the Nakuru/Olenguruone/Kiptagich extension of
the forest. Soldiers who had gone for a mission in Sierra Leone were also
rewarded with land. The Mau
complex is 400,000ha, one of the largest water towers. The excision of land interfered with
water flowing from 12 rivers in the complex to feed five major lakes, some
trans-boundary. These are Lake Victoria, Turkana, Baringo, Nakuru and Natron.
Victoria, Turkana and Natron traverse several countries. Former Prime
Minister Raila Odinga had objected to the illegal encroachment of the complex,
sparking a political spat with Rift Valley MPs. The then vocal
Bureti MP Paul Sang at one point told Raila that “rain comes from up [the sky]
and not trees”. Other
prominent figures on the list included Hosea Kiplagat and former minister
Franklin Bett. The timber
industry is composed of powerful tycoons who also call the shots. A ban on
harvesting in plantation forests was introduced as a temporary measure in 1999
to reduce rampant illegal harvesting in plantation forests. Although the
ban was only partially effective, it reduced felling and maintained carbon
stocks. KFS says at
least eight licences belonging to wayward saw millers have been cancelled. FOREST INVASIONS, EVICTIONS Loggers have
invaded into the expansive South Nandi indigenous forests, targeting rare tree
species for timber and charcoal burning. The forests
are composed of mixed indigenous hardwoods, besides 2,635.8ha of exotic
plantations at Kimondi and Serengonik forest stations. The alarming
state of Kimondi and Kobujoi forest pose a big threat to the future of rivers
Yala and Nyando, whose sources are within the area. Consequently, the
Nandi government has suspended all Community Forest Associations and wants KFS
to overhaul its officers for failing to put in place conservation measures. At Embobut forest, in
January,
the EU was forced to suspend a Sh3.6 billion water towers
initiative with Kenya following violent Sengwer community evictions. The community
has repeatedly accused the Kenya Forest Service rangers of forcible evictions,
including the killing of one of their own. Embobut forest
is a gazetted reserve of 21,933.3ha. The Sengwer claim they have indigenous
knowledge that will help in protecting the forest. However, KFS
hears none of their claims and has said it will do everything to evict them. Cherangani
forests are important for water catchment, and sit astride the watershed
between the Lake Victoria and Lake Turkana basins. Public land near
the lake has been invaded, with loggers making away with over 200
indigenous trees. As resources
become scarce on private and community lands, the population turns to the
neighboring protected areas for livelihood resources. HISTORIC 2011 DROUGHT In 2011, the
UN and the G-20 group of nations described the drought that ravaged northern
Kenya and the rest of the Horn of Africa as the worst in 60 years. It was
estimated that 400,000 people faced starvation in Wajir. Thousands were
malnourished. The Kenyans for Kenya initiative was launched on July 27, 2011,
to help those in need. The campaign
raised Sh700 million in cash and a further Sh300 million in kind to alleviate
suffering and save lives of some three million Kenyans. Last year, up
to 3.4 million Kenyans faced hunger due to prolonged drought. It hit 23 arid
and semi-arid counties and pockets of other areas. The government declared
the drought a national disaster. This year, 3.4
million Kenyans are already going to bed on an empty stomach. Millions of
animals, domestic and wild, are also suffering the devastating effects of
delayed rains. This
comes even as KFS transfers rangers who have stayed in one station for over six
years, in the latest move against illegal logging. Already, over 50 officers
have been transferred. KFS chief
conservator Emilio Mugo said those who have made heavy investments in the forest
sector will be left at the mercy of government. STATE, RED CROSS MEASURES Kenya's forest
cover has increased from 6.9 per cent in 2013 to 7.24 per cent. However, the
constitution envisages a cover of 10 per cent. Deputy
President William Ruto imposed a 90-day ban on logging on February 24,
following widespread outcry over the wanton and consistent loss of forest
cover. Already, the
Kenya Red Cross Society has sounded an alarm over food and water shortage. Arid
and semi-arid areas are worst hit, KRCS secretary general Abbas Gullet said. The society
now seeks to raise Sh1.04 billion that will go towards supporting over one
million people currently facing starvation as a result of drought. “Some 3.4
million Kenyans who were previously in need are in need today. Some
counties are getting to the tipping point, while others are getting into full-blown
drought," Gullet said. Garissa,
Wajir, Isiolo, Tana River, Kajiado and Kilifi are currently in alarm phase. Those
in alert phase are Mandera, Marsabit, Kitui and Taita Taveta, until April, when
the country expects rains. The Sh1,044,244,850
will be used to help 1,373,294 people currently staring at starvation. Gullet said if
food security cannot be addressed holistically, the country will witness the
vicious cycle of drought and food insecurity year in year out. He blamed the
changing weather pattern to climate change as well as wanton destruction of
country's water catchment areas. Last year,
KRCS raised Sh19.3 million. Of this, 91 per cent had been utilised by December,
leaving nine per cent for interventions. Meanwhile, the
government has set aside some Sh3.8 billion for drought and famine mitigation. Some
Sh2.5 billion has been allocated for relief food and cash transfers for the February-April
phase. Devolution CS
Eugene Wamalwa said maize and rice will be distributed to those in dire need. The
government has three million bags of maize in the Strategic Grain Reserve, with
an additional 90,000 bags of rice. The Agriculture
ministry said it will release Sh538 million for livestock buying following the
ongoing drought. And on
February 26, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko named a task force that has two
weeks to prepare a report on the forest sector and propose appropriate remedial
measures. Green belt movement chairperson Marion Wakanyi will chair the task
force. However, a
source who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity said the task force’s
recommendations may not see the light of the day. “Those
operating the illegal activities are powerful,” the source said.