MPs last evening recommended the two patients involved in the surgery mix-up at KNH be compensated by the hospital and Health ministry. The recommendations, unanimously supported by MPs, were proposed by Majority leader Aden Duale. The MPs said the
ministry should ensure that Samuel Kimani and
John Nderitu receive treatment at Kenyatta National Hospital
or elsewhere. Kimani was operated on in place of Nderitu. For Nderitu, the House resolved that he be compensated for the risk
he was exposed to, while Kimani should be compensated for delayed
surgery. “It is a sad state of affairs in KNH. What happened is a criminal
offence and the doctors who performed the surgery should be made to take
responsibility,” Duale said. Read: KNH to compensate patients in brain surgery mix-up The MPs called for a task force to look into the challenges facing KNH. They rubbished the
Committee on Health report as shallow and proposed further amendments. Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi and Raymond Moi (Rongai) said the report
lacks tangible recommendations that can be implemented. The committee is chaired by Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege. Duale said, "There is a systematic failure in KNH –that we cannot run
away from. It is a shambolic institution. Patients are treated for the
wrong ailments. The board is reactionary.” Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ngeno, who seconded Duale's amendment, said
the situation at KHN is wanting, yet it is not getting the necessary
attention. The report recommended the disbandmentment of the board and replaced with a competent one. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed called for immediate implementation of the
report. “KNH should be the hospital setting standards for the other
hospitals within country and in the region. We should not reduce it into
a village affair,” he said. The report wants the Nursing Council of Kenya and the Clinical
Officers Council of Kenya to immediately review the conduct and practice
of nurses involved in the mishap. More: Overwhelmed health system to blame for KNH mix-up - Oluga  Click here for the latest political news