AG nominee Kariuki Kihara has said he will create mechanism between various agencies in the judicial system to ease access to justice and reduce case backlogs. He said many cases are still pending in courts and many Kenyans wait too long for justice because of lack of seamless linkages between the Judiciary, the department of criminal investigations and the EACC. “I will look at what bedevils the justice system. Laws are not adequately being enforced,” Kihara said, Read: [VIDEO] Attorney General Githu Muigai resigns, Uhuru nominates Justice Paul Kihara He spoke on Thursday while appearing before the Parliamentary Appointments Committee for vetting at County Hall. The Court of Appeal President said he will further focus on capacity building to rid the judicial system of understaffing and inefficiency which contribute to case backlogs. He said the system lacks enough staff and tools of operation. “So, I will build the capacity so that the services are given to ministries and government and coordination will be sound and reduce the number of cases or contracts which are badly handled,” he said. All his actions, he emphasized, will strictly be based on the tenets of the Constitution and the law. Kihara said he will further purpose to create an enabling environment for the realization of the government’s four agendas of universal health, cheap housing, manufacturing and food security. Kihara, who will become Kenya’s seventh Attorney General if approved, said he will further work to ensure that all the three arms of government – executive, legislature and judiciary - obey court orders. He said he is a believer in the spirit of separation of powers but the independence of each arm is not absolute. “I will make it my personal interest to ensure that the three arms work together even as they continue to work independently.” Kihara steered clear of discussing the performance of his predecessors even after Majority Leader Adan Duale said Githu Muigai failed in a number of issues. Incorruptible Kihara said that he will not entertain corruption in his duties saying he was brought up by religious parents in a tradition of values, virtues of integrity and honesty. He said in his 16 years as a judge, he has never been accused of taking a bribe or delivering a judgement that was either incompetent or appeared to have been influenced by any other reason other than justice. “Nothing could be further from the truth. My strength comes from experience and conviction that justice must be for all,” he said. He said he had the best opportunities to become wealthy from the formative years as a lawyer but he never took it. "Someone would come to me and say "kumbuka huyo ni mtu wetu" - remember that is our person. But it would come in through this ear and go out through the other ear. I have every conviction that I will continue with that,” Kihara said. “What does it benefit a man to gain the whole world and lose his soul?” Kihara posed. He said his advice to the government will be honest regardless of whether it will be welcome or not. “My job as a legal adviser is to give advice. Whether or not that advice is received is not a concern.”  Click here for the latest political news