The Tenant Purchase Scheme is being adopted by parastatals and private developers in efforts to tackle Kenya's housing crisis. This concept is aimed at simplifying home ownership at a time when banks are apprehensive about granting loans due to interest rate capping. Isaak Mungai, a lawyer and expert in banking and finance, says the scheme targets workers in the informal sector, the youth and non-salaried business people instead of the tradition targeting of civil servants. "It would be a mistake to assume there is no demand for home ownership. This has continued to be beyond the reach of middle and low income earners," Mungai said. "Millions of potential buyers have been turned away due to a tenfold rise in prices and exorbitant bank mortgage interest rates." Read: CBK to give direction on interest cap by June TPS is an alternate payment scheme for property acquisition that allows the buyer to access the property after a down-payment. In essence, the buyer owns the house by paying rent. "The benefit of the TPS is that the tenant can immediately occupy the house, as opposed to mortgages where this can only happen after completion of the purchase. The purchase price payable is also on the reducing balance scheme,” he said. In markets with increasing house prices, buyers can get into an agreement to buy at current prices even though the full purchases will take several years. Related: Penthouse sales boom among Kenya's super rich amid urban poverty, traffic jams Also read: County, NLC in blame game over delay in Sh300bn housing plan The scheme also allows non-purchase if the house does not meet the buyer's expectations in future. TPS present an opportunity to cut down the country’s housing deficit by making it easier for middle and lower class Kenyans to own homes. “To succeed, TPS will require more exposure and support by the government, which has identified housing as part of its Big Four development agenda. There are plans to build 500,000 social housing units and 800,000 affordable units by 2023 at a cost of Sh2.6 trillion." This, Mungai says, provides a good opportunity for the growth of the scheme “Saccos around the country also have a huge role to play in fostering the growth of TPS by structuring members’ savings so they can purchase homes." Click here for the latest political news