Title: 2 Mins Artiste: Praiz Genre: R&B/Soul Release: January 24  Praise Adejo doesn’t waste time to get to the point of his latest EP, “2 Mins”. He also doesn’t take longer than 15 minutes to delve into the issue. From his past works, we know the Nigerian R&B singer-songwriter — better known to as a Praiz — does his music in a pensive mood, reflective of his experiences. And this time he pushes past his comfort zone with this ambitious, minimalist release. Praiz’s latest release gives us the sense of a renewed artist still fixed on the issues he understands best. He sings lovingly, pondering through the different sides of his intimate moments, both sour and cordial. For “2 Mins,” he assumes the contemporary R&B sound and delivery without the slightest hint of his Nigerian flow. On the opening tracks 2 Minutes, he introduces his listener to a relationship that isn’t working and that might require the lovers to take a break from each other. He then goes ahead to ask for another chance to make the relationship work and right on “Save Us”. Praiz proclaims his love to his partner on the soulful “Here and Now” and joyfully celebrates his lover on the track “Champagne & Flowers”. On the closing track, “Don’t Wanna Love You”, the artiste feels more estranged from his lover and admits his dying love. It is at this point that you appreciate Praiz’s intent for the listener to listen to the entire project on repeat; the last track gracefully connects with the first track and feels like an unending love affair. Though it takes a keen enthusiast to get this, the EP is generally a record anyone would want to have on repeat. At least, the artiste’s tuneful and straightforward nature allows his fans to enjoy the effort at first listen. The fact is, Praiz has transformed himself into an R&B prodigy capable of creating music with a broad artistic intention. On this project, Praiz’s only fault would be that he sounds more foreign, and his tunes feel like tracks we’ve heard before. It’s the perfect time to want to fit in globally as an R&B artiste, but his music now sounds so basic compared to those already topping the charts and he might find himself struggling to be recognised. Anyway, it’s an attempt worth acclaim.  Star Rating: 3 out of 5 