Matters of national security motivated the media shutdown during Raila Odinga's self-inauguration in January, ICT CS Joe Mucheru has said, and refused to give details. Mucheru, who faced the Senate ICT committee on Tuesday, declined to give more information on why the government made a decision that was condemned locally and internationally. "It was about national security. Yes, there is a process to be followed but I can assure you that the government's commitment to the freedom of the press to access information is unwavering." The broadcasting signals of NTV, KTN, Inooro and Citizen were switched off hours before the Nasa leader's ceremony at Uhuru Park in Nairobi on January 30. But Kenyans watched the live coverage on social media and international TV channels. Citizen TV was first to be switched off and last to be turned on, after 10 days, following calls by local leaders and parties including the United States and the European Union. More on this: CA gags TVs, but fails to block live coverage of Raila’s oath Also read: News bosses differ over Uhuru threat on Raila's swearing in coverage Mucheru further said the matter was being handled in court so he could not speak much on it. "Just to be clear, I am not hiding behind the clock. When the matter is in the court you cannot discuss it, especially not on TV and in public. This is where we respect the law. It is very clear," he said. "After the court case, we can have more details on the matter but at this stage, it is [a matter of] national security matter and it's in court." But the chair of the committee, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, said they will consult on how to handle the "ugly" situation. "We are determined to know the truth of the matter. This unfortunate, ugly situation must be resolved. We will get back to you so as to try and resolve this issue. It is important that this does not happen again." Mucheru had skipped previous summons by the committee but denied claims he deliberately ignored them. Senators accused him of undermining Parliament after failing to appear to explain the shutdown of Citizen, Inooro, KTN News, and NTV. He had asked the team to reschedule a date for the grilling saying he was engaged in a Cabinet meeting at the time he was expected at the August House. Read: Kenya bows to pressure, restores KTN and NTV broadcast Also read: 'Draconian' media control will not stop Raila, says William Kingi While insisting on the shutdown, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i had alleged that the Opposition had planned a massacre at the park and that some media houses were in on this. Just hours after declaring the National Resistance Movement a criminal group, the Interior minister spoke on Janaury 31 of a "well-choreographed attempt to subvert or overthrow the legally constitutional government of Kenya". He emphasised that criminal gangs masquerading as other bodies will not be tolerated. Details: Nasa planned 'massacre' at Uhuru Park, media involved - Matiang'i Click here for the latest political news