After their elimination from Caf Champions League by Tunisian side, Esperance, Kenyan champions Gor Mahia have dropped to the last sixteen of the Caf Continental Cup and will know their opponents tomorrow. Gor were narrowly beaten 1-0 on aggregate by the Tunisians with coach Dylan Kerr arguing that failure to score in the first leg at home cost them a place in the last sixteen group stages of the Caf Champions League. Gor were held to a goal-less draw in the first leg played almost two weeks ago and Kerr in a social media post, rued the missed chances. “We lost the game because at Machakos we didn’t score,” Kerr posted. “Today (Sunday), I saw unreal things in football but we never gave up. Pole (sorry) to K’Ogalo, my chairman (Ambrose Rachier) and my hard working players. We battled even when two players were missing—one injured and another (sic) no comment. I tried, we tried,” Kerr remarked, adding a subtle dig at Ugandan international Godfrey Walusimbi, who opted out of the trip to Tunisia over monetary disagreements with the club officials. As expected the Rades Stadium was an intimidating stage for any visiting team and as expected, it was so for K’Ogalo. Kerr, however, stated that the behaviour and theatrics of the Esperance fans and players was over the top. “That was a hell of a game. I watched it and how these guys overpowered us and took dives! They acted like bullies and then ran to protect officials who thought had a good game for them,” lamented Kerr. K’Ogalo were due to return to the country last night to a welcome break as the much maligned international friendly week takes centre stage. Meanwhile, reports suggest that Gor are going to lodge complaints with Caf for the treatment officials and players allegedly had to endure during the clash with Esperance. It is highly unlikely that the complaints Gor will lodge could open the door for them to join the group stages of the Caf Champions League. The worst punishment Esperance may be slapped with may be a stadium ban for their fans but most likely will be a fine. Gor must then focus on who they will face in the last sixteen of the Caf Confederations Cup. Among the teams they could face are Fosa Juniors, who eliminated AFC Leopards in the preliminary round. Others are Enyimba and Akwa United from Nigeria, Al Masry (Egypt), Welyta Dicha (Ethiopia), CR Belouidzad, RS Berkane (Algeria), CARA Brazaville(Congo), CS La Manch, Deportivo Niefang, Al Hilal Obeid (Sudan), SuperSport (South Africa), Djoliba,RAja Casablanca and Copa Dol Sol.