Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo has asked his critics to be patient and judge the performance of his government in two years. He said he’s doing a lot. “I am appealing to you to put politics aside for just the remaining four and a half years,” he said. The governor said politics and development can only co-exist only if the political aspect complements development. Ottichilo released his 200-days-in-office scorecard on Wednesday. He said those who have been complaining about his absence from the public scene should know he has been working. He said he inherited a government without structures. Ottichilo said the county will receive Sh1.25 billion from the Treasury for the next five years under the World Bank-funded Kenya Urban Support Programme. It will develop Mbale township into a modern town. The county government will receive the first installment of Sh250 million in July, he said. “Right now, Mbale is a village. We want to develop it into a modern town. We are working on documents,” Ottichilo said. MEDICAL PLAZA The money will used for marking municipal boundaries, planning, building sewerage and drainage systems, he said. Ottichilo said this government will receive another Sh50 million from the World Bank’s National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth fund to develop value-addition capacities in the agricultural sector. The programme targets horticulture, dairy, poultry and fish farming. He said the World Bank would give another Sh140 million in July to fund youth and women’s groups, who initiate projects under the programme. The governor said that his government had started building a 160-bed Vihiga County Referral Medical Plaza at Mbale township. He said the project stalled 10 years ago. He said the plaza will have major laboratories for cardiac, renal and dental treatment. Ottichilo said that the government had received Sh 17m from the Danish development agency, DANIDA, to rehabiitate dispensaries. He said that each of the five subcounties will have a fully equipped hospital to act as referral units. They will cut traveling costs by residents seeking health services to Mbale. He said that each of the subcounty hospitals will receive Sh10 million for rehabilitation.