The High Court has ordered the government to immediately release Miguna Miguna from JKIA. Justice Roselyn Aburili has further directed that Miguna appears in court on Wednesday morning. This was after Miguna moved to court seeking to be released unconditionally. The self-declared NRMKe general also applied to be granted unrestricted right to re-enter and remain in the country. He wants this to be the basis of his Kenyan passport, ID or a temporary entry permit. Through his lawyers Nelson Havi and John Khaminwa, Miguna wants the court to stop the state from deporting him. More on this: Miguna moves to court, seeks unrestricted entry through JKIA "That Miguna Miguna, who is currently being held incommunicado at JKIA be forthwith released to appear before this court tomorrow March 28 for inter-parties mention of this petition and application," the judge said. In the suit, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, IG Joseph Boinnet, Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa, DCI boss George Kinoti have been accused of disobeying court orders. Havi told the Milimani law court that Miguna is currently being detained incommunicado in a toilet at JKIA's Terminal 2. The NRMKe leader arrived in Kenya on Monday pursuant to a court order issued on February 26 but was denied entry. Havi, in his affidavit, avers that the government even attempted to unlawfully and forcefully remove the Opposition politician from the country. "Miguna did not have any travel documents or passport at the time of the alleged deportation and he categorically refused to board the flight and he was eventually removed," Havi says. The lawyer, whose troubles began after he swore in Raila Odinga as the people's president, also claims that the government has unlawfully seized his Canadian passport. He argues that this is in a clear attempt to have him declared stateless and continue to violate his fundamental rights and freedoms. Miguna wants the court to compel the state to return his Canadian passport without tampering or interfered with it. "As a Kenyan Citizen, Miguna is entitled to re-enter the country unconditionally, unhindered and unrestricted," Havi says. The lawyers have also annexed a bundle a documents comprising of various court orders issued in relation to the deportation case. Read: Miguna Miguna denied entry after refusing to apply for Kenyan visa Click here for the latest political news   