Is it true that some civil society players have written to Opposition Chief Raila Odinga? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that prominent players in the NGO sector have asked tough questions about the truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The letter is said to have been written by some of the biggest players in the sector, who command global respect. While one of them has congratulated Raila and Uhuru on Twitter, it is understood that the others are seeking answers on what the deal is all about — jobs for the big boys or real reforms? Among the authors are people who have supported Raila for a long time in the belief that meaningful change would only come through him.  ***** A Cabinet Secretary who was transferred to a new ministry recently seems to be unhappy with the new docket. Aides to the once-active CS were yesterday overhead saying how the minister was so attached to the previous docket that fitting in the current workstation has become a huge challenge. In the new docket, the CS has kept a very low profile and has only attended two ministry functions, despite the crucial ministry having lots of daily activities. The CS was previously known to be outspoken, jolly and vibrant, a far cry from the current dull profile.  ***** Some ANC and Wiper lawmakers are a worried lot. Reason? Corridors has been told that the MPs are worried that NASA leader Raila Odinga's secret pact with Uhuru is an attempt to renege on the mutual NASA coalition agreement and avoid endorsing either of their leaders —Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) — for the 2022 presidential election. Our mole heard some of the MPs in a top city hotel even contemplating advising the duo to forget Raila's endorsement and forge new alliances. So, who is sweet-talking Raila? Only time will tell.  ***** A cop nicknamed “Bensouda” is giving motorists on Kiambu Road a hard time at the Muthaiga Junction. Word has it that they are forced to stay in the traffic jam for a long period because the cop deliberately blocks vehicles from Kiambu Road accessing Thika Road. It is said her continued unbecoming behaviour has angered many road users, including top government officials, who have to protest before she lets them go. Our mole says that, this week, a bodyguard of a senior government official was forced to alight and clear the way for vehicles stuck at the Muthaiga Junction for almost half-an-hour. It is said that she blocks the road for traffic to pile up on Kiambu Road so many are tempted to overlap – and then she nabs them. 