The
Senate yesterday backed the deal between Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga to
unite the country. A
motion tabled in the House recognising Uhuru and Raila’s peace pact lauded as
extraordinary the step taken by the two after two disputed and hotly contested presidential
elections. The
bipartisan motion was supported by Senators from across the political divide. Read : Mixed reactions in Kisumu as Raila and Uhuru meet Deputy
Minority Leader James Orengo, who moved the motion, asked all leaders and
Kenyans to support the initiative to restore the country to the right track of
coexistence among citizens. “It
is important to know where we have come from as every community has
sacrificed," he said. "We
must think about people who lost their lives and how we engage in constructive
discussion,” Orengo said. The
Siaya Senator said it is time to re-engineer national dialogue and called for a
strong independent Judiciary. He
said the courts should not be criminalised when judges deliver judgments that are
unfavorable to one's political affiliation. “Parliament
should never be swallowed by the Executive, whether you are in the ruling party
or not. Let us use Parliament to make Kenya great. If Kenyan communities should
work together, they should stop fighting each other,” Orengo said. Majority
Leader Kipchumba Murkomen commended Raila for taking a “bold step” to meet
Uhuru. “The
agreement between the two leaders was a win-win situation.  It is time for
all of us to reason together,” Murkomen said, admitting that there are ethnic
divisions in the country. “The
spirit that pushed this country for unity and Independence should come back. We
should turn from politics of hate to politics of love,” Murkomen said. Minority
Leader and NASA co-principal Moses Wetang’ula threw his weight behind the Raila-Uhuru
pact and termed the two “statesmen” who wish a better future for Kenya. The
Bungoma Senator added that Kenyans have been eager for leaders to have national
dialogue to end the unresolved political stalemate in the country by sealing
the gaps and rifts that emanated from last year’s divisive election season. “This
initiative is not going to be easy and we must support it. We are from a
political season where we have bruised each other and called each other names.
Not everybody will get what they want or what they expected, but we should know
that there is one country called Kenya,” Wetang’ula said. The
Ford Kenya leader, however, said that the initiative of uniting the country
should be “time-bound” so that the Uhuru-Raila handshake does not lose “steam.” Also read : Raila, Uhuru unity deal is 2022 game-changer “This
national unity process engineered by Uhuru and Raila is not just for the two
but for all of us. We [the four NASA leaders] are conjoined like twins and will
work together to ensure that this process is not frustrated,” Wetang’ula said. Senate
Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki said the partnership between the President and
the NASA leader provided an opportune moment for the country to re-look at
shortfalls in the new Constitution. “It
is time to see if the Parliamentary or Presidential system is going to help our
country. We need to look into our country’s huge wage bill and reduce the
number of Cabinet Secretaries by two to bring the office of the Prime Minister
and deputies for the unity of this country,” Kindiki said. The
Tharaka Nithi Senator said it was premature to link the Uhuru-Raila pact to the
2022 politics, or view it as a blow to any politician, including Deputy
President William Ruto, who is eying the presidency. Click here for the latest political news  