The mood in South Africa right now can best be described as euphoric. I swear if euphoria could be bottled and sold, governments across the world would be falling over themselves to provide it for free. The source of the excitement and general feeling of well-being and happiness among South Africans is their newly minted president, Cyril Ramaphosa. Since before he took over from the hapless Jacob Zuma, who also arrived in office a decade ago to shangwe na vigelegele [cheers and ululations], there has been a feeling in the air that things could only get better. I couldn’t help thinking of the general cheer that accompanies new leadership across the globe during what is referred to as the honeymoon period. I am old enough to remember the feeling in Kenya back in 1978 when a youthful 54-year-old Daniel arap Moi became president, following the death of octogenarian Jomo Kenyatta. After the official 90-day transition period, during which many Kenyans also mourned the old man, President Moi seemed like a breath of fresh air. He was young, he criss-crossed the country seeming full of energy, he travelled abroad, he spoke out against corruption, released all of Kenyatta’s political detainees and made Kenyans excited about the future with his repetition that the country was “now on the run”, after the stagnant last years of the previous regime. Of course by 1981 going into 1982, the honeymoon was over and people were less gaga over the president. By the time he left office in 2002, they were literally throwing mud at him as he left his successor’s swearing-in. It was the same when Mwai Kibaki came in after Moi. Many people were hoping to see Kibaki the public speaker who rarely consulted notes, and could get even those who didn’t like him to shut up and listen during parliamentary debates. Unfortunately towards the end of the election campaigns, he was involved in a terrible accident, and soon after taking office, he suffered a stroke (some say two). This seemed to affect his whole demeanour, and most viciously robbed him of his public speaking ability. People are fickle and very soon, the honeymoon was over with him, too. Even Idi Amin in Uganda was greeted with rapturous applause when he overthrew Milton Obote back in january 1971, though by 1972, Ugandans and the rest of the world had begun wondering if they were not mistaken. Remember how positive the British were about Tony Blair in 1997? And how revilled he was by the time he stepped down after a decade? I have been very impressed by President Ramaphosa so far, but journalism has conditioned me to be sceptical about how clean new brooms can really sweep. So I am making a conscious effort to curb my enthusiasm so I am not too badly disappointed if it all goes belly-up in a few months down the line. We’ll see how it goes. But for now, Ramaphosa can do no wrong.