With referees being increasingly put on the spot by supposedly aggrieved coaches, Kenya Premier league CEO Jack Oguda has come to their defence asserting that whistle blowers and their assistants do their jobs diligently even in the face of extreme pressure. “Referees are professional in their responsibilities. Some are being used as scapegoats by teams that are not doing well and are looking for a reason to appease the club management,” Oguda remarked. No less than four coaches have been quoted, questioning the impartiality of match officials. Most recently, a livid Kakamega Homeboyz coach Mike Mururi had in his post-match interview admonished the referee for awarding AFC Leopards penalty but replays suggested that the center official was spot on in pointing to the spot after a Homeboyz player had handled the ball in the box. Oguda revealed that in spite of their heat of the moment public complaints, only Zoo Kericho have lodged a formal complaint with the league’s management. “We have received a written complaint from Zoo in regard to officiating in their match against Nzoia United. We are awaiting the report from the match commissar before making a decision and forwarding it to the federation for onward action,” Oguda disclosed. In the match in question at the Sudi Stadium, referee Amin Agik reportedly sent off Nzoia forward Elvis Rupia for a second bookable offence only to rescind the decision after consulting one of his assistants, much to the consternation of Zoo led by their coach Sammy Okoth. Agik’s illegal act was to prove a game changer as Rupia went on to score a late winner to hand the home side all three points. Oguda further swatted aside suggestions that referees could be vulnerable to undue influence due to the frustrations emanating from not being paid their allowances. “As I said before, referees are professional every time they are in charge of a match. We have explained to them the situation at KPL regarding their pay. They have been understanding of the circumstances and that is why all the matches have been played without fail,” Oguda said. The KPL CEO confirmed that match officials have not received their allowances from Match Day One to seven as KPL do not have a partner on board yet to provide the funds to offset their accruing expenses. The top flight league takes a break this weekend for the Fifa internationals week and will resume at the end of the month.