Interior CS Fred Matiangi has launched a nationwide crackdown on drugs and illicit brews noting they have consumed generations in some parts. At the launch on Thursday, Matiang'i warned national government administration officials against compromise. The exercise will see the enforcing of 'Mututho laws' that banned bars 300 metres from schools. Matiang'i said the bars must be shut down whether licensed or not. "A national survey conducted in 2016, on the drug situation in secondary schools, showed they are increasingly becoming centres of alcohol and drug abuse," he said at the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi. Regional and county commissioners as well as police commanders attended a one-day workshop at the venue. "A society that does not care about its young people is a society that will disappear. It is time for us to have an honest and candid conversation on illicit brews and drugs trafficking in our country." Matiangi warned that any government officials and police officers found producing, transporting or taking illicit brews will be sacked immediately. He noted that those in the trade "are not from a different planet but people of sound mind who know the things they are doing are not right for our country". "They are taking our country backwards," he said. "In some urban areas at the Coast, the effect of the consumption of drugs has almost decimated a generation. If you go there you will be shocked by what you will see. Most of you who work in the field know what I am talking about." Matiang'i said it is more frustrating that some of the businesses are supported by leaders expected to be responsible. "Yet we keep telling each other stories when we need to move forward in this exercise," he said, adding the devolution of the licensing of bars is another challenge. He said this has led to the mushrooming of these establishments, most of which are not licensed as committees that guide regulation do not exists. Matiang'i hopes Parliament will not only amend the law but put pass stiffer penalties so drug peddling becomes a capital offence due to the serious destruction it has caused. Click here for the latest political stories