The Mijikenda community believes that in case there is a problem in the community, or if there is a spirit affecting them, they visit the Kayas to seek solutions. A Kaya is a sacred forest of the Mijikenda people in the former Coast province. It is also a place of prayer for members of the ethnic group. The Kaya elder is greeted in their local language, Kalamkaje, meaning how are you? However, Mijikenda people have procedures on who should visit the Kaya, or certain people have the mandate to conduct the rituals. The procedure is, first the Kaya elder has to be a man above the age of 35 years. Not everyone who is supposed to conduct the Kaya rituals, as well as not everyone is supposed to visit the Kaya. The people supposed to visit the ritual place are only men and not all men. For you to visit the Kaya or perform any ritual, you have to be chosen by the spirit or rather your ancestors. Once you have been chosen, you can not refuse their orders, because if you go against that, bad omens will follow you and you can run crazy or even die. When a woman has a problem, she tells the elders, who decide the next step to take.The woman can be brought to a Kaya, but only at a specific place in the Kaya. This is apparently because women cannot keep secrets, and sometimes, what you are told there has to stay there. The spirits also consider that a woman could be in her menstrual period, which to them means she is dirty and that could interfere with the purity of the Kaya. The Mijikenda culture also allows their men to have as many wives as they can, depending on how energetic they are. At the entrance of every village, there is a shrine that acts as their watchman or CCTV as they call it, to keep them and their property safe. An elder sits there all through to monitor everyone who gets in the village. They can detect your intention as you go in. When it is a good intention, you will freely go in. If it is a bad intention, the spirit at the shrine has to immediately take action on you. For example, if your intention was to steal, you will get in and steal whatever you intended, but as you are walking out, they will confuse your mind, and you will not get out of that village with the stolen items. You will just wander around that village until you return them. Another form of punishment you get is that, at the moment you enter the village with stealing intentions, you are blinded and you cannot see the village because it will have turned into a forest or an ocean.That will hinder you from stealing. They believe that their spirits protect them, and therefore, they can leave everything and no one will interfere with their property. At every village, there is a shrine where the community members come to pray every morning. Underneath the shrine, there are statues of founding elders and their wives who died. The community believes in seeking the blessings of ancestors during good and bad times. They also believe that the living and the dead have some connection, and thus they cannot disconnect themselves with them. Men sit outside the huts and drink beer, while the women prepare them meals. The women pound maize using a traditional pestle and mortal outside their huts, sieve it and heat it slightly to soften it, then grind it. Songs are sang to help pass the time. In case of sickness, a ritual is performed on the woman as she sits to cure the illnesses. It is a serious ritual, but as a tourist activity to learn about their culture, they invite you to try the dances and learn how to grind maize. Shifoga Cultural Center (Shimba Hills) is one of the cultural centres at the Coast region, where Digo and Durumas live.