Self-declared General of the National Resistance Army Miguna Miguna on Friday dismissed social media reports that he was on his way to Canada. Miguna said he is still in Dubai where Kenyan authorities dumped him after forcibly re-deporting him. "I understand that someone is spreading a malicious rumour that I am headed to Canada. That's false," he said in a statement. "I am at Dubai International Airport waiting for the Kenyan Judiciary to enforce their numerous orders in my favour." Miguna said it is time for the Judiciary to demonstrate its commitment to its independence, authority, the rule of law and constitutionalism, he said. Any actions that fail to deal with those who violate court orders amounts to undermining and subverting the Judiciary, rule of law and democracy. "The High Court has ordered several rogue state agents to deliver a valid Kenyan passport to me, facilitate my return to Kenya, release me from illegal detention and to respect my rights. Each order has been flagrantly disobeyed," he said. Read:[VIDEO] Miguna refuses to get into London plane, says he is sick This is the time to end this obnoxious culture of impunity by the usurpers of power, he said. Earlier on, Miguna who was deported on Wednesday night, told Kenyans he was in great pain, stressed and inconvenienced. " My left hand is still swollen. I believe that Jubilee thugs had inserted an IV in it to keep me unconscious for the entire duration of the flight between Nairobi and Dubai. My left side is extremely painful," he said in a statement. Miguna said he was yet to undergo medical tests to ascertain the chemicals the "state thugs violently and illegally injected him" with on Tuesday evening. "I wish to inform my wife, children, family, relatives, friends, supporters, well wishers and members of the NRM that I am still at Dubai International Airport," he said . Miguna said he has a right to travel in and out of the country. He said the state must respect his constitutional rights. "I’m waiting for clearance from the Emirates Air and UAE authorities and an air ticket back to Nairobi. I intend to fly back to Nairobi as soon as possible. It’s my birthright, constitutional and legal right as well," he said. Read:Miguna ordeal: ‘Drugged by 50 armed criminals’ "I will never waive my rights because authoritarian and barbaric usurpers of power demand or expect that I do," he said. We must all remain strong, focused and fearless. That’s the only way for us to liberate ourselves and Kenya from the clutches of Jubilee despots, their surrogates and allies". Also See:Miguna refused to cooperate to be allowed entry - KNCHR Click here for the latest political news   