Several thousand people have been evicted from the Ziwani Settlement Scheme, a water catchment area that the government wants to protect. The Star visited the area on Thursday and established that at least 700 families have been kicked out of the 2,300-acre Sir Ramson farm in Taita Taita since Monday. The farm is part of the Ziwani Settlement Scheme. Squatters say it’s their ancestral land and tell of harassment and beatings as their houses were demolished. The land in Taveta subcounty, was donated by the Kenyatta family to the community in 2013. Police have banned journalists, politicians and church leaders from visiting the troubled area. A senior government official, who spoke to the Star in confidence, said the area is a water catchment area and eviction is being carried out to prevent its destruction. The government wants thousands of squatters settled elsewhere, the officer said. Squatters say the alternative land promised by the government does not exist. Clashes between security forces and the squatters have led to several deaths in the past. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban, speaking for the first time since demolition started on Monday, said those affected should carry their own cross. “I had said I would not comment because I assisted them to get titles, and even advised them the government would provide roads in the settlement, but they chose to bite the hand that fed them,” she said. But nominated MCA Anaztasia Wakesho (ODM said the squatters have lived on the land since 1937 and should not be mistreated. title issuance politicised? Shaban said only 100 of the 800 families issued with land titles in in February last year are natives. “The First Family extended a hand to assist them of its own volition, but those being assisted decided to politicise the whole exercise. They thrive on chaos because most of them have sold their shares and want more,” she told the Star on the phone. Shaban said some people were issued title deeds bearing the names of different families and she advised them how to correct the error. Some people politicised the process, she said. “The titles were issued by the ministry of Lands on the advice of the First Family. We all meant well for the landless, but the same people went on to invite others from outside,” Shaban said. “We are all busy and can’t dwell on one thing every year. Kenya as a country should move on.” Some individuals delayed demarcation of roads in the settlement scheme, even though those who mean well know the settlement deserves roads and schools, she said. victims speak out On Thursday, the Star spoke to residents. Wakesho, who guided the Star journalists past Rombo (Kajiado) and Njukini (Taita Taveta), described the situation as pathetic. More than 700 families are out there in the cold, she said. More than 60 permanent buildings belonging to our people at Sir Ramson Farm have been demolished, Wakesho said. “Our people are hungry because their crops and food in their stores were damaged by earthmovers during the eviction. No one cares about them. Their children are emaciated,” Wakesho said. three men arrested The area was full of security guards and vehicles, including three police buses, eight excavators and several GK cars carrying surveyors. At Njukini trading centre, Margaret Wavuda, 63, recounts the suffering of those evicted. She said three young men had been arrested by police. “We do not know where they are. The police have ordered people not to speak to outsiders because they want to hide what is happening here,” the distraught mother said. She said they were given two-hours’ notice last Sunday to vacate, but before the deadline, police officers began demolishing their houses. Lumi Primary School was shut down and parents ordered to withdraw their children. “Thousands of people have fled, fearing arrest and beatings. They live in abandoned houses with relatives at Njukini shopping centre. They are hungry,” Wavuda said. Jacinta Mayiani, a resident of Rombo, Kajiado South subcounty, said her relatives, who moved to Sir Ramson Farm in the early 1970s, have also been evicted and have moved to Njukini trading centre