The Coast General Hospital now boasts of a new cancer centre, which is fully fledged, well equipped, has trained staff and a bigger area to receive and treat patients. The Bamburi Cement Cancer Centre, built in conjunction with Bamburi Cement Limited, was launched by the Mombasa government at the end of last year after Sh18 million renovations. The centre is the second largest in the country and the only fully equipped public oncology centre in the Coast region. It will reduce decongestion in the two public cancer treatment facilities at the Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. The centre will also spare patients the cost of travelling all the way to Nairobi to get services if they cannot afford a private facility, as there is one at the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa. A cancer patient admitted on the day of the launch was happy there is a new centre, but said treatment is still financially difficult to access. Juma Said, who is suffering from skin cancer, said he relies on family and friends to help him afford drugs. “Medication is quite expensive. Sometimes you would have to depend on contributions from well-wishers,” he said. “More than Sh20,000 has to be in your pocket to ensure you are properly attended to, and that to me is a great challenge.” Shadrack Ingo, a cancer survivor, also rued the cost of treatment. "The medicines are too expensive. They should either be accessed for free or be affordable," he said. ALL BUT RADIOTHERAPHY PROVIDED According to the World Health Organisation, cancer contributes to 8.8 million deaths each year worldwide, and in Kenya, it ranks as the third leading cause of death. The Bamburi centre marks the culmination of a journey experienced since May 2010, when the centre started with only two beds. This has now grown to seven. By being well equipped, it now has a chemotherapy hood, seven chemotherapy chairs, three consultation rooms, a drug preparation room, a treatment room, furniture and various medical fittings. The facility will also help in treating the increasing number of cancer patients, which has doubled. According to the National Cancer Institute, the increase in the country is 40,000 patients, up from 20,000 in 2012. CHG chief administrator Iqbal Khandwalla said they usually receive 14 cancer cases a day, with 80-100 new cases every month. They received 3,000 patients in the hospital last year, up from 1,200 in 2010. The centre will, therefore, help in treating as many patients as possible, as it targets three million patients annually from not only the Coast region but beyond. The renovations began after talks between the county and Bamburi Cement on November 2016. The building was converted from a doctor’s residence to a centre with consultation rooms, nursing station, pharmacy and observation room for chemotherapy sessions. Other features are a record desk, waiting area for patients and even a gazebo outside, where patients and their visitors can relax as they get a glimpse of the ocean and its breeze. The oncology centre was staffed with nurses, pharmacists, data clerk, secretary, security guard and cleaners. By November 9 last year, it was ready for use. The first clinics in the new centre began on November 10. Though generally well equipped, the centre does not have a radiotherapy unit, which is essential. Patients still have to incur great expenses travelling all the way to Nairobi for this service. However, the county has plans underway to set up this unit at the premises this year.“I am hoping in three months, we would be able to have a radiotherapy machine,” Health executive Hazel Koitaba said during the facility’s launch. COME A LONG WAY When the centre started in 2010, the patients enrolled were only 30, with one clinician attending to two patients a day. But with more awareness created, especially through the media, the number of patients increased day by day, until it became overwhelming to the lone clinician. Another problem was the working conditions in the room used to mix the chemotherapy drugs. The officer doing the mixing did not have protective clothes, and there was no disposal to get rid of the used chemotherapy wastes. From 2010-14 an oncologist would see new patients once a month, and in 2014, there was an addition to the oncologist who also came once a month. The once-a-month visits by the oncologists led to delays in treatment of patients, and this was also a big problem, as the patients require regular visits. With the increasing number of patients visiting the centre, and the number of staff also increasing to attend to them, there was a need to expand. That is when a place was identified at the CGH and renovations started. The increase in number of cancer patients is worse in low- and middle-income countries, as they are exposed to a double burden of disease in the mix of communicable and non-communicable diseases. “This particular disease has doubled, and if we do not take it seriously by doing screening for early detection, then patients will suffer,” Khandwalla said. According to a report announced at the launch of the centre, the leading cancer is breast cancer followed by cervical cancer. However, according to Worldwide Cancer Research, lung cancer is the most common, followed by breast cancer. Khandwalla said to be on the safe side, people should be screened to detect the disease early for treatment and cure. CANCER SCREENING Having a clinic at their organisation, Bamburi Cement has been conducting cancer screening for residents of Mombasa. Some 70-80 per cent of cancer cases are diagnosed at a late stage, due to lack of awareness, inadequate diagnostic facilities, lack of treatment facilities, high cost of treatment and high poverty index. The increasing number of patient is due to increase in pollution, poor diet and a high chance of contracting the disease if there are cases in the family. Health ministry medical services director Jackson Kioko said unhealthy living and lack of proper exercise drive up the phenomenon. For the risks to reduce, he urged people to work out. He said the ministry will have to come up with a policy to ensure every Kenyan is physically fit. “The government, through the Health ministry, has plans of making sure that there are gyms in institutions like school and hospitals, so that people can exercise and reduce the risk of getting cancer,” he said.