Maverick Eldoret farmer Jackson Kibor has filed a case to divorce his third wife, less than a year after a court granted him orders to part ways with his second wife. Kibor, 83, says he will argue the reasons why he wants his third wife Naomi Jeptoo out of his life in court. Kibor married Jeptoo more than 43 years ago. “The case is now in court. Don’t ask me about it. Just prepare to come and listen in court,” Kibor told journalists on Saturday. Kibor’s latest case has sparked a debate in Eldoret. He filed the divorce case against Jeptoo on February 28. Read: Jackson Kibor, 86, weds new lover Yunita as he pushes to divorce 2nd wife Josephine Eldoret chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa on October 6 last year allowed Kibor to divorce his second wife Josphine Jepkoech after 52 years of marriage on grounds of cruelty. Josphine has, however, filed an appeal at the High Court in Eldoret. Kibor now accuses Jeptoo of abandoning their home and denying him conjugal rights. He claims in court papers that she has been hostile and intolerant of him, causing him psychological pain. “She had plotted to kill me and has been consistently beating me up, causing me actual bodily harm,” Kibor says. He says efforts by relatives to reconcile them have been unsuccessful and their union cannot hold any more. He married Jeptoo in 1975 in a traditional ceremony. Read: Drama in Eldoret court as Jackson Kibor's wife wails to save their 51 year marriage They have six children. He also accused Jeptoo of selling part of his family property without informing him. “The defendant has also failed to give Kibor emotional support and offer consortium as would be reasonably expected in any marriage. She has failed to show concern and empathy to Kibor’s emotional needs of love and companionship, thereby denying him marital rights,” court papers say. Kibor’s lawyers will serve Jeptoo with the court papers so she can file a response before the court sets a hearing date. Kibor had four wives, but his first wife is dead. If the court allows him to divorce Jeptoo, he will remain with his youngest wife Eunita whom she married in 2002. Related: 'I want to move on': Kibor, 86, says case to end 51-year marriage taking too long   Click here for the latest political news