Ugandan left-back Godfrey Walusimbi last minute decision not to travel with his team-mates for the Caf Champions League return leg clash against Esperance has undermined the team’s morale and confidence ahead of their away assignment. The player ostensibly demanded that the club honour a pledge to help him pay off Sh1 million fine imposed on him by a player agency that had secured him a move to Europe before he boarded the plane. “It’s unfortunate that Walusimbi failed to travel with the team in spite of our exhortations. We promised to help him pay off his fine but we had financial challenges and our priority was to channel the required funds to ensure the team comfortably honour our return leg fixture. We made it clear that we will still help him pay the fine but apparently he had made up his mind not to go to Tunisia,” said a Gor official, who sought anonymity as they did not want to be seen to be distracting the team ahead of the crucial clash tomorrow. The official further disclosed that the Ugandan international was paid Sh2 million to extend his stay with the 16-time Kenyan champions. “Two months ago, the club paid Walusimbi Sh2 million as sign on fee after he had turned down the opportunity to join a club in Eastern Europe. The club wants to confirm that no player is owed any salary or bonuses. But for the Walusimbi fine, we will still keep our promise and help him clear it,” the official clarified. Coach Dylan Kerr and his charges arrived in Tunisia yesterday afternoon via Doha and are all set for tomorrow’s clash. With the tie evenly balanced after the goal-less first leg, Gor will need to score to have any chance of upsetting Esperance. Jacques Tuyisenge and Medie Kagere will lead the hunt for goals. The Rwandan duo had chances to score in the first leg but were foiled by the upright and outstanding saves from Tunisian international Ben Cherifa. With Walusimbi unavailable, Kerr will have to decide who between Charles Momanyi and Wesley Onguso will fill in for the Uganda Cranes star. Haron Shakava and Joash Onyango’s flourishing central defence partnership will face their toughest test yet in the shape of lead striker Haythem Jouini playing in front of a sellout crowd at the Rades Stadium. Francis Kahata, Philemon Otieno and Ernest Wendo will be trusted with the midfield duties. Gor are seeking to make history by eliminating the Tunisian giants and becoming the first team from the Cecafa region to reach the Caf Champions League group stages.