The dispute between the
proprietor of popular city joint Simmers and his landlord returned to the courts yesterday. Simmers owner former
Kimilili MP Suleiman Murunga filed an application at the Environment and Land
Division, seeking to send directors of Nilestar Holdings Limited and Green
Valley Limited to civil jail for disobeying court orders. Murunga said the
directors, despite being aware of an order restraining them from interfering with his restaurant, went ahead and destroyed his property. “I have lost my entire
investment, stocks, furniture and equipment, and my employees have been
rendered jobless,” he said. The businessman-cum-politician
has fought over the plot with the family of former Finance minister
Arthur Magugu, which argues it co-owns the property with Nilestar Holdings
Limited. On Friday, a demolition
squad descended on the restaurant and flattened it, bringing its operations to
an end after decades of existence. At the center of the
dispute is alleged rent arrears amounting to Sh7,560,000, legal fees of Sh
756,000 and court brokers charges of Sh910,860. In the application, Murunga
accuses Madatali Ebrahim, Jamilleh Ebrahim and Jalaledin Ebrahim, together
with Maragret Wairimu and Kinyanjui Magugu. Others are Gibson Ndungu and
Leo Nyangau. He says they fraudulently and unlawfully
processed and obtained a tittle for the suit in an attempt to defeat his
claim and circumvent the course of justice. He argues that on December
24, 2013 the court granted him interim orders restraining the directors from trespassing or evicting him from the property, pending
the hearing and determination of the case. A judgment was later entered
against him but he filed an application seeking to set aside the judgment. On July 14, 2014 further
orders were issued and extended by consent on December 15, 2016. “On February 20, 2018, despite
an existing order while the case was still pending, with interim orders in
place, the directors filed an application in the magistrate’s court and
obtained an eviction order," Murunga says. He wants the court to restore the property back to him, pending the hearing and determination
of the application. “The destruction of the applicant’s property was
an act of contempt and deliberate disobedience of the orders of the court and
was, in any event, an affront to the power and authority and dignity of the
court calculated to bring the court into disrepute,” he says. Further he says the actions
are callous, fraudulent, illegal and contemptuous of the orders of the court. Justice Elija Obaga directed
Murunga to file and serve respondents. 
The case will be heard on April 4.  