A group of IDPs and farmers are fleeing their homes in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, after the fault line that cut the Mai Mahiu-Narok road spread to their farms. The group has sought alternative areas to put up shelter. The line that is fast spreading destroyed crops and cut off feeder roads. The families accused the government of doing little to help them, only focusing on the section of the road that was cut off. Group representative Martin Mwangi said they were concerned over the state of the fault line that is expanding by the day. “We are alarmed by this increasing trend where the government seems to be ... ignoring us,” he said. Read: Mai Mahiu-Narok road reopened after repair As a result, schoolchildren have been forced to seek alternative routes. “This line started in 2012. We saw geologists and the then Ministry of Special Programmes send experts here. This time round we have been left alone,” Mwangi said. Farmer Grace Wangare said the line has destroyed their crops, causing them losses. “This area was heavily affected by drought and invasion of wild animals. We had hopes of getting a bumper harvest, but this will not happen,” she said. The Geological Society of Kenya is conducting studies on the areas affected by the fault line across the Rift Valley. GSK chairperson Gladys Kianji yesterday said there are reports of the lines developing in Nakuru. The report will help plan infrastructural development in the regions affected. Kianji, who is also a lecturer at the University of Nairobi, accused KeNHA of constructing major roads without involving the GSK, leading to such calamities. Read: We’re not cracking up or drifting – geologists Meanwhile, sand collected from Mai Mahiu is not fit for construction, she said, adding that it has led to the collapse of many buildings. “The volcanic ash from the area has been used to construct buildings and due to its weak nature we have seen an increase in buildings collapsing,” she said. The underground fault lines along the Mai Mahiu-Narok road were caused by floods washing away deep deposits of volcanic ash, the GSK said. It sought to allay fears by some people that the phenomenon could lead to parts of the African continent drifting apart. “This emerged when experts visited the area as fault lines continued widening and getting deeper, raising fears amongst residents. Kianji said the areas with gaping faults between Mt Longonot and Mt Suswa experienced volcanic activity years back, creating underground tunnels. “It has nothing to do with splitting of the continent.”  Click here for the latest political news