It’s just a matter of time before the AFC Leopards executive severs ties with coach Robert Matano but that saga will be the furthest thing on the mind of caretaker coach Dennis Kitambi and the players as they clash with high-flying Mathare United this afternoon. Kitambi, who was Matano’s assistant, masterminded an impressive win at Sony Sugar and that result saw him given the nod to continue holding forte in the short term. Ingwe will be hoping that striker Ezekiel Odera, who is bereaved, will be in the right frame of mind to lead their attack against the Slum Boys, who are unbeaten in five matches. Should ‘Eze’ miss out, his namesake Otuoma and Whyvone Isuza will battle to lead the line. Mathare, on the other hand, will have everybody available particularly striker Clifford Alwanga, who has recovered sufficiently from the knock that saw him limp off from their draw against Thika United six days ago. Thika, meanwhile, face a Tusker side that is yet to show the form of potential champions. The brewers have only one win and are closer to the relegation zone than top spot after five matches. Victory is a must for this two sides, who have been left reeling from injuries to key players. Thika is one of the two teams yet to win a match this season but coach Nicholas Muyoti is quietly confident that it’s just a matter of time before his side gets the campaign rolling. Elsewhere, back-to-back defeats have served a dose of reality of life in the topflight league for debutants Wazito. Since their opening day victory over Sony Sugar, Frank Ouna’s charges have mustered only a point from three matches. As they face struggling Posta Rangers, they will be wary of being on the wrong side of a mauling like they were in the 4-1 result against Kariobangi Sharks last Sunday. League top scorer, Eric Kapaito, will be seeking to add to his tally of five goals when his Sharks side entertain resurgent Sofapaka. Kapaito netted a superb hat-trick against Wazito, a form that coach William Muluya hopes continues for the remainder of the season and one that will plug the gap left by last season’s 17-goal top scorer Masoud Juma. Rock bottom Zoo Kericho host fellow strugglers Vihiga United as both sides bid to vacate the dreaded drop zone. Zoo have lost four of their five matches and are on three points same as new boys Vihiga who are still waiting for their first win. Despite ending their winless streak last weekend Nzoia United will be in for a tough 90 minutes when they come up against champions and league leaders, Gor Mahia, tomorrow.