Drug addicts in Lamu town have discovered a new cheaper way to get high — a water meter preservative agent. At least 350 meters valued at Sh2.1 million have been vandalised for their dessicant — a preservative used in metres to absorb moisture and keep them dry and rust-free. “How the discovery came about we don’t know. All we know is that water meters are in danger as the addicts seek the preservative, which they sniff through the nose and [ingest through the] mouth,” Lawasco chairman Mohamed Athman said yesterday. Confessed drug addict Halimu Mzee said the “new drug” is like cocaine and heroin, only cheaper. “You crush it and you are good to go. I personally just sniff it or rub it gently on the tongue and lips. You don’t lick, you rub and let it dissolve into the saliva,” Mzee said. “Initially we thought we could inject, but when we tried it, a friend developed seizures and almost died. So we decided to stick with sniffing and the other way.” Addicts should not be blamed for vandalising the meters as there is no other way to stop their craving for cocaine and heroin, he said. “Cocaine is better but is expensive. Then we discovered this and all our problems are sorted. One stash from one meter will take you several days and that’s fine,” Mzee said. no water bills A medic who refused to be named said, “I am aware of a desiccant that is used to maintain dryness by absorbing moisture in the metres. That’s apparently what they extract and use. It’s known for its ability to numb.” Residents are alarmed by the discovery and have urged police to arrest the vandals and stop the habit before it gets out of control. “The drug users are known and even those vandalising the metres are also known. The community must reject this,” elder Omar Bingwa said. Lamu Water Sewerage Company said it is losing a lot of revenue as it cannot generate bills. “We can only issue bills after reading the meters but since this trend started we have lost a huge amount of money in water bills,” manager Paul Maina said. “We are unable to ascertain how much a certain facility or household needs to pay when the meters have been vandalised. Anybody with a water meter must now exercise extreme caution.” He urged residents to instal meters inside their homes.