Injured Gor Mahia trio of Kevin Omondi, Ivorian striker Ephraim Guikan and right-back Wellington Ochieng were the only absentees in the 20-man squad that flew out last night to Tunisia for the return leg clash of their first round Caf Champions League. Both Omondi and Guikan, who scored in the tournament’s preliminary round home fixture against Equatorial Guinea’s Leones Vegetaranos, were part of the K’Ogalo squad that beat Nzoia United 1-0 in the Premier league on Sunday. Ochieng, on the other hand, was stretchered off in their victory over Bandari eight days ago. Midfielder Humphrey Mieno returns to the squad after he was excluded from the first leg squad. With Gor taking a goal-less draw to Tunisia in this delicately poised fixture, the defence will be key at a venue they were humiliated 5-0 four years ago. Ochieng’s absence will be felt even more with Joasi Onyango and Joakim Oluoch likely to play in his place. Dylan Kerr side missed several good opportunities to take a lead in the first leg—a luxury they can ill afford at the intimidating Rades Stadium. Rwanda’s striking partners—Jacques Tuyisenge and Medie Kagere—were unlucky not to score against the hugely fancied Tunisians. On Sunday, they will be expected to put away any opportunity that comes their way. “There is no pressure in the team and if there is, then it is positive pressure. Everyone is motivated to get a good result against Tunisia, particularly after the first leg when had luck been on our side, we would have won by a good margin,” remarked assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno. Cercidy Okeyo and Boniface Omondi, the midfielders considered the future of the club, also make the squad after impressive domestic performances. With a catalogue of top notch performances that has seen them unbeaten in 10 successive domestic and Champions League fixtures and a tactical expert in coach Kerr, Gor will feel well equipped to cause the biggest upset in the history of the lucrative tournament and make another piece of history by becoming the first team from the Cecafa region to reach the competition’s group stages. It will not be lost on the current generation of Gor players that the club’s greatest moment came against Esperance in 1987 when a majority of them were yet to be born. Squad: Keepers-Boniface Oluoch, Shaban Odhonji; Defenders: Harun Shakava, Godfrey Walusimbi, Charles Momanyi, Joash Onyango, Joakim Oluoch, Wesley Onguso; Midfielders: Ernest Wendo, Humphrey Mieno, Philemon Omondi, Francis Kahata, Bernard Ondiek, Cercidy Lumumba, Boniface Omondi; Forwards: George Odhiambo, Jacques Tuyisenge, Meddie Kagere, Samuel Onyango and Lawrence Juma.