Victims of historical injustices documented in the TJRC report would be compensated within two years if Parliament approves a Bill seeking to create a special commission to oversee reparation. Uasin Gishu Woman MP Gladys Shollei, the sponsor of the Kenya Reparation Bill, 2017, says the cruelty meted out to Kenyans can only be resolved through the creation of the agency. It will be tasked with receiving, probing, evaluating and processing applications for reparation claims. Its fucntions will rival those of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. Read: Some Injustices Are Overblown Excuses Some 2,000 victims between 1963 and 2014 will get Sh500,000 each, the bill proposes. Shollei defended the bill before the National Assembly’s Budget and Appropriations Committee. It questioned why  the KNCHR and the NCIC cannot make the payments, but Shollei said two institutions would be overburdenned. Minority leader and Suba South MP John Mbadi cautioned the House against creating more commissions that would overburden taxpayers. Kiambu Town MP Jude Njomo concurred. “I would propose that the KNCHR’s work expanded to compensate victims of human rights violations and injustices because it knows all victims. The Bill opens a floodgate for more people, who have suffered injustices, to come out,” he said. “The restorative justice funding will need an annual allocation of about Sh843 million in the first year and Sh853.2 million in the second — totalling Sh1.696 billion,” she said. Related: The TJRC Report: We Need To Hear All The Voices The commission would have to complete the payments within two years then it is disbanded. Victims of the Wagalla Massacre and the 2007-8 post-election violence are among the potential beneficiaries. In 2015 during the State of the Nation Address in Parliament, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the creation of a Sh10 billion Reparation Fund to compensate survivors of historical injustices. He asked the House to process the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission report. “The Reparation Fund has not been under an existing entity because there is no Act backing it. No one has been compensated, yet state officials have been going on retreats and meetings to come up with implementation regulations,” Shollei said. The AG’s office and the International Commission on Transition Justice, an NGO, have been drafting the Reparation Fund regulations. Shollei told the Kimani Ichungwa-led team that setting up an implementation committee to champion the compensation would be a major step in achieving reconciliation. “Money is out there being used without a legal framework. If we want to close this chapter of reparation, we need to have a legal framework,” Shollei said. She wants a Sh20 million museum created in remembrance of the historical injustices. The committee will present its recommendations to Speaker Justin Muturi for further direction.  Click here for the latest political news