Wildlife is a common art theme in Kenya. But once in a while comes a master painter like Kenyan-born Guy Combes. An exhibition of his nature artwork, called Madirisha, is showing at the Polka Dot Art Gallery in Nairobi. Combes is based in the US, but travels to Kenya regularly to re-immerse himself in wilderness, taking photographs, making sketches and undertaking “a prolonged contemplation”. The results are illustrations that go beyond the obvious and portray incredibly minute details. I walked into the gallery and was immediately taken by the oil on canvas image of three grey-crowned cranes called Incroyables, meaning unbelievable in French. The middle bird towers with outstretched wings over its companions. Every feather and blade of grass is drawn to perfection. He also captures the mood of the moment. A large bull elephant covered in the red soil of Tsavo fills the foreground of another painting called Rainmaker. The animal stands alert with open ears and twisted trunk, articulating the foreboding of a blue sky that is building up with rainclouds. Sunlight and shadows are beautifully expressed in the small painting called Cobalt Courtiers. Here, some helmeted guinea fowl with sky blue plumage cast long shadows as they walk at dusk on sandy-coloured ground. The wizened buffalo in a forest of bamboo trees is aptly named Misanthrope, as it glares grumpily at you, a shaft of sunlight lighting up his heavy horns. Combes says it took him about a month to paint this large piece, which I thought was surprisingly short. Guy says, “Given the choice, I would paint mostly large canvases, because Africa deserves that.” His father, the late Simon Combes, was well-known for big Africa images, and as a child, Combes often watched him working. In the painting Migration, you can trace the wrinkles on the neck of zebra painted on a bright red background with blue circle around its face. Having studied design and fine art in England, he says, “I have long aspired to find a way to combine them both, although I wanted to create something with meaning.” A white triangle on a dark background frames a solitary rhino, an expression of the solitude faced by an endangered species. He says, “The white triangle is a beacon of hope that the world will come to a consensus on the importance of wild rhinos in protected wild habitat.” Conservation is close to his heart and he uses his artwork to create awareness about the precarious state of African wildlife. As part of the Madirisha show, Combes held a live a painting session one afternoon, where he demonstrated how he handles acrylics. He painted a young elephant from a photograph on his iPad, explaining the grid method to identify his reference points. Combes has exhibited in the US, Canada and the UK. This is his first solo exhibition in Kenya and he hopes the audience here will “recognise the subtleties and nuances in my work that only they can”.