Siaya leaders have asked Jubilee to stop the blatant disregard of the rule of law if it wants the newly-formed working relationship to last. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, also the Public Accounts Committee chairman, said it is careless for the government to violate the law and expect citizens not to do so. Wandayi said the disregard of the law will plunge the country into a state of anarchy if not arrested soon. “When a court of law directs you to go left, you do not question it like Jubilee is doing. You do it and appeal later if you are disatisfied,” Wandayi said. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, the Inspector General of Police and the head of immigration must subject themselves to the court before the public starts disregarding the law. “It’s pointless for the public to observe the law if high ranking government officials cannot act as an example,” Wandayi said. The Ugunja MP said what Matiang’i and the rest are doing can trigger chaos if not tamed. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta must prevail upon Matiang’i to respect the law if they want the lead the country in the right direction. Wandayi was at the memorial service of his bother with Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda, Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi and county MP Christine Ombaka. Ochanda said the government must show the world it respects the law at any cost. He said the government must lead by example and respect what the court and Parliament say without negotiating. The Bondo MP told Jubilee the relationship it has with ODM must also be guided by the rule of law for it to last. Ochanda said all Kenyans must be treated fairly by the government, especially now that Raila has accepted to work with Jubilee. Alego Usonga MP Atandi said ODM leaders are increasingly becoming uncomfortable with senior government officials’ disregard of the law. Atandi said ODM leaders believe in democracy and the rule of law at whatever cost and if the President cannot keep his senior officers in line, they will also start defying court orders. “And you know when we start to defy court orders the newly formed union will not be realised.We don’t want to go in that direction.” The MP condemned the deportation of self-declared NRM General Miguna Miguna, saying it is illegal and must be condemned.    