The government has started the process of phasing out all
thermal power plants in the country as one way of bringing down the rising cost
of electricity. With close to 30 thermal plants, the Ministry of Energy said
that they would not renew the licenses of as part of measures meant to make
sure electricity was affordable. The government is keen to increase geothermal power
and last week, National Treasury signed an agreement with the Japanese government for a
140mw geothermal plant in Naivasha. According to the energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, licenses
of two of the thermal power companies were coming to an end. He said the cabinet had made the decision not to renew
the licenses of the companies which were mainly meant to supply emergency power
and use diesel. “We have 27 thermal power plants in the country. Most of them are located in far flung areas and once their licenses expire, we shall
not renew them as we have enough power,” he said. The CS said government had invested billions of
shillings in upgrading transmission lines mainly to areas that had for years
relied on thermal power. Speaking in Naivasha, Keter termed geothermal power as capital intensive. He said donors should contribute 80 per cent and the exchequer 20
per cent to the projects as the way to go. On the recent saga surrounding the importation of 1,100
faulty transformers, the CS said that already 800 of them had been replaced under
the ongoing last-mile project. “The biggest challenge we have with transformers is the
increased theft across parts of the country and the only we way we can address
is through installing them new homes,” he said. On the last-mile electricity distribution programme, Keter
said that over 50 percent of the World Bank sponsored project had been
completed. “All public schools and health centres in counties like
Kiambu and Nairobi are already connected to electricity and we are committed to
connecting all homes to power by 2020,” he said. Principal Secretary in the ministry Joseph Njoroge
said the government was committed to exploring more geothermal power as it
was reliable and readily available. “Despite the high cost of money used in exploring and
drilling steam wells, geothermal power is the way to go as Kenya is one of the
leading countries in the world in geothermal resources,” he said. 