A last ditch penalty from in-form Ezekiel Odera earned AFC Leopards a priceless 2-1 win at home to Kakamega Homeboyz. The match had looked destined for a disappointing draw when Salim Abdalla launched a hopeful ball into the Homeboyz box causing jitters. Mike Wanyika and Edmond Mauda failed to communicate and it proved costly as the latter handled the falling ball in panic, giving the referee the easy option of pointing to the spot. Ingwe are now with 16 points and sit joint top with Gor Mahia. Leopards have breathlessly pursued arch-rivals Gor, who were perched at the top of the table. Three wins on the trot had pushed them to within three points of the defending champions. And with Gor away in Tunisia for the return leg clash of their Caf Champions League duel against Esperance, the stage was set for Ingwe to usurp their nemesis. When Marvin Omondi volleyed them in front from Jaffery Owiti’s precise cross after just ten minutes, their fans could visualize a rare spectacle in the last two decades—Ingwe top of the KPL table. They were awoken from their reverie just a minute later. As Ingwe retreated to their box, Edmond Mauda chose to try his luck from range. His mis-hit shot found Mudavadi Moses in the box and the diminutive forward swivelled and fired the ball past Jairus Adira. The equaliser didn’t deflate Leopards confidence though it was Homeboyz, who had the next two chances with Allan Wanga heading the ball over under pressure from Adira and then another former Leopards man Noah Wafula blasted the ball wide. Leopards came back from the break purposefully and Ezekiel Odera whipped in a cross that was begging to be directed goal-wards but Marvin had arrived a jiffy too late. Duncan Otieno then ruffled the roof of the net with a free-kick that had Mike Wanyika scrambling. Unlike in their two previous ties, Leopards lacked the stamina to take all three points until the handball that gave Odera the chance to win the game for Ingwe from the spot. Meanwhile, Mathare United recovered from their mini slump with a 2-1 victory away at free falling Sony Sugar. The Slum Boys showed a steely resolve at a notoriously tricky Awendo to come back and claim all three points after going behind. Yemi Mwana had put Sony ahead but a thumping header from Clifford Alwanga drew Francis Kimanzi’s charges level eight minutes before halftime. Chrispin Oduor then edged Mathara ahead on the brink of half-time—a lead they held onto to register their fourth win of the campaign that returned them to the top three in the standings. Ulinzi Stars and Posta Rangers cancelled each other out in a 2-2 draw that did little to improve either side’s prospects in their attempt to win this year’s championship race. A goal in each half from Joe Waithira and Kennedy Wendo gave Wazito FC a 2-0 victory over struggling Nakumatt. The win was Wazito’s first since the opening day of the season put daylight between them and the relegation zone.