Businesses with no public toilets for customers risk being closed down when county governments start implementing a directive from the Ministry of Health. Last year, the then Health CS Cleopa Mailu ordered all institutions, including banks and malls, to have toilets for their clients as part of efforts to address sanitation issues. Director of Public Health and Sanitation Kepha Ombacho told the Star that the ministry is counting on county governments to ensure that the policy is implemented. Business operators in Nairobi are likely to be the first to feel the heat of this policy as the task force to to implement the directive is set to be formed this week with the county assembly expected to come up with appropriate penalty for those found in violation. Speaking to the Star on Phone yesterday, Nairobi Health CEC Hitan Majevda said that the crackdown which will include premises that have not been painted as directed by governor Mike Sonko will target fast food joints, supermarkets and malls. ''We are starting a task force next week to implement orders by the ministry of health and the directive on painting of premises by the governor. There will be heavy penalties for those that violate those directives,'' he said. Although the directive includes banks, Majevda said that the Nairobi crackdown will spare them for they cannot host public toilets due to security reasons. If the county make good its threat, most fast food joints within Nairobi are likely to be closed since they lack these facilities A spot check by Star over the weekend for instance revealed that only two out of 14 fast food joints along Tom Mboya Street have public toilets, forcing customers to look for nearest facilities that charge at least Sh10 per use. The same scenario was witnessed across fast food joints along Moi Avenue, with only five out of 11 allowing customers to use toilets that are normally limited to the staff. This, despite having huge customer traffic both day and night. ''This issue must be addressed. It is disheartening to buy food, only to abandon it on table in the name of looking for a toilet hundreds of metres away. I once left my Sh400 meal at a joint along Moi avenue to go to a public toilet at Koja roundabout,'' Dave Mwema, a dissatisfied customer said. However, most malls in the city have complied to the directive, with Graden City, TRM, Junction, Two Rivers and Next Gen malls having multiple toilet facilities for the public.