In life, influence is currency. It is the ability to sway people’s opinion in the process of achieving your goals. Influence is a craft and an art. To have influence means you can easily lead people without a title. In the corporate world, the political games have people scrambling for positions. They believe that once on top, influence is guaranteed, and power is secured. But, what if you never make it to the top, does that mean you can’t have influence? Do you need position to lead? No. Position is not necessary for leadership or influence. Truth is: you can lead, be influential and powerful where you are. You don’t need to be king of the hill to rule the hill. So how do you achieve this? What skills do you need? Think on these principles. Connect with people: Influence is rooted in people. That’s the start. If you don’t know how to connect with people, influence is unlikely. Connecting with people means finding common ground on which to communicate and build trust. Common ground is an interest that people share, mutually appreciate and enjoy. Influencers are skilled at finding common ground. You like golf and I like golf. Then, let’s meet up for golf and discuss business. Golf is the common ground; it is a safe place for exchange. When you find and establish common ground, you’ve connected. Refine Expertise: Skill brings influence – and as you develop in an area, your influence grows. This is one easy way to lead from anywhere. Your gift, well deployed, would channel resources your way and make people consider your views and input. But, you must raise your skill to a level of excellence that is respected in your organization and industry. That way, you are viewed as a recognized expert. Also, you must take key steps to become a visible expert. Your mastery of an area naturally sets you apart, but you must communicate your message and expertise clearly to the industry. This would grow your influence exponentially. Give people what they want: It is common for people to ask: “what is in it for me?” They are particular about their interests. Whatever or whoever serves their interests, gets their attention and often, their loyalty. So, when your offer meets people’s needs or caters to their interests, influence occurs. The delicate balance is giving people what they want as you get what you want. Serving people’s interests will always grow your influence at every level. Email: etoolbox@theyouideology.com