ODM has turned the heat on its allies-turned-foes in NASA in what promises to be a nasty political duel. Yesterday, the party sprung a surprise on Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula, attempting to dethrone him as Senate Minority Leader and replace him with his deputy and Raila Odinga’s ally, James Orengo. Wetang’ula was given a lifeline by Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, who okayed his removal but suspended his replacement until he has received official communication from the NASA coalition. “I am satisfied that the 16 Senators constitute a majority of the 27 Senators belonging to the NASA coalition and that all the said senators belong to the Minority Party, which in this case is the NASA coalition,” the Speaker said. Read : Nasa affiliates threaten to divorce Raila's party for 'marrying' Jubilee The move followed a meeting of ODM Senators on Wednesday at the Crown Plaza Hotel, Nairobi, just a day after the Orange Party held its Parliamentary Group meeting. Although Wetang’ula, a co-principal and NASA co-founder, was yesterday promising to fight back, his fate appeared sealed with a majority of senators backing his ouster. Sixteen of ODM’s 20 Senators signed for Wetang’ula’s removal at the two-hour Upper Hill meeting. Five Senators who are also likely to back the ouster bid were reportedly absent with apology. Lusaka, who is seen as Wetang’ula’s opponent in Bungoma politics, came to his rescue, ruling: “Accordingly, the removal of Senator Moses Wetang’ula as Senate Minority Leader though valid, stands suspended and will not take effect unless and until a Senator has been elected by the NASA coalition in the manner provided by Standing Order 20(1).” An angry Wetang’ula said he will not quit and signaled the beginning of a nasty battle with Raila. “If anyone wants to divorce it will be noisy, messy, unhelpful and it will have causalities. I’m not going anywhere. I was not invited into NASA, I’m a founder,” an agitated Wetang’ula said. Wetang’ula warned that ODM cannot use its majority strength in the coalition to oppress him and other affiliate parties, yet they helped it to garner the seats by backing Raila’s 2017 presidential bid.  BELITTLE  “I am not going anywhere. I am here and I will be here. The 16 signatures by ODM senators is not a majority of the coalition in law, but a section of NASA. I take exception to the conduct of my deputy [Orengo]. You cannot fight behind my back and I cannot be belittled,” he said. There have been signals that ODM was planning to crack the whip on its affiliate parties, especially after Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper Party insisted on getting its slot in the Parliamentary Service Commission. This forced ODM to drop Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, a key Raila ally, amid protestations that affiliate parties were riding on the back of the Orange party. But in a surprise turn of events yesterday, the letter meant to trigger the process of Wetang’ula’s removal and annexures of ODM minutes was written by Senate Minority Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr of Wiper.  POWER SHARING  Out of the 27 NASA Senators, 20 are from Raila’s ODM. Wiper and ANC have three senators each, while Wetang’ula is the only Ford Kenya senator. The NASA coalition agreement that was deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties is cagey on power sharing in the legislature and many believe Wetang’ula was a beneficiary at the pleasure of ODM, which is the minority party in the House. Opposition Chief Raila Odinga and his lieutenants are said to have embarked on radical steps to reclaim their rights. The coalition agreement states that power sharing will be based on the following criteria: Founder member status, portfolio balance and performance. “Powers will be shared in executive appointments, legislative offices, national government appointments and leadership positions in the legislature that the coalition is entitled to,” the agreement states. Wetang’ula's woes could be traced to the simmering row in NASA that burst open last Friday after Raila met President Uhuru Kenyatta without the knowledge of his co-principals. The affiliate parties have accused Raila of being greedy and plotting to scuttle the 2022 agreement that bars him from standing for President. Charged ODM senators in the House criticized Wetang’ula and maintained that he cannot impose himself on them. Narok ODM Senator Ladema ole Kina reminded Wetang’ula that he did not win his seat in the Senate on the NASA ticket and that his party’s decision to reclaim the Minority position should be respected. “We did not did not do things behind his back, but we sat and deliberated on the leadership of the Minority in this House. The majority of the opinion was for change of leadership,” Kina said. Also read : Jubilee ready for coalition with ODM but presidency off limits - Duale  STANDING ORDERS  Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’, who also signed Wetang’ula’s ouster petition, called for a retreat as the Minority side and NASA coalition execute Speaker Lusaka’s directive. “You cannot lead people by force. Let us as the Minority retreat and do as the Speaker has said,” Kajwang’ said. Senator Judith Pareno (nominated) reiterated that ODM was only reclaiming its space in the House by taking back the Minority position. She said they were acting in accordance with the provisions of the Standing Orders, which confer the leadership of the Minority on the party with the second highest number of seats. Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, who contributed to the debate, sympathized with Wetang’ula and asked him to join Jubilee if he feels aggrieved by ODM's decision. “I want to tell Wetang’ula that although you want to hang on the position, I don’t know how you will do that. These people are determined to remove you. You cannot force yourself to lead people,” Murkomen said. Click here for the latest political news