The unending annual supremacy battle among three key state institutions is in the offing following a clash on billions of shillings the 47 counties should get in the next financial year. Senate, the Commission on Revenue Allocation and National Treasury have differed sharply with each institution proposing its own figure, the setting the stage for rigorous negotiations. Senators are demanding the state to allocate counties Sh327.7 billion, the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) proposes Sh337.2 billion contrary to National Treasury's Sh314 billion contained in the 2018-19 Budget Policy Statement (BPS). The Senate Finance Committee chaired by Senator Mohamed Mohamud (Mandera), in a report tabled in the House last week, wants counties given a sum of Sh387.6 billion, conditional grants included. Senators propose Sh59.8 billion conditional grants to fund leasing of medical equipment worth Sh4.5 billion, rehabilitation of village polytechnics (Sh2 billion), fuel levy (Sh8.2 billion), loans and grants (Sh33.2 billion) and setting up of two regional cancer referral centers worth (Sh5 billion). They also want Sh900 million as compensation to counties by the state for incurring costs national government services such as free maternity. In addition, they have proposed Sh1 billion for the National Cancer Access Programme and Sh605 million for construction of county assembly headquarters. “The committee recommends that Sh302 billion equitable share for 2017-18 financial year be adjusted for salaries and operations for libraries amounting to Sh319 million then adjusted for inflation at 7.0 per cent and growth in services at 1.4 per cent,” reads an inquiry report on Treasury's BPS. Both Senate and CRA decries the national government's prolonged attempt to starve counties in funding and demanded Treasury disclose the criteria it used to allocate funds to the devolved units. “The National Treasury should provide information on the criteria used in increasing some of conditional grants such as leasing of medical equipment which was allocated Sh4.5 billion for 2017-18 financial year in the Division of Revenue Act 2017,” the committee report says. “This is in view of the fact that the 2018 BPS indicated an allocation of Sh6.1 billion in 2017-18 financial year and is proposed to increase to Sh9.4 billion in 2018-19.” CRA chaired by Jane Kiringai during the committee's inquiry on the BPS told senators that the national government was wrongly reducing the counties equitable from its huge debt servicing costs. “Government debt obligations must be met before sharing the revenue. Thus, with increase in debt, the sharable revenue reduces. That may hinder service delivery in future especially by the county governments,” Kiringai said. Treasury officials led by Chief Administrative Secretary Nelson Gachuhie, however, insisted that the proposed counties budget was arrived at based on the Article 204 of the Constitution regarding sharing of of funds. “Equitable share was based on fiscal framework at national level-revenue shortfall and fiscal deficit, there has been imbalance between funding of county function and national function; thus the growth factor of 4 per cent on county equitable share from Sh302 billion to Sh314 billion,” Treasury said. Senate, CRA and Treasury have been embroiled in major standoffs annually during the budget period prompting intensive negotiations to agree on the funds counties should get. This clash further prompted a major standoff in November last year between Senate and National Assembly in passing the Division of Revenue Bill on the sum counties should get. Senate and CRA had proposed Sh352 billion allocated to the 47 counties but National Assembly reduced the sum by Sh29 billion to Sh323 billion. This saw the counties allocated Sh302 billion in the current 2017-18 financial year from a deal reached through mediation between National Assembly and Senate. Click here for the latest political news