MCAs on Tuesday expressed anger and disappointment after three former county finance
bosses snubbed summons to explain 'irregular' payments they made to law-firms during their tenure. The Public Accounts Committee chairman Wilfred Odalo said the former officers paid lawyers Sh580 million during the year yet the legal department was only allocated Sh100 million. Public Accounts
Committee had summoned former Finance executive Gregory Mwakanongo, former chief
officer Luke Gatimu and former head of county Treasury Morris Okerre
on the issue. Odalo ordered the clerk to do another letter to the officers to appear before it on Tuesday next week. He said the
committee has until March 23 to table its report on the 2015- 16
audit queries in the house. “We will not waste
any more time. If they fail to come, then I will invoke Standing
Order 72 invite the DPP and police to drag them to this committee,”
he said. “The current chief
officer failed to give us reasons why the county spent Sh480 million
outside the budget yet no attempt was made to regularize the
expenditure as required in law,” Odalo said. Appearing before the
Public Accounts Committee two weeks ago, acting finance chief officer
Ekaya Alumasi admitted no supplementary budget was presented to the
House to regularise the expenditure. Section 135 of the
Public Finance Management Act allows the county governments to over
spend but requires them to regularise it, in form of a supplementary,
within two months of the expenditure. Alumasi also neither
provided payment vouchers to support their spending nor the list of
law firms paid, raising concerns the money could have been embezzled. The committee is
investigating various financial audit quarries raised by Auditor
General Edward Ouko during 2015-16 financial year. “Mwakanongo said
that he was out of town and asked us to reschedule the meeting to a
date after March 20. Gatimu said he was away until April and Okere
said he was attending to his sick dad,” Odalo said. Bu the MCAs
rubbished the reasons, terming them flimsy and attempts to evade the
meeting. “I am disturbed by
the absence of the three because the letters they sent should have
been supported by relevant documents to prove they were genuinely
unable to attend this meeting,” majority chief whip Mwaura Chege
said. Minority chief whip
Peter Imwatok said the committee risks being irrelevant if it does
not take stern action against officers snubbing its summons.