Owners will be able to detect any searches on their land once a new system is put in place, ministry official has said. Acting Land secretary Esther Ogega yesterday told the Star the system will end multiple allocations. During an interview, Ogega said parcels with disputes will also be digitised. However, each land marred with disputes will have a red flag. No transactions will be allowed on land with caution until the disputes are resolved. She said land owners will be asked to provide the telephone numbers, address, identification card number and names. Ogega said the new system will end corruption and illegal land allocations. The ministry was in discussions with the Law Society of Kenya to hasten land transactions. While a search will be immediate, land transfer will depend on the speed with which lawyers fast track the process. According to Ogega, all sensitive records have been secured to ensure no inaccuracies are entered into the new system. Ogega said the system will be linked to a central registration bureau and monitored by IT experts. Technical officers will be given passwords and held responsible in case of any tampering. Ogega said the ministry has scanned 369,000 files. Some 30,000 others are yet to be scanned. Physical files will still be archived at the ministry for reference should need arise. Data captured will be fed into the system after verification. Officials will sign in to ensure that only authorised personnel feed the system with accurate information. Ogega said qualified students and National Youth Service staff have been included in the process. “They are being closely supervised,” Ogega said. Last week, a report by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission showed that interns and volunteers were handling sensitive land records in some registries. The ministry has since closed its Nairobi registry and banking hall for 10 days to streamline operations. An online platform, the Land Information Management System, will be installed. Yesterday many people who had transactions at the lands registry were caught unawares by the closure. The exercise will also be undertaken in other registries countrywide. Last week, CS Farida Karoney said the ministry has digitised only 18 of the 61 gazetted registries. Speaking in Kasarani when she visited the Regional Centre for Mapping of Resources for Development, she said her ministry wants to be slow but sure.