Nairobi, Kenya’s capital and powerhouse, is drowning in Sh57 billion debt. Garbage is fouling the Green City in the Sun as 28 collection firms haven’t been paid Sh600 million for two years. Twenty-nine of 60 garbage trucks have broken down. Seventy-eight public hospitals have been operating without essential drugs and supplies for more than a year, as the national supplier Kemsa has not been paid Sh255 million. If this city of 3.6 million people were a company, it might well have gone under. So how did we get into this mess, how do we stay afloat and how do we get out? The problem dates back decades when successive mismanaged city administrations overspent, misspent and even destroyed records. It’s easy to point fingers, but the reality is that the yawning debt has been inherited. Governor Mike Sonko says he inherited Sh58 billion and is trying to fend off creditors. His predecessor Dr Evans Kidero said he inherited a debt of Sh44 billion. Internal audit reports indicate, however, that he inherited a debt of Sh120.8 billion. It did not increase during his tenure, except for interest accrued. Governor Sonko, Finance executive Danvas Makori and former Governor Kidero did not respond to repeated requests for comment for this article. Further, if the city could collect long overdue debts of Sh375 billion, the problem would go away. Of that amount, the Republic of Kenya, itself heavily indebted, owes Sh140 billion. In 2015, the state owed Sh63 billion, but interest accrued. The national government, embarking on a new Sh200 billion Eurobond, has not explained why it cannot repay some of its debt to the city. Nairobi clamped a few government-owned buildings, now unclamped because of partial payments.  THIS IS WHAT WE KNOW Poor recording-keeping by the old Nairobi City Council has come back to haunt Nairobi. The problem inherited by Kidero’s administration in 2013 and Sonko’s government in August last year has made it hard for City Hall to collect debts of more than Sh375 billion. That would easily offset the county’s liabilities and finance development projects. City Hall is owed by individuals, private and public institutions. Last month Sonko sought the High Court’s intervention to keep creditors at bay, following numerous threats to auction City Hall’s assets. Poor record-keeping has attracted internal audits and probes by the Auditor General. When the old City Council was in charge, documents detailing terms of Sh15.3 billion in foreign loans to improve water and sewerage systems went missing. The original loan amounts, interest rates and repayment periods are still unknown. This is among the inherited debts Sonko cited his suit filed last month. Another Sh4 billion loan advanced by KCB remains unpaid. Jason Lakin, until recently head researcher at International Budget Partnership, tells the Star that City Hall should focus on negotiating with creditors and debtors to balance its books. The firm analyses government budgets and advocates for effective governance,  SEEK A WRITE-OFF Lakin suggests City Hall could start by holding talks with the national government to write off some debts the two levels of administration owe each other. Last year the city said the national government owes Nairobi Sh140 billion in land rates, rent, and payment for loading zones, some dating back two decades. Nairobi owes various state institutions Sh9.1 billion, according to City Hall reports. “They [City Hall] need to take the total amount and try to figure out if, say 20 per cent of it is collectible. If yes, then collect that and write-off the rest. Collecting this amount in cash [Sh140 billion] from the government is difficult, if not impossible. Having negotiations in which you write-off some of these things is not impossible,” Lakin says. A political settlement is needed for some problems, he says. Lakin suggests City Hall should evaluate how much it can collect from debtors and use the proceeds to clear its debts. In the suit filed last month, Sonko said there are hundreds of arrest warrants over failure to settle debts. Status reports seen by the Star on City Hall’s financial standing in 2013 and 2017 have revealed that some of Nairobi’s largest debts are almost two decades old and continue to accrue interest.  CURIOUS DEBTS Unremitted statutory obligations such as tax, National Social Security Fund contributions and National Hospital Insurance Fund deductions form the largest part of City Hall’s debt at Sh24.38 billion, or 42 per cent of the total amount owed. Another Sh21.77 billion, or 37.5 per cent of the total amount owed, is debt accruing from contingent liabilities. One of the curious debts inherited by Nairobi county stems from an insurance cover contract with Sanlam Insurance (formerly Gateway Insurance). The medical cover was provided between 1996 and 1999 and was to cost Sh27 million. Protracted court battles over payment led High Court judge Jessie Lesiit to award Sanlam Sh111.77 million in 2009.The annual interest is 24 per cent until all the money is paid. By June last year, almost nine years after Justice Lesiit’s decision, the amount had grown to Sh569 million. Other massive debts include dues to CPF Financial Services (former Laptrust) at Sh11.5 billion, legal bills that have now hit Sh2.34 billion and NSSF contributions of more than Sh470 million. On August 31 Sonko was presented with a report showing Sh60 billion, or 15.98 per cent of the total uncollected dues, are from a dispute with the Department of Defence over the 3,080 acres. The site It contains the Embakasi Barracks, which City Hall sold to the Kenya Defence Forces. Another Sh22.32 billion, or 5.945 per cent, is outstanding in parking fees, due payment for loading zones in the city, uncollected or unremitted rental income, way-leaves (space allocated to Kenya Power for setting up equipment) and single business permits. City Hall says it owes KRA Sh3.9 billion. One of the law firms owed are Moronge & Company Advocates, which is claiming Sh420 million for 23 suits it handled on behalf of the City Council in 2008. City Hall also owes almost Sh500 million to Prof Tom Ojienda and Associates, which represented the city on several occasions during Kidero’s tenure. Dues from construction projects (roads and civil works) stand at Sh1.3 billion. Most are from the defunct City Council and date back to 2003. Nairobi was, however, able to almost halve its debt to Kenya Power under the Kidero administration. The Kidero government had inherited a Sh686 million debt from the City Council. Currently, City Hall owes the electricity supplier Sh393 million. The total amount owed is mostly from land rates, parking fees, rental income and single business permits. Unpaid land rates with interest and penalties account for Sh293.08 billion or 78.07 per cent of City Hall’s debts. The report did not specify the individuals, firms and government institutions that owe City Hall money and how much is due from them.