The joke in town is that “Joshua” made a U-turn and is now dinning at Pharaohs’ palace, whilst his followers (including Pharaohs stepson Moses) continue to languish in the desert. The whole thing would make good comedy if only it didn’t involve serious matters of the state. All right thinking Kenyans, including opposition leaders, have been rooting for dialogue with the government for some time. The call for dialogue was driven by concerns over rising political temperature and ethnic tension caused by a government system that appeared to reward certain Kenyan communities that were pro-jubilee and exclude the others that were pro-NASA. There was a collective sigh of relief when President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga held an almost clandestine meeting and then issued a communiqué undertaking to work together in the interests of Kenya henceforth. That the meeting was held behind the backs of their colleagues and principals has generated some heat. Most of them, however, agree dialogue and rapprochement is a good thing. Indeed, as they say, a picture is worth a thousand words. The photo of a smiling Uhuru and Raila in the electronic and print media served in immediately cooling hostilities between certain communities. The verbal “Civil War” that has been going on in social media has all but been extinguished. The “golden handshake”, however, is not a means to an end in itself. It must not be viewed in isolation as there are still powerful simmering undercurrents. We must take a bold step further and lance the boil. Everybody agrees that peace is essential to the welfare of any nation. Peace alone, however, is not a panacea for good governance. Peace is not the absence of war. Kenyans must, therefore, soberly interrogate what lies behind the handshake. If it dawns to be a mere cease-fire between two antagonists, then it is bound to be transient and short-lived. We will have ameliorated some pain but not cured the disease. The most powerful handshake in Kenya was held on the steps of Harambee House 10 years ago between President Mwai Kibaki and Raila Odinga, when UN mediator Kofi Annan declared, “We have a deal! In retrospect it would appear we did not have a lasting deal, despite the comprehensive National Accord that was swiftly executed! Why? Because our leaders have the despicable habit of sweeping dirt under the carpet until it resurrects again during crises. Once peace was restored and the antagonists resumed the office of President and Prime Minister respectively, the National Accord was left to gather dust in some government archive. Had Uhuru decided to dispute or reject the annulment of the August 8, presidential election, we would have swiftly returned to the post-2007 election position. The events of the last one year were not mere child’s play. The economy took a beating! Hordes of Kenyans from both sides of the political divide but predominantly from the opposition lost their lives. Miguna Miguna, a citizen by birth was deported to Canada in slippers. Innocent civilians such as Chris Msando, Baby Pendo and a host of others were murdered in cold blood. Kenyans must refuse to accept these deaths as collateral damage. Government must put in place structures or institutions to ensure we avert such occurrences in the future. Cosmetic window-dressing of giving select persons high-paying jobs/positions and preaching a message of forgive and forget is unacceptable. Kenyans require cut and dry solutions backed by the law. To achieve genuine healing and reconciliation, Kenya ought to implement the findings of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission and Agenda Four of the National Accord and Reconciliation Act, 2008 and ensure electoral justice. Endemic corruption must be surgically excised for the country to move forward. Our upward mobility is constantly hindered by our inability or refusal to address delicate, sensitive and perhaps painful issues and as a consequence we are forced to repeat history after every election cycle. Leaders must cease playing Russian roulette with our collective future(s).    