Lawyer Miguna Miguna has left Dubai and is en route Nairobi though he does not have a Kenyan passport. The self-declared National Resistance Movement General - the last man standing after the famous handshake - is expected to touch down Monday afternoon at the JKIA. Miguna was deported to Canada on February 6 after a dramatic arrest and detention for his role in the mock swearing-in of Nasa leader Raila Odinga as the People’s President. He has been vocal about the rights of the people and the "despot" that President Uhuru Kenyatta is but Raila and Uhuru have since signed a peace and unity deal. The General had planned the "mother of all liberation struggles" today but will he be allowed into the country without a passport and a visa? More on this: I have a ticket, Miguna says ahead of his return to Kenya on Monday Miguna criticised the government for failing to guarantee him safe entry by refusing to issue him with a valid Kenyan passport. His travel document was confiscated by the government and defaced, making it null and void. This was despite a court order to the Immigration Department for the lawyer cum politician to regain his document. This means that under the law, Miguna can only apply for a visa to enter Kenya, being a naturalised Canadian. Miguna said he will not apply for a visa upon his arrival. He said doing so would facilitate “the illegitimate government’s” continued disobedience of court orders and further infringe on his constitutional rights. On Sunday, Miguna lashed out at Interior CS Fred Matiang’i saying he and others have “refused to obey and comply" with the various court orders. He noted that judges ordered Matiang'i, Immigration director Gordon Kihalangwa and IG Joseph Boinnet to individually and collectively return or reissue him with a valid Kenyan passport and facilitate his return. But the interior ministry said Miguna will be allowed safe entry into the country. Lawyers Orengo, Nelson Havi and Julie Soweto said they will no longer pursue the court case once he is back as his return is what's important. It follows a High Court ruling last month that his deportation was illegal. The General says his aim is to remove Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto from office but what does the future hold now that Raila is working with Uhuru? There is also trouble in Nasa as Raila's co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) feel sidelined. More on this: Miguna wants Uhuru's 'illegitimate state' to guarantee his safety Click here for the latest political news