Lake Naivasha’s smaller sister, Lake Oloiden, a volcanic crater lake whose name means “salty” in the Maa language, is sometimes overlooked and yet it is a marvel to explore, particularly for animal lovers. Located only about 200m from Lake Naivasha, Oloiden is about two and a half hours away from Nairobi, and while there are numerous luxury hotels, camps and houses for rent within its vicinity, we stayed at Enashipai Resort. When we got to the lake at around 10am, colourful wooden boats were lined along the shoreline and some fishermen were still hauling in their catch. On first impression, I couldn’t help but think that this spot looks a lot like Dunga Beach or Hippo Point in Kisumu. After negotiating with a fisherman and getting a guide, we got onto the chosen boat via a derelict wooden jetty and set off into the water. Be sure to get a guide that is actually knowledgeable, because there is so much to take in during the serene boat ride. Our guide pointed out about seven families of hippos bobbing up and down the water, sometimes dangerously close to the boat, which only heightened the thrill of the experience. When he hit the side of the boat with a stick, sometimes curiosity had them inching even closer to us. There are numerous species of birds on this lake, and we spotted hundreds of pelicans that are mostly white, herons and storks that somewhat resemble each other, cormorants that are quite intriguing to watch as they fish, African fish eagle that are adept at spotting their prey and diving fast into the water before victoriously revealing the fish caught in their talons, as well as the kingfisher, which typically has a large head with short legs and a long, sharp and pointed beak. We even spotted a gaggle of geese swimming along in two files. We sailed past the distinct Hippo Point and Dodo’s Tower, which would be a great option for luxury right by the shores of Lake Oloiden, before finally docking on a stretch of land surrounded by numerous acacia trees. Should you decide to go on a walking safari here, and ours took about 40 minutes, be sure to wear hiking shoes, pants and preferably long-sleeved shirts, because the grass and certain plants here can cause itching and even rashes, which I had to find out the hard way. Right off the bat, we spotted a herd of zebra a few metres away, but the guide told us not to go too far off without him because there were buffaloes lurking around. Still not sure what he would have done in the event that a herd of buffalo actually did advance upon us. Shortly after, we chanced on a giraffe and that’s probably the closest I’ve ever gotten on one while on foot. There were also numerous other animals that we encountered, including warthogs, thompson gazelle with their distinct black stripe on the side, waterbucks, elands and other impalas. There was a picnic site around (as well as camping grounds should be up for it), but we decided to head back to our resort for lunch.  Star Rating: 4/5