One
would hope that there is an impact when the Auditor General finds such huge
figures unaccounted- for, but the basic point one could make is that there is
not a single cent of public resources that should be utilised without
accountability. I
think the Auditor General has pointed out these weaknesses over time. What
we need is for the agencies that are supposed to ensure accountability to play
their part, and, I think, primarily Parliament has a big role to play, but also
other agencies like the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission as well as the
Directorate of Criminal Investigations. They
need to play their part because it is not okay for such huge amounts of public
funds not to be accounted for. Whether
the money has been used legitimately or not, we should be able to say that the
funds have specifically been used for this purpose and within the law. Short of
that, then we should see people punished. Our
law is actually adequate, if the agencies that are supposed to ensure
accountability play their part. The
question of accountability for public resources is one that we pay a lot of lip
service to, in that we don't go the full road in making sure that the resources
are protected. For
example, Parliament has very sweeping powers to make sure that money is
accounted for, including withholding budgets for agencies that don't account
for the monies they have spent in the financial year. Parliament
should see itself as distinct from the Executive and other agencies of
government. But Parliament itself is a space for political horse-trading types
and people get away with a lot of issues that shouldn't be the case. When
the Auditor General's reports are prepared they come to Parliament, and it is
supposed to ensure those recommendations of the reports get translated into
action against those who have fallen short of the legal standards in place. Parliament
also comes up with resolutions that are hardly implemented. If you look at the
Public Service Commission reports, you will see people being mentioned and it
is recommended that they don't hold public office in future, and all that. But
when it comes to implementation, Parliament itself hardly ever follows through
with those recommendations. We
do have a challenge, but the framework is there to ensure accountability. The writer is the
Transparency International Executive Director