Tenants of the disputed Mariakani Estate in South B now claim Lapfund wants to seize their properties to recover Sh490,000 it demands from each of them. This is after a notice the scheme issued to the tenants to the pay the rent accrued since April 2013 expired last month. But they say they have been paying rent to the county because City Hall has never communicated to them about the transfer. “What we are told now is that they are going to levy a distress on us. We are living in fear because we don't know who will strike when,” resident Edward Thairu said. Each tenant pays Sh10,000 per month for a three-bedroom house. City Hall officials declined to comment on matter. We could also not reach Lapfund for comment. “We went and inquired with Lapfund why they were demanding that kind of rent yet we have been paying. We even provided the receipts,” he said. Lapfund through Gikera and Vadagama Advocate, had on February 8 issued a two-week notice to the tenants to clear the debt. It took over the estate which has 30 blocks of eight apartments each and sits on 10 acres in 2013, but says rent has not been forthcoming. Documents show the Sh2 billion estate was transferred to Lapfund as part of a deal to clear a debt the now defunct City Council owed the Scheme. But the transfer has raised eyebrows at City Hall after the emerged that property was valued at only Sh1.4 billion. “We are not here to dictate who owns the property. The county government should tell us exactly who owns this property,” Thairu said. He petitioned the Public Accounts Committee last Thursday to intervene. The committee has been investigating the irregular transfer after it was flagged out by Auditor General Edward Ouko in 2015-16 financial year audit report. Former town clerk Roba Duba, who was said to have signed the transfer, failed to appear before the panel last Tuesday after being summoned. According to Committee chairman Wilfred Odalo, this is not the first time Duba had been summoned over the same matter before. Odalo ordered the clerk to invite him again next week and threatened use the police to drag him before the committee should be fail to show up. Thairu who has lived in Mariakani for 40 years said documents show that internally the county government has been communicating with Lapfund, some dated back to 2013, telling them to start collecting rent . But the county has never communicated this to them. He said tenants were willing to start paying rent to the scheme but said they will not accept to pay higher rent. He noted that some tenants have already started paying to the scheme but some have taken advantage of the confusion to stop paying. “Mariakani is an estate that has been passed down on generations. Public figures like Joe Kadege live here. Some of us do not know any other home,” he said. Click here for the latest political news