Mozambicans visiting Kenya will no longer require a visa, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Uhuru announced the scrapping of this requirement during a State banquet that Mozambique President Filipe Nyusi and First Lady Isaura Nyusi held for him and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. “Our forefathers fought for political liberation. It falls upon us to ensure economic liberation, that the artificial boundaries created by former colonial masters are removed and that our people are free to travel, trade, do business and marry without obstacles,” he said at the Ponta Vermelha Palace in Maputo on Thursday evening. To further enhance cooperation between the two countries, the President said Kenya will this year open a consulate in Maputo with the aim of a full mission in the next financial year. In November last year, he directed that all Africans receive visas on arrival in Kenya but that is now a thing of the past for Mozambique nationals following this development. “I urge our Mozambican brothers and sisters to take advantage of this opportunity to invest in Kenya and trade with their brothers and sisters,” he said. Read: Uhuru declares visas on arrival for Africans, freedom to marry The President observed that the people of Kenya and Mozambique are bound together by a common culture and ancestry. “While Kenya and Mozambique established diplomatic relations in 1975, there is evidence of interaction that dates back to the pre-colonial era,” Uhuru said. While emphasising the countries' clsoe ties, he noted that Makonde speakers, originally of Mozambican descent, are now part of the Kenyan citizenry and are officially recognised as the 43rd tribe. “I had the honour to preside over the official ceremony conferring citizenship to the Makonde community early last year.  The event was not mere tokenism but the result of our firm belief in the oneness and unity of all African peoples irrespective of their descent,” he said. “This has also created a special and strong bond of kinship between our two peoples." Noting that there were seasoned Kiswahili speakers in both Mozambique and Kenya, the President said the two countries have the added responsibility of promoting the language, which is now officially an African Union (AU) language. As the two countries move to upscale their bilateral cooperation to a more strategic partnership, Uhuru expressed the need for a review of the Joint Commission for Cooperation (JCC). He wants it elevated it to a Joint Ministerial Commission (JMC) in the near future. Related: Uhuru handed Maputo city key during Mozambique visit Click here for the latest political news