With one swipe, Benita Vata manages to drive away a host of flies swarming aroung her wound. The wound, a result of severe burns sustained after her husband poured hot water on her last September, had been festering until last Sunday, when she was taken to Makindu Level 4 Hospital. Vata says she fought with her husband Mwanthi Mwangangi over money for food. The man came home from work and dropped a Sh500 note on the table and demanded supper. The family had incurred a huge debt at a local shop. Vata asked her how they would clear the debt but Mwangangi did not answer. “When I turned to pick up our lastborn daughter from the bed, he threw a sufuria of boiling water at me,” a tearful Vata said at their home in Kibwezi on Sunday. The couple’s two-year-old daughter sustained minor burns. POISON ATTEMPT Vata was rushed to hospital by a neighbour who heard her screaming. She said her husband’s family did not visit her at Bishop Kioko Hospital in Machakos. “There was no communication. Only my brother-in-law passed by after three weeks and dropped me some milk and bread,” the 29-year-old mother of two said. “The doctor realised the milk was poisoned before I took it,” Vata said. Vata said her husband wanted to kill her. She said his family had asked her to leave her matrimonial home and return to her parents. “I heard him telling me to die and leave him in peace after he threw hot water at me,” she said. SH557,000 BILL Dumped and neglected at the hospital, Vata began a frantic search for her parents. Nurses located her mother Grace Munini, who lived in Kibwezi, after three weeks. Her bill had risen to Sh557,000. “We gave the hospital our title deed as guarantee to release her,” Munini told the Star. Since then, Vata has not received any treatment because she could not afford it. But last week Makueni Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau came to her rescue. Mwau took her to the Makindu Level 4 Hospital. Mwau has partnered with Nairobi Women’s Hospital to establish a gender-based violence recovery centre at Makueni Referral Hospital. “I’m shocked at the horrific nature of gender-based violence. Many women have been killed, battered and maimed by violent spouses, yet no action is taken,” Mwau said when she visited Vata at her parents’ home in Kibwezi on Sunday. Mwau called for partnerships to end GBV. She urged administrators and national institutions to work with police to end violence against women. “We are also concerned that many victims are not reporting [attacks] to police. We want our chiefs and assistant chiefs to be more proactive on this matter,” Mwau said. FAMILY TO SUE Makueni county assembly speaker Douglas Mbilu said MCAs have approved funds for construction of the recovery centre. The House is debating a Bill on GBV. “We must make laws that can end these vices,” Mbilu said. Meanwhile, Munini has promised to revisit the matter once her daughter is healed and have the perpetrator punished. “It is very traumatising to see my daughter confined to a hospital bed because of the actions of an irresponsible husband,” she said. Although the family is yet to report the matter to the police, Munini hopes the officers will arrest Mwangangi. “We’ll revisit this inhumane act. My husband and I will record a statement with the police and it’s my hope that the perpetrator will face charges,” she said. Click here for the latest political news