Jubilee pressure and NASA's infightings have punctured opposition's push for electoral reforms, months since President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. Immediately after the nullification of August 8 presidential election, the opposition alliance embarked on a fierce push for electoral reforms, something that slowly started losing steam three months later. “I don’t doubt NASA’s political legitimacy but I think it’s about how they execute their strategy to push for electoral reforms,” International Center for Policy and Conflict Executive Director Ndung’u Wainaina told the Star in a phone interview. Read: NASA's push for electoral justice justified Top state officials told the Star that Jubilee has taken advantage of the sibling rivalry in Nasa and the 2022 succession politics to execute a ruthless crackdown on opposition elements. The state was also working round the clock to infiltrate NASA activities and set its agenda. But the opposition has denied the reports. “The fight for electoral injustices has just begun and you will see more activities in the coming weeks,” Ugunja Mp Opiyo Wandayi said. “Since independence people have fought for democracy and multiparty without guns and security aides. No amount of intimidation will stop us.” Wandayi said the fight for electoral injustice remains the responsibility of every citizen in the country. “People steal elections to protect what they have stolen and plan to steal more. They are not bothered by the interests of Kenyans,” Wandayi said. However, the state has been relentless, cancelling passports, outlawing Nasa's National Resistance Movement and withdrawing security assigned to protect the opposition's top brass officials. “They have also initiated fake charges against some of our NASA officials,” said an aide to a principal. But the ICPC Director said the opposition still has the strength to push for electoral reforms. “With his strong following, Raila alone can push for reforms. There are serious grievances electoral and political that must be addressed,” Wainaina. “In every election, the economy of the country always collapses. Unless we address, we will not move forward.” The opposition has however defied Jubilee’s goodies and intimidation tactics. To make it worse, they have also refused to recognize President Uhuru Kenyatta as the validly elected President of Kenya. On its part, Jubilee which enjoys incumbency has capitalized on state institutions to harass and intimidate the opposition. A series of interviews pieced together by Star showed that with Jubilee frequently defying court orders, the state went above board to intimidate opposition by withdrawing passports, security, arms and privileges of being an elected leader. NASA Chief Raila Odinga said Jubilee had suspended the constitution. Analysts have blamed Jubilee's hand and NASA's own internal fighting for the waning interest in the electoral push. The civil society groups warn that there has never been a free and fair election but a well-calculated move by those in power to manipulate the electoral outcome. “Only in 2002, there was something near an election because of the overwhelming support Narc enjoyed. We have a stage-managed poll process,” said Ndungu. They add that those people close to power manipulate the elections to control the state and resources. “And I don’t mean a community but a clearly small team that captures the state and control Also read: I will continue pushing for electoral justice - Musalia  Click here for the latest political news