National Assembly's deputy minority whip Chris Wamalwa has threatened to resign from the position as wrangling in NASA continues. The Kiminini MP has accused ODM party of disrespecting Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula, despite being a co-principal in the alliance.“If ODM do not want to respect Wetangula as a co-principal, then even me, I'm ready to give my seat. I'm ready to let go the seat if the marriage is not working,”  Wamalwa told KTN News yesterday.“We cant have a leadership of NASA coalition where everybody is coming from the Lake.”Currently, the two minority leadership positions in both the Senate and the National Assembly are occupied by James Orengo (Siaya) and John Mbadi (Suba South). Both are ODM lawmakers. Read: 'Bitter' Wetang'ula throws tantrums, says not interested in Minority seat Related: Orengo says he won't let go Minority seat Orengo is expected to officially take up the position today.Wamalwa said he was willing to stand down in solidarity with his party boss whom he claimed
has been humiliated for too long. Wetangula was ousted from his position as Senate Minority leader last week. NASA principals said senators will retreat in two weeks time to resolve the matter. On Sunday, Wetang'ula said he was no longer interested in the seat. He indicated he will skip the planned retreat. Wamalwa lauded Wetang'ula for his move.“We thought by going for dialogue, the matter is going to be solved. But we have seen threats, humiliation and embarrassment,” Wamalwa said. He was referring to last weeks' meeting called by Raila to dissuade NASA senators from replacing Wetang'ula. Wamalwa's threat comes at a time of increasing calls for the dissolution of NASA. Affiliate parties say the alliance is a "rocky marriage". Butere MP Tindi Mwale yesterday reignited the dissolution calls, saying there is need to review of coalition agreement so that each party can chart its own. “I think there is no reason of having a coalition agreement if others are not willing to follow it. Let us dissolve NASA and have ANC, Wiper and ODM as independent parties,” Mwale said. The NASA coalition agreement provides for dissolution only in a situation where three partner parties decide to leave the alliance. This means that if one or two parties decide to leave then the remaining parties can agree to remain and run the alliance. Mwale accused Raila of fueling friction in the coalition, claiming the former Prime Minister secretly set up Wetang'ula for the ouster.“It is not about refusing to work with other senators, it is being directed by Raila secretly so that they have someone who they can control in their negotiations with Uhuru because Orengo is willing to play by the music,” said the Butere MP. Also read: We will teach Raila a lesson, says embattled Wetang’ula  Click here for the latest political news