The US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Sunday held talks with Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma and her Tourism counterpart Najib Balala in Nairobi. The talks were a follow up to the bilateral meeting held on Friday with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Read: Rex Tillerson affirms US commitment to Kenya on trade, security A statement from the Foreign Affairs office said the meeting sought to elaborate modalities for managing and deepening relations between Kenya and the US on a wide range of areas of cooperation. Juma and Tillerson agreed to establish bi-annual
consultations that would review the state of Kenya-US relations and discuss and sign agreements to guide trade and investment. These include the Big
Four agenda, security strategic partnership, joint
framework for innovation and technology with focus on youth and
entrepreneurship. "Others are fostering human capital development through greater inter-university
collaboration and people-to-people exchanges for tourism, education and culture," the statement added. Read: Tillerson praises Uhuru-Raila meet, roots for free press and respect for courts The two foreign secretaries also discussed strategies to enhance regional security
cooperation and support to AMISOM and the peace process in South
Sudan. Rex later toured the KWS laboratory before heading for a sunset game drive at the Nairobi National Park. Later, Tillerson visited the Kenya Wildlife Service Headquarters where he held talks with Tourism CS Najib Balala. The details of the meeting remained scanty after the two officials declined to talk to the media. Sources told the Star the meeting lasted for only 37 minutes. High ranking officials from Kenya and the US including Ambassador Robert Godec and renowned conservationist Dr Richard Leakey were present. The diplomat is expected to leave the country on Monday but the US Embassy staff officials declined to give the time for security reasons. Rex has been in the country for the last three-days after jetting in on Friday. During talks with President Kenyatta at State House on Friday, the envoy said the US is interested in widening its investment in Kenya as well as strengthening the bilateral and trade relations.  Click here for the latest political news  