Embu county assembly’s chief whip Margaret Kariuki has defended the county government’s proposal to construct toilets worth Sh17.5 million for Early Childhood Development Education centres. Kariuki justified the planned expenditure, saying Governor Martin Wambora’s government would be building 50 ablution blocks at a cost of Sh350,000 each in 2018-19. The chief whip condemned the public for criticising the project on social media, which she termed retrogressive and uncalled for. Kariuki spoke at the county assembly on Thursday during a debate on the County Fiscal Strategy Paper showing next financial year’s budget. She said the county has close to 20,000 children attending nursery schools. The number is expected to double in the following year. The increase would be occassioned by the new school curriculum guideline that a child spends two years in pre-school. The Nominated MCA further warned that lack of enough toilets for schoolchildren would compromise the hygiene at the ECDE centres, consequently putting pressure on the healthcare system. “Building enough toilets is a way of alleviating a possible health crisis at the ECDE centres. The project was well-thought-out and extremely necessary,” Kariuki said. In addition to the ablution blocks, the county government will build more classrooms and employ more teachers for the ECDE centres in the next financial year. She said additional classrooms and toilets will address the increased number of children since there will be more classes. Kariuki dismissed the heated debate on Facebook and WhatsApp groups across the county, insisting the discussions are misguided as they are not based on facts. The public says the Sh16.5 million could be spent on better development projects. NEW CURRICULUM The new curriculum is in disarray for lack of materials, shortage of teachers and shallow training. The piloting of the 2-6-3-3-3 model started nationwide in January, the intention being to phase out the 8-4-4 system in 10 years. The new system places emphasis on formative years of learning, where learners will spend a total of eight years - two in pre-primary and six in primary. The pilot covers two years of primary and three years of lower primary education. So far, education stakeholders – teachers, parents and school management – are in a blame game on the progress of implementation six weeks to the end of the first term. Some schools are yet to receive teaching materials while lack of sufficient training has left most teachers confused - a number have reverted to the old syllabus. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development says more time is required to streamline activities in the education sector. “Some schools have received teaching materials ... the process is ongoing ... some will receive them in due course,” KICD director Julius Jwan said. The institute is supposed to supply the curriculum design to all public and private schools to guide how students ought to be taught. The KICD notes it was not required to provide schools with new approved textbooks. “The only book KICD was required to distribute was the grade three mathematics books, as part of a project between government ande World Bank,” Jwan said.