With 60-plus days of 365 days of the year 2018, the year of (Mahhh) SURPRISES, the only thing that’s not a surprise is the fact that the country is facing one of the hottest times ever... The heat in 254 is so real that even married couples are parting with their Bae to spend the night at their Mpango wa Kando. No woman is complaining of sleeping alone any more. Infant mosquitoes are now making daily rounds nude! Everyone now is praying for rain. All Kenyans are willing to plant tress, which is a good thing, but why it has taken us ages to realise we can’t F$!K with Mother Earth en respect her beats me. We all want to pack our cars under a tree or take shade under a tree, but no one wants to protect the trees. Nature also understands Karma... Still on matters shock therapy being dished on Kenyans by the day, this week's biggest shock was a brain surgery gone south at Kenyatta Hospital... where neurosurgeons operated on the wrong patient on Thursday... Yeah, we have a dude whose head got opened up by doctors by mistake!!! With all the drama in my 254, as #TheRaverend I have decided to stop complaining and start counting my blessing by celebrating 10 celebrities whose lives have more problems than me... So as we enter March Madness, at: #10 I would like to start celebrating comedian Eric Omondi, the only Kenyan with balls off steel and is not related to Superman... Eric's quest to trend made him strip naked with children and put it on video, and someone in his skwaaad decided that’s comedy and not child pornography... I wouldn’t want to be swimming in Eric's pool of drama any day soon! #9 comes Jimmy Wanjigi, who the government always sends the elite squad to, even when delivering court summons... I have never seen so many big guns in one afternoon, but then again when you call yourself James Bond, when they come for you, they have to come in style! #8 my brother from another mother, Diamond. First came the split/dumping by his boss mama Zari, who is now busy doing interviews about their relationship with a book coming soon... The Tanzanian government has banned his music from airing in any local TV stations...... #7 TheRaverend believes Ringtone has serious mental problems after claiming he wants to marry Diamond's ex... The gospel musician and failed politician now claims he's worth just below a billion shillings... The dude believes he's the richest musician in Africa. How, I don’t know... #6 Polycarp Igathe, my former Deputy Governor, who quit as Sonko’s deputy... Igathe handed in his resignation but still we have guys who haven’t accepted it. In fact, the guys have taken him to court for resigning!!! #5 Alfred Keter, aka MataFaka dude, has more problems, like Arsenal football club... Two weeks ago he was busted at CBK with alleged fake Treasury bonds. Fast forward to Thursday, March 1, he's election was nullified... #4 Kalonzo Stevo Wiper Musyoka. The guy was to take his oath as the NRM deputy on Feb 28, but rumour has it someone moved it to February 31, so we have to wait for another four years... #3 Mwingi Central MP, whose wife accused him of turning her into a punching bag... The wife actually did not trust the country's legal system, so she decided to seek assistance from KOT!!! #2 Steve Mbogo, the flamboyant ODM and Starehe aspirant who wanted to bring Grand Preeeexx to Starehe if elected, is another man trending in problems after he lost his election petition and was slapped with a 10 million bob bill for wasting the court's time! #1. So there you have it. If you thought you're going through things en the world hates you, well don’t we have guys with bigger problems than you! So enjoy the weekend and be safe. Don’t drink and drive but drink and walk, that’s if you're drinking in your local pub!