The IEBC
yesterday said it paid Senior Counsel Ahmednasir Abdullahi Sh40 million for the 2013 presidential petition A
parliamentary watchdog committee probing the electoral agency's of Sh2.1 billion legal fees for the 2013 election raised in the Auditor General’s report for 2013-14 financial years was told Abdullahi was highly compared to the commission’s lawyers. The Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission said it paid 14 law firms Sh380 million to handle the presidential petition filed by opposition leader
Raila Odinga against President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory. Read: Chebukati unable to answer fees queries without report IEBC chief
executive officer Ezra Chiloba was at pains to explain to the National Assembly’s
Public Accounts Committee chaired by Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) how the commission
surpassed its budget of legal fees by Sh1 billion. The committee was
told IEBC lead lawyer Aurelio Rebelo was paid Sh30 million while other
lawyers were paid as much as Sh25 million. Chiloba said
Abdullahi demanded more money and that it took vigorous negotiations to agree
on Sh40 million, since the IEBC could not get a more qualified lawyer like
him. “The money was
settled on after negotiations. He had asked for more money,” Chiloba said. However, Chiloba said the IEBC put in place guidelines on the amount lawyers should be paid depending on
the type of cases they handled. Currently, the commission pays each lawyer Sh4.5 million for a case in the
Supreme Court. Read: IEBC lawyers to earn hefty sums from election petitions Rarieda MP
Otiende Amolo raised concern over IEBC’s massive spending, saying it could have been a conspiracy between the commission and lawyers. “Why was Ahmednasir
paid Sh40 million more than the lead counsel in the case? It would be important
to know that there were lawyers who were paid but did not appear in the
courts,” Amollo said. The Rarieda MP
wondered how IEBC arrived at the amount on grounds he has never seen such huge
amount paid to a lawyer in a case since he joined the legal profession. He noted that some
law firms of the 14 the electoral commission listed as beneficiaries of the
Sh2.1 billion did not appear in Supreme Court during the case hearing. IEBC paid 68 lawyers
it hired for presidential and other petitions an extra Sh1 billion, according
to Auditor General Edward Ouko in his report for 2015-16 financial years. “The commission as at
June 30, 2013, had outstanding pending bills relating to legal fees totaling
Sh1, 054, 889, 115," he said. Ouko in the his
audit report noted that a sample test of 68 advocates that IEBC instructed to
represent them reveals that they have been paid Sh2,145,632,115 as part of the
pending bills since June 30, 2013. “The commission
has not provided documentary evidence of cases represented and payments thereof
to justify and support payments in excess of recorded pending bills,” the
report said. Another sum of Sh17,
756,345 was also paid to five law firms that were not prequalified to represent
the commission in the courts  Click here for the latest political news