The family of the woman whose husband, a KDF officer, killed his son has denied she was involved in the incident. Ken Simiyu from Makunga village in Bungoma North murdered his two-year-old son and tried to kill himself.He locked himself in his house for hours, threatening to kill himself and the child on Sunday last week. Simiyu went to the village only to find his wife missing. She had travelled to Nairobi to find a job. However, Simiyu says she sent him a photo, through the phone, of her with another man. The woman’s family from Lukhokwe village in Tongaren constituency spoke to the Star on Tuesday in Webuye. They had arrived to view the body of Baraka Simiyu at the Webuye Subcounty Hospital morgue. Simiyu, 32, locked himself in his house, demanding that his wife returns before he kills himself and the child. Relatives who were outside said they thought his were empty threats. He is admitted at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in serious condition. The officer is attached at Gilgil barracks. He arrived in the country two weeks ago from a peace keeping mission. It is stil unclear from which country. Simiyu’s father-in-law John Wasike said shortly after he returned, he called him complaining about his wife’s conduct. He had threatened to kill himself if his wife did not change her behaviour. “He was very bitter. I asked him not to do anything irrational until we meet and iron out the differences. “As a parent I am very disturbed, especially because the stories surrounding the murder are not clear.” Wasike said Simiyu did not need to kill the boy. He said although Simiyu complained, his daughter was not a bad wife. “I told him we should organise a meeting. While I was waiting for a date confirmation I received news that he killed the child and attempted to take his own life too,” he said. Wasike said it is by sheer luck that his daughter was not in the village at the time, otherwise he would have killed her too. “Families, especially young families, should have dialogue or seek help when facing challenges.” He urged parents not to take for granted some of the reports or threats received or made by their children who are newly married. The child’s mother, Margaret Wasike, was too traumatised to speak.