President Ronald Reagan had been in office for only 70 days when John Hinckley Jr’s shot cut him down outside the Washington Hilton on March 30, 1981. At that very moment, then Vice President George HW Bush was on a plane over Texas, without secure voice communication. Within hours of the shooting, and as doctors struggled to save Reagan, while reporters sought more information, then Secretary of State Alexander Haig repeatedly insisted — wrongly — he was in charge of the federal government. “Constitutionally, gentlemen, you have the President, the Vice President and the secretary of state, in that order, and should the President decide he wants to transfer the helm to the Vice President, he will do so,” Haig explained to reporters in the White House press room, apparently forgetting that the House speaker and the Senate’s president pro tempore come before the secretary of state in the line of succession. And then, in a dozen words that would become famous, he said, “As of now, I am in control here, in the White House.” With those dozen words, Haig permanently affixed himself in historical annals as the most-over-ambitious politician, and one who took his importance to levels not seen before. We’re 37 years plus since that infamous moment. Writing in one of the US dailies decades later, Richard Allen, Reagan’s national security adviser, observed that in every Situation Room of every White House, there are struggles for power, control and territory, and clashes of personality and decision-making style. When crisis erupts, as it inevitably does for each President — as it did on March 30, 1981 — those conditions can affect how smoothly the top tier of the Executive functions. Haig, who died in 2010, had been jockeying for greater power since being nominated. Allen notes Reagan prized collaboration and detested bickering. “But important disagreements kicked down the road have a way of coming back to bite you. Haig had been objecting so vociferously to any National Security Council structure or crisis plan for so long that we barely had one in place when the President was shot,” adds Allen. Fast-forward to 2018, Donald Trump’s White House seems to be in a permanent crisis mode, with hardly anyone sure what tomorrow holds. What Washington is dealing with pales in comparison to what’s happening in Kenya, where the shenanigans going on behind the scenes surely must pit the President’s inner circle as between those who are moderates and want the country to forge forward in a manner that ensures peace and prosperity on the one hand, against the hardcore hardliners who the country be darned they must get their way and teach a few people lessons. Their primary target appears to be former Prime Minister and opposition leader Raila Odinga and, to some lesser extent, Chief Justice David Maraga. Perhaps being restrained and temporarily — but one hopes permanently — the hardliners seem to be begrudgingly content with going after the “smaller fish” such as Siaya Senator James Orengo, businessman Jimi Wanjigi and crumbs in the fish tank like Miguna Miguna. In other words, we have our own Alexander Haigh lurking somewhere behind the scenes who has already decided, even though factually and legally wrong, that he has more power than he has, and is calling the shots that are dangerously beginning to sow seeds of discord not only within, but outside the government. This can never be good for anyone; not him, not the President, and definitely not the country. If Uhuru sits back or otherwise acquiesces, letting this Haig swim as he pleases, he will be the first to regret why he did so as Reagan regretted ever having appointed someone so power-hungry, he didn’t care whether his boss was alive or dead. Mr President, put a short leash on this Haigh and, better yet, get rid of or relegate the hardliners. You’re the boss.    Samuel N. Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States  