You have seen them majestically zoom past, those impressively yellow-coloured school buses as they ferry their clients. Not only are newly coloured buses a sight to behold, parents are happy that the buses can be better monitored for safety of the pupils. The directive to paint all school buses yellow, issued by former acting education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i in line with Traffic (Amendment) Act 2016, also requires the buses be fitted with safety belts and ensure 6AM to 6PM operations to improve road safety. The regulations come to full effect at the end of next week. A parent in Ongata Academy in Rongai is happy that the school buses can be differentiated from other vehicles. “We can spot yellow school buses from far. With the school name in black as directed, we are able to even differentiate between schools,” said the parent.The buses are now accorded more space by other road users to stop, pick up children and to make turns. A 2016 report by the traffic department said hundreds of school-going children perish on the roads while traveling to and from school. The report indicated that about 400 pupils, mainly in urban areas die in road accidents every year. In February, 11 students from Nyanchwa Boys High school were injured after their school bus hit the Nyamonyo Secondary Sschool bus before overturning in Kisii. Matiang’i directed part of the Sh29.5 billion the government released for the first term of free secondary education to be used on the changes. He also explained that Sh22,244 that each student receives under free day secondary education programme included money that catered for local transport and travel of students. Karen C Primary School in Lang'ata has been contracting privately owned mini buses for local transport and only five out of 13 are yet to be painted. One bus owner said painting the buses yellow came at a cost of Sh40,000 for a 33-seater minibus. The school with 1,095 students said the costs were not transferred to parents and did not raise the commutation fee. One parent said the directive was good as they are now encouraging their children to use the painted buses as safety is almost guaranteed. “When you spot a bus that is being driven carelessly, it’s easy to contact the school and report,” said the parent. Precious Gems School, as the name suggests, had incorporated gems symbols in the design of their minibuses as a marketing brand to stand out from other school buses. “We have no choice now but to scrap them off with the new laws,” Miriam, the head teacher said. “It has really been a hitch because we are not beneficiaries of government funds. We also did not involve the parents to cover painting costs," the head teacher said. The implementation is well received and changes adopted by most private institutions, but a majority of public schools will not beat the deadline due to lack of funds. For another public school in Nairobi County, painting would be impossible as it is already running under deficit. The school estimated to paint its 51-seater bus at an average of Sh200,000. The school head said the government directed them to use funds in operations account meant for running the school, salaries, and repairs of school buses and payment of teachers employed by the board of management. “We have an existing debt of Sh4 million for the bus. We were also against charging parents extra levies for painting. If the government would disburse enough funds then we would be out of the crisis."  