Heavy rains will pound large parts of Kenya in April, the latest forecast confirms. While this is good news to farmers, the weatherman warns flooding might occur, causing landslides in some places. Head of Meteorological services Peter Ambenje said April marks the climax of the long rains. “Several parts of the country are likely to experience enhanced rainfall that may be characterised by heavy storms over areas in Western, Northwestern, Central and parts of Southeastern,” he said. He urged farmers to take advantage of the good rains and apply appropriate farming methods to maximise crop yield. “Chances of flooding are still high especially in the riparian and low-lying areas including urban centres. Cases of lightning strikes are also highly probable especially in western Kenya,” Ambeje said. Lightning kills about 30 people each year in Kenya, and nearly all of those deaths occur near Kisii.People can be safe if they avoid taking shelter under a tree and stay away from other tall structures like flag poles and at the same time, avoid open areas and high ground. The Met analysis of clouds through radar and infra-red satellite images every hour to give accurate forecasts of lightning and thunderstorms. This information is often disseminated through the media. Ambeje warned of mudslides in Central highlands including Murang’a and Meru, as well as Western and the Rift Valley. Read:Nine dead, chaos as heavy rains strike “Flooding is conducive for mosquito breeding. This is expected to lead to malaria outbreak. The Ministry of Health is, therefore, encouraged to map out possible outbreak areas and to intensify surveillance of such diseases,” he said. Ambenje said only the Coast and Northeastern Kenya will be spared. “The rainfall in these areas is likely to be poorly distributed, both in time and space,” he said. The long rains season began mid March in most places and has been characterised by heavy storms, that killed at least 16 people. “The onset of the March-May long rains was well within the predicted period of the third week of March. However, several parts of the country started receiving rain beginning of March,” Ambenje said. The rains were above average in most places. Read:Heavy rains to fall, not yet long rains, says Met   