Striking lecturers have alleged that some vice-chancellors are intimidating them to return to work or risk losing their jobs. They said they will however not be cowed by such threats. The strike has entered its fourth week. “I know some universities have hatched unprecedented malicious measures in doomed attempt to undermine our struggle. Direct phone calls by VCs blackmailing some staff that their contracts are in peril; direct incitement of a section of students; and direct threats to union leaders in some universities. Such underhand tactics will fail,” UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga said on Friday. Read: Labour CS disappointed after striking lecturers snub talks The dons want the government to come to the negotiating table for the 2017-2021 CBA. On Monday, the union filed an appeal against a court order suspending the strike that was issued on Friday, March 16. Wasonga advised lecturers against commenting on the court case seeking stay orders on the strike to avoid contempt of court charges. He accused Education CS Amina Mohamed of treating their plight in a casual manner. The lecturers are demanding Sh38 billion for the CBA to go towards salary adjustments, car loans, pensions, health insurance and mortgages. They also want all the 31 public universities to negotiate, sign and implement individual internal CBAs and the payment of about Sh3.56 billion worth of pension arrears accrued from the 2010-2013 and 2013-2017 CBAs. The strike has paralyzed learning, research work and provision of specialized services across all teaching and referral hospitals where lecturers who are doctors offer services. The doctor lecturers joined the strike demanding the payment of their emergency call and risk allowances that have accrued since January last year. Last week, Wasonga assured lecturers that the union will draft a tight return-to-work formula that would protect them from victimization as a result of the industrial action. He said the union’s national officials will appear before the National Assembly Committee on Education next week to “unmask the inconsistencies in [Treasury] CS [Henry] Rotich's testimony to Parliament”. Rotich told the committee a counter offer would only come after a job evaluation exercise, which the dons are fiercely opposed to, is done. He reiterated Amina’s remarks before the committee a week earlier that a court case UASU has filed against SRC over job evaluation was delaying the kick-starting of negotiations. “If the government truly cared about the plight of more than 600,000 students, the CS Ministry of Education and CS National Treasury would stop this blame game and present a counter-offer to UASU so that the 2017-2021 CBA can be negotiated, signed, registered and implemented,” Wasonga said. Also read; Striking lecturers to hold street protests over lack of CBA offer  Click here for the latest political news