Cases pending before the Cooperative Tribunal for over five years will be cleared during judiciary's planned service week which will run from March 26-29, 2018. Chief Justice David Maraga on Friday said this will be in line with the pledge to clear the backlog of cases, which have lasted over five years, by end of 2018. The service week will be hosted in Nairobi where a total of 1,178 cases have been listed for dismissal as outlined in the Sustaining the Judiciary Transformation (SJT) blueprint. Maraga in a speech read on his behalf by Justice Kathurima M’Inoti said the launch is a start of several service weeks to ensure that the SJT pillar on case backlog reduction is achieved. "I am informed that this process is to be replicated in those other tribunals that have cases, which fall within the backlog reduction strategy," the CJ said. The co-operative tribunal is a specialised court established under section 77 of the Co-operative Societies Act, Chapter 490 of the laws of Kenya. Maraga added that the co-operative movement in Kenya, being one of the greatest drivers of the economy, is bound to have disputes. "The Co-operative Tribunal is, therefore, a critical pillar of support to the movement in the just and expeditious resolutions of disputes," Maraga said. The CJ said the transition of tribunals to the Judiciary had picked momentum and out of the over 60 tribunals in Kenya, 20 of them were operationally run from the Judiciary. Co-operatives PS Ali Noor Ismail welcomed the transition of the tribunal to the Judiciary and pledged his ministry support in the transition process. Anne Amadi, the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary, said that tribunals are a critical part of the justice system and that the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) is committed to a smooth transition of all the tribunals. The cooperative tribunal has an exclusive and unlimited geographical and pecuniary jurisdiction in co-operative disputes. Decisions of the tribunal can be appealed at the High court within 30 days of the ruling. The co-operative tribunal was first established in 1997 and domiciled in the ministry but opened doors to the public in 2002. In 2010, the Constitution of Kenya placed all tribunals under the Judiciary. A detailed list of individual cases has been posted on the Judiciary website www.judiciary.go.ke together with a daily cause list. 