The Kajiado Public Service Board has suspended its Clerk pending investigations on allegations of corruption under his watch. Clerk Daniel Konyango was suspended for three months on Thursday through a letter signed by Speaker Johnson Osoi. Konyango confirmed receipt of the document but dismissed the allegations as “flimsy issues that border tribalism”. “I have not done any wrong. The letter that has suspended me talks of flimsy issues of a car loan. As far as it is understood, I am on contract so I will earn gratuity per month for the period I will serve as Clerk," he said. "The committee of the board approved that I use my gratuity to cover part of the loan. That has raised a hell of a problem. I am ready to defend my innocence if given the chance in a fair hearing.” Reached for comment by phone, Osoi pointed at grave concerns about the conduct of the Clerk. He cited three issues that the board, which he chairs, considered before punishing him. “Konyango, as an accounting officer, committed his pay slip to take a car loan from the Assembly fund. That left his pay at negative Sh11,000. This is against government regulations,” he said. The Speaker noted that a government officer cannot commit his or her pay slip to a loan whose deductions leave less than a third of basic pay. “As an accounting officer, Konyango is supposed to enforce that policy and set a good example for those under him in matters regarding loans." The Speaker further said the Clerk breached a government policy by committing his pay slip without the approval of the board. “If he could take a loan that left his pay slip with a negative balance, how can he survive if he is not corrupt? He is yet to explain those issues to an ad hoc committee of the house and the tribunal. He has to explain how these things happened under his nose." The board also raised the allegation that Konyango paid Sh20,000 into his account as commuter allowances yet this amount is added to his salary. “ This is 'stealing by servant' because he did that without the knowledge of the board." The board further accused Konyango of paying himself the gratuity instead of releasing this to the Lapfund account as required by law. Osoi noted that every senior officer - including the President and DP, MPs and MCAs - receives the money at the end of service. The money, an equivalent of 31 per cent of one’s salary, is submitted to Lap Trust/ the county pension fund account and is released to officers at the end of their terms. “He broke rules of financial engagements of the Assembly because he is not supposed to receive that money until the end of his term in office,” Osoi said. Click here for the latest political news