Mike has every drink known to man in his cabinet, but I stick to red wine. I’m very tipsy. We sit on the sofa and I’m not sure what we talk about; I don’t remember. But I feel comfortable. I like his aura, this guy. He comes across as pretty solid and genuine. I’m weighing whether I should sleep with him or not. He’s a total stranger, I don’t know anything about him. As it turns out, the decision is not left to me. At one point he pulls my legs apart and starts to go down on me. I’m not wearing underwear. Should I stop this? He seems to know what he’s doing, so I decide to ride with it. The man has skills. It’s hard to explain, when you’re a woman, how impossible it is to find a man who is good at oral sex. When we give a man a blowjob, chances are, if you keep going, he’ll climax. There’s no special skill involved in blowing a man’s trumpet. But to satisfy a woman, it takes skill. At best, most guys will get you aroused, sort of like the serving up of entrees before the main course. However, finding a guy who will take you to actual orgasm with just his tongue, is rare. And here he is. I have found that man. It’s like he has a freaking PhD in oral sex. This guy did not make me come once. Or twice. I lost count after 8. He kept making a grunting noise. Like with every lick he needed validation. “Mmm?” he would groan. “Mmmmm???” as he licked harder and harder. “Yes, daddy, just like that,” I would respond because if I didn’t he would bite my clit. I was in heaven. I was in hell. I have never felt so out of control of my body. And just when I thought he could not possibly do anything more to make me lose my mind … He started eating out my backside. Yes. Bear with me, people. Getting your ass eaten out is… Different. Don’t dismiss this off hand because the first time I ever heard of it, I thought it was the grossest thing on earth. I’m still not at the point that I would return the favour, but when it’s happening to you? Well…! The first time this happens for a girl, she is not ready for it. You assume it’s an accident and he missed the mark but then he alternates between both entrances and you know he knows exactly what he’s doing. When you realise he is willingly placing his mouth where all manner of waste leaves your body, mixed emotions go through you. You want him to stop, then you process that it actually feels good, then you surrender to it all, feeling guilty, ashamed, and yet the most aroused you have ever been all your life. And it’s a thousand times worse for someone like me because I’m a hypochondriac. What does all this mean from a hygienic perspective? All this is going through your head in those brief seconds before you explode into a thousand pieces. Yes, the taboo of it all will make you reach orgasm immediately! Again and again and again. I don’t know how many times I came that night. All I know is that after he was done, he softly blew my clit, ostensibly to cool it down after what it had just gone through. I said it once, I’ll say it again, this man is unbelievable. When I left the club with him that night, it was to make Eric jealous. By the end of that amazing session, all I can say is... Eric who?