Plans to impeach Health CS Sicily Kariuki gained momentum yesterday as a number of members of the National Assembly signed the motion. By yesterday evening, at least 124 MPs, who were attending a post-election seminar in Mombasa, had signed the motion. The Constitution requires at least a third of the 349 members of the National Assembly to append their signatures to meet the threshold. Read: MPs plan to impeach CS Kariuki over Koros axing “We are progressing well and members from across the political dived have signed the petition. It will be the first matter the House will deal with when we resume sittings,” Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi told the Star yesterday in Mombasa. In the petition, the MPs have accused Kariuki of “abuse of office and cross violation of rules and regulations” Last week on Friday, Kariuki sent Kenyatta National Hospital CEO Lily Koros on compulsory leave following an incident where doctors at the hospital performed brain surgery on the wrong patient. Koros and an officer in charge of clinical affairs were sent home to pave way for investigations. But even as the MPs were signing the petition, the National Assembly’s committee on Health has said it will open an inquiry into the confusion at Kenyatta National Hospital. Read: Rift Valley leaders want KNH CEO Lily Koross reinstated, read malice Addressing a press conference at the sidelines of the just concluded seminar, committee chairman Sabina Chege and more than 12 members called on the MPs to give her committee a chance to investigate the matter before rushing to impeach the CS. She said her committee which will use one week to investigate the matter will invite the CS, suspended KNH CEO Lily Koros , the doctor who performed the surgery and the board among others to shed light on what transpired “We should not be quick to judge, let us allow investigations to take place after a week we will write a report and table it in Parliament. Colleagues should therefore give us a chance to investigate the matter,” Chege said at the press conference at Pride Inn Paradise, Mombasa. There is a blame game over the mix-up.The National Nurses Association of Kenya has asked doctors at the Kenyatta National Hospital to stop blaming nurses for the mess. More: KNH CEO Lily Koros sent on compulsory leave over brain surgery saga  Click here for the latest political news