The meeting of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the
National Super Alliance Chief Raila Odinga is great. It is great for this
country.  The dialogue is good for the nation to push peace, stability and
prosperity. It is good to ensure unity and bring people together for a common
agenda, irrespective of the tribe, gender and race. Since
Kenya faces many historical challenges, the closing of ranks between the Right
Honourable Raila Odinga and His Excellency Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta should
provide an opportunity to devise a bipartisan mechanism towards finding
solutions. Their
extreme antagonism does not serve any useful purpose.  Kenyans have gone
through hard times because of elections. All Kenyans should expect to see a bipartisan approach to the legislative and
constitutional audit and review to promote inclusion and dignify the
Opposition. All the issues raised must be addressed and the parties reach an
agreement. Concerns that promote ethnic toxicity should be brought on the table
to be dealt with in order to facilitate authentic national cohesion and
integration. We want to see Kenya growing, united and being prosperous. Together
we have a future.  When we remain divided as a country we won’t face
the problems facing us as a nation. We don’t want to see people lose lives
because of elections and politics. Informal agreements between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition
Chief Raila Odinga on how to engage should be progressed for a wider engagement. Kenyans should trust the two to manage processes and not put them
under pressure or seek to handhold them. They are leaders at a level of
influence that merits they be given space. Leave Uhuru and Raila to advance their discussions well so that they
can tackle each challenge facing us as a country. Undue preoccupation and
public contribution at this stage are not useful. Those with personal
interests should also keep off from the talks so that the two come up with what
is best for the country. Kenyans should not be involved for now. The dialogue provides a good time to address all the issues that
have been raised on both sides of the political divide. It provides a platform for the nation to grow and push its agenda as
a united nation.  The dialogues must also focus on the interests of
Kenyans. It is good for Kenya when leaders talk and agree. The writer is the NCCK General Secretary  Click here for the latest political news