WHERE has Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i gone to? His decision to take a low profile and his low-key public demeanour generally, have come to the attention of Kenyans who are used to his assertive way of doing things. Since he took over the Interior ministry in January, he has uncharacteristically gone slow, almost as if he misses demonstrations to crackdown on. Or perhaps it is the behind-the-scenes moves that led to the Harambee House handshake that have slowed down the minister. Well, it could be that the abrasive man is just taking time to learn the ropes in the ministry that deals with the security agencies. **** DEPUTY President William Ruto’s lieutenants and handlers are a happy lot. Reason? The DP is the main beneficiary of the truce deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. During the DP’s weekend visit to the Coast, some were overheard sharing notes on a list of possible politicians Ruto should have in his team of point-men in a region considered a NASA stronghold. Corridors have heard that the one that featured most prominently in the talk was vocal Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa. She had just finished talking at a church service in Voi, Taita Taveta county, where she promised to back Ruto's State House candidature in 2022. ***** ODM senators' plot to dethrone Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula as Senate Minority Leader has impressed Jubilee members in the House. Word has it that most Jubilee senators have been in a celebratory mood since last Thursday, crossing their fingers in the hope that the plan to oust the Bungoma Senator sails through. It is said the Jubilee senators have been unhappy with Wetang’ula's “vicious attack and insults” against President Uhuru and his administration while serving as the Minority leader since the last Parliament. He is also accused of being a stumbling block to efforts by a crucial committee to meet with the President. Our mole tells Corridors that Jubilee members are also worried that Wetang’ula could derail constructive debates in the House between them and their ODM colleagues following the exceptional truce between Uhuru and his would-be political nemesis, Raila Odinga. **** ARE influential businesspersons and political power brokers yearning for the verdict of Martha Karua’s petition against Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru’s polls victory? Well, a little bird whispers to Corridors that secret political alignments are taking shape within the county in the hope that the court will nullify the governor’s win. Word has it that new entrants in politics are re-inventing themselves as they wait for the outcome of the petition between Karua and Waiguru.