ODM chairman John Mbadi has asked other NASA affiliate parties not to frustrate President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga's efforts to unite the country. Mbadi said the opposition is willing to support Jubilee's Big Four agenda as they push for electoral reforms. He spoke when he moved a motion to support the Uhuru-Raila peace talks. "We are not ready to take blackmail. We committed to this course and no amount of blackmail will get us off the track," Mbadi said. Read New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Mbadi accused other opposition parties, namely, ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya of always attacking ODM for no reasons. "ODM is a party with no apologies once we make decisions. When Raila speaks all of us have spoken. ODM has decided it will not take any unnecessary blackmail from now," he said. Mbadi said Raila Odinga remains a key leader who shapes the political agenda in the country. He said the historic handshake between Uhuru and Raila last week will play a key role in addressing the worrying trends that bother all Kenyans. He said 2017 remains one of the hotly contested election that saw seeds of discord among Kenyans. "Opposition did not trust the election process and called for irreducible minimums. despite the calls, IEBC set a date but Nasa did not participate in the events characterized by violence and police brutality," Mbadi said. He said after Uhuru was sworn in as president, the move provoked NASA supporters to call the swearing in of Raila as the people's president. "It is from here that we want to address these divisions, ethnic hatred and fears. We must therefore support this initiative  for Kenya and Kenyans," he said. He said, "This is not about Raila. Uhuru was once in opposition, he gave a good cooperation which supported robust economic growth and all we are saying in this initiative is an all inclusive governance process is very  beneficial". He said following the meeting between the two leaders, the NASA coalition has suspended the peoples assembly to allow dialogue and support Uhuru Raila pact. "The  magical handshake renewed hope. It is a process we must embrace to foster development. It will bring a solution that compliment path of reforms and total democracy. Let us tone down our language and calm our emotions," he said. In supporting the motion Majority leader Aden Dulae said all MPs should accept the wisdom of the two leaders. Duale while chiding those bashing Raila said the motion is timely as it will spearhead talks on matters of growing economy, peace, stability and ethnic mobilisation. "This Mr speaker will kick start the process of reconciliation and thus we ask the NASA coalition partners not to blackmail ODM on this matter. Let us support this inclusively,' Duale said. Also read: Raila-Uhuru pact aims at finishing Kalonzo politically, says Mwingi West MP Senators also supported the motion saying the move will unite the country. Senate Deputy Minority Leader James Orengo, who moved the motion, asked t all leaders and Kenyans to support the initiative to restore the country to the right track of indivisible coexistence among citizens. “It is important to know where we have come from as every community that has sacrificed for this country because there is no single community that has sacrificed more than the other. We must think about people who lost their lives and how we engage in constructive discussion,” Orengo said. Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen noted that the rare-most meeting between Uhuru and Raila last Friday was not made possible by man but by God to cause a turnaround for Kenya. “The agreement between the two leaders was a win-win situation. Discussion we should have as a nation is do we have problems or issues that need to be resolved. Do we have ethnic division? It is time for all of us to come together and sit on the table and reason together,” Murkomen said. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator lauded Raila for making a “bold step” to meet Uhuru to forge proper direction for the country. “The spirit that pushed this country for unity and independence should come back. As Jubilee, we strongly support the relationship that has started. We should turn from politics of hate to politics of love,” Murkomen said. Minority leader and NASA co-principal Moses Wetang’ula threw the weight behind Raila-Uhuru pact and termed the two as “statesmen” wishing a better future for Kenya. The Bungoma Senator added that Kenyans have been eager for leaders to have national dialogue to end the unresolved political stalemate in the country by healing the gaps and rifts that emanated from last year’s divisive election season. “This initiative is not going to be easy and we must support it. We are from a political season where we have bruised each other and calling each other names. Not everybody will get what they want or what they expected but we should know that there is one country called Kenya,” Wetang’ula said.  Click here for the latest political news