Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga has said no amount of lobbying or pressure will force him to pick a deputy he does not want. Kahiga said many factors will have to be considered before picking a Deputy Governor. “I must pick someone who will be loyal and ready to work with me,” he said. Kahiga wants a professional with technical skills and qualified to hold the office. The Supreme Court allowed governors without deputies to pick them. Apart from Nyeri, Nairobi is the second county without a Deputy Governor. Kahiga has identified candidates who will be scrutinised before being given the job. “The choice and selection of deputy governor is a process, not an event.” GAKURU'S VISION Kahiga will involve county leaders, consider regional balance and pick someone who shares the vision of Wahome Gakuru, who was elected governor but died in a road accident, forcing Kahiga, who was his deputy, to take over. In November last year, Gakuru was involved in a road accident near Kabati on the Thika-Murang’a highway. Witnesses said the Governor was trapped in his Mercedes Benz for close to an hour before they pulled him and other occupants out of the car. Gakuru and his driver were rushed to a hospital in Thika. The driver reportedly fractured his legs after losing control of the vehicle and running through a rail. Kahiga assumed office following the death of Gakuru. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said the decision was backed by all leaders in the county. In a statement, he said this was after consultation with the national government. “The decision to swear-in DG Kahiga has been made despite the DG’s preference to wait until after the funeral.” Wambugu said the leaders were of the view that the county government must continue to function and deliver to the people of Nyeri. The MP said former Governor Amb Wamathai, who was sworn into office four days after Governor Nderitu Gachagua died in February last year, was also consulted The deputy governor asked Nyeri residents to remain hopeful that things will be fine, considering the county lost two sitting governors in a year. The deputy governor said he will serve Nyeri residents with dedication and that he will not seek to enrich himself with county resources. “In our acceptance speech, Dr Gakuru spoke of his vision for Nyeri. That is the same message I want to give,” he said. INTERESTS Those eyeing the Nyeri Deputy Governor seat include former governor Samuel Wamathai, Athi Water Services Board chairman Wachira Keen and former Woman Rep Priscilla Nyokabi. Others include businessman Cocorico Githinji, Dr Stephen Gachie from Mukurweini and National Cohesion and Integration Commission vice-chairperson Irene Njeri. Click here for the latest political news