The IEBC has criticised audit firm KPMG for rushing to dismiss its election technology. The commission told the Senate Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights committee that KPMG refused to wait for the importation of two new tamper-proof servers used during the August 8 General Election. It said the firm misled Kenyans by relying on faulty and non-operational equipment. Commissioner Abdi Guliye said after the release of the KPMG report, which faulted the commission’s ability to conduct the polls, new advanced systems were installed and tested. “We advised KPMG to delay until the equipment were deployed. They referred to the then existing infrastructure that was used in 2013. This infrastructure dramatically changed in 2017, a fact that was not captured by KPMG,” he said. The KPMG report said voter register was at risk of manipulation and data loss. Read : Judge orders scrutiny of Forms 37A and KIEMs kits on December 5, votes recount Guliye was accompanied by chairman Wafula Chebukati and CEO Ezra Chiloba. “By the time they were concluding this report, there were two servers that were overseas. These things were purchased from Ireland and were on the high seas coming to be installed and commissioned,” he said. “The landscape changed and we have deployed new servers. As we speak, we have invested in primary and secondary data sites. These investments became operationalised after the report was concluded”. Guliye said the commission acquired adequate security systems and deployed myriads of security systems for detecting intrusion and unwarranted access. He said they employed personnel to guard the systems, and claims raised by a section of NASA leaders were non-factual. “There is nothing factual that the systems were infiltrated. For us, preparations were adequate,” Guliye said. Also read : IEBC inflated kit maintenance tender threefold, auditor report Chiloba said: “The audit procurement was competitive. The KPMG report cost Sh160 million. Earnest and Young company was charging Sh140 million but they did not qualify”. Click here for the latest political news 