President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga’s meeting has drawn mixed reaction from Kisumu residents. Some expressed joy while others said they were disappointed by the deal. Taxi driver Charles Okuta said there was still fear and tension after last year’s General Election. He said the economy has been suffering and only the meeting can help the country move forward. “I believe the meeting was for the good of Raila. He hashis supporters and the country at heart and he would not do anything to jeopardise this,” he said. Read: Moses Kuria, Nakuru's Lee Kinyanjui welcome Uhuru-Raila pact Boutique owner Peter Mwangiwas happy that tension has come to an end and they would do business freelly. He said business has never been the same following the disputes, tenson and violence. He said he himself had been a victim. “We can continue with our lives and businesses without having to look over our shoulders or being worried about what might happen next,” he said. Read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say SHOULD HAVE CONSULTED Business woman Biliah Adhiambo was disappointed, saying it was too late for Raila to meet with President Uhuru after all that has been witnessed under the Jubilee government. “Raila cannot be part of the looting that has been going on in  Jubilee. The country for instance is heavily in debt and the Treasury has no money. People were brutally murdered with most yet to get justice.  How will such reconciliation change this? “ Adhiambo asked. She said Raila should have talked to his people first, not surprising them with such decisions. “Some of us still do not know the things the two leaders agreed upon, apart from coming together and uniting the country,” she added. Muhoroni MP Onyango Oyoo, however ,said the matter should not be politicised because the meetingwas not in bad faith but  purely to address issues affecting Kenyans. Oyoo said Raila and President Uhuru command numerous followers and if they come together, it is to unite Kenyans who have been divided along ethnic lines. Read: Atwoli asks NASA backers to accept Uhuru-Raila reconciliation deal “I want to urge all leaders who have a similar ideology as the two to help unite the nation for the sake of development,”  he said. In a rare show of unity on Friday, Uhuru and Raila Odinga told Kenyans they had set their differences aside and would work to unite the public. The two met at the Harambee House office of the President before addressing the press. They did not outline stratgies or answer questions. Raila, who wasthe  first to speak, noted ethnic division would come to an end “today” and said he and his “brother”  will bridge theg gap. Kenya has faced tumultuous times since the disputed August 8, 2017, presidential election. The Supreme Court overturned Uhuru’s victory and a rerun was held on October 26.  Raila did not participate. He and his supporters have said they do not recognise Uhuru as legitimately elected. He said they resolved to end animosity.  Click here for the latest political news  