Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on Monday called on members of Parliaments worldwide to spearhead migrant and refugee reforms in their countries. Speaking at the 138th Inter-parliamentary Union (IPU) General Assembly attended by 751 MPs, he said this will be a way to help countries deal with the said reforms. The speaker told the Assembly that the positive contributions of refugees and migrants across the world ought to provide motivation to promote deliberate sustainable integration. "I urge you all to be key drivers that support and facilitate adoption of well-researched policies which incorporate migrants and refugee rights in our society for growth." The Speaker had on Sunday put UNHCR High Commissioner Fillipo Grandi to task over the agency’s support to countries that play host to huge numbers of refugees. He made the remarks at the Governing Council of the Inter-parliamentary Union (IPU) in Geneva, Switzerland. Kenya hosts thousands of refugees at Daadab and Kakuma camps - deemed some of the largest and oldest refugee camps in the world. The country continues to host almost half a million refugees and its borders remain open to people fleeing war. "The UNHCR should assist countries with limited resources that host refugees. What we need to look at now is how the UN refugee agency can increase support, to countries such as Kenya, to help cope with the increased burden that comes with playing host to such high numbers of refugees," Lusaka said. In 2013, Kenya, Somalia and UNHCR signed a Tripartite Agreement to help Somali refugees from Daadab begin voluntarily returning home to nine designated areas in South Central regions and in Puntland and Somaliland that are deemed relatively safe. In 2017, over 35,000 refugees from Daadab refugee camp moved back to Somalia under UNHCR’s voluntary repatriation programme, while over 18,000 had registered to leave. Since December 2014, over 73,000 refugees from Daadab have returned voluntarily to Somalia. Also read: What the future holds for Dadaab, the world's largest refugee camp Click here for the latest political news 