Chemelil Sugar have emerged as the unlikeliest of title contenders after there come from behind 4-1 crushing of cash-strapped Nakumatt pushed them to second in the Kenyan Premier League table. Both sides, like many other teams in the top flight league, face untold financial challenges but that’s how far their similarities go. Their results on the pitch have been different like night and day and yesterday’s outcome in Machakos confirmed that. Nakumatt who are yet to win a match this season but went into yesterday’s clash with a four-match unbeaten streak struck first with Brian Nyakan finishing off a move orchestrated by Noah Abich. That moment was the last Nakumatt would savour in the remainder of the tie as Chemelil took the game by the scruff of the neck. Philip Wanjala leveled matters for the visitors after good work from his partner, Collins Neto, twelve minutes before the break. Wanjala then put his side ahead in the 50th minute to leave Nakumatt with an uphill task in their quest for a first league win. An own goal nine minutes later from Abich put the result of the afternoon clash beyond doubt but the tie would not end before Wanjala completed his hat-trick to become the fourth player to do so this season after Gor Mahias Medie kagere,Nzoia Uniteds Elvis Rupia and Kariobangi Sharks Eric Kapaito. The result moved Chemelil above Mathare United on goal difference with both sides on 11 points. Mathare’s unbeaten start to the campaign was ended by AFC Leopards by the odd goal in a seven goal thriller. Unbelievably, Mathare looked odds on favorites to win the match after taking a 3-1 lead going into the break. Clifford Nyakenya had given the Slum Boys an early lead that was erased by Brian Masita’s strike. Francis Omondis penalty and another Nyakenya goal seemingly put the game beyond doubt. Leopards, however, launched the greatest comeback in the recent history of Kenyan football. Skipper Duncan Otieno led from the front by halving the deficit soon after the break with a trademark piled-river. Bereaved Ezekiel Odera put his sorrow aside to level matters setting the stage for Marvin Omondi to complete the turnaround for Leopards who are now on 10 points with a game in hand.