East African Community CS Peter Munya has warned politicians against fuelling boundary disputes. He said on Sunday that politicians are to blame for many intercommunity conflicts, which they use for selfish gain. Munya said the best way to tackle border disputes is to educate the public. He warned politicians against inciting residents over boundary issues. “Politicians use boundaries as a campaign tool to get to power. Part of the problem is that citizens are not aware of where the boundaries are. Boundaries are gazetted in line with the Constitution,” he said during the opening of the retreat of the Senate Committee on National Cohesion, Equal Opportunity and Regional Integration in Mombasa. Once citizens are aware of their boundaries and how they can be changed, they will not be easily incited by politicians to fight other communities, he said. “To change boundaries, you need a referendum. So,we leaders must stop  using them for politics,” Munya said. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua said most leaders do not address the root causes of conflict and instead focus on public relations stunts. “Boundary disputes will not be solved by photo opportunities,” he said. “We have to confront the real issues underlying the disputes.” Implementation of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation report, which is in Parliament, will help solve most disputes, Wambua said. Nominated Senator Judith Pareno said the County Boundaries Bill, 2017, would help solve many problems if passed into law. The bill is currently being debated in the Senate. Council of Governors chairperson Josphat Nanok said they have established a peace committee of 10 governors to solve disputes and help promote national cohesion. About 30 counties have boundary disputes and the County Boundaries Bill will help solve some of these disputes, he said. “We look at issues that bring conflicts within the counties and between the counties. Some of these issues are going to be short-term, medium-term and long-term. We’ll  minimise the effects of conflicts over resources and politics in every election period,” Nanok said. The CoG will partner with the national government to roll out the programme, he said. He also urged that the TJRC report be implemented. Pareno urged the IEBC and the National Land Commission to help fix some of the problems. But Nanok cautioned that the two commissions can only tackle constituency and ward boundaries.