The disagreement between Deputy
President William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, which has been alive
since 2009, has never been about the importance of conserving the Mau forest. Rather,
their difference centres on the place of communities in forest ecosystems such
as the Mau. Theirs is an ideological difference that typifies different
conservation models, and an important site for national consensus, if the urgency
of securing this ecological landscape is to be realised. Hegemonic discourses shape the
outlooks of many groups and actors about how environmental protection or other
policy imperatives are to be achieved. These powerful ideologies may be viewed
to exclude some ideas and explanations on the interaction between people and
their natural resources. The fortress conservation model, which Kenya has
pursued since colonial times, and now still embodied in our forestry laws and
policies, is one such hegemonic discourse. In contrast, participatory
conservation models, common to Africa before colonial incursion and retained by
several African countries, which allowed communities to provide stewardship
over common pool resources, have been supplanted. Fortress conservation discourse
seeks to create, secure and reserve wide swathes of wildernesses for the
exclusive flourishing of flora and fauna, seeing human and communities’
interaction with such spaces as incompatible with conservation. This model
assumes that local people use natural resources in irrational and destructive
ways, and, as such, cause biodiversity loss, including environmental
degradation. Using fines and fences to keep out communities and deploying park
rangers to police the boundaries of conservation areas, this model enforces an
extremely bureaucratic conservation framework. This approach, responsible for
curving out large areas of land into protected areas, also allows licensing of
logging activities by forestry authorities. However, this does not necessarily
protect the forests so reserved. Instead, a logging frenzy has been witnessed
over the years, with individuals and companies with no stake in forest
stewardship benefiting from logging licenses. Under the above model, local
communities’ interaction with their forests becomes criminalised, while other
licensees external to the community benefit economically from forest resources,
as a result, local communities become hostile to such conservation effort.
Without adequate capacity to control large swathes of conservation areas and the
absence of local community support, thanks to their alienation, the state is
unable to guarantee forest sustainability. Therefore, while PM Raila,
perhaps from a well-intentioned perspective of the fortress conservation model,
in seeking to enforce the findings of the Mau Task Force Report, had no
difficulty in directing the forced and inhumane removal of communities from the
Mau, Ruto, came to the defence of the communities. Although Raila saw such
eviction as the condition precedent to the realisation of the worthy goal of
conservation, Ruto’s view was different. He saw communities as integral
partners in the conservation process, and their eviction to be counterproductive,
not least because such poor communities lacking a stake would perpetrate even
greater degradation on the fringes of the forest reserve. Instead, Ruto sought the
recognition of titles issued by previous governments to local communities on
the peripheries of the Mau as an important strategy towards conservation of the
same. In his view, any eviction not proceeded by adequate compensation or
relocation to land of equal value would propagate communal hostility towards
the forest and consequently undermine long-term goals of conservation. Unfortunately, since the
differing of contestations take place within charged political contexts, no
coherent policy on the matter has emerged. In the meantime, eclectic approaches
towards conservation continue to be witnessed, with communities still
considered non-essential stakeholders in the conservation matrix, be it in the
Mau, Cherangani or Mt Kenya. It is no longer feasible for
the country to take for granted that current conservation models will hold our
natural resources safe for this and future generations. The recognition that
some of the reserved forest fortresses are nothing but ‘paper parks’; its
resources having been pillaged and plundered through dubious licensing by forest
authorities and their collaborators, is necessary. In the face of such a realisation,
Kenya requires a policy and pragmatic rethink, rather than continue the blame
game, while our forest cover continues to vanish and our water sources
dramatically diminished. The world’s largest reforestation effort in history is
currently underway, and Kenya too should seize the moment. In Brazil’s
Amazonian forest, 73 million trees will be restored, targeting 12 million
hectares of land by 2030, while India planted 66 million trees in 12 hours as
part of its ambitious campaign to raise national forest cover to five per cent
by 2030. With the right implementation framework, Kenya can do just as well, if
not better!  Sing’Oei is the legal adviser, Executive Office of the DP. These views are personal to the author and not
representative of the office he holds 