The High Court yesterday nullified Babu Owino’s election as the Embakasi East Member of Parliament. Justice Joseph Sergon said the election was not conducted in a free and fair manner. “In an election, it is not just about who got more number of votes, an election is a process,” he said. Delivering the verdict, he said there were malpractices and violence witnessed during the voting process. “The petitioner proved that during voting it was adjourned and police officers had to be called to restore calm,” Sergon said. Babu’s election was challenged by Jubilee opponent Francis Mureithi after losing in the August 8 election. The judge noted the testimony of the returning officer, who admitted he announced the results after being intimidated by Babu. He also noted several polling stations had irregularities. The IEBC also admitted to the results being altered. The judge ordered Babu to pay Sh5 million in costs to the IEBC and Mureithi. Mureithi’s main argument was there were various sets of results contained in the forms. He said the forms were not legible, making it difficult to determine whether the results in Forms 35A corresponded with those in Form 35B. Mureithi said he was happy with the court’s verdict. “However, if the party has an alternative person to vie in the repeat election, I will equally comply with whatever decision Jubilee makes,” he said. Babu protested against the judgment, saying that after the High Court ordered a vote scrutiny of all the polling stations in Embakasi East, he was still ahead of Mureithi after the recount. Babu claimed President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto had a hand in the court nullifying his election. “The whole nation knows that this is a war between the President and Deputy President versus Babu. It is sad that the government is controlling the Judiciary,” he said. Read:[VIDEO] Babu Owino accuses UhuRuto of influencing court case Babu said no one can destroy him “even If either Uhuru or Ruto decide to vie against me in Embakasi East, I will beat them”. Speaking after the Court ruling, Babu Also Read:High Court nullifies Babu Owino election over irregularities Click here for the latest political news