A run of four wins on the trot has put AFC Leopards firmly in contention for the Kenyan Premier League title. Three former champions Sony Sugar, Mathare United and Ulinzi Stars have been victims of Ingwe, and after the last minute victory over Kakamega Homeboyz coming hot on the heels of a similarly late victory over Wazito, Leopards have shown they are well equipped to face any challenges. “I am happy with the improving attitude of the players. They remained focused until the very last minute and that is a trait I want them to maintain in the coming months,” said Leopards stand in coach Dennis Kitambi, who will in all likelihood be confirmed as coach after the international break. Leopards, who have played a game more, are second on the league table with 16 points behind Gor Mahia on goal difference. Bandari who have shown a remarkable resilience in their away matches, a trait that has let them down in their past championship pursuits. On Saturday, they pipped Vihiga United 1-0 courtesy of a David Kingatua thunder bolt. That victory cemented their hold of third place with 14 points same as Mathare United, who claimed a 2-1 victory away at Sony Sugar. Sofapaka’s thrilling 5-4 victory over Tusker left them in fifth place with 13 points and coach Sam Ssibwa was optimistic. “Conceding four goals is not ideal but I am happy we managed to get the win. If we continue like this and maybe go five matches unbeaten, then we can start thinking of fighting for the league title,” Ssibwa remarked. His compatriot, a former Sofapaka coach Sam Timbe on the other hand, must contend with an unlikely scenario of his Tusker side engaging in a relegation scrap. The brewers have six points from seven matches and lie 14th with two points above the drop zone. The biggest winner this weekend was Nzoia United, who moved off from the bottom of the table to 13th place in one fell swoop. Nzoia came from behind to see off Zoo Kericho 2-1. The match was not without controversy though as Elvis Rupia was reportedly sent off for a second bookable offence, only for the referee to walk back on his decision allegedly after consulting his assistant. That illegal move was a God sent for the Nzoia and catastrophic for the visitors as Rupia went on to net the stoppage time winner that left Zoo at the foot of the table with four points. Alongside them in the dreaded zone are Vihiga and Thika United, the only two sides yet to register a win in the league so far.