  In the run up to the last General Election, negotiated
democracy was synonymous with the politics of Northeastern.  Generally, the residents of this part of the
country resort to elders in resolving most of their disputes. It is often said
real men are the old and real words are those they pronounce. This men hold an
important position in community decision and at a tender age, you will often be
warned that the person who does not listen to elders advise gets his leg broken. Months to the polls, virtually every Somali clan or sub-clan
started reviving long forgotten titles. The sultanate, for that matter, was
reborn to whip the communities together. These men of wisdom will tell you if
people come together they can even mend a crack in the sky. In Garissa, Governor Ali Korane was a beneficiary of clan endorsement.
Together with Majority leader Aden Duale and the Balambala MP
Abdi Shurie, the Abduwak sub-clan were able to bag three crucial
seats. Mandera Governor Ali Roba is the prominent general to
triumph over negotiated democracy. In 2013 he was little known and was a
product of the same system he defied. In unclear circumstances, the Garre council of elders
dropped all the elected leaders from their community in the famous Banisa Declaration.
Those sympathetic to Roba cried foul and vowed to stand with him. The elders
were accused of being compromised and corrupt. In the end, the governor consolidated his political base and
formed alliances with other clans to win this coveted seat. Critics will argue
that he rigged himself in and is a product of a flawed election. However, the
courts upheld his win and until they determine otherwise, I think he is a
general winning against negotiated democracy. In my county of Wajir , Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud was
also product of negotiated democracy . At first, he was dropped by the
sultanate. Later, he manoeuvred his way out and elbowed his kinsman Ugas
Sheikh, who was the initial nominee. He went further to form an alliance with
other clans to win the seat with a large margin. Tarbaj consistuency, the genesis of this article, is
inhibited by the Fai sub-clan of the larger Degodia clan. The first time MP is
my elder brother and I was actively involved in his campaigns. The community
was at first confused and did not stick to its initial decision. There was
first and second verdict. In my constituency, Jubilee nominee Idris Dubow, who was our
opponent, was also a product of the first verdict. He capitalised on this all
important clan endorsement and made it his number one campaign tool. In every rally,
he would root for the system and discredit those who defied it, more so the MP.
Surprisingly in 2013, he rebelled against the same system and  performed 
dismally. On the other hand, the MP engaged the voters directly and
brought all candidates who were anti the elders' declaration on board. The consistency has four wards
and all the then sitting MCAs were dropped. While defending
their respective seats, they were able to boast our campaigns. They put in a spirited fight and formed a team
of those left out by the elders in this process. Collectively, they all campaigned for
the same governor but fought their own wars. Today, out of the four wards in
the  constituency, only one is a product of negotiated democracy. The rest defied the system,
including the current Majority leader. In negotiated democracy, during consensus building, the
majority of Somalis being Muslims believe in the powers of Al-Fatiha, the first
chapter in the Koran. Its seven verses are prayer for guidance, lordship and
mercy. The candidate being prevailed upon to withdraw is showered with the
blessings of this important Surah. Its believed the Almighty will open up other
avenues  for him. In ideal circumstances, where there is fairness and justice
all parties benefit.  In the event there
is other ulterior  motive and injustice
culminating in Fatiha, that wont work because God is never a witness to an injustice and there is a popular Somali saying: " A broken tradition
angers God." It was the duty of the elders to be just to all. Long ago, these men used to be free from any form of influence but in our case during these negotiations,that was not the case. We put our
faith on the  elders and the religious
leaders, we presented our candidature and paid the requisite application fee. Midway the system was hijacked. Self-interests superseded those of the community, friendship over fairness and predetermined
decisions over consultations. It was unfair from the start. Candidates developed a high degree of patience and in the end, though tough, they emerged the winners, albeit with small margins.  The writer comments on social-political issues and can be
reached at gaalyare@yahoo.com                         