The NCIC is investigating a new Kikuyu song known as 'Ikamba' for alleged insults against members of the Kamba community. Artistes Isaiah and Waharaka eat mangoes at the start of the song, an action some say is a mockery of the people of Ukambani. The duo ask what the Kamba community will eat now that the mango season is over - they suggest that Kambas will now feed on dogs and wild birds such as parrots. The song is said to be offensive and distasteful and to castigate Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu. It has footage of the burning of a Toyota Probox in Mwingi last week. Reports indicated residents torched it as the drivers were ferrying charcoal but some said the vehicle burst into flames without people's involvement. Ngilu has banned charcoal trade in the county over effects on the environment. Francis ole Kaparo, chairman of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, told the Star on Monday that its officers were looking into the content of the song. "The matter is seriously being investigated by both the NCIC and the CID. I expect feedback shortly. In the meantime, I appeal for calm and urge all Kenyans to avoid irresponsible and reckless incitements." The song's objective, the commission says, is to mock one community and deride its members over the ongoing charcoal ban in Ukambani. Read: Kaparo summons Ngilu after charcoal utterances Kaparo's sentiments were echoed by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr who said the song insults the Kamba community. "My office will lodge an official complaint with the Director of Public Prosecution and the NCIC," Mutula said. He asked the public not to circulate the video as this gives it unnecessary credibility. "In the fullness of time, the two will face the music," he added. Kenya Film Classification Board CEO Ezekiel Mutua also condemned the song saying the two musicians must be prosecuted. "The song is in bad taste as it generalises the acts of a few individuals to malign and deride a whole community in the most foul language. It’s a primitive piece of art that contravenes the provisions of Article 33 of the Constitution on Freedom of Expression. It amounts to incitement to violence and hate speech," he said on Sunday. There was uproar on social media on Sunday after the song was posted on YouTube, garnering at least 50,000 views in a short while. Also read: Kitui charcoal ban: Kalonzo defends Ngilu in incitement probe Click here for the latest political news