There is a general feeling, across Kenya's many political divides —along party,
ethnic, regional, wealth and intellectual lines — that all is not well with the
kind of governments we have been having since Independence. Kenyans are generally angry that in
spite of the enormous natural and human resources we have, we are not moving as
fast in development as other less-endowed countries around us, such as Rwanda,
which seems to be making much more progress in much shorter time. Quite often
this conversation ends up in blaming "politicians for our mess." But
politicians do not fall like manna from heaven. They are unfortunately "elected"
by the people, even when we see these elections as defective, manipulated,
unfair and quite often ineffectual in fundamentally changing our predicament.
So, simply blaming politicians does not take us far. We need to analyse,
diagnose and look deeply into these governments to see what is common in all of
them that may explain why they have not fundamentally changed our lives for the
better has happened, for example, in South Korea and Malaysia for that matter.
We also need to dispassionately look into our own political culture and
behaviour to expose the essential traitor within ourselves.
On Wednesday this week, two articles appeared in two
of our daily newspapers that need to be read by any Kenyan interested in
finding out what has been going wrong in the way we are governed, and what we
need to do to rectify the situation. 
In this newspaper, Yash Ghai wrote an article entitled "Out goes the
Executive President, in comes the Prime Minister: What does it all mean?"
In the Daily Nation, on that same day, Wachira Maina, in the series on
"Which Way Democracy in Africa" he has been contributing to for the
past couple of days, wrote an article entitled "Zuma, Mugabe and Desalegn
may be gone but democracy in Africa is far from mature." If we are to usefully contribute to the
current debate on what type of political system (emphasis on the concept
SYSTEM) we need in Kenya to develop towards "a more perfect nation"
in terms of a legitimate and stable national democratic and developmental
state, then we need to read these two articles as a useful beginning, as well
as foundation, to this useful discourse.
The gist of these two articles actually comes in their concluding paragraphs. Wachira
writes:
"Thanks to South Africa's parliamentary presidency (in other words the
political system in South Africa is 'a parliamentary presidency'), the President
is elected by Parliament and so by the party with the largest number of MPs. As
a result, the ANC was able to oust Zuma before his escalating difficulties could
irreparably damage its chances for 2019."
Maina then continues: "In all the three cases then, the power elite got
rid of the leader to preserve itself but with this difference: In South Africa,
the ANC had to credibly recommit to democracy and honest government to avoid an
electoral catastrophe in 2019. In Ethiopia and Zimbabwe, the incumbents had
become a threat to elite control of the State. The changes in South Africa are
likely to help reclaim its democracy. But those in Zimbabwe and Ethiopia will not."
Now keep what Maina has said in mind while we move to Ghai's equally poignant
concluding remarks. But please remember the essence of Maina's argument: Not
much change is likely to come in Zimbabwe and Ethiopia because the systems are
likely to remain essentially authoritarian since the changes at the top will
essentially amount to THE CHANGES OF THE GUARDS. In South Africa, however, the
"parliamentary presidency" has an in-built system that cannot allow
the ANC elite, if it has to remain in power, to abuse democracy with abandon.
Sooner rather than later, it will lose the parliamentary majority that makes it
possible for it to elect the President in Parliament.
In his concluding remark Ghai says: "I am not suggesting our Constitution
cannot be improved, indeed I believe a review by a truly specialist group would
help. I would very much like to see a parliamentary SYSTEM over an executive. I
do, however, want to warn that even desirable constitutional change without
commitment to implement and enforce that change and its implications will leave
us no better off. Our real problem now is with people and our culture of greed
and exploitation, not with our fundamental document. I am worried that a change
of the Constitution through Parliament will go through without the people
understanding what is happening. Let the impetus come from the people."
And the impetus should, indeed, come from the people because even the present Constitution
lays emphasis on public participation  and popular consent to every law or
policy we make. The only problem is that quite often we implement this cardinal
requirement simply in form and not in content to make a mockery of it and to
achieve the short-term interest of the political elite.
But let us assume, for the moment, that most Kenyans are generally agreed the
parliamentary system is a better democratic system for safeguarding the
democratic gains in our current Constitution. Where, then, do we go from here?
First, we must identify the major MISCHIEF in our Constitution. And this
mischief is again now clear to most Kenyans — the preservation of the
AUTHORITARIAN AND IMPERIAL PRESIDENCY as the centre of Executive power where
other institutions of governance have been radically democratised. The Judiciary,
for example, is currently struggling to defend this democratic
constitutionalism under very heavy attack from the imperial and authoritarian
presidency.
Ghai observes: "The Constitution of Kenya Review Commission proposed a
parliamentary system...The Committee of Experts endorsed the CKRC/Bomas
parliamentary position, but, surprisingly, when the Parliamentary Select
Committee got its hands on the CoE draft, representatives of all parties
restored the executive presidency in the 2010 Constitution!"
Which means if we again trust the changes that we need in the Constitution to
Parliament, we shall again get another mongrel of a law: Democratic enough to
allow for the existence, on paper, of very sound democratic principles of
government but authoritarian enough to allow for the executive presidency to
run roughshod on these principles!
Writing a book on the making of the American Constitution in 1787-1788, Richard
Beeman speaks of "Plain Honest Men", who scathingly questioned all
the tenets of that constitution and consistently — and at times painstakingly —
strove to arrive at formulations that would make it possible for all the states
coming together to form the US to have a really "perfect union." In
the end the original US Constitution still had major loopholes in creating a
democratic society. But our concern, at the moment, is the role that honest and
informed public debate, led by "plain honest men", played in the
process of making that constitution. For those interested in further reading,
the book, it is called "Plain,
Honest Men: The Making of the American Constitution" published by
Random House in New York.
I dare say that the Committee of Experts that prescribed the Parliamentary
system involved plain honest men and women, who did not see themselves as
personally benefitting from the subsequent political dispensation the new Constitution
would provide. They were very much aware of the terrible history Kenya had gone
through under the imperial presidency. They were determined to get rid of this
mischief. When the Experts' draft was subjected to parliamentarians for final
scrutiny and semi final approval in Naivasha, little attention was paid to this
terrible history and more focus was given to bargaining for elite positions
that always goes on under the imperial presidency in the name of democracy,
very often ignoring and neglecting the basic interests of the people. We must not
commit this mistake again.
I believe we have a good number of plain honest men and women who can come
together, voluntarily of course, and begin deliberately discussing the changes
that we need in our Constitution to build a more perfect national democratic
and developmental republic in Kenya. Whenever I open the newspapers and read
commentaries and opinions from people such as Ghai, Wachira, Father Gabriel Dolan,
Phillip Ochieng', David Ndii, Charles Onyango-Obbo, Daudi Mwenda, Maina Kiai,
Barrack Muluka, Macharia Gaitho, Koigi wa Wamwere and many others, I realise
that we have a community of plain honest people, who can help give us a
parliamentary system of government. I am prepared to offer a venue for retreat
and discussion in Kisumu. Let us not leave this matter to chance. The future of
this country is in our hands. 