A s we recently witnessed with Eric Omondi, in comedy, anything is possible and nothing is off-limits. Expect our comedians to do anything just to leave their audience crying with laughter or shrinking in discomfort due to the absurdities caused. Just like everybody else, they are just trying to earn a living through their endless antics. Timothy Kimani, better known as Njuguna or Njugush, now understands the business better than he did at the outset of his career. Long gone are the days when comedy was limited to TV and radio shows or live performances on stage in front of an audience. No, the craft has evolved and assured humorists of incessant avenues and forms that they can utilise to display their innovative high jinks. Njugush first caught our interest when he starred in the mockumentary Real Househelps of Kawangware and the comedy news show Hapa Kule. It was in these two shows that we got to appreciate his outrageous and amusing personality. He’s since moved from that to embracing his brand and doing his comedy on social sites and platforms. The funnyman owes his physical appearance for burgeoning his career. Njuguna is a funny-looking lad first before he is a comedian; he’s become a meme more times than we can recall. His humour is not sophisticated but effective. Most of his works take the form of general conversations on current issues, with Njuguna acting the incompetent character. It was just a couple of years ago when Njugush hit upon the idea of making videos for his sizeable social media followers. Now, it’s almost expected that you’ll certainly come across his childlike mix of timidness and inability to comprehend things as soon as you go online. This way he is able to decide what works best for him, unlike limiting TV shows. Today, after a series of such videos, Njugush can brag of being one of the top comedians in the country. By simply being “his half-witted self,” he has become an online sensation and everybody’s favourite. Now, he ought to find his way back to a major TV role pretty soon. 