Environmentalists are up in arms against a proposed new road on the edge and inside the Nairobi National Park. A stakeholders’ forum called on behalf of Kenya Railways by Environment Management Consultancy held at Kenya Wildlife Servic on Friday received disapproval from the public.  REDUCING CONGESTION The proposed road will run from Nairobi Inland Container Deport, altering the park boundaries on the east and join the Southern Bypass near Wilson airport. Vincent Odour from EMC made his presentation, saying the 4.1km road will only take up 27 acres of the park. The development will alter the boundaries of the park, which needs parliamentary approval. However, the consultant was quiet on whether they will seek the approvals as required by law. He said the road is crucial to enhance transportation of goods between the deport to the existing road network. “Reduce traffic congestion on existing road, thus reducing vehicular pollution and improving the general health of the population,” Odour said. He added that KR aims to expand the ICD yard in Embakasi to the road network. Participants raised issues on why the road was not planned when the SGR and Sourthern bypasses were being aligned and why the public consultation was taking place whereas the route the road is to take has already been marked and clearance is ongoing. “What we are seeing is total disgust. Development shouldn’t come at the expense of our heritage,” David Mascall said. Jacob Tukai added, “The argument that having development inside the park is more cheaper than acquiring land from private holders is false because our park is priceless, not valueless.”  PROJECT REJECTED The environmentalists said they are not against infrastructure development, but having the development inside the park is unsustainable. “We reject this project and hope the so-called public participation is not being conducted against decisions already made,” Paras Chandaria said. The park will be 72 years old this year. It was gazetted as a seasonal park in December 1946, making it the oldest in East Africa. It is the only metropolitan park in the world making Nairobi a world Safari capital.  The park’s acreage was intact, with the animals confined in 117.21 square kilometres until 2014, when the Nairobi Southern bypass and the SGR Phase I projects started eating into the park, chopping off about 300 acres. The bypass that runs between Ole Sereni Hotel from Mombasa Road to Lang’ata Road decimated 89 acres, whereas the SGR Phase 1 cutoff 200 acres.  HOME TO LIONS, RHINOS Phase 1A of SGR had to dig deep in the park near Mlolongo after a deal was struck to save Alan Donovan’s African Heritage House in July 2015. The Nairobi National Park is covered mostly by open grassland and bush, with a small amount of forest. It hosts many grey rhinos, zebra, buffalo, antelope, lions and extensive bird life. According to a December 2016 gazette notice by the National Land Commission, Phase 2A of the SGR will eat up 100 acres of the park land. However, KWS maintains only 0.5 acres of the park land will be hived off by the SGR Phase 2A. It argues that the line will run on pillars throughout the stretch in the park. In the 1990s, the park extended to Kajiado, with clear migration corridors to Amboseli and Namanga through the Athi Kapiti plains. The coming of the Athi River Export Processing Zones sealed off the migratory routes, while unplanned developments sprung up in Kitengela and Rongai. This is not the only intrusions in the park. The Kenya Electricity Transmission Company erected gigantic electricity pylons inside the park, now shining across 8km along the eastern boundary. The Kenya Pipeline Company has also installed its main transmission pipeline across the park from the southern tip to the northern boundary of the protected area.