An environmental committee wants ethanol distilling suspended at Kibos Sugar and Allied Industries Limited in Kisumu over improper handling of effluent. The National Environmental Complaints Committee has directed Nema to decommission the plant within 14 days. NECC secretary John Chumo told Nema officer Osiemo Naira to issue an order to the company and copy it to the county government and security agencies for implementation. The committee and Environment executive Simon Orimba toured the firm on Wednesday after complaints of pollution by residents. They found environmental rules were breached while setting up the lagoon for holding waste material. “It was not built properly and is likely to contaminate rivers and boreholes when it rains. Residents’ lives are at risk,” Chumo said. Chumo took owner Raju Singh to task to explain why the lagoon was being used, yet it does not meet the standards. “This is not the first time residents, ministry or environmental agencies are complaining about pollution of rivers draining into Lake Victoria,” he said. Orimba said they are not against the investors, but firms in Kisumu must follow rules. “We are monitoring companies that discharge effluent into rivers and the lake. Stern action will be taken against them,” he said. Residents complained about discharge of rhazardous raw effluent into Kibos and Rie-Lang’o rivers. “The rivers used to be clean. But ever since Kibos started operating the water is dirty. Our animals can’t drink it,” resident Elias Odhiambo said. “When I use water from the river my body itches. It has been contaminated by the plant,” another resident Sarah Owang’o said. They said the firm, which also produces paper, has been heaping bagasse (pulpy residue of sugarcane) on the river banks, it lacks a suitable waste treatment plant, and has an uncovered septic tank near the river. The management claimed people hired to clean the factory pushed the sludge into drainage tunnels and when it rained, some of the waste was swept into the river. Raju said the company is implementing anti-pollution measures. He told the committee when the incident occurred the firm distributed clean water to residents. The Water Resource Management Authority raised the issue with the firm, but little has been done.