A Bungoma court has awarded Sh2.5 million as compensation to a pregnant woman who was physically abused and deliberately left to deliver on the floor. Josephine Majani sued Health CS, Bungoma County Hospital and the county government for the neglect and abuse she suffered in 2013. High Court Judge Abida Ali Aroni said the hospital violated Majani’s rights. Her rights to health and dignity had been infringed upon by way of physical and verbal abuses in a manner that was inexcusable, the court said. Aroni said the the county government failed to ensure healthcare facilities provide quality maternal services by neglecting to allocate necessary resources. and put in place minimum standards for provision of the services. According to The Center for Reproductive Rights statistics approximately 8,000 Kenyan women die from pregnancy-related complications each year. Poor maternal health services are common in Kenya because of inadequate training and supervision of health care workers, negligence, and unethical practices. Bungoma District Hospital is just one of many hospitals in Kenya that are ill-equipped to provide women with free maternal services and, as a result, deny them quality health care, and sometimes subject them to severe abuse. “Josephine’s experience is not a lapse in judgement or temporary failure to provide an appropriate standard of care,” said Evelyne Opondo, Senior Regional Director for Africa at the Center for Reproductive Rights. “It is a systemic culture of institutionalized negligence towards women’s health, dignity and human rights, which seems to permeate the country’s health services at all levels. “It is the duty of the government to ensure that all Kenyan women have access to quality reproductive health services guaranteed by Kenya’s own constitution. “This is a landmark case for Kenyan women. It sends a very clear message to Kenyan health providers, and to the county and national government authorities responsible for them, that neglect of Kenyan women in health care settings will no longer be tolerated—nor will it be without consequences for those responsible.” Josephine Majani’s treatment at the hands of staff at the Bungoma County Hospital received widespread media coverage when it occurred in 2013, in large part because evidence of the abuse was caught on camera by another patient. In August 2013, Josephine was admitted at the hospital for an induced labor. Despite a national directive instructing all public health care facilities to offer free maternity health care services as of June 1, 2013, Josephine had to purchase the medicine necessary to induce her labor. She was not physically checked or monitored by any of the nurses and was informed that if she needed medical attention she would have to walk from the labor ward to the delivery room herself. When intense labor pains started, having called in vain for assistance, Josephine walked unaided to the delivery room where she discovered that all the beds were occupied. While attempting to return to her bed in the labor room, she collapsed and gave birth on the floor. On finding her there unconscious, two nurses repeatedly slapped and verbally abused Josephine in anger because she had dirtied the floor when she delivered her baby. Once conscious, she was ordered to walk to the delivery room, still unaided, to be examined. She was released with her baby the following day, and suffered severe emotional trauma as a consequence of her treatment at the hands of uncaring staff. “I was neglected, abused, and shamed during my time at Bungoma District Hospital,” said Josephine Majani. “It is my hope that today's ruling will force the government to do the right thing and ensure all women get proper maternal healthcare," Majani said. 