Could some opposition MPs be celebrating fiery lawyer Miguna Miguna’s protracted detention by the State? Well. A section of NASA-allied lawmakers uncomfortable with Miguna’s presence around ex-Prime Minister Raila Odinga (pictured) are losing no sleep over his tribulations at JKIA. One, from Nyanza, was overheard telling colleagues, in low tones, that Miguna should style-up or else stay in Canada. “While I don’t support his incarceration by the State, Miguna has been misbehaving and even throwing verbal punches at Raila, this must be a lesson,” the MP said at Parliament Buildings.***** A number of top officials in the presidency are peddling a narrative that DP William Ruto is behind the police harassment of self-declared NRM ‘general’ Miguna Miguna. They say it is meant to destabilise the relationship between President Uhuru Kenyatta and the NASA leader Raila Odinga. Though Corridors couldn’t verify the report, it seems the people behind the idea to frustrate Miguna, have learnt of a possible public outrage and want to pass the blame, because the DP has changed his confrontational approach ahead of his 2022 ambition.*****An ODM MP in Nairobi is closely being monitored by his party. Reason? Some people believe the man, who for a long time has been hanging around Opposition chief Raila Odinga, could be thinking about change of allegiance. Sources whispered to Corridors the man has remained mute on NASA or ODM political activities since he entered the 12th Parliament. Some have even suggested he is gravitating towards DP William Ruto. Unfortunately for the MP, his constituency is a strong opposition zone. He might soon be saying goodbye to elective city politics.*****KENYAN footballers and fans are surprised after FKF chairman Nick Mwenda threw in the towel and decided to fire Harambee Star coach Stanley Okumbi. Despite strong protests from the football lovers in the country against Okumbi, Mwenda has stood by him as the team performed poorly. A top coach told Corridors, “It is too late since we have failed to qualify for some top tournaments and millions have been lost in friendly games.”***** A CS who retained the job after bloggers took on President Uhuru Kenyatta, following reports the CS would be sent home is said to miss many activities in the ministry despite official invites. Unlike the previous CS, who took advantage of the events to be seen and heard, the new CS maintains a low profile and players in the sector have started raising concern.  Click here for the latest political news