Suna East MP Junet Mohammed has warned Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu against casting aspersions on NASA leader Raila Odinga’s motives in reaching a truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said the governor appears hell-bent on continuing to ignite attacks against Raila for political mileage "as has been the habit in the political arena for years." The minority whip said the first-time governor is banking on attacking the opposition chief on the hopes that such antics will win him re-election in 2022. "Now, any politician who still imagines that attacking Raila is their direct ticket to re-election or to political survival should evaluate themselves and realise that era is long gone," Junet said in a statement on Monday. See: {VIDEO} Raila, Uhuru hang out at Muthaiga Golf Club after 'famous' handshake On Sunday, Waititu told DP William Ruto to tread carefully in his engagements with Raila following his unity pact with the president to unite the country. He said Raila is a seasoned politician who is well known for orchestrating splits in political parties from within. "Some of us who have been legislators and have been close with the former Prime Minister, honestly speaking we love the handshake and we support you (Ruto) and our President but we don’t trust the former Prime Minister," Waititu said. "If you go anywhere (with Raila) and during prayers you are told to close your eyes, don’t agree. Be awake throughout because the person we are with, we cannot trust 100 per cent…he’s a schemer. So be alert." He spoke during a service at PCEA Evergreen Church in Runda, Nairobi. Similar sentiments were echoed by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa who said Raila should stay calm if he wants his pact with Jubilee to work out. "If you are here (Jubilee), stay on one lane. Don’t start wobbling, today you are here tomorrow you are there. We won’t allow that," Ichung'wa said. Junet said such unfortunate utterances were "the reason Raila and Uhuru put aside their ideological differences to end political bigotry and hate that has in the past been used by many politicians for survival." More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya "For this reason, Kenyans of goodwill must condemn recent vexatious comments by Waititu. Such statements are unacceptable and unhelpful," the Suna East legislator added. "It is also critical that the people do not allow themselves to be captives of hate-filled politicians who think the search for a more united Kenya with opportunities for all is a sideshow." Speaking at the same church service on Sunday, nominated Senator Beth Mugo said NASA should not try to draw Uhuru into its political sideshows including meaningless slogans. "Hii tibim…tibim and tialala, hatujaambiwa hiyo inaamisha nini. Wasije wakaingiza Uhuru ndani ya hiyo. Tunajua Uhuru anaomba Mungu." [This Tibim and Tialala, we haven’t been told what it means. They should not draw Uhuru in them. We know Uhuru prays to God] Also read: Raila meets Moses Kuria at his Capitol Hill office Click here for the latest political news