Manchester United Vs Liverpool 3:30pm A few season ago, I watched this tie at Anfield and it was very boring. It is traditionally the biggest rivalry in English football but in recent years, where managers are avoiding losses more than aiming for three points, we have seen big ties progress as cagey affairs. The game I watched ended in a 0-0 draw and since then, their next two meet-ups ended in draws. But with both teams fighting for second position in the standings, they each need a win. United are two points above Liverpool in second spot and a win would give them that coveted spot. With Man City as good as champions, runners up is the next best thing. Reds’ boss Jurgen Klopp knows that United have to drop points and he can’t rely on any other side to do it for them. This won’t be one of those defensive affairs, at least not for Liverpool. But the king of ‘bus parking’, Jose Mourinho, may implement that strategy just to stay above Liverpool. Both sides have great players and this is actually one of those games that I won’t be putting my money on a result but rather predict the number of goals. My Prediction: The Red Devils 1-1 The Reds Chelsea Vs Crystal Palace Saturday 8:30pm I really thought Crystal Palace would get at least a point against Man United and I think they were unlucky. They are in the relegation zone with no win in their last six matches. On Monday, they fought hard and at one point were two goals ahead against Manchester United. But they couldn’t hold on and ended up losing 3-2. Their last win came against Burnley on January 13. Chelsea aren’t doing much better either. They have four losses in their last five league matches. Losing to the two Manchester clubs is understanding but going down 3-0 to Bournemouth and losing to Watford aren’t what manager Antonio Conte or anybody else had expected. The Blues can’t imagine finishing out of the top four and if they are to catch up with Spurs, who are five points ahead — and play Bournemouth this weekend, then the Edin Hazard-led squad needs to wrap this game up early. And there is every indication they will. They have a fit squad capable of anything this weekend. My Prediction: The Blues 3-1 Palace Arsenal Vs Watford Sunday 4:30pm I don’t know how to predict Arsenal games any more. We lost games we should have won and then carve out easy wins in games we thought we could lose. A case in point is the Europa League game against AC Milan on Thursday. I’m sure most people expected the Gunners to lose given their recent form and loss to Brighton last Sunday. But the boys transferred the negative energy from fans into inspiration to win on the continent. But can they replicate that form back at home? On Thursday, cup-tied Pierre Emerick Aubameyang was missing but he’ll be back and eager to prove himself at the Emirates. He hasn’t quite had that chance since his first game for the Gunners, although he did have a penalty saved in our recent league game against Man City. Watford are fresh from beating Chelsea 4-1 in the league and in fact have three wins and a draw in their last five matches. In contrast, Arsenal have one win and four losses in their last five league outings. It’s evident that we will not qualify for the Champions League through the league this term and it will be just our second time under Manager Arsene Wenger not to finish in the top four. I don’t mind it though as this is what needs to happen to hopefully see the back of Wenger. Arsenal can beat Watford on any given day but it will depend on our frame of mind. A tough game to predict but I’ll go for a slim Gunners win, though as usual we will concede. My Prediction: The Gunners 2-1 Watford