There is not a Swede visiting Africa who has not been
asked when IKEA will come to the continent. Unfortunately, it is not going to happen anytime soon. The founder of the world’s largest furniture company (IKEA), Ingvar
Kamprad, passed away a few weeks ago at the age of 91, in his native province
of Småland, Sweden. He left a business empire with 150,000 employees, $45
billion (Sh4.5trillion) in turnover and more than 300 stores in a quarter of the world’s countries. The IKEA catalogue, issued once a year, is said to have more readers than the
Bible. If anything could be said about his life achievement: Kamprad was a super
entrepreneur. The person himself, the circumstances he grew up under and the
timing of his creation were all crucial to his enormous success. In TV adverts and in the media in Africa, businessmen
are all dressed in smart suits, driving luxury cars, staying in upmarket hotels
and surrounded by beautiful women. Kamprad, though a multibillionaire, had none of that. His was a humble beginning in
1943, he expanded his business in Sweden in the '60s and went international in the '70s. When visiting the IKEA store in Madrid some
years back, he took the metro train to the hotel from
the airport. He always took second class on train trips, economy class
on an airplane, put up in a cheap hotel and dressed casually. That was what he also
expected of his staff. In his “A
furniture salesman’s will”, written more than forty years ago and which were
his way of communicating his business ideas, he points out: We don’t need any
fancy cars, nice titles or tailored uniforms or other attributes of status. Only
those who sleep do not make mistakes. Fear of making a mistake is the cradle of bureaucracy and the enemy of all development. He became legendary for living the frugal life he preached.
It became his and IKEA’s image. He provided household goods that ordinary
people wanted: Design and function at a low price. He saw a demand and could
satisfy it; a common feature of the thrifty people from Småland. Although very
respected throughout his lifetime a shadow over it was his Nazi leaning during
his youth, which he never spoke about, but could to some extent be attributed
to his grandparent’s German origin. He was lucky to start his business at a time when neutral Sweden
was benefitting from a Europe in the process of recovering from World War Two.
Government policies were geared towards social justice combined with economic
growth for the “small people”. An expression that had been coined just before
the war “folkhemmet”, which meant the people’s home and associated with the
then Prime Minister Albin Hansson, remained a popular image for many years. So,
not long after followed: “Albin Hansson byggde folkhemmet, Ingvar möblerade
det (Albin Hansson built the people’s home, Ingvar Kamprad furnished it)”. Increased
trade and incomes for ordinary people and most recently globalisation were also
circumstances he took advantage of. He saw the emergence of motorism and
consequently placed the stores outside city centres where land was cheaper and
there was ample space for parking, so you could load your flat packages and drive home
and assemble the goods. Kamprad kept a close eye on his creation all his life and
had no intention of being bought out or floated on the stock exchange. IKEA used
globalisation to bring the world to Sweden and Sweden to the world. Visit any IKEA store and you will find, among the Billy bookshelf, Swedish meatballs, gravlax and the Swedish blue and yellow colours, the
sales staff all have name tags with their name and the languages they speak. What could an African entrepreneur learn from this? I think the first is that one has to be successful at home
before they can venture abroad. It doesn’t only apply to IKEA, but to most of today’s
international enterprises. There are more that people have in common than
separates them. Kamprad no doubt knew what could attract people in Sweden would
also do so abroad. He had an ingenuity and a great ability to
combine things that kept him ahead of competitors, always
looking for the most simple and efficient methods in mass production and
distribution. He also had as “guiding star” the idea to always serve the
people, the ordinary. Where other business people try to control staff with
pure financial incentives, Kamprad took the exceptional step to craft a
business ideology based on fellowship, solidarity and equality. A staff that
relate to work with the small company’s loyal and idealistic staff in mind. When IKEA grew and became a worldwide enterprise, it could not escape the iron
cage of restricting rules and complicated organisational structures that are
common features for any successful enterprise. But Kamprad saw a deeper
and different meaning in business and the company: A meaning that goes beyond
profits and growth. Finally, why won’t there be any IKEA store in Africa anytime
soon. The simple answer is that is there is no market for it, yet. Despite
“Africa rising” and modern gallerias shooting up, the African middle class
is not as big and it does not grow as fast as many believe. The Swiss bank
Credit Suisse gave in its 2015 Global Wealth Report the figure of three per cent
of the continent’s 570 million adults being middle class, which is less than 20
million spread over 54 countries. A fourth of those live in South Africa, a big
chunk in Nigeria, Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, which leaves less than five
million in the remaining 48 countries. IKEA needs around half a million middle class customers
for every store and around 40 stores in a market (could be more than one
country) to make it viable. Low prices are partly due to huge, enormous
volumes, which cannot be said about the markets in Africa. Nakumatt’s
demise is also a testament to an inflated belief in a middle-class segment that
did not exist in the same scale as the expansion. Shopping malls must tremble!