Sofapaka head coach Sam Ssimbwa has admitted the absence of Ugandan duo of Feni Ali and Jonathan Mugabi has affected the team’s defence in the new season. Sofapaka lost the two players in the December-January transfer period under unclear circumstances and Ssimbwa believes their absence has engineered the current sloppy defending witnessed from the 2009 KPL champions. Mugabi, who was Sofapaka’s most capped player last season, was axed from the team for unspecified reasons and found a new home at Vihiga United. Ssimbwa brought in Burundian Moussa Omar, who was scouted in the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup as Mugabi’s replacement but admitted that the latter’s experience was being missed at Sofapaka’s rear. The partnership he had formed with Rodgers Aloro last season saw Sofapaka leak in fewer goals—lifting them from relegation candidates to a runners up. Ssimbwa acknowledged that Omar was skillful but lacked experience. “I honestly miss Mugabi. He was our most capped player last year but I could do nothing to prevent his axing. He was an experienced player and a solid centre half who combined well with Aloro. Yes Omar is good, young and talented but he has no Kenyan Premier League experience. He is growing and showing character every day and with time, I am sure he will establish himself as a strong centre half.” For Ali, who scored eight goals and assisted nine last season, Ssimbwa said the midfielder was key in shielding the back four and he equally misses him. “Ali was a good holding player but how he left the club was beyond my control. He would shield the defence and score goals at the same time. I really miss his services. I have good players, who are really working hard to replace him but it will take time. Generally, the absence of the two has affected how we defend and that’s why we are letting in easy goals.” Ssimbwa further expressed his displeasure with the way the Kenyan national team selection is being conducted. The tactician hit out at the technical bench for overlooking players drawn from Sofapaka. “There are good Kenyan players here and I don’t know why they are never considered. Back in Uganda, I won the league without a national team player on my side and I am confident the players will show how big the national team misses them.” He also defended the club’s goalkeeper Mathias Kigonya who had been criticized for his match wasting tactics. “I do not encourage time wasting in my team since fans pay to watch good football and its unprofessional too. So far, Kigonya has been cautioned once for time wasting and I don’t think he has such character. He is our captain when Echesa is out and having such kind of tactics would not have won him the captain’s armband.”