Scotland’s Ross Kellette and Max Orrin of England took a joint one shot lead as Kenyans struggled on the opening day of the Barclays Kenya Open at Muthaiga Golf Club in Nairobi. It was a bad day in the office for Dismas Indiza who could only manage joint 137 after a disappointing 5 over par 76. Jacob Okello, the most decorated Kenyan profession, had to contend with a poor score of 7 over par 78 which appeared to jeopardize his chances of making the cut. “It was such a long and frustrating day. I tried to recover my position after the first nine but things appeared somewhat improper,” said Indiza, who shot a double bogey on the par 4 hole 8. Indiza’s eagle on the par 5 hole 10 couldn’t salvage the already bad score. The leading Kenyan after Round One is Monit Mediratta of Sigona, who is lying joint 21st on a scoreboard with 2 under par 69. Mediratta was the only Kenyan who played under on Day One which wasn’t such an encouraging score. Riz Charania dropped from two under on the first nine to wrap up his campaign on level par and in joint 56th. “Level par wasn’t that bad. I will try my hardest to better the score tomorrow (today). The essence will be to hit the fairways well and putt well,” said Rizwan who managed four birdies on the 10th, 14th, 15th and 18th. Kellett, who went to bed with a slim solitary shot lead, posted two eagles on holes 4 and 10, dropped shots on the second, third, 11th and 18th but still managed to stay ahead of the pack. He sunk in two birdies on the 6th and 14th and parred the rest of the holes. Joint third were three pros Michael Hoey of Northern Ireland, Simon Forsstrom of Sweden and South Africa’s Jaco Ahlers. Germany’s Max Schmitt got off to a strong start in his first ever round on the European Challenge Tour in Kenya. The 19-year-old carded five birdies on his way to an opening day 67, leaving him two shots back of leaders Ross Kellett of Scotland and Max Orrin of England “This was my first big event as a professional,” said Schmitt. “I did not hit my first shot very well, but I ended up birdieing the first. That was quite cool. “From there, I was really good. There was one shot that I could have hit better, but the rest was ideal.” The three-time winner on the Pro Golf Tour in 2017 dropped only a single shot, which came on the monstrous 616-yard par five seventh—a hole that is playing even longer than the scorecard suggests due to soft conditions. “Over the last few weeks they’ve had a lot of rain here, so it is still quite wet out there,” Schmitt noted.