Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is contemplating quitting due to "persistent challenges" amid efforts to revamp the city. Sonko, who took to Facebook on Wednesday, said he would consult widely before taking any step. In his usual mix of English and Kiswahili, that has to do with relating with wananchi, he wrote: "Mjue hii kazi imekuwa ngumu [na] iko karibu kunishinda. Na sio mambo ya flag (Know that this work is difficult and that it might overwhelm me. It's not about the flag). "Hizo nimekubali kutoa as advised by Karanja Kibicho na Ndegwa Muhoro but nitawaambia very soon ni kwa nini ndiyo muniadvise. Isikuwe kama yule my bro alihepa bila kuconsult (I can remove those as advised by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro. I will soon let you know why so you can advise me)." Sonko's latter remarks concerned Polycarp Igathe who resigned from the Deputy Governor post on January 13, saying he had given up on gaining Sonko's trust. The two were supposed to be the dynamic duo — one the brash politician beloved by the people and the other the experienced manager who would run the city day-to-day. Sonko would do politics while Igathe would manage. Sonko had hoped that President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto would help save their relationship. More on this: Igathe quits, says failed to gain Sonko's confidence Also read: Bring back Igathe, politicians and tycoons urge Uhuru, Ruto REVENUE UP In his post today, Sonko thanked Nairobi taxi drivers for paying taxes daily, noting this wasn't the case in other counties. He said the collections amounted to more than Sh100 million and that the county had collected Sh1.25 billion in total. "Kumbukeni February you also did Sh1.4 billion sasa sijui wako wapi wale walikuwa wanasema ati revenue inakuwa juu January pekee (Remember that you gave Sh1.4 billion in February ... where are those who said taxes were high only in January?" Keep it up." Sonko said he will ensure proper services for the taxi drivers and that should they have concerns, they should call or send messages to 0722 886600. Last month, for the first time in Nairobi county, Sonko raised Sh1.63 billion in revenue collection against a target of Sh1.7 billion. When Sonko took over in September last year, Nairobi was collecting less than Sh10 million per day. More on this: Sonko confident of raising Sh1.7 billion from county revenue in February Click here for the latest political news