Maslaha, a traditional system of dispute resolution among the Somali, has been criticised. Clan elders have been accused of overstepping their mandate and arbitrating serious crimes such as rape. So serious is the discontentment with Maslaha that the system has been linked to the increased cases of rape in Northeastern. The concern is not confined to the residents and leaders of Northeastern. It was evident when Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i visited Wajir county. The CS warned chiefs that they will be sacked if found mediating or aiding in covering up rape cases. Mariam Mohammed (not her real name) was 15 years old when her uncle defiled her in the family hut in Wajir. “He told me to make the bed, he gripped my throat so I couldn’t scream, and then he hurt me,” she recalled, nervously drawing in the red sand surrounding her hut with a twig while cradling a baby boy. Her mother found out about the incident when she became pregnant. She immediately informed the village elders in the pastoralist community. Mariam’s story is far from uncommon. Girls from the pastoralist communities herd animals instead of going to school. They walk long distances to fetch water, making them an easy target for molesters. Records at Garissa police stations showed only one rape case was reported at the station in December and February. Rape cases are rarely reported to the police. Garissa OCPD Aron Moriasi said rape is a ‘taboo’ subject among the local community and is rarely discussed in public. “Rape is considered a shameful act and rarely reported to us. They prefer to handle it quietly through Maslaha. You [concerned parties] will be putting the name of the family in disrespect when you go public,” Moriasi said. “The cases brought to the police are those the parties have failed to agree. They even come later to have the case withdrawn,” he added. Ibrahim Maalim was once attached to the Khadhi’s Court for 16 years. He said many cases are arbitrated through Maslaha because the communities view the court process as protracted, tedious and attracting stiffer penalties. “Cases that reach us are those the concerned parties have failed to agree on. In most cases family members don’t want to be ridiculed for allegedly subjecting the relative to open court processes,” he said. Maslaha may resolve the immediate problem but long-term feelings of the victims in most cases lead to revenge killings. The Maslaha comprises five to 15 elders from both sides — the offender and the offended. Any Maslaha is preceded by seben.The offenders send a team of subclan elders to the offended clan with a message to start dialogue, negotiation and final arbitration by presenting a seben. The seben, during the colonial days, was Sh5. Depending on the crime, today’s seben ranges between Sh500 to Sh10,000. It symbolises a ceasefire or truce. A date and venue are set and Maslaha starts. Apart from murder, where 100 camels or cows are set as the standard payment, other crimes attract a fine determined by a party’s negotiation skills and the magnitude of the crime. The subclan and clan contribute the final settlement. Sheikh Hassan Abdi says Maslaha is an Islamic method of resolving conflict and rape does not fall within its jurisdiction. “If anything, rape can be equated to robbery with violence. It’s punishable by death,” Hassan said. According to Reuters, prolonged drought makes matters worse. “Somali pastoralists are extremely proud. If they lose their animals, they are no one,” said Suli Abdi Buhad, the gender team leader at Mercy Corps, a humanitarian aid agency. “That leaves them unoccupied, even depressed, and can turn many into violent men,” she said. Abdi Buhad is part of a group of women and men – drawn from community members, police officers, journalists, health workers, and non-governmental organisations, among others – who last year set up a gender support desk and hotline in Wajir for victims of violence. Once a girl calls the toll-free number, the group alerts a local colleague or police officer, who investigates the accusation while providing the victim with moral and medical support. If the allegation is found to be substantiated and the victim is willing to come forward, the gender desk helps.