When attending a wedding at the coast, all you will see is women painted with either piko or henna. Piko is black in colour, while henna is brownish when applied on the skin. Painting for brides is usually different, as they have to stand out. The skin painting has widely been embraced, in such a way that if you see someone with it, you would know she is definitely a coastal woman. Henna and piko skin painting are also a good form of business. Many women at the coast are bringing food to the table through this beauty art. Khadija Mbarak, 22, said she has paid all of her college fees through the business. She started painting when she was in primary school and got into business when she was in secondary school, form one. People gained confidence in her painting after seeing her beautiful designs. She started by painting small kids, family members and also close friends, who did not mind her practising on their bodies, until when she was perfect at it.  CHARGES AND EARNINGS She now charges Sh500-Sh3,000 per person, depending on the type of flowers one wants to be painted and also the body size of the person being painted would determine the pricing. The highest she charges is Sh3,000. This is for brides, which, she says, needs a lot of attention, because the bride would be out there for all to see and on her biggest day, she definitely wouldn’t want to disappoint her. On peak days, Mbarak receives more than 20 customers. This means she can pocket more than Sh10,000 a day. One of Mbarak’s problems is getting exausted in the course of her work. This is a difficulty because she would have to tell off some of her customers. Some would understand her, while others would think she is just bragging because she knows she is great, therefore, losing some of her customers. “When I get tired, I would not force myself to continue. I will have to take a rest,” Mbarak said. To ensure her health is intact, she takes a glass of milk after a long day of painting. “So far, I have not been faced with any health problems, but I just take a glass of milk to ensure I do not get chest problems,” Mbarak said. Her message to the youth is: “Every talent should be used in a good way for the betterment of one’s life. Young people should fully embrace their talents. If I have managed to pay for my college fees through painting, then any talent can take you much higher,” she said.  HAPPY CUSTOMERS Lubnan Nassir says she likes to do skin painting every time she feels like, and not only in weddings. She said it is a form of beauty, just the way one applies make-up, aiming to look beautiful. Nassir said in the past, unmarried women were only allowed to apply henna. But these days, it has become a fashion trend, and even small kids are being painted. “Culture did not allow people who are not married to apply piko because it was a sign that you are married. So the first time one starts to apply it is on your wedding day, where you are supposed to look your best,” she said. Skin painting is also used to impress one’s husband, as it reminds them of one’s wedding day. “Those who do not like it when their women do skin painting have their own stupid reasons, but the fact of the matter is they are just too stingy with their money, which their wives need for the painting,” Nassir said. Many Coast men do like their women painted. Salim Ndegwa said it makes his wife look even younger and more beautiful and attractive. “Those women who apply it look extremely adorable, but it would go well with someone’s natural beauty and the woman’s body shape,” he said. However, Ndegwa admitted to being jealous seeing his wife apply it and go out there for all to see her beauty. “When my woman applies it, she is supposed to apply it for me and me alone to see, and not other hyenas. So that means when she walks outside, she should cover her whole body, and when she is inside, she should let loose her clothes so that I can admire her and make her the apple of my eyes,” he said.