President Uhuru Kenyatta’s new Cabinet will cost taxpayers over Sh1.2 billion per year in salaries. About Sh6 billion will be spent on paying the salaries, house allowances, airtime, official car fuel and maintenance for Secretaries, Chief Administrative Secretaries — who were sworn in on Friday — and Principal Secretaries. This excludes daily subsistence allowance, insurance, pension, gratuity, car and mortgage benefits for the officers who have started settling in the new offices. Attendant costs for keeping personal assistants, advisers, and travel allowances that the members of the Cabinet are entitled to are not part of the bill. The expenditure will be Sh3 billion more than what their predecessors spent in Uhuru’s first term. Isaiah Kubai, a former commissioner with Salaries and Remuneration Commission, said the expanded Cabinet risks running the county into insolvency. “We kept warning about eating more than we produce. The presidency was aware of the high number of people in public service and the ballooning wage bill. Surprisingly, he has chosen to expand his Cabinet with duplicated roles.” In a July 7, 2017, gazette notice, SRC set monthly gross pay for Cabinet Secretaries at Sh924,000 and those of Principal Secretaries at Sh765,188. The guidelines stated that they are also entitled to monthly Sh20,000 for airtime and monthly house allowances of Sh200, 000 and Sh150, 000 respectively. For the newly created CAS posts, a government official familiar with state officers’ remuneration said their gross pay will be above Sh800,000 but with similar benefits as CSs. The officers are entitled to official transport, with the CSs and CASs having two official cars at a minimum. Principal Secretaries will have one car, on a conservative daily rate of Sh2,000 for fuel within Nairobi. The same will also be provided minor maintenance costs of Sh50,000 every month. Cumulatively, taxpayers will have to shoulder Sh1,544,000 pay for every CS being Sh924,000 for salaries, Sh400,000 fuel, and maintenance, Sh20,000 and Sh200,000 for airtime and house allowances respectively. This means Sh33.9 million will be spent monthly to remunerate the 22 Cabinet Secretaries. For the newly created CASs, the variation will only be on the Sh800,000 gross pay, thus Sh31.2 million will be used to keep the 22 CASs in office. On the other hand, Sh40.8 million will be used by the new 36 PSs every month as each will be drawing Sh1.1 million monthly benefits. In a year, Sh106 million will be used to remunerate each of the 80 officers, putting the annual bill to Sh1.2 billion bringing it to Sh6 billion in five years. “Despite being among the most heavily taxed countries in the world, this means more taxation, making a bad situation worse,” Kubai said. “Many people want rewards but its impossible to reward everybody by creating a position for them. Furthermore, it is poor economics to create job positions at the top for the few, and have the jobless pay for their upkeep,” Kubai said. “We need more money in the pockets of the middle class and low class by taxing them less and creating more jobs for them. To make the wage bill sustainable,” he added. Former Public Service Commission Chairperson and now CS for Public Service Margaret Kobia could not be reached by The Star over the wage bill question. But Robert Shaw, a commentator on economic affairs, said the government finances are already ‘grossly’ overstretched as evidenced by delays in payments and struggles to pay day-to-day obligations. “The window for extra taxation is limited because there just is not enough money around. Hence the heavy borrowing,” he said. “There is little or no money for development expenditure. It is continually borrowing to get through the fiscal year of which we are just over halfway through. Any other expenditure just makes the burden worse,” he added. In the first term of the Jubilee administration, there were 18 CSs and 27 PSs. CSs were paid Sh1.3 million and PS got Sh970,000 monthly. In a month, Sh24.7 million was used to pay the Cabinet members, adding up to Sh295 million in a year and Sh1.4 billion in five years. Principal Secretaries earned Sh26.1 million monthly —  Sh314.2 million in a year and Sh1.5 billion in five years —  putting the expenditure at Sh3 billion. The wage bill has been on the increase, moving from Sh341 billion last financial year to Sh409.2 billion this financial year. Treasury had in its draft budget policy statement planned to cut it to Sh401 billion but the expanded Cabinet is likely to push up the wage bill. Last year, the International Monetary Fund raised the red flag on Kenya’s growing wage bill and asked it to restructure its fiscal policy. The agency advised the country to put more focus on the development budget and cut surging public debt. This is, however, unlikely. Before President Uhuru announced the Cabinet changes, Treasury had allocated Sh1.5 trillion, 15.4 per cent of the GDP to recurrent expenditure, leaving only Sh980 billion for development. The expanded Cabinet means that the state will have dip into the development budget or even borrow to fund the expense. Although Uhuru and DP William Ruto committed to taking a 20 per cent pay cut in 2014 and asked Cabinet Secretaries to follow by taking a 10 per cent cut, little was achieved to lower the wage bill.