Deputy President William Ruto has tasked NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri and Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung'aro with ending land injustices at the Coast. An optimistic Ruto issued the directive in Kwale on Saturday, saying the injustices will be dealt with as the two top officials hail from the region. "We appointed them to lead the land commission because they understand the many sufferings Coast people go through due to land issues," he said. "Now that we have your own people tackling the issue, if land injustices at the Coast are not solved, we don't know what we will do about them." He spoke at Jomo Kenyatta Primary School after launching Milalani-Mvumoni Road. Read: NLC received 111 claims of historical land injustices from 2016 - Swazuri Also read: Uhuru can't solve Coast land problem, he's part of it - Raila On title deeds, the DP said 10,000 will be distributed in Kwale, whose Governor is Salim Mvurya, from March to June. Ruto further said all squatters will be assigned plots and that they should not worry as nobody will evict them. On roads in the county, he said the government has set aside Sh40 billion and that in a year, the 23km Milalani -Mivumoni Road will have been completed, opening Msambweni up for more business. While noting that construction of the 51 km Samburu-Kinango Road should be completed in two years, Ruto warned contractors against sleeping on their jobs. "We are aware that the project is moving slowly but we will push the contractor.  We are also looking for more funds to finish the project," he said. Ruto announced plans for the construction of the 71 km Lunga Lunga-Vanga Road from April. The DP gave Sh3 million for the renovation of the school's infrastructure as it is in a bad state and Sh50 million for the purchase of equipment for Ukunda Polytechnic. Mvurya thanked him for keeping his promises for a bus for Kingwede Secondary School and the construction of roads. "You have delivered," he told the meeting that at least 20 Coast leaders attended. The leaders promised to work with the government, Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori noting that for the past five years, Jubilee has built 17 roads in the constituency. Click here for the latest political news