The Kenya Forest Service board is on the spot for allegedly sending senior officials home without following procedure. Chairman Peter Kinyua revealed on Wednesday that some of the officials who had been sent on compulsory leave had not been informed of the nature of the allegations against them. "The board has to meet and agree and then the letters will go out," Kinyua said when hard-pressed to explain how the action was taken. But he added: "Most of them have received letters by now." Major changes in the senior management took place on March 12, and saw Chief Conservator Emilio Mugo replaced with Monica Kalenda. On Monday,  the board said 26 officers had either gone on compulsory leave or been interdicted. More on this: KFS asks EACC for thorough probe, punishes 26 over forest destruction Kinyua said it would be wrong to reveal the names of those affected as investigations were underway but that minutes on the suspensions were available. "We are not accusing anyone ... we are saying that they need to go on leave as these issues are looked into." A KFS official who spoke on condition of anonymity said the process "was flawed as most of those affected have not received official communication". But the source acknowledged the existence of proper minutes and said the actions were in line with the board's resolves. The parliamentary Environment committee, however, reads mischief in the changes. "We do not need to read in between the lines as someone who should have gone home has instead been promoted," committee chair Kareke Mbiuki told Environment PS Charles Sunkuli on Friday. Mbiuki was referring to acting Head of Administration Alex Lemarkoko who appeared before the committee. He was previously in charge of Forests Protection and Security. Kipkelion West MP Hilary Kosgei, a member of the committee, said: "We find it wrong as those suspended have built their careers and have families. They are pained." Kosgei who was infuriated after Environment CS Keriako Tobiko failed to appear before the committee. Tobiko is now set to appear on Thursday next week. Read: Tobiko to take the hot seat before MPs over 'wrong KFS changes' The troubles in the service came to the fore with the appointment of a task force to look into rampant forest destruction in the bid to save Kenya's water towers. Asked why no one represents KFS at the task force, Kinyua said: " It is independent . Having KFS on it would not make it independent. I think one or two officers have gone before it and given some opinions." At the press conference yesterday, Kinyua highlighted some of the problems the forest sector is facing. He said officers in some areas removed indigenous trees and replaced them plantations without authorisation. "In other areas, the number of trees on documents are much less than the numbers on plantations. This needs to be looked into," he said. The term of the board will expire on March 31. On this, Kinyua said: "It is my view, whether we are here or not, that the EACC continue with this investigation." The chairman noted the neutrality of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission as a third party and added "I think it will be fair to officers who have been send on compulsory leave for everything to be investigated by an independent body." Click here for the latest political news