Eveready East Africa has lost its bid to stop battery maker Energizer from terminating or altering a distribution agreement following a Court of Appeal ruling. The Court of Appeal held then High Court judge Louis Onguto was right in finding there was insufficient material to warrant the issuing of an order barring Energizer from altering terms of its distribution deal with Eveready. Onguto died last week after collapsing at Parklands Sports Club in Nairobi. Onguto, in a ruling last year, said the evidence presented was not enough to determine whether Energizer had acted unfairly by terminating its deal despite also being an Eveready shareholder. took too long Eveready holds that the Energizer contract accounts for 90 per cent of its business. Energizer has contracted Hasbah Kenya to supply its products in Kenya. Hasbah also distributes batteries manufactured by Energizer’s US-based rival Duracell. The Appellate court agreed with Onguto, who ruled Eveready moved to court long after its contract had been terminated and failed to give sufficient reasons why. “The learned judge considered the material before him and was unable to find that a minority shareholder could have a controlling effect on a company. The learned judge also found Eveready to have sat back on its rights and not moved to court with the necessary speed to secure its rights, if any,” Justices Philip Waki, Fatuma Sichale and Sankale Kantai ruled. “The material before us shows that the distributorship agreement entered into between Eveready and Energizer Middle East & Africa had been terminated well before the suit was filed. There was no material placed before the learned Judge to entitle him to grant the orders sought,” they said. Eveready has sued Dubai-based Energizer Middle East and Africa Limited and USA’s Energizer Holding, arguing the two used deceitful tactics to alter the terms of their distribution deal. merali put in sh75m The Kenyan firm claims it sold its Nakuru plant last year, pegging its revenue hopes on the exclusive distribution deal with Energizer. Eveready claimed billionaire businessman Naushad Merali, a shareholder, invested Sh75 million thinking its distribution contract would be renewed. The fight now returns to the High Court, where Eveready had sought damages in the event the judge was unable to award it an exclusive contract.