The road to Canaan appears to have come to an abrupt end at Harambee House, the seat of the Presidency of the Republic of Kenya. President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga held a cordial meeting last Friday in the presence of amongst others Rosemary Odinga. If the carefully prepared speeches are anything to go by, then covert negotiations have been ongoing for several weeks. To many Kenyans, this is a good thing, as it will ease political tensions nationwide. Deputy President William Ruto and opposition principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula appear to have been deliberately left out of the recent negotiations. This writer had earlier opined that bosom buddies Uhuru and Raila were being kept apart by hardliners in their parties and/or coalitions. The moment they let go of hardliners they appear to have found consensus, although the fine print of the agreement is still shrouded in secrecy. To be fair, the NASA principals had continuously called for political dialogue between both leaders. The fact that Raila appears to have cut a deal with government without consulting his coalition partners is bound to generate some heat. Was he running with the hare and hunting with the hounds? Has he betrayed his coalition partners? And what did Mutahi Ngunyi mean in stating that Rosemary will be the first woman President of Kenya? Is this part of the scheme and or conspiracy? This writer has stated on various occasions (despite harsh criticism) that leadership in Kenya resembles a Members’ Club. Presidents Moi and Kibaki were rank insiders of the Jomo Kenyatta government. Uhuru was a beloved heir. A deal appears to have been cut in the Kenyatta succession that made Moi President on condition he nominated Uhuru for President at the end of his tenure. Could these so-called Royals have finally concurred in nominating a future Odinga President? The political, business and other interests of these families are intricately intertwined, hence, the need to cover each other’s backs! Where would the new scheme of things leave Ruto, the most powerful and charismatic rank outsider to lay claim to the presidency? Has he also been betrayed? It should be noted that Ruto, an astute politician, has built a powerful political network all over the country and is capable of upsetting the Jubilee apple cart if and when his interests are sufficiently threatened. He is the uncrowned king-maker in Kenya. We have continuously made the mistaken analogy of Ruto sitting through the indignity of insults and injustices, just like Moi, to ascend to the presidency. Nothing could be further from the truth as, firstly, our politics has metamorphosed since the personality based Moi-Kenyatta days to the most powerful coalition makers. Ruto is a master coalition-maker and is capable of dismantling even Jubilee overnight. Recent murmurs from some Central province politicians that there may be plans to abandon Ruto have caused severe anxiety in his Rift Valley support backyard and this new development could only add fuel to the fire. As a teetotaller, workaholic and unequalled political strategist, he is constantly creating new political networks and always has plans ‘B&C’ at his fingertips, which can secure the presidency. Uhuru’s recent chess game has forced everyone back to the drawing board, with NASA leaders, particularly Kalonzo, receiving the unkindest cut of all. Kalonzo is like a fish out of the water gasping for breath at what should have been his perceived moment of grandeur. If Tinga moves with the Luo nation to Jubilee as he did in 1997, when he confounded friend and foe by joining Kanu, he will weaken the opposition. Indeed, he will have crippled them and handed Jubilee the super-majority that they have craved in Parliament and the Senate. Our champion of democracy will have aided and abetted a Parliamentary dictatorship in Kenya that grants Uhuru carte blanche powers. The Kenyatta-Odinga dynasty will have received a new lifeline, that is, if Ruto does not scuttle their well-laid plans. Raila will have abandoned his democratic credentials at the altar of self-gratification. What a dramatic end to an illustrious political career. Thomas More’s famous statement, “Every man has his price,” has come back to haunt us! 