Long serving national team coach Juma Walukhu has lashed out at Kenya Prisons and Kenya Pipeline women’s teams after both sides bowed out of the African Club Championship that ends today in Egypt. The Kenyan teams will now renew their rivalry in the third play-off before Al Ahly face off with champions Carthage in the finals. Walukhu attributed the teams’ defeat to lack of basic techniques and singled out reception as their main undoing. Walukhu sentiments comes after the teams were bundled out of the competition at the semi-final stage on Tuesday with Prisons falling to Tunisia’s Carthage 1-3 (15-25,25-22,23-25,25-21) and Kenya Pipeline surrendering a set lead to hosts Al Ahly to succumb to 1-3 (25-22,16-25,19-25,8-25). The tactician in his post said: “It’s so sad that we have been beaten because of basic techniques especially reception!!!! “Let us go back to primary schools and mould the players when still young. The likes of Janet Wanja, Elizabeth Wanyama, Florence Bosire and Sam Juma just to mention few were all at Kahawa and I started coaching them when they were still young. So please coaches, let us get back to the drawing board,” he said. Walukhu added: “Picking students after secondary school is not doing us any good. They come when they only know how to spike and smash hard but their back court is zero. The project should get back to save volleyball in Kenya. This should be countrywide. Let’s bring back our game.” Both teams had a good run in their group stages, only dropping a set each while winning all four matches to top their respective groups. They then proceeded to the quarter-finals, where Prisons saw off neighbours Rwanda Revenue Authority 3-0 (25-11,25-17,26-24)) while Pipeline held nerve to see off stubborn Bafia of Cameroon 3-2 (25-12, 23-25, 25-14, 23-25,15-6). Today, there will be no love lost between the two Kenyan rivals as the perennial rivals go head to head for the bronze medal. While Prisons will be out to defend the medal they won last year in Tunisia, Pipeline will be out to recapture the position they occupied last in 2016 in Egypt. Pipeline will draw the inspiration from the fact that they have surpassed their last year’s performance when they finished fifth while Prisons will be keen to turn tables on their rivals who have dominated them at the local scene, winning national league title since 2013. Click here for the latest political news