City residents have welcomed with a sigh of relief the rollout of cheap NYS commuter buses saying it was long overdue. They said the Sh20 buses will ease transport costs and reduce congestion in the city. They dismissed claims by matatu owners and operators that the buses will disrupt their businesses. Instead, they proposed that more buses should be deployed to other counties to help restore sanity in the industry. Read: NYS lowers bus fares for city trips to Sh20, cites public outcry “The matatu mafia bosses are outdated and obsolete, they need to be disrupted with more similar ideas. They should up their own game instead of shedding crocodile tears. Kenyans have suffered matatu mafia antics for too long,” a resident who identified himself as Usamakistan said. On Saturday, the Matatu Welfare Association opposed the introduction of the National Youth Service buses saying they were bringing unfair competition in the matatu industry. Chairman Dickson Mbugua said the government was targeting their businesses as the NYS will not pay taxes like PSV owners. He said the government wants to “impoverish the hundreds of PSV investors and their employees”. “It's unfair and senseless for our government to use duty-free buses using tax-free consumables to compete with its citizens’ private PSVs which have been subjected to [all] manner of full loaded taxation,” he said. Read: It’s unfair competition, matatu operators cry as NYS rolls out Sh20 commuter rides Also read; We'll frustrate move for Sh50 NYS buses until it fails - matatu operators City residents, however, differed with Mbugua and his Matatu Owners counterpart Simon Kimutai. Kimutai said on Friday that they would frustrate the initiative until it dies. “Dickson Mbugua is being very unfair to Kenyans. The duty-free buses are a property of Kenyans - they were acquired through taxes from Kenyans. It is Kenyans who have contributed to getting them on road, to serve them. What is the problem with that?” posed Philip Ndeta. He said the provision of transport services to citizens is a government obligation just like the provision of public utilities such as water, power and postal services. “All Kenyans must support this initiative by the government. Through direct involvement, the government can now indirectly control commuter fares and make life comfortable for the vulnerable groups that depend on public transport,” added Ndeta. He, however, emphasized the need for proper checks and balances to be put in place to ensure corruption does not rear its ugly head and collapse the initiative like was the case with the Nyayo Bus Services. “It is the government's responsibility to ensure that this happens. Mbugua must shut up,” he said. “Matatu owners, yours is a dishonest argument. You exorbitantly charge the same poor population however you feel especially during holidays. It’s foolhardy to cry foul when the citizenry is getting the best out of this,” added another city commuter. Itikwaki said the city bus transport service will create new jobs. “A city bus system will employ at least two people in every bus for three shifts a day. That means, at least six people (driver and conductor) will work on one bus every day from 4.00 AM to midnight.” Besides, Itikwaki opined that with the rollout of the buses, other subordinate jobs will crop up. “Besides there [will] be mechanical engineers, mechanics, cleaners, inspectors, catering, watchmen, ticket selling personnel and many office workers. Should we go back to using typewriters instead of computers?” he asked. I miss the old KBS (Kenya Bus Service) in Nairobi and Mombasa, added Itikwaki. NYS Director General Richard Ndubai said on Thursday 27 buses will be rolled out on select routes in Nairobi. He listed Dandora, Kariobangi, Kawangware, Kibera, Githurai, Mwiki and Mukuru kwa Njenga. “We have witnessed people in Nairobi walking long distances in the rain and most of the time due to high fares charged by commuter vehicles. We shall do the much we can to alleviate this suffering,” Ndubai twitted. “More vehicles will be deployed a later stage so as to serve even more Kenyans from other routes,” he added, noting that the buses will operate only during peak hours. “Spread to all counties...at least 20 per county, Nairobi 200,” said Caleb. His sentiments were echoed by another city resident identified only as Rofi. He said: “Roll out a million more. Kick out those dirty, extortionist robbing matatus and their uncouth touts. Arrest Mbugua and the others for sabotage.” “Yes, time is up they left the city centre of Nairobi, they together with all the hawkers and makeshifts that dot, block, and clog our pathways, trenches and sewage system.” Also in support of the rollout of more buses was a resident who calls himself KiparaMoto. “The youth need jobs and employment whereby they can service the same buses in-house, next should be NYS school buses to tame the madness our young ones are subjected to on matatus,” he said. However, Mugithi thinks the initiative is a cash cow for some individuals in government. He said; “Someone in govt is trying really hard to hide their thefts...buy coming up with unsustainable projects.” He added: “You think 50 buses operating at an unbelievable loss can solve a 50-year problem? The person who started this foolish venture is just trying to cover their tracks... zero thought out.” Another resident who identified himself as Opposition leader agreed with Mugithi’s reasoning saying the initiative was a tall order. “Any service with a government stamp on it is bound to be poor..hospitals, schools [and] housing.” Click here for the latest political news    