Ford Kenya has rubbished the ouster of its leader Moses Wetang'ula as the Senate Minority leader saying it is a non-issue. The Bungoma senator was kicked out during a Nasa parliamentary group meeting on Tuesday and Siaya Senator James Orengo voted to replace him. Orengo is poised to be deputised by Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala. Read: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Following the move, Ford Kenya says it will now assume the role of the official Opposition alongside Wiper and Amani National Congress parties. The party's national executive council members said they will, going forward, operate as the official minority. "The party will now live up to its constitutionally mandated role to hold the government and its new partners to account on behalf of the Kenyan people," Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu said. He said the plot to remove Wetangula is an ongoing machination by the ODM party to divide NASA by ridiculing and demonising other affiliate parties and their leadership. The Wetangula's party further said they will push for stripping of ODM of the
minority positions since it has indicated working with the ruling
Jubilee. The party said they have instructed their parliamentary group in both
Houses of Parliament to raise the issue with the speakers. "It cannot be done informally, we have given instructions to our
parliamentary group to take the matter to the floors of the two Houses
for the speaker to make formal ruling," Boni Khalwale, who is Ford Kenya
deputy leader, said. According to Eseli, the decision to remove the legislator undermines the Nasa's spirit of inclusivity, future comprehensive checks and balances on the executive. "As a party, we take great exception to this turn of events, especially those targeting the leadership of the two parties in the two houses." "As the nation prepares for this national dialogue and the outcome of the same, new avenues for dissent should be nipped in the bud for that dialogue to have universally acceptable outcomes," Eseli said during a press briefing at the party headquarters, Nairobi. He said Ford Kenya will now focus on rejuvenating itself and "will only engage like-minded entities that believe in democratic governance and people-centered rather than individual centered leadership". At least 19 Nasa senators attended the parliamentary group meeting and unanimously voted to remove Wetang'ula. Eight MPs were absent with apology during the meeting chaired by Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr. Khalwale said the alleged ouster does not hold because Ford Kenya leadership is yet to receive official communication about the same. "If there was to be any such removal, it would have been the decision of the (NASA) summit and our party leader sits on the summit. He would in fact be the one communicating it to the rest of us," Khalwale said. He said the decision of ODM cannot be construed to mean the decision of NASA as ODM is just an affiliate and equal partner in the giant opposition coalition. Khalwale downplayed fears that Wetangula’s removal would ignite the collapse of NASA. "If for whatever reason one political party is not happy with NASA they are free to walk but that does not amount to NASA collapsing." He said this is because the coalition agreement stipulates that for as long as three members are still happy with NASA, the coalition continues. More on this: Nasa united, ODM will revoke call for Wetangula's removal - Kalonzo Click here for the latest political news 