Members of the National Assembly yesterday unanimously endorsed a motion seeking to allow the youth to apply for jobs without having clearance documents from state agencies. It will compel the national and county governments to stop demanding clearance from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Higher Education Loans Board, the Credit Reference Bureau and the EACC. Currently, job applicants have to accompany their documents by certificates from the state agencies, especially for jobs announced by the national and county Public Service Boards. Many young job-seekers say the requirements are discriminatory and oppressive. The decision by the legislators is, therefore, good news. Read: Vetting locks out poor jobseekers Nyandarua Woman MP Faith Gitau, the sponsor of the motion, said the requirements makes it difficult for many young people to get jobs. The legislators said the process of getting the documents is tedious and expensive, yet they do not a guarantee one a job. Gitau urged the Ministry of Gender and Youth Affairs to implement the National Employment Authority Act. “These documents cost not less than Sh4,500 to acquire and that most of the job seekers in the youth bracket can’t raise the prohibitive amount for purposes of job application,” she said. “The government, through the Ministry of Gender and Youth Affairs, should waive these fees for the youth.” Gitau said about four in every 10 Kenyans of the working age have no jobs — this “being the worst case compared to other countries in the East Africa region”. “This motion seeks to empower the youth in job-seeking. Whereas entrepreneurship and self–employment is encouraged, it is observed that not every school-leaving youth can be engaged in the informal sector. There are always young people who will be seeking employment,” she said. Read: Abolish Helb, EACC clearance fees, Jubilee youth leader asks Parliament Gatau questioned why people who did not benefit from Helb should be compelled to get clearance from the institution. She also wants the experience requirement abolished. Those seeking jobs for the first time have no experience, Gitau said. “The youth wonder how they can access employment when experience is sought even for entry-level grades, especially in government institutions,” she said. Kathiani MP Robert Mbui said the waiver is long overdue. The youth struggle to get the documents and to be subjected to the gruelling process amounts to punishing them, he said.  Click here for the latest political news