Seven girls were rescued on Sunday from undergoing female genital mutilation in Tangulbei, Tiaty subcounty. This came as thousands face the cut during the rainy season in Baringo county. The seven girls aged between nine and 12 years fled their Karoiwo, Kabalabata and Kakaryakales villages on Sunday. They are being sheltered at Tangulbei Boarding Primary School. “We interviewed them and they said their parents and brothers threatened to kill them if they resisted joining their mates who were undergoing the cut in the bush,” school head teacher Musa Terter told the Star yesterday. He is taking care of the girls. Terter said the girls were enrolled in Standard One and Two yesterday. The girls are usually married off once they undergo the cut. Tiaty East deputy subcounty commissioner Reuben Ratemo said some parents of the girls are threatening to storm the school to kidnap the girls and force them to be mutilated. “But we have alerted our officers to arrest anybody coming to claim any girl,” he said. Tangulbei Women’s Network chairperson Mary Kuket said despite efforts to end the practice, many girls still will be cut this season. “There is a huge backlog owing to prolonged droughts last year. Many circumcised young men are waiting for the young girls to get circumcised so they could marry them,” she said. Kuket appealed to the government, friends and well-wishers to donate mattresses, school uniforms and fees to keep the girls in school. She also urged the government to set up more rescue centres in affected areas, saying the number of girls fleeing their homes has been increasing by the day. In November last year, the Star highlighted the plight of more than 2,000 Pokot girls forced to undergo the cut in Tiaty subcounty, despite the ban. Traditional women circumcisers, usually birth attendants, are paid at least two goats or Sh3,000 to cut one girl. After graduating, girls below 15 years are considered ready to be married, sometimes to men of their choosing, sometimes to others. The practice is normally carried out in August and December. “But it came early this year due to onset of rains and the population of uncircumcised girls is also on the rise,” one resident told the Star, speaking on condition of anonymity. A man is forced to part with 50 goats, 30 cows and 10 camels to marry a circumcised girl, he said. Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula said the government will not allow FGM to continue. “We are going to lay traps and arrest anybody taking girls through FGM,” Wafula said. He ordered chiefs and subcounty commissioners to arrest those who subject girls to FGM. Wafula praised teachers for helping keep the children in school, despite drought and hunger. He said the state will soon release relief food.