Business lobby Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry has partnered with Gulf African Bank to train and provide business opportunities to youth and women owned companies. The two signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Tuesday to boost economic inclusion, women empowerment, youth and persons with disabilities-owned SME’s. Managing director Abdalla Abdulkhalik said the bank will offer unsecured LPO financing of up to Sh20 million for those with prior performance history and up to Sh3 million unsecured LPO business for starters registered under the KNCCI banner. “The SME sector is a key focus area for us as a bank. As such, we look for like-minded partners like KNCCI with a core mandate of growing businesses, seeking to uplift special groups economically by linking them to economic resources, and offer training opportunities to bridge skill gaps to businesses in the broader SME sector,” said Abdalla. Both institutions committed to work together in capacity building for youth and women professionals and entrepreneurs in the SME sector, as well as linking businesses to financial solutions, especially LPO financing. “The partnership will serve to improve reach for KNCCI and GAB from membership database across various sectors including  general trade and commodities, telecommunication, health, agribusiness, construction, legal, education and clearing and forwarding and diaspora and local events and forum participation,” read the statement. GAB is a signatory of the UN Women WEP as a promoter of enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women. KNCCI Chairman, Kiprono Kittony said the partnership will provide the youth, women and PWD-owned SME's with the critical training, access to financing and business opportunities to help them grow their enterprises. “Training is critical in instilling financial prudence amongst Youth, Women and PWD owned SME’s. The partnership will also be critical to growing the SME sector in Kenya,” said Kittony.