It is illogical to expect communities to protect natural resources when they do not benefit from them in any way, Keriako Tobiko has said. The Environment Cabinet Secretary challenged stakeholders in the sector to formulate a way of ensuring communities living near natural resources benefit from them. The CS also noted that as custodians of the natural resources, there is need for communities to be involved in their management and get a portion of the revenue. "Conflicts over resources are being experienced round the country as communities fight to have a share of them," he said on Thursday, citing oil in Turkana and wildlife conservation in pastoralist communities. "We need to spark the debate on how people living around natural resources can integrated into decision making," he added. He spoke during tree planting around Ndakaini Dam in Gatanga constituency after locals led by MP Joseph Nduati complained that they have not benefited from the dam. Read: Why families live in forests Tobiko further noted that locals feel obliged to protect resources but feel alienated when they are overlooked in their management. "If we do not involve locals and ensure they benefit from the resources they will have no reason to conserve them," he said. The Minister said it is a shame to see water levels in Ndakaini standing at 33 per cent due to adverse human activities around the dam and in Aberdare Forest. Tobiko pointed out that droughts are caused by climatic changes sparked by deforestation. The CS appealed to senators to put Governors to task on the use of money set aside for environmental conservation to ensure it is not wasted. Nduati told the Cabinet Secretary that people whose farms border the dams suffer as they are not allowed to fetch water it yet they do not have piped systems. The MP asked the government to fast-track the distribution of water from the dam to residents so they own the process of re-afforesting the area. Noting he and Murang'a women representative Sabina Chege recently distributed 10,000 seedlings from their own contributions, he said: "We are willing to plant as many trees as possible if seedlings are available." The dam, he said, supplies 82 per cent of domestic water used in Nairobi county so it requires all stakeholders must cooperate to ensure it does not dry up. Senator Irungu Kang'ata said the water resource in Murang'a should be treated as the oil in Turkana. Kang'ata said part of the abstraction fee paid to Water Resource Management Authority (Warma) should be given to counties to help in conservation of water catchment areas. "MCAs should also come up with a water act to compel Warma to give part of the money realised from the resource to the county government," he said. Related: Bonis want forest visitors to pay tax Also read: Away from Raila-Ruto spat, communities have a central role in conserving Mau Click here for the latest political stories