City and Kihumbuini stadia are among four that will be upgraded at a cost of Sh350 million. This is indicated in Nairobi's supplementary budget estimates for financial year 2017/18. On Tuesday, Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia tabled the third report of the Select Committee on Finance and Budgeting on these estimates. Governor Mike Sonko's flagship project for the construction and rehabilitation of stadia will get Sh350 million. City Stadium in Makongeni, Joseph Kang'ethe in Kibera, Ziwani in Kariokor and Kihumbuini in Parklands are the four locations that will be revamped. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, Mbatia said the upgrade is aimed at promoting sports and growing talent. "City was the first stadium in Kenya to have artificial grounds. It would be shameful for it to be neglected [as has been the case]. It is worn out so we have decided to restore and give it a better look," said Mbatia. Mbatia, who is Kariobangi South MCA, said the renovation will cover the pitch, the tartan track and toilets. "The pitch will be fully artificial to give a conducive environment for training. The current state of the stadia is even hazardous to human beings,'; he said. He added that spectator seats will be expanded to accommodate more people. "The toilets are also a major challenge. We pledge to upgrade them and always keep them clean with or without sport activities taking place," said Mbatia. The chairman told the Star that by the end of May, all the work on the four stadia will be 50 per cent done. Majority leader Abdi Guyo supported and applauded the Budget committee on Tuesday, noting the upgrades will result in adequate training grounds for Nairobians and sports people from other parts. "It is very shameful that at times we are forced to go to the outskirts of Nairobi because of the poor status of the stadia we have," said Guyo. In November last year, Nairobi MCAs had to travel to Machakos for the fifth edition of the Annual Kenya Inter Counties Sports Competitions (Kicoso) which took place at Kenyatta stadium. This, however, is not the first time in the last five years that there has been talk of stadia upgrades. In December, 2016, then Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero said the county had set aside Sh200 million for the renovation of City Stadium. The plan is yet to be effected. Related: Bungoma county sets aside Sh200m for Kaduyi Stadium upgrade Also read: Machakos gets Sh800 million for stadium upgrade ahead of CAF games Click here for the latest political news