The National
Cereals and Produce Board has so far received 1.2 million bags of
subsidized fertilizer while 300,000 bags are at the Port of Mombasa. Titus
Maiyo, NCPB corporate communications officer, some farmers from the North Rift have
already started purchasing. Planting and top dressing fertilizer is being sold at Sh1,500 and Amonium Sulphate at Sh1,300. It has however been established that the fertilizer which is meant for farmers who cannot afford buying from the
agrovet at Sh2,000 to Sh2,500 is still ending up in the wrong hands
and denying genuine farmers access to the commodity. A list forwarded from North Rift was rejected by the Ministry of Agriculture because it mostly comprised of traders. Read: We made mistakes but you will be paid, Kiunjuri tells stranded maize farmers Cereal Growers Association chief executive officer Antony Kioko urged the government to undertake a national farmers census to weed out cartels in the business once and for all. Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe noted that farmers consume about 600,000 metric tonnes of fertiliser annually. Last month,
agriculture principal secretary Richard Lesiyampe said the government
had purchased 100,000 metric tonnes of subsidized fertilizer to be
sold to farmers at Sh1,200 per 50kg bag as the government is
subsidising Sh300. The PS noted that
farmers consume about 600,000 metric tonnes of fertiliser annually.
“The government provides one third of the total consumption while
the private sector provides two thirds which is about 450,000 metric
tonnes. The subsidised fertiliser is meant to cater
for about 20-30 percent of smallscale farmers in the country,” the
PS said. Cereal Growers
Association chief executive officer Antony Kioko however noted that
the process of accessing government's fertiliser is not only
difficult for many farmers but it often ends up in the wrong hands. He urged the
government to undertake a national farmers census to weed out cartels
in the business once and for all. “This
process is bureaucratic and open to abuse where people masquerade as
farmers and access the fertiliser at a subsidised price then
repackage it and sell back to farmers at a higher price. Sometimes
even after going through the long and tedious process of going
through the local chief and paying for fertiliser, farmers do not
access the fertiliser as it often ends up in the wrong hands. This
has to stop for the country to increase maize production,” he said
while speaking to the Star yesterday. In 2017,
the government was selling subsidized fertiliser to farmers
at Sh1,800 but this season, the price has been reduced by 33.3 per
cent to sell at Sh1,200. Thisfollowed a Presidential directive
to reduce the price so that more farmers would afford to buy
fertiliser and hence increase productivity.  Click here for the latest political news