Pressure is mounting for former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero to contest in Homa Bay in case of a by-election. The High Court nullified Governor Cyprian Awiti’s election on February 20, citing irregularities during the vote on August 8, 2017. A fresh poll is to take place in 60 days from this date. Kidero will stand a chance should nominations take place. If not, he will be locked out as only candidates who vied before will be on the ballot. Details: Court nullifies Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti's election, orders fresh polls Also see: [VIDEO] Cyprian Awiti files appeal after court nullifies his re-election Residents who spoke to the Star on Thursday said they want ODM to pick a new candidate given the long-standing rivalry between Awiti and former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, who unsuccessfully vied for the top seat. "The persistent wrangles have massively affected the county’s development. The best way to enhance peace and unity and put everything on track is to have a neutral candidate. Kidero is seen as the right person." But others were of the view that Kidero should focus on national politics. "Going to Homa Bay would seem like going going down the political ladder," another said. Kidero has not declared interest in the seat but some youth groups, elders and professionals in the county want him to vie. This has caused panic among supporters of Magwanga and Awiti who said Kidero has the capacity to mount a well-lubricated campaign team and a strategy because of his financial might. He is well-known and does not require introduction in politics. Moreover his rural home is in  Rangwe, the heart bit of Homa Bay politics. RAILA'S BLESSING FIRST Those who want a Kidero leadership said he should start by getting the blessings of ODM party leader Raila Odinga. The Karachuonyo Young Professionals Association, chaired by Shikuku Odie, said the fierce fight between Awiti and Magwanga has derailed development, leaving some residents languishing in poverty. "The people want Raila to support Kidero based on his development track record. He is the right candidate and has the capacity to help turn around county leadership which has been rundown with massive corruption by the current regime." Odie argued that supporting Kidero, who is widely seen as a neutral candidate, will save the county from the wrangles. He spoke of an incident at Kisumu City Hall in 2000 when LDP party brought in Kisumu East MP Shakeel Shabbir as the mayor after several deaths and cases of infighting. "Shabbir managed to bring sanity at City Hall and the result was development which saw Kisumu declared a clean city," the chairman said. Odei further noted that ODM is rebranding with the appointment of lawyer Edwin Sifuna as its Secretary General so there is need for fresh blood in Homa Bay. Read: Raila replaces ex-Secretary General Ababu Namwamba with Edwin Sifuna MAGWANGA STRONG CANDIDATE The county's problems touch on 2022 succession politics, allegations of corruption and nepotism and unfulfilled public expectations. During his swearing-in on August 18, 2017, Awiti pledged drastic changes in his administration to help him leave a legacy of development. But locals were disappointed when he retained and re-appointed allies who were adversely mentioned in scandals. Samuel Owida, a communications expert, argued that the nullification of Awiti’s election has re-energised Magwanga’s political support. "On the other hand, it has brought a challenge at Awiti’s door-step - to contend with those aggrieved by his failed pledges, especially those who eyed plum positions," Owida said. Political pundits said that going by how re-energised Magwanga’s supporters are, he stands a better chance to clinch the seat. They also noted he commands a lot of support in the eight sub-counties. They include Kasipul, Suba South, Karachuonyo, Rangwe, Homa Bay Town, Ndhiwa, Kabondo-Kasipul and Suba North. Magwanga hails from Kasipul Kabondo and Awiti from Karachuonyo. Magwanga said it is high time everyone of goodwill came out to save the county from the jaws of “hyenas and cartels". “We have to rise and reclaim our victory. You should elect leaders whose development records speak volumes not those who give attention to propagandists,” he said. But Awiti defended his development record saying he has achieved much in the roads, health and agriculture sectors and that much more will come in industrialisation. Click here for the latest political news