How do we breathe? How does breathing work exactly? Yes, my mind does wander in just about every direction. If I had to pick a word to describe the way musings pop into my head, I’d have to say, random. So, about breathing. We do it every day. We think of it simply as taking air in, and out of our lungs. But, breathing is a lot more complicated than any automated process we come across in our daily lives. It is so complicated that I’ll just touch on the basics of the mechanics of breathing and even that... well, it will just be scratching the surface. We breathe thanks to specialised centres in the brain. These centres automatically regulate the rate at which we breathe, and how deeply we breathe, depending on what the body needs. Let’s say you decide to run for some reason. Maybe in a charity marathon, or because a dog is chasing you. Or you’ve been caught unprepared by a sudden downpour while out in the middle of a large park, where there is no shelter from the rain. This run will often lead to a little too much carbon dioxide (CO2 ) in your blood for your body’s liking. The CO2 then reacts with the water in the blood to produce carbonic acid. This means a drop in the blood’s pH. Translation, not good. The drop in the blood’s pH is picked up by sensory receptors known as Chemoreceptors. Basically they’re like the sensors in your car, only these sensors detect chemical signals. These sensory receptors are located near the arteries in your neck, along the body’s main artery, known as the aorta, and in the medulla, which is a part of the brain stem. What happens next is that the chemical signals detected are converted into action. Neurons start firing, and messages get relayed to and fro between your brain and diaphragm by way of nerves and more sensors in your neck, spine and along arteries. All this just so you can take that extra-deep breath of oxygen. That’s the simplified version. But even from this simple explanation, it doesn’t take a huge leap of imagination to know that if one little thing went wrong — a sensory receptor failed, a neuron misfired, a message landed on the wrong desk in the brain centre — you would stop breathing, and that would be that, you’re dead. And yet, despite not knowing how we do this life-sustaining thing, and exactly how it works, we breathe anyway, every second of our lives, which is about 672,768,000 times if you live to the age of 80. All this thinking about breathing got me wondering about the way we behave when we come across something we want to do, but are afraid to do because we don’t know how to do it. What we commonly refer to as, coming across a big challenge. Generally, we freeze, back away from it, or we freak out. But here’s the thing, we breathe even though we’re not aware of how complex it is, and how we do it exactly. So why not do the same when faced with seemingly complex challenges that we haven’t the foggiest how to deal with? Just take a breath, and do it anyway.