The high court has temporarily barred parliament from vetting or summoning Justice Mohammed Warsame for the position of member of the Judicial Service Commission. Justice Roselyne Aburili further suspended the notice issued by Parliament inviting members of the public to submit representations concerning the vetting of Justice Warsame. "The petition in my view raises very serious questions of law and constitutionality of the process of appointment of the Justice Warsame as a commissioner of JSC upon his election as the representative of the Court of Appeal," Aburili ruled. She directed LSK to serve the petition to the respondents and directed parties to appear before the duty judge on April 4 for further directions. On Friday last week, LSK moved to court to challenge Parliament’s decision to vet Justice Warsame even though he was elected by the court of appeal judges. LSK argues that vetting Warsame by the National Assembly will be acting outside the Constitution and without legal authority. According to LSK, the procedure adopted by the National Assembly is unconstitutional as specified in Section 15(2) of the JSC Act. They also say that President Uhuru Kenyatta has purported to nominate Warsame as a member of the Judicial Service Commission, which is unlawful. LSK want the court to invalidate the president's purported appointment of Warsame as a member of JSC and the National Assembly's move of vetting him. Parliament ran adverts on Wednesday and Thursday last week inviting members of the
public to submit memoranda on the suitability of the appointment of
Justice Warsame as a member of the JSC. This was after the Court of Appeal re-elected the judge as their representative to the JSC with a majority vote. The Constitution requires that the JSC must consist of one judge of the Court of Appeal. According to
the Judicial Service Act 2011, the President is supposed to confirm the
appointment of a JSC nominee within three days of receiving the name
without it going through parliament. Also read: JSC opposes MPs vetting of Justice Mohamed Warsame Click here for the latest political news