Kenya Airways yesterday reported Sh6.1 billion net loss for the nine months ending December 31 attributed to the prolonged election period and high cost of fuel. Its gross loss for the period stood at Sh5.97 billion compared to Sh10.2 billion in the prior year ending March 31, 2017. Chief executive Sebastian Mikosz said the same period saw domestic traffic drop by 20 per cent, while the cost of fuel went up to Sh6,274 per barrel increasing their operating cost by nine per cent. “In the nine months, operating profit stood at Sh1.3 billion,” acting chief financial officer Hellen Mwariri said. In the prior year covering 12 months, the operating profit closed at Sh897 million. Chief commercial officer Vincent Coste said the change in its financial year which ended in March 31 to match the calendar year which ends in December 31 is to align itself with other players in the market following an approval by directors. Partners To further reduce losses, the airline intends to focus on providing a stable base for long-term growth through an optimised network that creates more connections through the Nairobi hub. “We expect quite a lot of sales on the European market with the introduction of Nairobi to New York direct flights scheduled to kick off in October this year...non-stop flights to Cape Town and direct flights to Mauritius,” he said. The Mauritius four times a week flights are expected to start in June as the airline banks on it to increase passenger numbers, while the Nairobi-New York flight is expected to be fully operational next year. In the nine-month period, the airline moved 3.43 million passengers compared to 4.46 million recorded in the prior period covering 12 months. “We are in the phase of investing in this flight, and we expect that our revenues will grow eight to 10 per cent because of these long flights,” Mikosz said. Also as part of its strategy to increase revenue, Kenya Airways together with its European partners plans to introduce economic comfort class on all their aircraft in 12 months.