Jared Mbae, a 78 year old former cleaner at Barclays Bank Kenya is in Nairobi to attend his granddaughter's wedding on Saturday. The old man who left Nairobi 30 years ago to his rural home in Masinga after surviving a tragic road accident along Thika road that paralyzed his left leg could not trace his former job place, the iconic Barclays Bank Allsops branch along Thika Superhighway due to the complex infrastructure upgrade. While in the city, Mbae, unlike his age mates will be lucky to spot Barclays Bank's iconic blue emblem with a white eagle portrait that has become part of Kenya for the past 102 years since the bank landed in the country as National Bank of South Africa in 1916 before being licensed in its present form in 1953. In May 31, 2018, Barclays Bank brand will be no more, ushering in the red Absa brand synonymous with South Africa it is commanding 736 branches, 8,937 ATMs, 9.3 million customers and 31,234 employees. Barclays Bank Africa which is now a separate entity from UK based Barclays PLC yesterday announced plans to rebrand to Absa Group Limited, subject to regulatory and shareholders’ approval, confirming what The Star reported in November last year. “We’ll be Absa, not as you know it but re-launched, re-presented and with an identity fit for the new and forward-looking business we are creating effective from May 30, 2018,'' said Barclays Africa chief executive Maria Ramos in a telephone press conference from South Africa. Even so, the bank has acknowledged that outside South Africa, withdrawing the Barclays Bank brand will be unsettling hence it is set to embark on a vigorous awareness campaign before the May 30 deadline. ''We would like to make it clear that we have bout three years to transition into the new brand. We assure you that we shall endevour to achieve this in a manner that doesn't affect our customers or the business as a whole,'' Barclays Bank Kenya chief Jeremy Awori said. The Star was the first to speculate the name change to Absa in November last year after Barclays Africa Group said in a statement to media that the African subsidiary was working with Barclays PLC to successfully separate processes, policies and systems in a way that will not cause any unnecessary disruption. Barclays Africa Group is undertaking extensive research into its brand future, incorporating views from across the continent and from top brand advisers. A dedicated team has had more than 130,000 conversations with employees, customers, clients and other stakeholders in all the markets in which Barclays Africa Group operates,’’ deputy CEO Peter Matlare said. In June last year, Barclays Africa Group announced that it had agreed terms for operational separation with UK-based Barclays PLC, after the latter said it would reduce its shareholding in Barclays Africa. Barclays Africa has 68.5 per cent stake in Barclays Kenya which is the second largest market in the continent with 98 branches, 216 ATMs, 519,230 customers and more than 2, 600 employees. It also has presence in Botswana, Tanzania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, Uganda and Ghana. Yesterday, Barclays Bank of Kenya announced a six per cent drop in its 2017 net profits to settle at Sh6.93 billion. However, its continental segment which announced end of year results for the first time after separating from Barclays PLC grew profits four per cent to R73.3 billion (Sh633.31 billion) from R72.4 billion (Sh625.32 billion)in 2016.