Edith Nyenze has been declared the new Kitui West MP succeeding her late husband Francis Nyenze after thrashing her rivals in the race. The announcement, after a by-election marked by low turnout, was made early on Tuesday morning by IEBC returning officer James Mbai. Edith beat four contestants in the vote in which 38 per cent of the constituency's 52,042 registered voters participated. The Wiper party candidate got 14,372 or 72.67 per cent of the votes.  Edith Nyenze (2nd right) celebrates winning the Kitui West MP by-election with a supporter, Kauwi MCA Jane Mutua (2nd left) and Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu, March 27, 2018. /MUSEMBI NZENGU Independent candidate Dennis Muli came a distant second with 2,046 votes while in third place was Robert Mutiso of Narc Kenya with 1,784. Frida Nyiva of the Kenya National Congress got 1,075 votes and was followed by Chama Cha Uzalendo’s Elijah Kilonzi alias Ikonge who managed only 499. In the last August 8, 2017 general election, Kilonzi lost his bid for the Kitui Senator seat to Edith's brother Enoch Wambua. In her brief acceptance speech, Edith promised to serve all Kitui West residents without fear, whether or not they supported her. “I will be an MP for all the people," she said at Matinyani tallying centre and extended an olive branch to all her challengers. “They had good agenda. That is why I ask them to join hands with me in serving the people."  The final results of the Kitui West parliamentary by-election as projected on a screen at Matinyani tallying centre, March 27, 2018. /MUSEMBI NZENGU On March 18, the politician scoffed at claims that the IEBC and security officers were backing her to ensure her victory. She termed the claims shows of "overt desperation by people sensed defeat" after realising she was "exceedingly popular". Details: IEBC not campaigning for me, rivals crying wolf after sensing defeat - Edith Nyenze Nyenze died from colon cancer at Nairobi Hospital on December 6 last year. His widow described him as a very loving husband. More on this: Francis Nyenze was the best husband ever, says his widow Edith Click here for the latest political news