Non-teaching university staff yesterday launched a national strike, disrupting operations in public universities. This came hours after lecturers told the vice chancellors’ committee to keep off their affairs. Lecturers went on strike on Thursday to protest the delay that has seen five deadlines missed. Kenya Universities Staff Union secretary general Charles Mukhwaya blamed the government and the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum. They have failed to negotiate, conclude and sign the 2017-21 Collective Bargaining Agreement, he said at the Kenyatta University graduation square during the launch of the nationwide strike. Officials from the Kenya Union of Domestic Hotels Educational Institutions Hospitals and Allied Workers, University Academic Staff Union and Kusu attended the launch. Read:Lecturers strike over 2017-21 CBA begins midnight, says Uasu Mukhwaya said they have been on the table for negotiations for two months. However, there has been no counter-proposal offered. “We had agreed that we will start negotiations of this CBA as early as January 25 and concluded by February 28. We have been at the table for four meetings with these agencies to negotiate within the broad timelines, but nothing has come out,” he said. When everything else failed, a strike notice of seven days was issued. “The seven days have lapsed. Now that there is nothing that has been brought to the table, our members across all universities in the entire republic are starting the strike.” Mukhwaya warned all branch officials against meeting with university management, saying they had time but failed to come. Furthermore, he said the matter is beyond any individual VC or university. Mukhwaya said they are open and should they be told there is a counter proposal which is reasonable enough, it will not take more than an hour to finalise negotiations. Kudheiha will launch its strike on Monday. UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga said the strike will make university workers reclaim their lost glory. “Are you aware that in Kenya there are people whose dog allowance is far much higher than your basic salary and house allowance combined?” he said. Wasonga said being a professor is just a name and does not pay. Professors, it does not pay for you to have those titles. Those titles need money,” he said. Also See:Labour CS disappointed after striking lecturers snub talks      