The Kikuyu Council of Elders early this visited the Buganda Kingdom in Uganda to learn about governance. "The trip was a success and a big eye opener. We learnt several
lessons which if applied will change the fortunes of how we govern our
people forever and for the better," national chairman Wachira Kiago said yesterday. He spoke at the council's headquarters in Kasarani. Kiago said the trip was worthwhile as they learnt how the kingdom and the Uganda government coexist. He said unity is a key pillar and critical to holding communities
together, even in times of adversity. Kiago urged Kenyan communities to
emulate the Buganda people, who have made it a point to uphold unity for
the sake of national stability. "In Buganda no one does anything for individual
interests. Their first focus is the good of their community," he said.
"They respect and love their leaders who in return don't disappoint
because they also love their people. The leaders are easily accessible
to the public because they owe their loyalty to the people, the Kingdom
and the state in that order." Kiago said Kenya too can achieve this if elected leaders show
loyalty to the people, the communities' elders and the state and serve
their interests above personal gain. "The state of Uganda earns the Baganda's respect by serving
their cultural, social and economic interests. They practice a
three-layered leadership structure that is intertwined to serve the
common man," he said. Secretary general Peter Munga said elders play a critical role
in leadership and uniting their people as well as advising the
government. "By diversification we are able to learn different ways of
leadership. The visit has opened our eyes on how we can lead our people
better, with respect, and also how we can work with the government for
the people," he said. The council urged Kikuyu scholars, CSs, elected leaders and elders to come together and commit to unite and serve the community's interests. "We shall come together without fear or sense of self importance. Let
our community reign supreme over individual interests and the Kikuyu
will never be same again," another elder said.  