As the 2022 succession politics gain momentum, those who are afraid of a future without President Uhuru Kenyatta are coming out of the woodwork consumed with fear for their political future. A sneak view of the politics of Central Kenya doesn’t show anyone serious who can fill in the gap after the Prince of the House of Mumbi retires. The region boasts of producing three of Kenya’s Presidents but it seems to be stuck with the son of the Founding Father, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. After all, he is still relatively young and can continue calling the shots in the region. Former Nairobi governor candidate Peter Kenneth would have been a better choice to take over the mantle after Uhuru calls it a day, but he lacks the unifying streak the President wields over the GEMA community. This informs the current state of affairs, where political busybodies are burning the midnight oil to secure him a semblance of power so that they can feel ‘safe’ after 2022. Although the head of state has reiterated that he is not interested in politics after retirement, time will tell on whether he will say no to the trappings of a new power when he is served an irresistible menu of, say, the Prime Minister’s post. As it is, and as we saw in 2013, Uhuru does not own himself: The community does, and it well tell him what to do and how to do it. After all, without “his people”, he would be nowhere near State House. To his political captives, Uhuru should remain an emblem of permanence after his two terms in office lapse. He has always emphasized that he will pass the baton to his loyal Deputy President, William Ruto, a man who has remained studious against the face of raging opposition from his political enemies spread out in the four corners of the country. The answer to presenting Uhuru with a political lifeline after 2022 is the privately sponsored bill brought to the House by Tiaty MP William Kamket. Though still breaking his political milk teeth, Kamket is known to be a political hurricane. From any angle you look at it, the former Baringo County speaker is not alone in this Bill. There are forces behind him, pushing and shoving to ensure there are changes to the Constitution before 2022. Known for his unequivocal admiration of retired President Daniel Moi, Kamket can do anything to make the old geezer and his family happy. To the DP, Kamket’s Bill is like a double-edged knife driven through the ribs: It cuts both ways. However, don’t be fooled. Ruto is equally doing his mathematics as he plans on how he can beat the threat to political succession. Two days after Kamket tabled the Bill in Parliament, Ruto called it a bluff and the President said he does not support it as well. The two urged Kenyans to stop politicking and instead focus on building a better Kenya. But when a scribe recently asked him whether he thinks the Bill could be a plan to secure a leadership role for Uhuru from 2022, Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe did not eschew the question. He said there is nothing wrong with his party boss being engaged in a leadership position after he finishes his presidential term. So, could the powerful PM’s position in Kamket’s Bill be Uhuru’s next power tower? Or is it created for ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi? Reliable sources infer there are ongoing intrigues playing out in preparations for the 2022 presidency. It is not far-fetched to entertain competing thoughts about Gideon Moi training his eyes on running for President. As one who rarely throws in the towel, Ruto’s enemies are aware of his capability to strike and render them rudderless and clueless on their next roadmap mooted to extinguish his political career. The next five years will be interesting to watch as allies go their separate ways, and foes come together in an unholy alliance to diminish real or imagined threats from either side of the political divide. You have been officially ushered into the night of the long knives.    