Referral hospitals handle patients double their capacity while the lower level ones are underutilised, the Ministry of Health has said. Speaking during the Kenya Health Forum in Nairobi, Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said Kenyatta National Hospital and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital are more than 180 per cent congested. The former eight provincial general hospitals, now Level 5 hospitals, are also congested. Kariuki said the lower level hospitals operate at 60 per cent capacity. Read: KNH congested, says CEO Koros Kariuki said she has made it her priority to fix the broken referral system. She said lower level hospitals must be refurbished. The number of specialists should be increased and modern equipment bought to decongest referral hospitals, she said. “We will put in a regulatory framework to train and increase the medical specialists in these hospitals,” Kariuki said. “We have a gap. We are engaging 100 specialist doctors from Cuba to fill positions where there are few or no services,” she said. Kariuki said the ministry will work closely with county governments to ensure proper management of health facilities. “We may not have enough resources, but we will collaborate to accelerate health coverage in Kenya,” she said. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board says 80 per cent of doctors in Kenya are based in Nairobi and Mombasa. congestion Kenyatta National Hospital, which receives 2,000 outpatients daily, is the most congested. Many of the patients can be treated in county hospitals. About 46 per cent of KNH patients come from Nairobi, 13 per cent from Kiambu county, Machakos ( 6.3 per cent), Kajiado ( 5.6 per cent) and Murang’a ( 4.3 per cent), according to the management. Suspended CEO Lily Koros recently said they cannot turn away non-referral patients because Article 43 of the Constitution criminalises the denial of healthcare to Kenyans who visit health facilities. She said KNH writes off Sh700 million bills annually for patients who cannot pay. Embu MCAs recently complained the Embu Teaching and Referral Hospital, the largest facility in Mt Kenya region, was congested. It serves patients from Kirinyaga, Tharaka Nithi, Machakos and Kitui counties. Nominated MCA Margaret Kariuki said the counties should improve their facilities to ease the congestion. Last year, Coast General Hospital chief administrator Dr Iqbal Khandwalla said they receives between 700 and 800 patients daily, against a bed capacity of 700. The hospital serves the wider coastal region, from Taita Taveta through Kilifi and Kwale, all the way to Lamu and Tana River  Click here for the latest political news