Nasa leader Raila Odinga is thankful that residents of his Kisumu stronghold have endorsed his unity and development agreement with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Raila, who is ODM leader, wrote a message to this effect on Twitter after touring the town on Friday. "I wish to thank the people of Kisumu for a very warm welcome and strongly endorsing the national reconciliation process that we are undertaking for the sake of our beloved nation. Asanteni sana (Thank you very much)," he said. In his address to the people, the Nasa principal noted his talks with Uhuru centred on peace and unity. Through dialogue, he said, they will ensure an end to end to tribalism, corruption and electoral injustices. Raila announced that he will soon visit Kisumu with the President. "We agreed to address nine key points with the Head of State. This will ensure political working arrangements bringing together Luos, Kalenjins and Kikuyus who have been at loggerheads for long," he said. Dismissing claims that his pact with Uhuru resulted in rifts in Nasa, Raila maintained the Opposition coalition is intact. He likened the infighting to that of families "fighting for salt". This was the message Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka delivered in Kitui West on Friday when he campaigned for MP candidate Edit Nyenze. More on this: Nasa is intact, Raila tells Kisumu residents Also read: Nasa intact, Uhuru handshake doesn't mean Raila 'jubilated' - Kalonzo Raila earlier defended his move to engage Uhuru saying it was for the interest of the country. He termed the decision painful but noted that after deep thought on Kenya's challenges, he realised he did not have other options. "I sat with the President to sign the memorandum because I greatly considered the interests of the country," he said. "It was, however, a painful decision to make but in order to deal with a myriad of challenges facing Kenyans I had to do so." Details: It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru Click here for the latest political stories