Motorists and pedestrians using the newly-constructed Outering Ring road have decried lack of footbridges and service lane exits. Several pedestrians told the Star on Tuesday that the highway lacks zebra crossings leading to killings of many by speeding motorists. "We risk our lives crossing the road. Until now there is no single footbridge along the highway," Oscar Makori, a Tena Estate resident said. Patrician Mwongeli said three people have been killed between Kwale and Fedha estate in the past 10 days alone. Of concern is that motorists who miss a turn Donholm have to drive past Taj Mall, several kilometers away, before getting another turn. "If one is heading to Manyanja Road and misses the entry, they have
no choice but to go to Kangundo Road roundabout," Mary Njambi said. "The design was badly done. Matatus pick and drop passengers along
the road especially at Taj Mall, Mutindwa and Baba Dogo," another
motorist said. But Kura defended the construction saying it meets all legal standards. Corporate communication officer John Cheboi said the footbridges will be constructed soon. "11 footbridges are expected to be erected between Taj Mall on North Airport Road to GSU headquarters in Ruaraka," Cheboi said. He urged motorists to learn how to use the road properly adding that the thoroughfare did not have a provision for emergency exits. "We have no provision of emergency lanes in this contract except later when we build the Bus Rapid Transport at the centre of the road." Other users said the highway has reduced traffic jam along Jogoo road, Kangundo and Manyanja roads. "The design of the road meets the current need and use by motorists and pedestrians. It has great value for money and our funders, African Development Bank (AfDB) is very satisfied and happy with the management of the project," Cheboi said. "Kenya National Audit Office (KENAO) has given it a clean bill and the usage and utilisation of resources," he added. The Sh8 billion expansion of the 13km stretch was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in January 2015. Read: Outering Rd project disappoints, causes misery, long traffic jams Click here for the latest news   