Governors will be required to appoint a member of the county executive committee to act as deputy governor whenever a vacancy arises in the office if a new proposal becomes law. Makueni Senator Mutula Kionzo Jnr has made the proposal to the Senate Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs. The committee is discussing legislation to address the void created by impeachment, death or resignation of a deputy governor. A governor can be removed from office on grounds of gross violation of the Constitution, committing a crime, abuse of office or gross misconduct and physical or mental incapacity. But it is silent on deputy governors. Read: Constitution silent on who takes over as deputy governor “Out of 10 CECs, the county boss should designate one to always act in the capacity of the deputy when they have travelled or have been impeached. This is the only way to ensure that the voters’ democratic right of choosing their leaders is not taken away if the governor nominates someone outside his county administration as the deputy,” Mutula said. The committee chaired by Nandi Senator Kiprotich Cherargey considered Mutula’s proposal among a raft of amendments to the Impeachment Procedure Bill, 2016, set to be tabled in the House on Tuesday. Read: Bill to give county chiefs power to pick deputies if office falls vacant Former Nyandarua Senator Muriuki Karue drafted the Bill, which explores loopholes in the Constitution. The county assemblies and the Senate have found it difficult to impeach deputy governors. In 2014, former Machakos Deputy Governor Bernard Kiala was reinstated by a court after he was impeached by MCAs in, despite the decision being endorsed by the Senate. The Justice committee rejected a proposal for governors to single-handedly nominate three candidates outside their county administration and forward the names to the county assembly to vet and pick one as deputy governor. Committee vice chairman Mithika Linturi (Meru) and members Mutula, Fatula Dullo (Isiolo) and Amos Wako (Busia) raised concerns, saying allowing governors and MCAs to pick the deputy governors would deny voters their democratic right of choosing their leaders. The senators also held that the successful deputy governor appointees would not work independently and would instead be at the mercy of governors and MCAs, as their appointing authorities.  Click here for the latest political news