At least 640,000 tonnes of lost and abandoned
fishing gear are choking the oceans and killing and mutilating whales, dolphins, turtles and other marine life. A report released yesterday said lost or "ghost" nylon plastic fishing nets, metal hooks and other gear are causing a major loss of fish stocks in oceans and lakes. The abandoned plastic gear can take
as long as 600 years to decompose. The report 'The Ghosts Beneath' by World
Animal Protection say least
640,000 tonnes of ghost gear are lost every year. “This
kills and mutilates millions of marine animals, including endangered
whales, seals, turtles," the report said. "The vast majority of entanglements cause
serious harm or death. Swallowing plastic remnants from ghost gear
leads to malnutrition, digestive blockages, poor health and death,”
it said. Every year more than 100,000 whales, dolphins, seals and
turtles become entangled in lost and abandoned gear, the report said. Edith
Kabesiime, Campaigns Manager for Wildlife at World Animal Protection,
said that prevention of ghost gear is vital, as it kills marine life and depletes fish stocks. “Lost
gear is four times more likely to trap and kill marine animals than
all other forms of marine debris combined. In addition, it is also
contributing to the ocean’s plastic problem, as more that 70
percent of macro-plastics by weight are fishing-related,” Kabesiime said. Fishing gear is designed to catch and kill and when it is
left in the ocean or a lake it is the most harmful form of marine
debris. “Sea
food companies should be at the forefront in addressing the impact of
ghost gear on marine life. These companies must remember that
consumers demonstrate they care about the welfare of animals when
they decide what brands to put in shopping baskets,” she
said. There was a worldwide uproar in the 1990s because so many dolphins and porpoises were caught and killed in fishing nets deployed by fishing fleets seeking tuna for canning. They are a common "by-catch". The campaign to save dolphins was  so successful that some cans of tuna are marked dolphin-safe or dolphin-friendly. Marine conservationists say the system is far from perfect and there is no guarantee dolphins are safe. Still the campaign demonstrates that pressure can be applied to seafood companies.   