Operations at the oil refinery in Mombasa are expected to start in May. The refinery will receive eight trucks of crude oil daily, Mining CS John Munyes said yesterday. The refinery, which has been dormant since 2013, was taken over by the Kenya Pipeline Company early last year in a three-year lease aimed at facilitating the planned early oil programme. The refinery was to be modified at an estimated cost of Sh1.5 billion to store waxy crude oil from Liokichar Basin for export. “The road network from Lokichar to Kitale has been addressed and plans are underway to start ferrying some of the crude oil through road by May this year,” he said. Initially, plans for small-scale oil exports were expected to begin in June last year, but were postponed to December following stakeholder consultations. This, according to the Energy Ministry. The early oil export scheme is meant to facilitate transportation of Turkana crude oil pending construction of infrastructure for huge volume exports, including a pipeline. Munyes said plans by the government to construct a pipeline from Lokichar to Lamu were ongoing, adding the multibillion-shilling project would be ready by 2021. He, however, ruled out plans to construct a refinery in Lokichar as proposed by some industry stakeholders, noting the plant would not be viable due to the amount of oil currently being produced. REVENUE SHARING Munyes called on Turkana residents to support the government in its oil exportation plans, adding the Petroleum Bill had formulated how resources from the exploration would be channelled out. “The national government will take 75 per cent of the proceeds while the rest will go to the grassroots through the county governments,” he said. Parliament passed a draft bill in 2016 allocating 20 per cent of any state oil revenue to local government and 10 per cent to communities living where the crude was discovered, leaving 70 per cent for the National government. President Uhuru Kenyatta did not sign the bill. A revised version currently at the Senate cuts the county government share to 15 per cent, with only five per cent for local communities. Locals have seen the move us unfair and a form of exploitation.      