The 90-day dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i in the troubled Mt Elgon region has has elicited mixed reactions from leaders. While some back the move, saying it will help in the crackdown of criminals who have been terrorising villagers at night, others think it is uncalled for. Speaking to the Star in Cheptais Western Kenya Rights Human Watch CEO Job Bwonya said the CS has been misled by his men on the ground. The said the curfew is ill-advised since the police have established the gang is made up of 17 people. “Unlike the Sabaot Land Defence Force militia that was widespread, this group has fewer people and police have already released their identities. The best approach is to hunt them down without interfering with other peoples’ lives,” he said. Bwonya said the curfew would only escalate fear among residents who have already fled their homes. Their daily lives have been disrupted and businesses destroyed. He urged the special police unit assigned to track down the group to intensify their search for those behind the spate of killings. Police have released the names of Timothy Kitai alias Cheparkach and his brother Ngeywa as the masterminds of the attacks alongside 15 other people. Mt Elgon MP Fred Kapondi, however, differed with Bwonya. He said the curfew is in order as it would help restore peace in the volatile region. The gang has been operating at night, with the curfew in force, it would be easier for police to separate the good citizens from trouble makers, he said. “I think the curfew is a step in the right direction. Nobody should claim it will affect business, after all the gang has already scared residents away from their homes. Let them be dealt with once and and for all,” the MP said. Kapondi is optimistic the gang will be cleared within the 90 days and normalcy will return. Resident Kipkorir Kigai said the success of the curfew will be based on police places in every part of Mt Elgon. He said previously, many residents hid in the bushes at night for fear of attacks, but with the curfew in place they can now sleep in their homes. However, he said, their must be adequate security. A special multi-sectional police unit has pitched camp at Cheptais and is carrying out an operation to flush out the gang.