DP William Ruto has laughed off Tiaty MP Kassait Kamket's bill seeking to amend the constitution to create the position of a Prime Minister. Ruto said instead of the leaders spending a lot of time politicking, they should focus their energies on service delivery. Ruto also warned legislators elected on Jubilee Party ticket to shun politics and be front-runners in ensuring Jubilee government delivers on its agenda. “Leaders, especially, those elected in Jubilee Party should know that we have a manifesto that needs to be implemented as we promised the people during the last campaigns. This is why we have no room for politics as we must deliver on our agenda,” Ruto said. Ruto said all the leaders must demonstrate their commitment to ensuring that government's focus on food security, affordable housing, access to healthcare and manufacturing in regards to its Big4 agenda. The DP was addressing a public gathering at Sibiliwet Stadium in Bomet County on Saturday where he launched construction works on the Teganda-Ndarawet road. Ruto said it is unfair for politicians to subject Kenyans to 2022 politics when the country has not yet recovered from the prolonged 2017 politics. “As leaders, we should be fair to the people of Kenya who campaigned and voted for us by serving them. It’s not time for us to go round talking about changing the Constitution to create some positions and attain our selfish interests at the expense of service delivery,” he said. Ruto added,"Kenyans want roads, hospitals and schools to be built. They want how millions of jobs can be created for them, they want decent houses but not engaging in politics from Sunday to Sunday, January to December or from one year to the other". Ruto was flanked by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso, MPs Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Ali Wario (Bura), Andrew Langat (Bomet), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Joyce Korir (Women Rep), Gideon Kosgei (Chepalungu), Dominic Kosgei (Sotik) and Brighton Yegon (Konoin) This comes after Kamket appeared before the budget committee to defend his bill saying it would save the country about Sh 11 billion on every electioneering year. Kamket said though the bill will need Sh 22 billion to conduct a referendum, if it sails through it will reduce the current election budget from Sh 45billion to about Sh 34billion. Read:Jubilee MP drafts Bill to create PM position, one term presidency Majority leader National Assembly Aden Duale refuted claims that the bill was a jubilee affair. Duale said the bill was purely a private members bill and to that fact Kamket was a KANU MP and not Jubilee. "Please get your facts right. He is a Kanu MP. The Bill is not Jubilee-sponsored," he said. "Jubilee has not, at any time, met to discuss the Bill and if that were to happen, we would communicate loud and clear as we have always done in our deliberations." Read:Kamket's one-term presidency Bill not a Jubilee affair, says Duale 