“I really have to go,” I say to Mike and hurry to the living room, where my clothes are. He follows me and reminds me of his trip request. “Which is why I should leave and get some clothes,” I say. “You’re not a morning person, are you?” he asks, prying my dress away. “Look, I’ll be with you all day and all night, you can do to me whatever you like, but right now, I should go pack, ok?” I ask. He reluctantly lets go of my dress, and I quickly pull it over my head, happy to be covered up. “See you soon?” he asks. I nod and leave. I’m never going to see this nigga, ever again! I get home and take a nice, long shower and crawl into bed. I fall asleep and wake up a couple of hours later. There are no messages on my phone. I guess he’s also asleep. Why did he want to go away with me, again? I get up, yawning loudly and head to the stove to make some coffee. As I stir some sugar into it, I remember last night. That man made me climax a dozen times with just his tongue alone. I wasn’t dreaming. Why did I freak out? Why did I leave? I look at my watch. It’s 3 o’clock. It’s not too late to drive out of town. I call up a few places and make reservations. Better to have a choice of locations and then I call him. He picks up after a first ring. “Are we still going away?” I ask. “Ya, wherever you want to go,” he responds. Why am I being difficult? This guy is actually very sweet. “Pick me up in an hour?” I ask. He agrees and I text him directions to my house. I’m getting excited now! I quickly get ready and pack an overnight bag. Then I wait. And wait. Two hours later he hasn’t shown up yet. I send a text message but he doesn’t respond. Okkkay then. What do I do? Go back to bed? That’s silly. I try and call. No answer. I decide to leave the house and go get something to eat. By the time I get to the restaurant and order something, another hour has passed. He calls. “Where are you?” he asks. “Are you kidding me?” I ask, wondering if he’s crazy. “Where have you been, I’ve been ready for hours!” “I fell asleep. Where are you? At home?” he asks. “No, I’m getting something to eat,” I say and tell him where I am. “I’m on my way,” he tells me and hangs up. It takes him another half an hour to get to me and by then I have eaten, paid my bill and I’m ready to leave. All thoughts of this very ‘sweet’ guy I met are banished. I feel foolish. “We can go now,” he says. “Go where?” I ask incredulously. “It’s dusk! Where are we heading at this hour?” “I really want to take you away, I’m sorry that I fell asleep,” he says. This is ridiculous. I need to get out of here. But wait. There’s something he is doing with his tongue that has me distracted. It’s involuntary, he’s licking his lips, probably to moisten them but the action makes me remember last night. That tongue. Oh lawd! “We can’t go now, it’s late,” I say, sounding more accommodating. “But if you like, you can come over to my place and we’ll leave in the morning….” My eyes are locked on his lips as he continues to moisten them.