The yard of the SGA dog section headquarters near the Inland Container Depot is in used daily for training guard and sniffer dogs. The chief trainer and his team start with playful puppies, and in 12 months of dedicated work, turn them into good guard dogs. Chief dog trainer Johanna Mwaura explains: “As in the case of people, dogs are individuals, with each having their unique character, which we assess from an early stage before we move to teaching basic obedience for four to six weeks. This covers compliance with basic commands to sit, lie down, stand and stay in one place. We use pieces of cloth or sacking to encourage the puppies to pull in tug-of-war fashion. To the delight of the puppies, they are always allowed to win.” “In addition to developing our own security dogs, we are happy to carry out obedience training for privately owned pets. This service is available for puppies and young dogs between six months and two years old.” During obedience lessons, we note whether a dog is aggressive or calm and happy in the presence of people. Some dogs may take longer to gain confidence. The aggressive dogs are chosen for guard training, while the calm ones who enjoy the company of people become potential sniffer dogs. Part of the guard dog training involves a member of staff wearing heavy protective clothing to come forward waving a make-believe machete. The dogs learn to fight and hold the attacker’s arm, which carries the weapon. In complete contrast, sniffer dog training starts with chasing and retrieving a rubber ball or a Kong. The trainer shows happiness with the dog’s progress with warm and encouraging expressions of approval like “good dog” and a rewarding pat and praise. From this basic stage, the potential sniffer dog is taught to locate a specific item. It is not generally realised that each sniffer dog specialises in searching for a particular substance or weapon. For example, one dog learns to search for explosives, another seeks out drugs, and some dogs are used to locate hidden weapons. Depending on aptitude, intelligence and the capacity to learn, training is completed by the time a dog is a year old. When we are confident the dog is ready for duty, it joins our force of over 200 working dogs. The combination of security guards and trained dogs gives a client strong security, as dogs are known to detect potential intruders before humans because of their impeccable hearing and sense of impending danger. This is common knowledge among thieves and thugs who tend to avoid premises that have guard dog protection. Each SGA security dog handler receives specific instructions about the property, or industrial facility for which he is responsible. This typically includes information on the perimeter, buildings, movement of occupants and items outside the buildings like vehicles and goods. In the case of residential sites, there is specific guidance on the times when families and children are expected to be in gardens, or car parking areas. SGA guards report to the client’s premises in good time to be ready for the arrival of the dog delivery vehicle. After receiving his dog, the guard walks around the internal perimeter to show the area that must be protected. At intervals, the guards patrol the property with their dogs and periodic checks are carried out by supervisors making visits to clients in their areas. Thorough training for guard dogs and refresher courses for handlers bring quality and reliability to the SGA security services for clients. The dedication to duty by the Company’s staff has resulted in continuity of the vast majority of contracts for guards with dogs.