Auditor General Edward Ouko has unearthed revenue leakages at the Attorney General’s office and says taxpayers could have lost Sh152.3 million. According to the latest report, the AG’s office could not account for revenue generated from platforms contracted to collect money for services during the 2015-16 financial year. The auditor flagged various revenue streams and concluded there was no evidence to show if the money collected was wired to the National Treasury as required by law. Read: Mystery of UhuRuto's secret account, Sh1 billion spending Sh138.6m withheld “Sh152,361,312 could not be confirmed as received by the National Treasury, and no explanation for this anomaly has been provided by the management,”  the report says. Ouko put outgoing AG Githu Muigai’s office on the spot over non-remittance of income to the revenue account domiciled at the Central Bank. He questioned why only Sh66.1 million out of the Sh204.8 million collected by the Postal Corporation of Kenya, on behalf of the office, was remitted to the revenue account. It is not clear why a balance of Sh138.6 million of the revenue from Huduma Centres was withheld and not wired to the Central Bank, it said. The report said this raised concerns money could have been siphoned off. “This is contrary to the provisions of the contract agreement, which required monies collected by the Corporation to be remitted to the revenue account on Mondays and Thursdays of every week,” the report states. Related: New audit confirms Sh5 billion Afya House scandal cash for registration The Corporation has a contract with the AG’s office and the Department of Justice to collect revenue for name search and reservation, registration of business names, registration of companies and registration of welfare societies. The auditor also revealed that the AG’s office was unable to account for Sh11 million collected through the eCitizen platform during the year under review. This was money received by June 30, 2016, for names search and reservation, registration of companies and registration of business names, “However, there was no evidence  this amount has been remitted to the Treasury as required,” the report said. The auditor also flagged Sh1.5 million collected by Safaricom on behalf of the AG’s office in respect of names’ search on its behalf. Ouko says by June 30, 2016, the money had not been remitted to the Treasury. The AG’s office is also on the spot for irregularly paying Sh5.8 million to a law firm as interim fees for representing the office in Civil Case No. 461 of 1015 Petition No.560/2015. Ouko says the payment by the Official Receiver was illegal as the law firm was not lawfully procured.  Click here for the latest political news