Former Mt Elgon MP John Serut says the wave of killings in the constituency is not politically instigated, but revenge attacks among relatives. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Serut said politicising the problem worsens it. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i is expected to visit the troubled region today. Matiangi postponed the visit last week to first assess the situation, according to sources. He will be accompanied by Lands CS Faridah Karoney, National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. Serut said Timothy Kitai, alias Cheparkach, and his brother Ngeywo Kitai, who police say are behind the killings, were on a revenge attack after their houses were torched by villagers last year on suspicion of robbery. “The government should get to the root cause of all this rather than some leaders jumping in to point a political finger, which will make the gang roam scot-free,” he said. The Star has reliably established that Cheprakach’s home was burnt by nyumba kumi leaders and villagers. land dispute Serut took issue with MP Fred Kapondi for linking him to the crime. “I am ready to be investigated. If he [Kapondi] thinks he has information that I am involved, why can’t he record statements with police. The idea of him throwing allegations to the media is irresponsible,” he said. Kapondi, during DP William Ruto’s visit last week, accused Serut of calling the assistant county commissioner to complain after one of the thugs, Isaac Mukawa, an accomplice of Cheprakach, was gunned down. “Why is Kapondi pretending to be the spokesperson of the ACC [assistant county commissioner]? If the ACC has information and evidence that I called him to complain, why don’t police summon me?” he said. “I am on record questioning extrajudicial killings by police. The law is clear that innocent until proven guilty. Let police arrest and charge suspects in court.” The former legislator urged the government to resolve the land issues in the Chepyuk Phase three and four settlement schemes. “The government should not forget there are issues that were not settled and they keep coming up, [leading to] trouble and killings,” he said. Serut accused Kapondi of lying to residents that land will be distributed for free and called for the provincial administration to be investigated.