The more I work with business leaders in the region the more I realise that the biggest challenges they face are people related. Let me recast that in a positive light: I believe better talent management would create greater opportunities for them and the businesses they lead. The job of any leader is made harder if he or she must drag an unwilling body of unsuitable people along with them. The inertia they produce impacts on timely execution of strategy, business results and, in the end, their own health. Shaping a company that prioritises the value of talent requires a deliberate decision to do so. How many companies do you know whose 5-year plan includes the words “Our people are our greatest asset” – and how few commit to it? In East Africa, becoming talent-led is such a radical step that any Executive Team should first gain consensus from above. By going to their Board and presenting the advantages of really investing in human-capital. Boards are there to look after the future, spotting opportunities for differentiation, growth and sustainability. Many directors will welcome this shift. McKinsey says most directors believe they are effective on strategy, yet very few feel they are doing a good job developing people and ensuring that the company has a robust culture. One way for them to make this contribution would be to reshape the Compensation Committee as a Talent and Rewards Committee instead. This would also begin to address the motivation needs of our growing Millennial workforce. With senior consensus in place, the CEO can turn his attention to ensuring that talent is integral to every strategic decision he makes. If his Bank is about to launch a new brand campaign he should consider seriously whether he have the talent to deliver the promises it will make to the market. Up front, and well before he spends the money on advertising because by then it will be too late to fix. Writers in Harvard Business Review recommend a top tier partnership between the CEO, CFO, and Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO). A team able to pair the deployment of financial capital and human capital together for greater success. They would likely redesign their talent recruitment process to prioritise hiring on attitude and personality fit over paper credentials or even vocational experience. And they would be agile enough to hire and promote the right talent for specific strategic initiatives. In doing so they may manage to replace hierarchy with a meritocracy that opens opportunities for the most talented people at any level in their company - in the longer term.