The government will conduct a factory to factory consultation to fast track the privatisation of state-owned sugar companies, the privatisation commission has said. The first consultative meeting will take place at the Muhoroni Sugar Factory on Thursday. The decision was reached after industry players asked the commission to adopt the strategy, saying each company has unique problems. Council of Governors chairman for the agriculture committee Okoth Obado said there is need to comprehensively engage major players before privatisation is done. “We cannot collectively say that we are going to privatise our sugar industry yet thorny issues like land ownership and benefits of shareholders are not properly addressed,” Obado said. He asked the commission to ensure sugarcane farmers are actively involved in public participation. Obado, who is also the Migori Governor, said counties should be involved. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang asked the players to live by their commitments and support the privatisation process. Sang said previous resolutions made have not been implemented. “It is time we get serious with privatisation. The sugar sector forms the basis for the livelihood of thousands of locals and every stakeholder should take that into account,” Sang said. He asked leaders from sugarcane growing regions to remain committed to the privatisation process. Sang also asked the National Land Commission to undertake land assessment of the factories to be privatised. "That will ensure the factories have title deeds," he said Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili said the county must be engaged in the consultations because it hosts most of millers to be privatised. The government wants to privatised Muhoroni, Miwani, Chemelil, Sony and Nzoia sugar companies. The first three are all in Kisumu county. “The opinions of cane growing counties and Council of Governors must be considered,” Owili said. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa asked NLC to effectively address land ownership dispute involving the factories before privatisation. Outa said counties will revive the factories to create employment opportunities if the commission fails to find investors. The privatisation of the five state-owned sugar millers started in 2008. The delay has been attributed to land ownership disputes, interest of cane farmers and the share to be given to county governments where the factories are situated. The major issue include interest of cane farmers, land ownership and amount of share the county governments where these factories are situated should be allocated to them by the National Government where 25 percent has been proposed.