Police in Eldoret are looking for more than 10 suspects behind the fake Kenya Defence Forces calling letters scam. Military police on Sunday arrested 132 people as they reported at Moi Barracks Recruits Training College in Eldoret. The victims paid between Sh200,000 to Sh600,000 for the bogus letters. Four suspects have been arrested- two in Eldoret and another two in Nairobi. The prime suspect was nabbed in Zimmerman, Nairobi, on Monday. Eldoret police are looking for more than 10 suspects behind the fake Kenya Defence Forces calling letters scam that netted millions of shillings. Recruitment is free. Military police on Sunday arrested 132 people as they reported at Moi Barracks Recruits Training College in Eldoret. The victims paid Sh200,000 to Sh600,000 for the bogus letters. Police said there were 65 fake letter last year. The number soared this year despite intense public education.     The suspects were released yesterday.  Eldoret West Police boss Samwel Mutunga yesterday told the Star they were freed because KDF had not provided documents to enable police to charge them in court. The does not allow police to hold suspects for more than 24 hours. Mutunga blamed KDF for not cooperating with the police and said most suspects had been freed unconditionally. Others were released on police free bond and a few were released on a cash bail. He said they needed statements from vetting officers and others involved in admissions at the RTC where the youth were arrested. State counsel in charge of North Rift Zachary Omwenga said his office had  not receieved files for the suspects to allow police to prefer charges. “We just learned of the arrests through the media. We have no files on them, so we cannot process any prosecutions,” Omwenga said. Last week police in Eldoret  arrested two men found masquerading as KDF recruiters. Another two were arrested in Nairobi. The prime suspect was nabbed in Zimmerman, Nairobi, on Monday. Police are looking for their accomplices who received bribes from people across the country. Eldoret West police boss Mutunga said the suspects are being held in various police stations and would be taken to court. “We are still investigating and we will ensure all those involved in the major rip-off are brought to book,” he said. KDF personnel chief Brigadier Martin Ong’oi said the 132 suspects were arrested after presenting fake letters. “The letters cannot be confirmed to have been issued by KDF. We have handed over the suspects to civil police for investigations,” Ong’oi said. “We are going on with the admission and only genuine calling letters will be accepted,” he said.Other suspects escaped soon after arriving at the college gate, he said. “When we started the recruitment on March 12, it was clearly announced that it was free. Corruption is not allowed,” Ong’oi said. “Since recruitment of KDF officers started, there were intensive campaigns cautioning against conmen claiming to be in a position to offer RTS training opportunities.” Ong’oi said it was unfortunate such a huge number of young Kenyans have been conned. He said more letters are in circulation and warned the public that the fake documents are not from KDF.