Five men who ate and slept in a house in which they stole property from were arrested on Sunday in Matuu, Machakos County. The suspects were arrested after they were flashed out from their hideouts by members of the public. According to neighbours, the suspected spent a week in the house as they worked on a plan to move items during the night. The owner of the house, business man Michael Matheka, had traveled to Wote town in Makueni County with his family. Read: Four suspected thugs shot dead in Parklands, guns recovered Initially, neighbours thought the robbers were Matheka's relatives. However, they became suspicious and alerted the police after they noticed the suspects moving household goods from the house at night. The household goods, estimated at Sh 650,000, included electronics, furniture, clothing, bedding, food and kitchenware. Police mounted a raided at the home but did not find anyone. The suspects had already escaped into nearby thicket after police shot on the air on arrival. "The thugs were not in a hurry, they had a field day drinking, eating and sleeping on my bed including those of my children while moving out household goods to their hideouts at night," Matheka said. The incident occurred barely a kilometer from Matuu Police Station. Matheka said the criminals, who were over ten in number, ate fish from his fishpond located within the compound and cooked Ugali in his house for the entire week. Matuu police boss Edward Changach said some items were recovered during the Sunday arrest. They include electronics. He said the arrested suspects led police to their hideouts where some of the items were recovered A manhunt for the other suspects, including a KDF soldier, is ongoing. Changach said police are using leads provided by the suspects in custody to pursue their accomplices. He expressed confidence that all the criminals will be brought to book as soon as possible and thanked members of the public for their assistance.  Click here for the latest political news