Infertile women are over 50 per cent more likely to become pregnant if they are treated with two key hormones, new research suggests. Among infertile women undergoing IVF after two unsuccessful attempts, 54.3 per cent become pregnant and 51.4 per cent go on to have a live birth after receiving the growth hormones estradiol and progesterone, a study found. This is compared to just 17.1 per cent of barren women who try IVF for a third time without these hormones, the research adds. Estradiol and progesterone are thought to improve blood flow to the lining of the uterus, preparing it for egg implantation. Researchers plan to investigate whether women suitable for such treatment can be identified before having to endure repeated IVF failures. Infertility affects around 11 per cent of women and nine per cent of men of a reproductive age in the US. Around one in seven couples in the UK struggle to conceive. Further research required to identify eligible women Results further suggest that among women having IVF for the first time without such hormones, 74.3 per cent become pregnant and 68.6 per cent go on to have a live birth. Women who successfully have IVF on their first attempt are thought to have thicker womb linings. Lead author Signe Altmäe said: "A question arises as to how to identify the target patient population without the need to experience several previous treatment failures. "The answer to this question is pending on the understanding of the mechanism through which growth hormones improve endometrial receptivity. 'VERY POSITIVE RESULTS' Dr Hana Visnova, medical director at the fertility clinic IVF Cube in Prague, who was not involved in the study, added: "These are very positive results and certainly appear to point the way to improved and more bespoke IVF treatment. "Previous research has shown that the quality of eggs produced by a donor is potentially made better if they have been taking growth hormones. "This has been noted in observations of a higher number of eggs collected, higher fertilisation rates and the higher number of embryos reaching the transfer stage. "What this trial has done is to look at another piece of the IVF jigsaw and that is whether or not the uterus can be stimulated to be more receptive to egg implantation. "It has found a clear difference in success rates between women of similar IVF experiences and is certainly a line of research which demands further exploration. "Potentially, the use of grown hormone to improve the receptiveness of the uterus to a donated egg is significant." The researchers analysed 105 women, aged between 30 and 51, who were divided into three groups between 2010 and 2017. The first group consisted of women who had undergone two unsuccessful rounds of IVF, and were given estradiol orally and progesterone intravaginally before their third attempt. In the second group, women had also twice failed to conceive with IVF and were not given the hormones before undergoing a third round. The third group of women had their first cycle of IVF and were also not given the hormones. All of the eggs came from donors under 25 years old. Click here for the latest local political news