Nameless has been in the music industry for over 20 years now and yes, we can not deny that he is surely an icon today. He began his journey with the late E-Sir, though death took him away at a young age. It is more than a decade since Kenya's fastest rising artiste Issah Mmmari, aka E-Sir, lost his life in an accident on March 16,
2003. He was on his way back to Nairobi from a concert at Afraha
Stadium, Nakuru town, to help promote his debut album, whose songs remain
club bangers to date. E-Sir was an inspiration and a mentor to many and for that matter, the image of an evolving youth urban music culture. He had done some collaborations with Nameless, which include Boomba Train, which will forever be in our history. Well, Nameless recounted his musical twin, whom he was ruling with then. "I
met E-Sir in a splash after he had joined Ogopa and we became friends.
We would do shows together and later sit down and talk about how the
show was. "We would commute in a mathree. Some
people would hate and he would hear guys hating on our music style
because they were doing music differently, and he would later come and
tell me, yoh these people are hating so much, let's come together and
become a power house. "That is how Boomba and Maisha were born. Boomba worked well for us and till today,
that has become my pillar and it always give me energy to move on in my
shows, because it talks about what we used to talked about, the
struggles and how we wanted to overcome them. "When I started touring with E-Sir, I was big in the music industry and so I
always made sure that I was the one who fungaas the show to maintain
the audience. He would start and I would finish the show, then I would
call him back to do Boomba. "Our last show with E-sir, we were in Nakuru. E-Sir used to study the market so fast and adjust his writing. "I
remember after some shows, he had become big and now he was the one who
would even funga the show. That day he fungaad the show, and I came
later to do Boomba," Nameless recalled. He then talked about the accident. "I
did not know from the time I was taken to hospital when it all happened. I was told he was in a different hospital. I had no phone or other way of reaching him. "My
bro came from Nairobi. I asked everyone and no one told me. My brother
is the one who told me, 'E-Sir didn't make it. It did not sink in, like
you know you were with someone and then you are told they are no more,
it cannot sink in. I changed and entered in a car but when in, is when
Boomba was played, and all I remember is the presenters announced it. At this point is when I broke down and that is when it sank in. I cried and as I was
hearing his song playing, I could feel like he was talking to me. "Moving
on without him was hard for some moment. My wife always tells me that
something in me changed. It took me back and I remember going to perform
a song in his remembrance. I remember when performing, I still had an
injury but getting on stage and the love I felt for E-Sir just made me
say that despite him going, I had to keep the fire going."