The symbolic handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ‘People’s President’ Raila Odinga on the steps of Harambee House on March 9 brought a sense of calm to a nation that had experienced a protracted political process. The handshake also sent shockwaves across the political fault lines, taking the political class back to the drawing board to figure out their next move, or risk irrelevance altogether. Politicians now have to restrategise to realign themselves with the renewed friendship between these two dominant figures in Kenyan politics. Technically, the majority of politicians from both camps thrived on the prolonged rivalry between the two leaders. Last year’s elections exposed the fault lines in this country, and the two factions took very radical positions in their quest for power. Uhuru won the polls, and enjoys the majority in Parliament. Raila’s camp, however, continued with their quest for power, with their rallying call to overhaul the electoral system to achieve electoral justice. The relationship between the Kenyatta and Odinga families is that of competition and mutual cooperation. Jomo Kenyatta, Kenya’s foremost Founding Father and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, the First Vice President, and a Founding Father, were both nationalist leaders, who campaigned against British rule. The two, however, severed ties when Odinga resigned as Kenyatta’s deputy in 1966 to form the Kenya People’s Union, over ideological differences. Their sons would years later meet in the Moi government, where they served as Cabinet ministers. Uhuru, the preferred successor to Moi, would, however, lose to Mwai Kibaki, whom Raila actively campaigned for in the 2002 election under the Narc banner. The two would, however, work together in the 2005 constitutional plebiscite, Kenya’s first national referendum, under the Orange movement, when they resoundingly defeated Kibaki’s camp. They later went separate ways. Uhuru supported Kibaki’s reelection in 2007, which Raila claimed was rigged. They would, however, work together again in the coalition government, with Uhuru as one of the two deputies under Raila, the Prime Minister. UNEMPLOYED YOUTH However, the relationship between these two dominant political families — behind the scenes — is still close, with ties that have spanned decades. It is no wonder that a section of Kenyans would see the rivalry between the two as one that is stage-managed. This relationship mirrors the proposition of the elite theory in the social sciences, which maintains that power and economic distribution is closely concentrated within the elites. Young people, the majority of them unemployed, support national leaders, and when the political class is involved in a competition, the hopes of these youths depend on the goodwill of the politicians to solve their differences peacefully. Unfortunately, young people are tools of political competition. The threat of violence during the electoral period is usually imminent, and, to no one’s surprise, it is often the young people who are on the frontlines. Sadly, some of them lose their lives in confrontations with opposing groups, and the police. Beyond 2017, commentators observed that the curtains were coming down on the two families’ hold on Kenyan politics, arguing that Uhuru and Raila might be the last politically active members of their families. However, given the truce between the two, it now appears that they have no intention of letting go of their influence on national politics. Besides laying the ground for a national dialogue and seeking unity, the two caught their supporters flat-footed, with their allies having to change tune and tact overnight. The removal of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula as the Minority leader in the Senate might confirm this narrative. Elevation of another party to national politics remains a mirage, as long as Kenya’s political dynasties maintain a firm grip on politics and economic distribution. In a sense, it’s a pipe dream for any aspiring politician to imagine outmanoeuvring these dynasties, given the amount of resources, closely guarded networks in government and business and cross-community support. In the days to come, it is important we further interrogate the Kenyatta-Odinga deal, and how the youths will benefit from it. Failure to do so will only confirm worries that we are pawns in their games. As one Twitter user observed, “One puts us in front of the barrel, while the other pulls the trigger.    Nkuubi is the executive director, Governance Pillar Organization, while  Muruaru comments on topical issues