Foreign investors' appetite for local property has led to an exponential rise in land prices, 24 fold in two decades. Knight Frank Kenya director of property management Maina Mwangi says that Upper Hill and Westlands area remain the most attractive settlements for the investors. "In 1998, while viewing Nairobi from the top of Kenyatta International Conference Centre  all one could see were residential areas and trees. Years later, the two are the most attractive spots for foreigners to set up office, corporates and startups,” Mwangi said. Knight Frank, one of the foreign investors in Westlands from 1999 has been in the country for the last 20 years, having set base from London through Chartered properties which later changed its name to Knight Frank. Mwangi attributed the migration of company offices from the city centre to increasing congestion and insecurity.This saw Upper Hill transform from a residential neighbourhood to a commercial one, followed by Westlands, Lavington, Karen and Runda. Land values were not as high in these locations as it was in the city centre. Nairobi’s Karen neighborhood also experienced rapid growth from the early 2000s, with many of the original five and 10 acre plots developing into modern housing clusters with shared amenities such as club houses, gyms and swimming pools. Land prices in the area soared from about Sh2.3 million per acre to the current levels of over Sh50 million per acre, where they have now stabilised. The property manager predicts that despite unreasonable increase in land prices over the years, there will be no real estate burst. “Probably some corrections, but people are not going to see a 200 to 300 per cent growth in 10 years as it has happened before.” Houses currently sell for around Sh80 million to Sh110 million in Karen, although record prices are being achieved for larger stand-alone houses with more substantial gardens. “ After the 2003 elections, that’s when we started seeing real jams in real estate investments, everyone though it was a burst but the market proved them wrong,” he said. Leasing rates ranged from Sh25 to Sh35 per square foot in the city centre and Sh45 per square foot in Westlands, compared to to-date, the rates go from about Sh80 and Sh120 per square foot respectively. “This is something we should all anticipate especially if proper infrastructure and utilities are not sustainably put in place...we need master plans that can be followed to the letter,” Mwangi said. 