Self-styled NRM general Miguna Miguna on Friday denounced the Uhuru-Raila deal as a betrayal of those killed while protesting against the outcome of the General Election. He said the pact is a stepping stone to an authoritarian state run by the two families that have been at the centre of Kenya’s politics since Independence. The lawyer, who was deported on February8, has pledged to return to Kenya on March 26 to carry on with the push for electoral reforms and social justice. [Statement] Miguna rejects Raila's 'betrayal' after waking up in Canada “The reconciliation is not intended to help unemployed youth get jobs and the homeless get housing. It is not intended to help struggling workers, professionals and the middle class secure their future and livelihoods,” Miguna said. “It is meant to cement the 55-year domination by a few elites and families over more than 99 per cent of suffering Kenyans.” He said more than 380 people died in protests between August and November last year, and added that he is currently stuck in Canada because of supporting Raila’s mock swearing in. Read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say The lawyer was arrested in February,  held incommunicado and shuttled between various police stations and courts in Nairobi and charged in a Kajiado court with witnessing an illegal oath. He was deported to Canada after Justice Luka Kimaru ordered that he be produced in his court. The state claimed that he is a Canadian citizen who had renounced his Kenyan identity, an allegation he denied. “As Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta toast, hug and laugh in Nairobi, I remain marooned in Canada because I swore the former in at Uhuru Park on January 30. I am here against my will. I am here despite the fact that I have a birthright to be in Kenya,” Miguna said in his statement. He pledged to continue pushing for “fundamental structural and institutional changes Kenyans deserve”. Read: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya  Click here for the latest political news