The DPP selection panel has shortlisted three applicants to replace Keriako Tobiko who was appointed Environment CS. The team settled on Lucy Kambuni, Jacob Nyakundi, and Noordin Haji. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to choose one person from the three and send the name to Parliament for vetting. After the vetting, the name will be sent to the president for formal appointment. The successful candidate will be eligible to serve a 8-year term, "and shall not be eligible for re-appointment." The Director of Public Prosecutions post fell vacant after Tobiko was appointed Environment and Forestry Cabinet Secretary. Read: Uhuru keeps six CSs, nominates Tobiko, Munyes and Ukur Yatani In a February 2 gazette notice, Kennedy Kihara (Office of the President), Maryann Njau
(Attorney General’s office) and Lilian Omollo (Ministry of Public
Service) were appointed to the selection panel. Others members are Kagwiria Mbogori (Kenya National Commission on
Human Rights), Elizabeth Muli (Law Society of Kenya), Francis Atwoli
(Central Organisations of Trade Unions) and Halakhe Waqo (Ethics and
Anti-Corruption Commission). The team advertised the
position and invited applications from qualified Kenyans hence the shortlist of 
those who met the requirements for interviews. Article 157 (3) of the Constitutions spells that a person qualified for DPP should have the same qualifications of a judge of theHigh Court. The DPP has power to direct the Inspector-General of the National Police Service to investigate any information or allegation of criminal conduct. The Constitution says that the Inspector-General shall comply with any such direction. During her vetting for DCJ post in 2013, Kambuni promised she would fight corruption within
court corridors, help reduce case backlogs and "stop the culture of
judicial officers being puppets of the Executive." Nyakundi is the deputy Director Public Prosecutions and head of county
affairs and regulatory prosecutions at the ODPP. He is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. Noordin is the son of Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. He has had a career spanning many years at the National Intelligence Service. He is currently a senior director. Click here for the latest political news