Some members of the Luo community are
concerned with the latest trend by their Council of Elders led by Willis Otondi.
They claim they are serving the interests of the political elite and not the
community's. Yesterday, the elders dismissed Miguna Miguna's tribulations at the JKIA
as cheap sideshows, something that has not gone down well with the community. An MP from Homa Bay was heard telling colleagues that the Luo community has no
elders and wondered "since when have you seen elders clad in khaki trousers and
eating chips and kuku (chicken) in a high-end hotel?" ***** A former Jubilee MP has become a bother
at Harambee House Annex. She is said to be looking for a job
after losing last year’s polls. She recently visited the office of the DP
begging for an appointment, but was stunned after she was told off for
sabotaging a deal struck before the elections. The DP had asked her to support
her rival during the Jubilee primaries. She agreed but changed her mind
48 hours later and declared she would go for the nominations. After winning
the nominations she lost at the ballot to an independent candidate whom the DP
had predicted to have been the strongest. Would she land a job even after
giving the independent candidate sleepless nights during campaigns? Well, time
will tell. ***** A team of arrogant police officers
have pitched camp at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development flyover
along Thika Superhighway. They are targetting matatus for extortion, sources
tell Corridors. The officers arrest touts every morning during weekdays, despite
having all the required documents, allegedly. The officers in civilian
clothes reportedly operate with impunity, bullying and intimidating motorists. They claim to be politically correct. Well, we thought Vigilance
House should know. ***** The dramatic standoff between the government and
self-proclaimed NRM General Miguna Miguna over his entry into the country has
not only seen Opposition and Jubilee members sympathise with him, but also blame
each other for being behind his woes. Word has it that some Jubilee MPs’
dalliance with ODM after the famous Raila-Uhuru handshake is responsible for
the hard times that have befallen the vocal lawyer and NASA activist. It is
said the Jubilee members sympathised with Raila for attempting to rescue Miguna
in vain on Monday night at the JKIA. The lawmakers wondered why Raila,
who was the target of Miguna's severest criticism after the handshake with
Uhuru, should be standing with him as he fights for his freedom. ***** Well, according to a former political prisoner, Miguna is
just enjoying the political limelight.  Click here for the latest political news