From the day President Donald Trump was declared winner of the 2016 presidential election, Democrats immediately, as a way of coping with this shocker, wrote off his presidency and looked forward to ousting him in 2020. They also immediately concluded the best gift they can give America is, at least, taking back control of the House, and even possibly the Senate, come this November. And were that to be the case, Trump’s last two years in office would practically be rendered useless in terms of having any significant impact on Americans, let alone global life. Little did they know Trump is the gift that keeps giving in that he has lived up to the expectations of being the most inexperienced, most unprepared, and, some say, most unhinged person to occupy the White House, such that Democrats not only stand a very good chance of regaining control of both legislative Houses but also sending him packing come 2020. That is if he will not have been impeached or resigned. Indeed, the telltale signs are everywhere that Democrats are poised to come back in a big way and sweep Trump and his mess out of the White House. For example, in the latest special election for a vacant House seat in Pennsylvania, in a district Trump won by over 20 points, and in another they haven’t won or even bothered to vie in the last 15 years, the Democrats are poised to bag the win. President Trump campaigned for the race’s Republican candidate in a weekend rally outside of Pittsburgh just two days before the election, and the party spent millions of dollars on the race to prevent an embarrassing defeat. But neither was enough as the Republican candidate is trailing and is expected to lose when all votes are counted. Some minor vote counting remains pending, but will not erase the margin of victory at hand for the Democrats. What’s interesting about the Democrat who has won this race is not because he pulled a miracle in winning this race; rather, it is how he did it and why that’s significant. It is akin to a NASA candidate pulling off a victory in a parliamentary election in Gatundu, flooring a Jubilee candidate. That’s not supposed to happen. The Democratic Party candidate won, not by trashing Trump as every Democrat expected him to, but by simply focussing on who he is and what he can do to make a difference in Washington — representing the people of this district. This was a smart move. In politics, there comes a time to know when to stop endless bickering and name-calling, even though both are useful in rallying the blind followers, and appeal to the sense of those with enough dignity and sense of duty to recognize leadership is about rising above the mediocre and doing something that sets you apart for generations to come. The latter is what Uhuru and Raila did in their handshake, which caught everyone flat-footed, including their most loyal insiders. To be sure, there are those shortsighted, narrow-minded, irrational and blindly radical who fail to recognise there’s a time for revolution and a time for governance, best understood by the wiser, more rational, and those imbued with a sense of nationalism. They are condemning Uhuru and Raila for shaking hands and agreeing to collaborate. May the two leaders now put some meat on this shaking of hands such that, regardless of which camp one belongs to, Kenyans can, as a whole, reap the benefits, notwithstanding the bitter history of the past. I refer to none other than Raila himself, who has opted to join Uhuru and forge a new direction for the country.  The writer is a legal expert and political commentator in the US    