Normalcy is gradually returning to the troubled Mt Elgon region amid disease outbreak. Most schools closed due to insecurity have reopened, the Star established yesterday. People also returned to their farms while businesses were also opened. But hospitals remained closed. Read : Two suspects arraigned, remanded over Mt Elgon killings The facilities were closed after medics fled the area due to insecurity. Thirty people have been killed in Mt Elgon is attacks that have been attributed to land clashes. Residents of the Chepyuk Settlement Scheme complained of diarrhoea and vomit amid fears of cholera outbreak. The Kipsigon dispensary that serves the residents was closed when the Star visited.  MEDICS FLEE Speaking on the phone yesterday, Bungoma Health executive Antony Walela said the situation will remain the same until normalcy returns. “We can’t force our staff to go to areas that are risky. Security is key. We are praying that things normalise so that they return to work,” Walela said. He said they will organise mobile clinics if the situation worsens. Residents attributed the outbreak to the overcrowding at a camp without toilets. “We were forced to flee our homes for the camp. Our children have been affected here,:” Mary Chebet said. They have resorted to herbs. “We can’t risk walking to Chwele with children on our backs to seek medication,” Chebet said. Mostly of those affected are under the age of 10. They have appealed to the government and humanitarian organisations for help. ”Calm is slowly returning but we fear there could be deaths due to the diseases,” Moses Kipukut said. Also read : Rivals Kapondi, Serut in middle of Mt Elgon crisis, says rights report On Monday, two men appeared in a Bungoma court to face charges in connection with the killings. Alex Juma and Cleophas Sichei were taken to court under tight security. Juma was arrested in Uganda while on the run. The suspects did not take plea after the prosecution asked for more time to conclude investigations. Click here for the latest political news