Timothy Kitai, alias Cheparkach, is a wanted man. Police have offered Sh1 million to anybody giving information that leads to his capture. However, little was known about him until he emerged as a leader of the gang terrorising Mt Elgon. Cheparkach was born in 1989 in Masaek on the slopes of Mt Elgon, as the son of a primary school headteacher. He went Kabukwa and Cheptoror primary schools, where he dropped out in class five. His contemporary at Cheptori Primary School told the Star he was a rude boy and was always found in the wrong. “He was bully and I remember he dropped out of school after our class teacher in standard five wanted to administer corporal punishment on him for stealing teachers’ food in the classroom,” said the former classmate, who sought anonymity for fear of being victimised. Cheparkach’s father Jamin Kitai is said to have been always furious with him, and even drew a gun on him when he was 13. “I remember one day he stole Sh5,000 from his father. While we were grazing cattle, his dad, who was a no-nonsense man, accosted us with a gun in the grazing field,” said Amos Chemorion, his childhood peer. The bad boy ventured into farming at some point, where he cultivated huge tracts of land in Korngunty and Cherwandoi villages in Mt Elgon together with his mother Everlyn Kiso, who later migrated to Chepkitale. Cheparkach is said to have started crime at a tender age, leading to his arrest at the age the of 12. He was jailed at the Bungoma prisons after robbery with violence at a Cheptoror shop in 2006. During the incident, a girl was killed and money stolen, and Cheparkach and his gang arrested afterwards. He was tried and sentenced to seven years in prison before he was later acquitted by a presidential amnesty in 2013 at the age of 24 years. When he came out of jail, he is said to have become a hardened criminal, who mostly plied his trade in the Nandi hills. “He would occasionally come to the village loaded with cash and splashed it with his childhood friends,” Chemorion said. He described him as philanthropic person who could brag that despite being a robber, he would never steal at home. ESCAPED CUSTODY IN 2016 The Star has established that Cheparkach was never a member of the dreaded SLDF miltia because during its reign, he was serving his jail term at the Bungoma prisons. However, his younger brother Ndiwa Kitai, who is believed to be with him and is also on police wanted list, was one of the commanders of SLDF. He is described as a merciless and ruthless, a police source said. He is feared in the police ranks for his mastery in the use of the AK47 rifle. “He is the man who does the shooting. He is lethal. He has injured several officers during shootouts,” the officer said. During his mission to revenge on those who burned his house, Cheparkach also developed a high appetite for money. He robbed and killed business people for survival. He struck famers and shop owners who had made huge transactions during the day with the help of boda boda motorists who identified the possible preys. In February 2016, Cheparkach shocked policemen when he ran away from a police vehicle from a Kimilili court when he was being taken to prison. The escape led to the punishing of officers who were accused of colluding with him to escape. He later took refuge in the neighbouring Uganda and stayed for years before striking in his latest spate of attacks.   