The Western Kenya Human Rights Watch Group yesterday released a report detailing the killings in Mt Elgon. The group implicated two politicians and security officers as being behind the sorry state of affairs in the region. In the report released in Bungoma named “Whats wrong with Mt Elgon”, the organisation says the mayhem has claimed the lives of 35 people between February 1 last year and February 22 this year. The report says the killings are courtesy of political rivalry between area MP Fred Kapondi and his predecessor John Serut. “According to the majority of people interviewed ( 96%) the two are the major cause of the all the problems in Mt Elgon. The two were once friends and even Serut rented a house for Kapondi in Nairobi,” the report reads. "Those interviewed say each of them has his own militia group that they recruited." The rights watch report details how Serut is using a gang led Timothy Kitai, alias Cheparkach, and his brother Ngeywo Kitai, whom police have since put on their most-wanted list. Early this week in separate interviews, Kapondi and Serut blamed each other for the crisis at Mt Elgon. Serut said he has never been associated with any militia in Mt Elgon. He said he has been a victim and the group has been hunting him and his family. Serut said Kapondi is the owner of the SLDF. He said Kapondi created a monster in Mt Elgon. "Let him carry his own cross," Serut said. Kapondi also accused Serut of leadiing the gang. The MP said he has nothing to do with what is going on in the area. He said security agencies have the telephone records showing that a politician from Mt Elgon communicates with Cheparkach, a notorious criminal who is the leader of the gang terrorising residents. "It is my predecessor John Serut. I can say without any contradiction that Serut speaks to Cheparkach almost everyday using the mobile phone of his personal guards," the MP said. Kapondi said the killings are not being carried out by SLDF, but G-5 gang. "I link Serut with these G-5 boys because most of the members are associated with him... As a matter of fact, SLDF is no longer there," he said. During a recent visit by DP William Ruto, Kapondi claimed in a public rally that Serut was in contact with Cheparkach and he had evidence. But the report says Kapondi uses police officers from the Kipsegon GSU camp and those from the Flying Squad in Bungoma to revenge against the "Serut’s militia". “According to those interviewed, Kapondi after winning the election in August last year, he embarked on a strategy to silence dissenting voices within the ranks of former SLDF combatants who were allied to Serut,” the report reads. The report further claims he approached a senior officer, who agreed to send officers from the Flying Squad to region. The officers started hunting down the pro-Serut group, the report says. The report says there are sharp divisions between police officers working in the area because some are allied to Serut while others to Kapondi. The report was released by WKHRW chief executive Job Bwonya. It further also accused administrators in the region for fueling the conflict by allocating themselves huge tracts of land in the government Shamba System. A host of Interior ministry officials are listed as having big pieces of land in the forest, which they have leased out selectively. The government last month banned the Shamba System in the Mt Elgon. The report recommends that both Serut and Kapondi be investigated. It also recommends that the two brothers Cheparkach and Kitai be arrested The report also calls for the Flying Squad officers in the region to be investigated over abduction, torture and summarily execution. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday Kapondi dismissed the report, saying the human rights group should be investigated for fueling tension in the area. He also denied using police to hit at dissent voices, saying the gang is purely being funded by Serut. "Where is the evidence that I have been dictating to the police. There is absolutely none. All this is a creation of Serut, who has been cornered by police," he said.      