It is now two weeks after President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga met and agreed to work together and build bridges for the betterment of this deeply divided country. The surprise coming together of the sworn political nemeses after two acrimonious presidential elections in a year has left many politicians in the Rift Valley tongue-tied. Few are ready to comment, with many opting to let it sink in first. But not so for Deputy President William Ruto’s ally, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. Murkomen has been labelled a loudmouth by his critics but on this one, he is going flat out on what he believes is beneficial to his friend, the DP. After all, like his boss, he is aware of Raila’s serious political capital that anyone with huge dreams such as the DP would ignore only at his own peril. When Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula was being marinated in the Senate, Murkomen was on hand to ensure he did not survive. He made it clear to Wetang’ula that he was fighting a futile war against his removal as the leader of the Minority in the Senate. “Why are you forcing yourself on people who don’t like you to lead them?” Murkomen asked a visibly angry Bungoma senator, who said ODM should be ready for a messy divorce. Last Saturday, Raila flew to Murkomen’s turf to attend the burial of ODM treasurer Olga Karani’s father. Guess who was there to welcome him? You got it: None other than Murkomen, who later showered praises on the NASA leader, a man he previously criticized even when the situation didn’t call for criticism. Apart from its theme of building bridges for a new Kenya, many Kenyans have only a vague idea of what the agreement entails. But Murkomen may have let the cat out of the bag during the funeral, when he disclosed that Raila would be given a huge office and will be a happy man. But where were the rest of Elgeyo Marakwet leaders during the burial? The county has four constituencies (two on the Keiyo side and two in Marakwet) but none of the MPs, the governor or the woman rep came to give Raila a handshake. Why did they give the burial a wide berth? This and the silence among Rift Valley legislators speak volumes about the coldness with which the politicians view the historic handshake. However, they might not be opposed to Raila’s move and the impact on the DP’s 202 bid. The real bone of contention could be Murkomen, a man who has attracted many political enemies because of the brazen manner in which he wants the DP all to himself. Many a time the senator has employed covert means to keep other politicians meters away from the DP. Remember, since 2016, he has been a member of the coveted “Sky Team”, whose other prominent member was Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure KIndiki. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos is Murkomen’s archrival in the county, among other politicians. Apart from Energy CS Charles Keter, Murkomen is the other Rift Valley politician who enjoys unfettered access to the DP’s office. It is no wonder he is the lone voice in making sense of the meeting between the President and the former Prime Minister. The 39-year -old politician’s loyalty has earned him another five-year term as leader of Majority in the Senate. With these two offices under his belt and the perks they come with, Murkomen sees himself as the alpha politician, something that does not go down well with other politicians.  Jebet is a journalist and political analyst