Nairobi residents should expect more projects after MCAs allocated 32 per cent of Governor Mike Sonko's 2017-18 supplementary budget to development. The ward representatives increased the
development kitty by Sh5.6 billion from the initial Sh7.7 billion. This
brings the total to Sh13.3 billion - 32 per cent of the total budget,
which has increased from Sh33.6 billion to Sh41.5 billion. The
increase mainly targets metropolitan projects which the county is to
implement in partnership with the national government and four other
counties in Nairobi region. The projects include rapid mass
transport, roads, improvement of hospitals, street lighting,
and increased water supply. The assembly approved the changes on
Tuesday. City residents have in the past complained of stalled projects and poor services by the county government. According
to a status report released by the budget committee in January 2016,
about 181 projects worth Sh1.3 billion had stalled. Former governor
Evans Kidero during his time at City Hall blamed the problem of stalled projects on cash flow challenges. Sonko, had in the initial document, slashed his predecessor's budget by Sh2.2 billion, from Sh35.9 billion to Sh33.6 billion. Budget
and Appropriations Committee chairman Robert Mbatia said: "This
is a development-centred budget which mainly focuses on water, health
and infrastructure." "It is a promising a budget that will take care of of
not only new projects, but will also see old ones revived," Mbatia
said. Majority leader Abdi Guyo said the budget will clear the way
for development in the city has for several years received meager
allocations. "This budget will address the real issues that affect
Nairobi residents. It will help the governor realise his development dreams
because it captures his flagship projects," Guyo said. In the new
changes, water sub-sector will receive Sh255 million more from Sh62
million that it was allocated initially. Each of the 85 wards will
receive Sh3 billion for drilling of boreholes. This, the committee said,
was to address water shortage in the capital. In order to create
jobs for thousands of jobless youths, the MCAs increased allocation for
construction of kiosks in the wards was also increased to Sh25 billion
from Sh10 million. Some Sh32.4 million was allocated for electrification
of dispensaries. Another Sh350 million was committed towards
refurbishment of four stadia, among the City Stadium and  Joseph
Kang'ethe Grounds. In a bid to address  garbage menace in the city,
allocation for purchase of skips was increased to Sh53 million from Sh11
million. Click here for the latest political news