With his team struggling for goals and falling further away in the title race, Tusker coach Sam Timbe has challenged his forwards to be more clinical in front of goal if the brewers are to claw their way back into the Kenyan Premier League title race. “In our last match against Thika United, we failed to utilise our chances. Otherwise, we would have had all three points,” Timbe rued on the league’s official portal. “The chances we created should have been converted into goals. When they do that, then we will be in the right direction,” added the Ugandan tactician, who was brought on board to replace George Nsiimbe after a dismal title defence last year. With six matches into the campaign, however, there is no much difference in Tusker’s results this season and those gained at this stage last year. After six matches, the brewers have six points down in 12th spot. Goals have truly been hard to come by for Tusker with only two scored thus far. The brewers have failed to find the back of the net in five matches and have been involved in three goal-less stalemates—the kind of form normally associated with relegation candidates. The 10-time champions will be hoping that their forwards including new boys, Amos Asembeka and Matthew Odongo, do find their scoring boots when they come up against fellow title hopefuls Sofapaka tomorrow. Meanwhile, ahead of this weekend’s tie against Kariobangi Sharks, Thika United coach Nicholas Muyoti has rued the numerous chances his side continue to waste as they search for the elusive first win of the campaign. Thika missed a good opportunity to take all three points against Tusker with James Kinyanjui, who had come in for Saad Musa, blasting wide with the goal post at his mercy after a good cut-back pass from Dennis Lewa. “It wasn’t an easy game and I am happy we managed to come out with at least a point. My strikers need to be clinical in front of goal. My defenders did well and that was very important. We haven’t had a win so far but I believe we are improving and it’s just a matter of time before we get one,” Muyoti said after the goal-less draw against the brewers. Thika will take heart with the fact that, in spite of the absence of several key players, they held their own against Tusker and Mathare United, two sides considered as title challengers.