Muslims for Human Rights has organised a demonstration to block Deputy President William Ruto from launching Jomvu Kuu-Rabai road on Friday. The group says this follows an excruciating water shortage in the area. Area MP Badi Twalib said engineers working on the road that also connects to Mombasa's Superhighway destroyed water pipes leading to the scarcity. He said the situation has persisted since last July with no repairs done on the destroyed sections of the supply line. The women in the constituency on Monday said they have had to fight rape while looking for the commodity at night. Read:  No water, no sex: Jomvu women move to end biting scarcity Muhuri Deputy Executive Director Rahma Gulam on Thursday said the government "cannot substitute water with roads". "We don't want a road without water. What is the priority here?" he posed. Mombasa Water Service Company has informally denied the claims and responsibility. Mowasco earlier said they would tour the area on before issuing a comprehensive press statement. Coast Water Service Board last month said no pipe burst has been reported. But Gulam noted that water is a basic commodity and a constitutional right. "The government needs to take serious action to address this teething challenge. The fact that a girl was sexually abused while searching for water clearly shows the magnitude of the problem we are dealing with," he said at his office in Nyali, Mombasa. Gulam insisted that any project that brings distress should be abandoned. "For Muslims and of course any woman, water is vital after intimacy," he said noting that reports filed by Tawlib and his Changamwe counterpart Omar Mwinyi had not been acted on. "The negative consequences of the project cannot be cushioned anymore. Lives have become miserable," she said. Work on the 10km Mombasa-Jomvu dual carriageway stretch is ongoing. It is the first phase of the 41km Mombasa-Mariakani road project. The construction of the superhighway is expected to take two and a half years. The road starts at the junction of Kenyatta Avenue and Digo Road in Mombasa CBD and runs to Makupa area and to Changamwe. It then runs through Changamwe, Mikindani junction, Kwa Jomvu, Miritini and Mazeras before ending beyond the Mariakani Weighbridge. Click here for the latest political news