World Wide Fund for Nature has said it would invest in communities to plant one billion trees by 2050. WWF Kenya chief executive officer Mohamed Awer told the Star on Wednesday the organisation will invest Sh1 billion for the next four years in areas that include Bomet, Narok, Nyandarua, Makueni, Lamu and Kwale. "We want to go beyond the 10 per cent forest cover. We will support the government's efforts. Kenyans should take up environmental issues more seriously," he said. "We believe investment in forests, conservation and management should not be a constitutional requirement, but should be given a business approach." Awer said forest resources should contribute significantly to our national economy. A small county like Sweden has less than one per cent of the global forest cover, but it produces 10 per cent of all forest materials traded globally such as timber, pulp and paper, he said Out of that, the country earned 120 million Swedish krona, which is about Sh1.5 trillion. Awer said this is enough money to support Kenya's budget for a year. He urged the government to invest in institutions such as Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Forest Research Institute and community forest associations. The state should provide an enabling environment for people to engage in tree planting for commercial purposes, he said. He said Kenyans can reap big from tree growing. "The private sector must also invest in down stream forestry by providing markets for timber, pulp and paper. Collectively, we are going to transform our country and we will no longer be talking about 10 per cent forest cover, but 53 per cent and above," he said. On Wednesday, KFS Board chairman Peter Kinyua said over 102,000 trees seedlings were planted during the commemoration of International Day of Forests.The day which was marked at Wangari Maathai corner in Karura Forest. Some 10,000 seedlings were planted in area and 2,000 seedlings each in 46 counties. This is part of a robust programme the Board has put in place to fasttrack realisation of 10 per cent national tree cover by 2022 and 15 per cent by 2030, Kinyua said.       