The news of Louis Otieno and Swaleh Mdoe being in financial doldrums got a lot of tongues wagging and opinions were churned out by everyone. I will not be left behind. Here are my thoughts to Kenyans and when I say Kenyans I’m talking about all the voters, not only celebrities but each and every taxpayer. When life is dope and you're the cock with the mostest, you will have hangabouts and guys willing to blow your trumpet and kiss your a**. Here is the thing, never ever mistake that for true friendship...or loyalty. It’s simply humans associating themselves with your success. That is a normal life occurrence! Kenyans worship money, so the one with money is a demigod and for you to remain relevant, and for your calls to be picked, always, you better be rich forever! You need that whiff of affluence to still get invited to hot plans and trendy events that evoke serious FOMO (yaani, fear of missing out). So, those thinking or hoping that your drink buddies will come to your rescue once the money/wealth is gone is a big fat dream and L.I.E. That will never happen, my brother. The same bootlickers will find a new Gideon boot to lick, that’s the law of the land!!!! So when you are on top of your game please invest! Save! Get a dope health insurance and always be ready for a rainy day because when the storm comes even that umbrella you own will not be enough too shield you from the reality of fake friends! Now that we know life is full of wolves in sheepskin, I’m inviting you all to Ngoma Festival at Carnival Gardens this evening. Here, Kenyan legends, the likes of Nameless, Pilipili, Mr Lenny, Jimwatt, Nazizi, Wyre, Redsan and Jua Cali, among others, will be live on stage. Come with your friends but also your family because the people who will have your back when shit hits the fan, is family. Here is a parting shot from babu himself, Swaleh Mdoe recently tweeted, "Kenya is 84billion broke"-CS Rotich. So if the GoK can be broke why are people surprised when I declared that I am in a financial crisis? Just thinking aloud."