The outlawed and decimated Sabaot Lands Defence Forces (SLDF) germinated from the
Chepyuk Phase III Settlement Scheme. The extended family of the late Wycliffe Komol Matwakei, who
would later turn out to be the commander of the militia, occupied a large chunk
of the land but lost it under a government-sponsored controversial resettlement
plan. When the pleas by the local leaders to stop the allocation
were ignored, youths took up arms to resist the evictions. The SLDF was born,
bringing to the fore age-old land issues that had been overshadowed by routine
inter-clan feuds. Land disputes in Mt Elgon are traceable to the 1930s
when the Sabaots were displaced from their ancestral land in Kitale plateau by White
settlers. A report by the William Carter Land Commission thereafter recommended
an 80,000 hectare-land compensation scheme to the community for the loss of
their Kitale land. The exercise to resettle the dispossessed people of the area
started in 1968 on a 3,000-hectare piece of land in Chepyuk. The Mosop and the Ndorobo clans were the first lot of
beneficiaries. They would later sell their plots to the Soy and move back to the
forest where they reared livestock. But in 1989, then Western provincial commissioner Francis
Lekolool nullified the entire settlement plan for Chepyuk Phase III. After
complaints from original beneficiaries and some Ndorobo youth, fresh
allocations, divided into two phases, began. These fresh allocations resulted in some families being
rendered landless. But the government allowed them to stay on their pieces of
land, pending its formalisation. The final settlement commenced in 1998 but was not concluded
until 2005, when it met resistance from the Soy. The Soys claimed the 2005 “reallocation” of the land was not
consultative, and ignored the history of the area’s land problems. That’s when one Matwakei from one of the affected families, took
to the forest with other Soy youths to defend their land. The SLDF formation
received support from Phase III evictees, with some well-off members of the
sub-group pledging material support and food for the militia. Within a few months of its formation, the group is alleged
to have mobilised a membership of more than 4,000 who underwent military
training in two camps in Trans-Nzoia and Mt Elgon. Under the leadership of the slain Matwakei, the militia
initially attacked and killed the alleged Phase III land beneficiaries
including the Ndorobo, as well as the surveyors who took part in the land
allocation. Soy kinsmen perceived as collaborators with the government were
also targeted and slaughtered. SLDF operated like the outlawed Mungiki of central Kenya,
imposing compulsory monthly contributions of money and farm produce upon the residents
of the area. After Matakwei was killed in the brutal Okoa Maisha
Operation by the KDF in May 2008, the group was subdued. However, many locals
still fear that SLDF is just latent, and the upsurge of the killings by the G-5
is attributed to its adherents or remnants. To some, G-5 is just the insurrection of the defunct SLDF.