Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua is campaigning for Ruguru MCA candidate Erastus Muriuki for the April 18 by-election. Gachagua said on Sunday that by electing a person from another party, voters will be letting the President’s party down. The legislator said Nyeri is a Jubilee Party zone and therefore there is no need to elect a person from another party.Ruguru has 10,000 voters. The MP addressed a church service at PCEA Mukandamia in his Mathira constituency in Nyeri county. He told residents that if they want change, then they must be ready to elect a leader who will join hands with other leaders. “Everybody is now rushing to join the party, including Nasa leader Raila Odinga, since this is the only party that is ready for development from the grassroots to the national level. Give me a leader with whom we shall work together,” he said. Earlier, Muriuki had urged the congregation to elect him saying he was equal to the task. The Mathira constituency seat in Nyeri county seems to be a two-horse race between Muriuki and lawyer Ndegwa Macharia of Maendeleo Chap Chap party. The seat was left vacant by MCA Peter Weru who collapsed while delivering his speech during the Jamuhuri celebrations last year. He died of a heart attack. The death, which shocked residents and colleagues, occurred less than a month after that of third area Governor, Wahome Gakuru who died in a road accident along Thika Superhighway. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said in Nyeri last week that the electoral body is ready for the by-election. “The commission is ready and arrangements are ready,” Chebukati said. He has been on a countrywide tour discussing the challenges facing the commission. Chebukati assured Kenyans that the commission would engage more with the public to support the IEBC offices in the county. Chebukati also ruled out the possibility of creating more constituencies before the population census next year. Some legislators in Nyeri had proposed splitting highly populated Kieni and Mathira into two wards.