Kiambu residents want the EACC to investigate allegations of violation of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act by the county government. Their petition, authored by Mutema Kuumu, was received on March 1 by the EACC, the Kiambu assembly and the county government. It outlines illegalities in five departments and want them investigated. The departments are Public Works, Finance, Roads, Trade and Land. Residents want the Commission to freeze the ongoing tender evaluation for feeder roads, alleging that the executive and the assembly are directly influencing the outcome of the process. They also want the EACC to audit all persons employed by the county government in the last six months. Residents also seek an audit of all pending bills that have been paid in the last six months. They also say there was an irregular awarding of tender for construction of water pans in Ndeiya and Nachu wards, and forcible dissolution of water companies. In Finance department, they alleged there was extreme favouritism in payment of pending bills, where only persons parting with hefty bribes were paid. They say there is irregular and noncompetitive employment of casual workers, harassment of older employees and withdrawal of mandates for ward administrators, whom they say continue drawing salaries without duty allocation. Residents also want the Commission to investigate illegal charges to county treasury on milk coolers, which they say were donated by the national government through the Kiambu Agriculture department. They also want the anti-graft agency to investigate the partitioning of rooms to accommodate Deputy Governor James Nyoro's office for Sh2 million, which the governor later had repartitioned. In the Public Works department and Roads, residents claim the Githurai bus park tender was awarded without any documentation. In Lands department, residents said there was no due tender process
for ongoing renovations at the Kiambu subcounty offices. In Trade department, they say the contractor started work at Limuru Market before designs were approved and there was no due tender
process. They also allege there was an irregular advertisement placed in the dailies on February 11 this year, which did not give interested parties time to access the tender documents and were not available in the official county website by the time of publication.