Environment CS Keriako Tobiko on Friday dismissed claims he snubbed a parliamentary committee meeting set to deliberate on issues affecting forest management. In a statement, he said he had official engagements and the Committee on Environment led by Kareke Mbiuki was aware of that. Tobiko had been invited for a tree-planting event in Ndakaini Dam to mark World Water Day on Thursday— the same day he was to appear before the House team. He sent PS Charles Sunkuli to represent him. But the committee said the CS should have honoured the invite before going to Ndakaini. Tobiko said, “I received an invitation from the House requiring me to appear before them on Thursday, but I wrote back to the chairman informing him I would not be available due to the tree-Planting event.” As a follow up to the letter, the CS also called the chairman on Thursday morning to explain the development. “Mbiuki seemed not to have any difficulty on the same, as we had a cordial chat — a chat that left me convinced a postponement would be mutually agreed on at the committee sitting,” he said. “I therefore proceeded with the engagements earlier lined up, including a successful tree-planting exercise with East Africa Breweries Ltd and the Ndakaini Dam Environmental Conservation Association, among other community groups, as part of the national tree-planting campaign.” conservation efforts The committee issued a fresh summons for Tobiko to appear before it on Thursday next week to brief them on the status of logging, the problems faced and the progress made by the ministry in forest conservation. Others are policy issues, the suspension of KFS officials and a ban on plastic bottles. Tobiko said he holds Parliament in high regard and would not ignore its invite. “I have learnt with surprise of the media reports attributed to the committee suggesting I snubbed a National Assembly departmental committee appointment. Nothing can be further from the truth,” he said. “My record as the immediate former Director of Public Prosecutions will bear me witness that I have always held Parliament and its departmental committees with utmost respect. “I have always attended committee and related sessions as required, providing detailed accounts on any queries as necessary. I remain committed to advancing even better relations with MPs throughout my tenure as a Cabinet Secretary.”