The Met department has allayed fears of a storm in parts of the country this Sunday. The claim was made on social media in a post that was accompanied by an infographic with the map of Africa. According to the map, the storm will arise from the Indian Ocean and hits the Coastal region and other parts of Kenya. Peter Ambenje, the Director of the Meteorological Departments, disputed this report but said there will be heavy rainfall. "Take the focus from us. The likelihood of a storm is zero ... when you talk about a storm you talk about something else which is very extensive," he told the Star on Friday. Ambenje said the "fake" map was meant to cause fears and confusion. "This is what confuses people. We are looking at different models ... we don't have any model saying there will be a storm from the Indian Ocean." Read: Kenyans have role to play in preventing deaths by heavy rains The Met department warned that the rainfall is likely to continue over counties in Western, South and Central Rift Valley on Friday. Southeastern, Northern (Isiolo and Samburu), Central parts of Kenya including Nairobi area and the Coast will also be affected but the intensity will be lower. According to the Climate Prediction Center’s Africa Hazards, heavy rains will hit Kenya, central Angola, southern DRC, northern Zambia, Tanzania, and southern Ethiopia next week. In the March 15 to 21 forecast, the group noted that rains will increase risks of flooding due to high potential for tropical cyclone formation over the south Indian Ocean. "Copious amounts of rain are forecast over southern and central Kenya during the next week, increasing risks for flash flooding over the Nairobi region," it said. At least nine people have died in massive destruction caused by torrential rains that continued to pound many parts of the country. Six people died in Mwingi, two in Kajiado and one student in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, as several roads were cut-off and cars submerged in floodwater. The Met department advised residents of urban and low-lying areas to be on the lookout for floods as it warned of more rain in the coming days. It warned that heavy rains will continue in many parts of the country for five days starting Wednesday. Click here for the latest political news