Tough-talking DCI boss George Kinoti yesterday promised a parliamentary team he would, in 24 hours, arrest individuals who have been sending nude photos and conning MPs. But he appealed to the Committee on Administration and National Security to protect DCI officers because some of those behind cyberbullying are “powerful individuals”. “Have confidence in us. We have the capacity to deal with these matters. Some of the sponsors behind the crimes are among us. We will act, that’s what I’m promising,” Kinoti told the Paul Koinange-led team at Continental House, Nairobi. “If you protect us on that, the principal offender will be exposed. The driving forces behind these crimes are elsewhere. They are being used, they have godfathers. When you see the battery of lawyers defending them, you ask yourself who could be behind them.” MPs last week complained they are bullied on the Internet and bombarded with nude photos and videos. They said those behind the scam are dangerous. Koinange assured Kinoti of Parliament’s protection and urged him to move with speed. “On any information you give us, no one will touch you. Just share the information and expose the godfather behind these people,” he said. Kinoti said the DCI has acquired a state-of-the-art laboratory to find out information on such matters. He said their probe will be “quick and prompt”. He will henceforth take responsibility for cases reported but not investigated on time. “We have DCI officers and offices across the country. Any matter that will be reported will be investigated on time. There will be zero tolerance to failure,” he said. The committee expressed concern that the con artists are creating fake accounts on social media using the identities of legislators. They blamed the police for inaction. “The work you are doing is not sufficient, DCI colludes with criminals,” Sirisia MP and committee vice-chairperson John Waluke said. Murang’a Woman MP Sabina Chege, a victim of cyberbullying, on Tuesday last week narrated how she was tormented. Other MPs also informed the House of their ordeals. Chege said an imposter used her phone number to register an M-Pesa account and used it to con unsuspecting members of the public. Safaricom official Joseph Ogutu said the firm will cooperate with security agencies in the ongoing investigations. He said mobile service providers have no right to delete offensive content. Read:Muturi intervenes after MPs cry for marriages over woman's nude photos Also Read:MPs to reveal identity of woman sending nude photos