Quins Frank Wanyama leads a second string Kenya Sevens squad for the Victoria Sevens tournament in Zimbabwe this weekend. Wanyama missed out on selection to the World Series squad, owing to examination but will have the honour of spearheading the youthful side as he seeks to get game time to be considered for the remainder of the series. Seven other players have World Sevens Series experience and they include Herman Humwa, Arthur Owira, Erick Ombasa, Augustine Lugonzo and Samuel Ng’ethe, who have been part of this season’s campaign as well as Derrick Mayar and Bush Mwale, who featured last season. Also making the traveling party is Ian Minjire as well as 2017 National Sevens Circuit MVP Mark Kwemoi, Levi Amunga and Brian Wahinya. Kenya are in Pool ‘B’ alongside hosts Zimbabwe, South African club side False Bay, Lesotho and Zambia’s second string side. They will open their campaign tomorrow morning with a match against False Bay (11:06am) before playing Zambia ‘B’ (2:24pm), Lesotho (4:36pm) and Zimbabwe (6.14pm) respectively. Pool ‘A’ features African champions Uganda, Zambia ‘A’, Zimbabwe’s Goshawks, Zambezi Steelers and Spartans. Assistant coach Will Webster expressed confidence that the squad selected will perform well at the two-day tournament and send a reminder to head coach Innocent Simiyu of their worth. “It’s a good blend of upcoming and experienced players and we want to test them in this event to see if they can set up to the main side and have depth in the squad,” he added. Webster expect stiff competition from the hosts Zimbabwe and Uganda as well as the South African side, False Bay. “It’s a competitive tournament, the calibre of teams are strong and we must at our best,” he added. Squad: Levi Amunga (Blak Blad), Ian Minjire (Impala), Herman Humwa (Quins), Augustine Lugonzo (Homeboyz), Brian Wahinya (Blak Blad), Frank Wanyama (Quins), Erick Ombasa (Menengai), Samuel Ng’ethe (Menengai), Arthur Owira (KCB), Mark Kwemoi (Impala), Derrick Mayar (Impala), Bush Mwale ( Homeboyz). Officials are —Will Webster (coach), Lamech Bogonko (physio) and Erick Ogweno (team manager).