Nyandarua North OCPD, Timon Odingo, yesterday accused Nyandarua majority leader, Kamau Gathungu, of insincerity concerning a carjacking
incident he dramatically survived at Ndaragwa forest ten days ago. On the evening of Saturday March 17, Gathungu was driving
alone when he allegedly found boulders placed 500 metres before connecting to
Nyahururu-Nyeri road. He said four men shone torches on him, forcing him to
reverse. He veered of the road and hit a tree in attempt to escape. However, Odingo says the matter is not serious as it is being put and
accusing the legislator of being cagey with information  making it
difficult for any meaningful investigation to take place. Odingo told The Star there were no people at the scene the MCA was allegedly attacked, saying Gathungu
only saw stones and decided to reverse, landing into a ditch. He then
left the vehicle with the engine running and lights on, and ran to the nearest
home which belonged to a retired chief. Odingo said the retired chief called
the police who rushed to the scene. The OCPD said that Gathungu, who has not yet recorded a statement, told the police he did not see anybody at
the scene he was allegedly attacked saing he was running away because he saw boulders. "It leaves a lot
of questions when someone is not willing to say the truth," Odingo said On Monday, Gathungu told the Star the police in Ndaragwa are
doing little to solve the matter and the OCS is not informing him on the
progress made so far in the investigations.The MCA says he has done everything required of him including recording
statement which he did on Sunday, March 18 at Ndaragwa police station. “Or
did they expect me to go and do it at Vigilante House? “he asked. OCPD Odingo told the Star Gathungu is not sincere. He said
there were no people at the scene the MCA was allegedly attacked, saying he
only saw stones and decided to reverse, where he landed into a ditch. He then
left the vehicle with the engine running and lights on, and ran to the nearest
home which belonged to a retired chief. Odingo said the retired chief called
the police who rushed to the scene. He said Gathungu has so far not recorded a statement with
police saying it is only the said retired chief who reported. He said the MCA
should record a statement clearly declaring everything including who he was
with including how he got to the home of the chief so “we come up with clear
cut investigations”. He said Gathungu told the police he did not see anybody at
the scene he was allegedly attacked, and even when he was running away. But asked
why he was running away the answer is “because I saw boulders. It leaves a lot
of questions when someone is not willing to say the truth”, Odingo said Odingo said Gathungu has so far not acquired police abstract
to enable him apply for documents he allegedly lost including identification card.
He also allegedly lost sh 50,000. “Politicians can say anything. But when you ask him what he
had gone to do at 9:00pm at “Politicians can say anything. But when you ask him what he
had gone to do at 9:00pm at the Laikipia-Nyandarua border, a place where some
people roam freely with guns at night he cannot explain. But the correct
position is that we are investigating everything”, he said a place where some
people roam freely with guns at night he cannot explain. But the correct
position is that we are investigating everything”, he said Contacted for comment by the Star yesterday morning,
Gathungu said he has done everything required of him including recording
statement which he did on Sunday, March 18,2018 at Ndaragwa police station. “Or
did they expect me to go and do it at Vigilante House? “he asked He termed what Nyandarua North police boss said as nonsense
saying he will seek assistance from different quarters. “We are going to handle
this at a different level. I will not even require the OCPD’s assistance. Those
police are incompetent and I will not cover for their incompetence”, he said  