Muhuri Muchiri encountered minimal opposition as they won their two preliminary fixtures to book a place in the rugby 15s quarter finals as the Nairobi region Term One games started at the Nairobi School yesterday. They hammered Aquinas Boys 66-0 in their opener and went on to whitewash The Komarocks 63-0 in the second. Against Aquinas, Martin Mutiso raked in 12 points from six conversions and the same number in the match pitting The Komarocks. Simon Gathii and Peter Daniel scored two tries each against Aquinas and their efforts were complemented by Victor Ayiro, Mutiso, Ron Hillary, William Opaka, Boniface Waga and Kelvin Agwambo, who added one each. Daniel Mokua converted two more tries to bring the tally to 66, while at the same time restricting their opponents from accessing their back-line. In their 63-0 thrashing of The Komarocks, Agwambo opened the rout with a brace and Gathii once again touched down twice. Dante Wallace, Peter Mutuku, Tichque Mwamba, Meshack Oloo and Victor Mitembei were the other scorers in this tie. Mutiso executed his role very well, converting six tries as William Opaka 2kicked in two. After the victories, Gathii warned his teammates of complacency moving forward. “We gave a good account of ourselves in the pool matches and as we get to the crucial stages of the competitions, we must be very keen and focused if we are to proceed. We will meet tougher sides at the next level,” said Gathii. In Pool ‘D’, Ofafa Jericho edged out Garden Estate and Moi Forces Academy 60-0 and 21-7 respectively to advance to the quarters. In hockey, Moi Girls Nairobi settled for a 1-1 draw with Kianda Girls in the opener. Moi Girls scored in the opening half and their opponents replied after the break. In the boys’ category, Lenana School beat Highway 1-0 and Hillcrest clobbered Starehe Boys Centre with a similar scoreline. Former regional hockey champions, Upper Hill, staged a ‘statement’ performance in their opener by clobbering Dagoretti High 10-0, while defending champions Dr. Ribeiro grabbed a 3-0 victory against Ofafa Jericho.