On the outskirts of Kapchemutwa Forest, Elgeyo Marakwet county, John Kimulwo is a disturbed elder. He sees a bleak future for the forest. Kimulwo gazes at the devastated forest, holding his cap to keep it from being blown away by the strong winds that have hit the area in the past two years. This is the first time in his 73 years in Korkitony village, adjacent to the forest, that he has seen such strong winds. The winds once blew off the roof of a house in Bugar. “It is shocking that sections of the forest that we have guarded jealously are now bare. Rivers are beginning to dry up. I have never seen such degradation in my life,” Kimulwo says. The forest is 2,400m above sea level, and is located less than 10km from Iten, a high altitude town that is popular with training athletes. The power saws and loading machines have gone silent since the three-month national ban on logging was declared. But the effects of massive logging are still being felt. The chirps and hums of birds and insects that once defined the forest’s ecosystem are no more. The creatures have migrated to ‘untouched’ parts of the forest. Only the howl of the wind is heard in the destroyed sections. Kimulwo says licensed logging should have been carried out on a small scale, and seedlings planted as soon as trees were felled. Instead, large parts of the forest have been cleared by licensed sawmillers since 2016. No seedlings have been planted, leaving many parts of the forest in Sing’ore and Bugar bare. “The destruction has left indigenous trees susceptible. Logging must be stopped. Our grandchildren will ask us why we watched as indigenous and medicinal herbs in our forest were being cut down for timber,” Kimulwo says. The indigenous trees include cedars, which are used to make posts. KFS, LOGGERS COLLUSION Elder Paul Kimuge wants Kenya Forest Service officials transferred. He accuses them of condoning destruction instead of championing conservation. “We have taken care of this forest since we were children. I found my grandfathers also conserving the forest. I never saw any of them destroy a tree. The KFS should not be lured by the money they get from sawmillers and make this area a desert,” the 65-year-old says. At some point, locals were forced to camp in the forest to stop loggers from further cutting down trees and transporting logs out of the forest. A local sawmiller, who does not want to be named for fear of victimisation, says the government has lost Sh167 million in tree logging fees. He accuses the KFS of working with unscrupulous sawmillers to cut down more trees than allocated to them in the service’s inventory. This has defrauded the KFS of revenue from the extra trees felled. He says sawmillers wrote to KFS director general Emilio Mugo and state investigative agencies to protest the haphazard logging, but did not get any response. No action was taken on KFS staff manning the forest, either. Resident Mark Malakwen says the loss incurred is massive. “We have counted and realised that a sawmiller who has been allocated 500 trees ends up felling 2,000. This means the state is losing trees,” he says. Aaron Kipchumba accuses the KFS of not consulting residents on forest management and allocation of trees to licensed sawmillers. He says rivers that flowed to drier parts of the Kerio Valley have dried up. “Tree harvesting is normally done in a small and systematic way. No one cares about the environment in this tree harvesting,” Kipchumba says. Residents accuse the Elgeyo Marakwet government of turning a blind eye to the forest destruction. They say logging continues unabated in Embobut Forest, despite the 90-day ban. LINK TO DROUGHT The logging crisis comes amid outcry in drought-prone areas of Kerio Valley that rivers, including Mon and Embobut, are drying up. Tangul resident Elias Kimaiyo has called for urgent intervention to stop illegal loggers from destroying the forest. Kimaiyo urges Environment CS Keriako Tobiko to order an overhaul of all KFS officers in the 65,000ha ( 160,618-acre) Cherangany water tower. “We no longer have confidence in the KFS officers. Forest cover has substantially reduced under the watch of those who should be conserving our forests,” he says. Chebara Dam, which supplies water to Eldoret town, gets its water from the Moiben River, which also originates from the water tower. However, Kapyego forest manager Daniel Rono dismisses claims of logging going on despite the ban. He says KFS wardens recovered about a tonne of cedar logs and are transporting them to safe custody at Tangul forest camp. “The logging happens without our officers detecting because they are currently engaged in an operation to flush out illegal settlers. Illegal loggers are taking advantage of the wardens’ absence in some parts of the forest to cut down trees,” Rono says. KFS wardens arrested one person and recovered 350 cedar posts in the latest crackdown to rid the forests of illegal loggers. Elgeyo Marakwet KFS conservator Anthony Musyoka says the suspect was arrested by wardens on a mission to recover cedar posts discovered in the forest. “We are still following up on more leads to arrest other cedar loggers,” Musyoka says. He says additional wardens have been deployed to the forest to prevent further logging and intensify the crackdown on illegal logging. MCAs TO MAKE LAWS Elgeyo Marakwet speaker Philemon Sabulei says locals no longer benefit from forest resources. He says the KFS has failed to control haphazard logging in gazetted forests for many years. Sabulei urges the counties to take decisive action to regulate logging and find ways for residents to benefit from forest products. “As a county assembly, we want to have a law that is in tandem with international best practices and that helps the community to play a critical role in conserving forests,” he says. “Nothing can stop communities from signing a deal with the KFS on forest conservation and management.” Nominated MCA Lawi Kibire says, “I will be bringing a motion for the conservation of riparian reserves so we allocate funds to protect riparian resources in our next budget.” He wants the Environment ministry to formulate strict guidelines on allocation, harvesting and transportation of forest resources. Effects of deforestation in the North Rift have been felt in most areas. Christopher Saina, a lecturer at University of Eldoret’s School of Environmental Studies, says the annual planting season has shifted from March to April as rainfall patterns change. He says the area now receives heavy rains in December, an unprecedented occurrence. “Charcoal burning and massive tree harvesting is gradually causing climate change. We need to involve locals in forest conservation,” Saina says. The don says it was wrong for the country to plant exotic trees in forests instead of maintaining and sustaining indigenous trees. Saina says the exotic trees sparked the massive tree harvesting for commercial purposes and distorted biodiversity. “Some unique species of trees, medicinal herbs and mushrooms have diminished,” he says. “Indigenous trees had many benefits to communities. Locals obtained fruits and medicines. We should have created land around the forests to plant exotic trees for commercial purposes.” The lecturer proposes adopting sustainable harvesting that eliminates cutting down of trees and encourages collection of dry matter, trimming branches for firewood and honey harvesting. Saina, a member of Regional Centre of Expertise, says they have organised environmental races to save Kaptagat Forest and other water towers in Elgeyo Marakwet and Uasin Gishu counties. Click here for the latest political news 