South Africa-based retailer Shoprite Supermarket is set to take over as the anchor tenant in Westgate shopping mall four months after Nakumatt Supermarket exited the space. While confirming the take over , property manager Knight Frank Kenya who signed up the retailer noted that they will start trading by August 1, 2018. Its entry into the country is expected to stiffen competition in the retail market, which experienced a tough year in 2017 as some household brands faced financial difficulties. In a statement to the press, the retailer portfolio manager at KFK Ashmi Shah said Shoprite has more than 1,270 supermarkets and in excess of 2,700 stores on the continent. “Its offering includes butchery, bakery, deli, fresh food and groceries. We are filling the gap in Westlands and its environs and believe shoppers will be delighted with the diversity and product range that Shoprite will bring them,” Shah said. KFK also disclosed that Shoprite has commenced fit-out for the 49,770 square foot flagship store, which will be done to the latest ‘Checkers’ specification to suit Westgate’s affluent clientele. When completed, the retailer which joins a list of other international supermarkets that have set base in the country will have a gross lettable area of 263,142 square feet. The retailer has also concluded a second lease agreement in Nairobi and will follow up on other opportunities in the city as they become available. Currently trading in 15 countries on the continent, Shoprite noted its entry into Kenya is meant to strengthen its position in East Africa. This comes as they plan to open 92 new supermarkets by mid-2019, according to its Interim Results announcement in Cape Town on February 26, 2018, and uses its diverse portfolio of brands to better serve each market. “With Shoprite, we are extremely excited to introduce another strong international anchor tenant into our market and feel that its high-end fit-out will suit Westgate’s profile very well.” KFK managing director Ben Woodhams said. Other international retailers that have recently entered the kenyan market include Carrefour , Choppies , Game, and Souk Bazzar which have taken over the management or space left out by troubled Uchumi , Ukwala and Nakumatt supermarkets.               