After losing his mother and eight other relatives in a grisly accident last year, Vihiga United midfielder, Dennis Ombeva, has revealed that being on the pitch has proved therapeutic as he fights to recover from the ordeal.
The nine were among 18 passengers who perished in December last year when the matatu they were traveling in, rammed a stationary sugarcane truck in Bungoma County. “My mother was our breadwinner. She was a good mother and a staunch Christian. I always think about her. But once I get onto the pitch, I try to forget about it and concentrate for 90 minutes. However, her memories are still fresh on my mind,” said Ombeva.
Vihiga, debutants in the Kenyan Premier League, have not won a match in the last seven they have played so far, but Ombeva believes their good days are yet to come.
“We’re working hard to avoid relegation at the end of the campaign. I believe God’s time is the best and we will continue fighting to ensure that we achieve our objectives,” he revealed, adding that he is committed to the club despite rumours that he could be heading for the exit door. He said that he’s not going to leave his team soon. “For now, I am not ready to move to another team. I want to help my team remain in the league. Maybe next year,” he said. The midfielder looks up to Kenyan internationals Victor Wanyama and David Owino aka Calabar as his role models. “They’re both good players and very disciplined. I admire Wanyama’s success and his journey through different clubs. I love his footsteps.”
Ombeva cited financial constraints as their biggest challenge facing the local sport. “Lack of sponsors is the biggest challenge facing Kenyan football. Most players are not being paid yet they have bills to foot. Kenya has a lot of talent but some end up hanging their boots early due to poor pay. We have very potential sponsors and I would be happy to see corporates venture into football to support the abundant talents,” he said. “My dream is to play in the national team, Harambee Stars, and I’m working hard to sharpen my skills.”
Ombeva is determined to be more than just a footballer as he plans to go back to school and study business management. He urges upcoming footballers to remain focused. “Keep working hard, one day one time, you will make it,” he concludes.