After President Uhuru and Raila Odinga made a pact to end political hostilities, there has been a cautious reception of the same by insiders in Deputy President William Ruto’s camp. Cautious because of the emergent nature of such political deals: Last time Raila shook hands with retired President Moi, Kanu eventually lost power. When he joined hands with Mwai Kibaki in 2002, his contentious presence in NARC eventually killed that coalition. In the wake of so many fallen parties, it is easy to see the unease in Camp Ruto. But the possibilities under the new UhuRao pact are many. What was of immediate interest to everyone was the opening up of the geo-political space hitherto dominated by the other. Ruto was quick to engage the Coast and the ODM MPs there received him warmly. Raila, on the other hand, reached the Upper North Rift turf where Ruto has had great sway. The opening up of these geo-political zones has thrown open the field ahead of the 2022 race for State House. While it remains to be known whether Raila will be on the ballot, it is clear that unfettered access to his turf, particularly by Ruto, could shake up his (Ruto’s) claim to the Mt Kenya vote bloc deemed critical to his 2022 bid. It now throws in possibilities for new coalition arrangements with new regions, easing his dependence on Mt Kenya. But would he relinquish Mt Kenya? Already, Raila has regained his ‘sainthood’ status in the Mt Kenya region, which he lost after he fell out with Mwai Kibaki in 2005. Pundits say that he could now reach out and claim the political debt the Mt Kenya region owes him after he made their son Kibaki President in 2002 and served with him as Premier between 2008 and 2013. Unlike any other politician, Raila Odinga is the master of reinvention. And just when pundits had written him off after losing three consecutive Presidential elections in five years (added to the financial implications of the same), he bounced back into the centre of things by declaring a truce with Uhuru. The new UhuRao pact has however complicated the ethno-political position of Ruto’s perennial rival Gideon Moi ahead of 2022. And while he is yet to get to the bottom of it, he might have to work harder to find his space. The writer is a political analyst