Two MPs from Western have accused Jubilee of sidelining the Luhya community in public appointments. Tindi Mwale (Butere) and Ayub Savula (Lugari) cited Tuesday’s appointments of PSs and Chief Administrative Secretaries, saying there was no Luhya appointed. “We’re going to lock Western in the Opposition because we have been sidelined for far too long,” Mwale said. President Uhuru Kenyatta nominated six PSs. They include Harry Kimutai (Livestock), Jerome Ochieng (ICT), Susan Komen (EAC), Fred Segor (Irrigation), John Omenge (Mining) and Alfred Cheruiyot (Correctional Services). Uhuru said he sent the names to the National Assembly for vetting. The President also appointed Hassan Noor and John Musonik as Chief Administrative Secretaries. Noor will be the CAS for Sports, while Musonik will be at the Petroleum and Mining docket. Mohamed Elmi was also appointed to the Environment ministry headed by CS Keriako Tobiko. The President created the position of CAS across all the 22 Cabinet posts. He said holders of the new positions will help the CSs coordinate the running of ministry affairs. Mwale said Jubilee sacked PSs from the community. He said Information PS Sammy Itemere had been sacked, despite his campaigning for Jubilee in the last polls. Savula said Dr Wilson Songa, who was Agriculture PS, was sacked in Jubilee’s first term. Uhuru named Rashid Achesa as the Sports CS and former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba as Foreign Affairs CAS in his earlier list of appointments. Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka also comes from Bungoma county. Yesterday, Savula and Mwale said Luhyas are being treated like second-class Kenyans, despite the community having supported governments of the day. Savula said the skewed appointments do not augur well with the much needed national reconciliation and healing. Uhuru issued a stern warning to the newly appointed PSs and Chief Administrative Secretaries. He said they will be held responsible for any misuse of public resources. The President said he will expect the highest standards of integrity. Click here for the latest political news