NASA
co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula have launched a new drive to unite the Luhya nation and field a single presidential candidate in 2022. The project dubbed "Luhya Nation" was launched on Saturday during a six-hour road show in Vihiga county. The two leaders said they will fold their parties to form a single political entity for the 2022 elections. Mudavadi is the Amani national Congress Party leader and Wetang'ula is the party leader of Ford Kenya. The two promised "never to allow the Luhya community to be
divided by outsiders". They addressed supporters at Majedngo, Mbale, Chavakali,
Mudete, Shamakhokho and Cheptulu markets on their way to Nandi county. The duo were on their way to Chesumei to attend the homecoming party for area MCA Geoffrey
Kevolwe. Kevolwe won the seat on an ANC ticket. They asked all elected leaders from Western to support the Luhya unity initiative. Luhya unity has remained elusive despite numerous efforts. Speaking at Cheputulu market, Wetang’ula
said that the community has suffered for too long because of having many
political parties. He said outsiders take advantage of the parties to split the region for political
benefits. Former Kakamega Senator
Boni Khalwale asked Vihiga Senator George Khaniri to decide whether he wants to
be in ANC or ODM. “You should relinquish the seat and seek fresh
mandate on ODM ticket. We shall field a
mama mboga (vegetable vendor) to defeat you,” Khalwale said. Mudavadi said it was bad manners for politicians to seek tickets from parties only to turn
against them after winning elections.  NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula have launched a new drive to unite the Luhya nation and field a single presidential candidate in 2022. The project dubbed “Luhya Nation” was launched on Saturday during a six-hour road show in Vihiga county. The two leaders said they will fold their parties to form a single political entity for the 2022 elections. Musalia is the Amani National Congress Party leader and Wetang’ula is the party leader of Ford Kenya. The two promised “never to allow the Luhya community to be divided by outsiders”. They addressed supporters at Majedngo, Mbale, Chavakali, Mudete, Shamakhokho and Cheptulu markets on their way to Nandi county. The duo were on their way to Chesumei to attend the homecoming party for area MCA Geoffrey Kevolwe. Kevolwe won the seat on an ANC ticket. They asked all elected leaders from Western to support the Luhya unity initiative. Luhya unity has remained elusive despite numerous efforts. Speaking at Cheputulu market, Wetang’ula said that the community has suffered for too long because of having many political parties. He said outsiders take advantage of the parties to split the region for political benefits. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale asked Vihiga Senator George Khaniri to decide whether he wants to be in ANC or ODM.  “You should relinquish the seat and seek fresh mandate on ODM ticket. We shall field a mama mboga (vegetable vendor) to defeat you,” he said. Mudavadi said it was bad manners for politicians to seek tickets from parties only to turn against them after winning elections. Mudavadi said the Luhya Nation agenda is to solidify the community’s bargaining power and not a campaign against any tribe. “We must commit that we shall no longer allow ourselves to be divided either on political party lines of by dialect by outsiders. We’re not different tribes but only speak different dialects. We’re one nation,” Mudavadi said. Khalwale criticised the deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga to work together, saying it was suspicious.