Jubilee Party is ready to form a coalition with ODM ahead of the 2022 general election, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has said. Speaking at Parliament on Thursday, the Garissa Town MP said President Uhuru Kenyatta's party is ready to work with that of Opposition chief Raila Odinga. But this is as long as the orange party goes for a position other than president. Raila has been eying the top seat since 1997 and may vie again in 2022. Uhuru is serving his second and last term so Deputy President William Ruto is expected to take over. But Raila's unity deal with Uhuru may change the landscape and it was reported that Ruto's aides were worried. Read: Ruto’s men worried by Raila’s pact with Uhuru Duale issued these remarks while backing a motion by ODM national chairman John Mbadi (Suba South) on kick-starting the building of bridges so Kenyans are united. "We are ready to form a coalition with ODM in a serious, structured way if they agree to get a running mate. Mr Speaker [Justin Muturi], we are ready for any group in Nasa that is willing to join our side as long as they take number two or any other position," Duale said. "I am ready to quit and give my position to ODM. [We can also give] any other position ... Speaker, minister, DPP and the like." After the 'handshake' that they were unaware would take place, Raila's co-principals said they also want to dialogue with the President. They are Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). Details: Kalonzo, Wetangula and Mudavadi want to meet Uhuru for 'dialogue' Also read: 'My heart is at peace', Kalonzo says of Uhuru-Raila deal NO COALITION GOVERNMENT Duale further noted that Jubilee's aim is for Ruto to win the 2022 election with more than three million votes. He said bringing ODM on board is key as it will prevent "so many tensions across the country". The Majority leader dismissed speculation about a power-sharing deal between Uhuru and Raila and told Nasa MPs that there will be ladders for them to climb. "This deal cannot be equated to a coalition government. The deal is very young and we are yet to see more. Those who think it will complicate 2022 succession politics, be warned that you will not hang under the coats of anybody." Related: [Statement] Raila not naive, will call off Uhuru deal if unsuccessful - Salim Lone The MP also asked Opposition politicians not to hanG onto Raila as he will no longer play leader. "We have no space for anybody. We have a succession road map with our candidate already known. He is a utility and an expensive player ... we are ready to protect him and ensure he scores both in Nasa and Jubilee zones. Those wishing to join us must therefore to go for lower positions." Duale noted that Raila is loved and hated in equal measure across the country so he also has a legacy and history to protect. He said there is nothing to debate following the pact so houses should be supportive of plans that will start self-reflection and the reformation of the country. Nasa affiliate earlier threatened to divorce ODM if they are not involved in structured dialogue on Uhuru and Raila's agreement. More on this: Nasa affiliates threaten to divorce Raila's party for 'marrying' Jubilee Click here for the latest political news