Police are hunting for the owner of a six-storey building under construction in Joyland Estate, Juja town, which collapsed on Wednesday night during torrential rains. The building was not occupied and no one was injured. Authorities said construction was substandard and the site had been ordere closed last year. A neighbor, who requested anonymity, said that the building collapsed at 11 pm. “I was going to bed when I heard a loud thud. I went out and found it was the building adjacent to my house that collapsed.” National Construction Authority regional coordinator, Erick Musenda said that the site had been closed twice in August and in late December last year over substandard works and lack of approval documents. “We have ordered the developer to stop constructing the building twice but he has defied the orders. He has been using substandard materials and has not been following the construction procedures,” he said. In November last year, two construction workers died after building stones fell on them, according to Juja OCPD, Patricia Nasio. Kiambu County Housing and Urban Planning Chief officer, James Ndung’u said they have been tracing the owner, who has been overseeing construction works at night. They said he would be charged with manslaughter in the falling stones case, violating building regulations, negligence and carrying out construction without approval. Residents said that cracks had started appearing on the walls on Wednesday, adding that construction was done in haste to accomodate JKUAT students. Locals blamed the county government of failing to inspect the construction.“It was a tragedy in waiting. The county government must take responsibility. Why are they risking lives of innocent people?” resident Victor Kimaru said. Musenda said that the area where the structure was built was once a wetland. He said NCA will partner with NEMA, the Water Resources Authority and the county government to profile wetland areas where construction activities require monitoring.