Sedatives, a class of drugs that slow down brain activity resulting in drowsiness or relaxation, are among the most abused medicines in Kenya. Although the Pharmacy and Poisons Board says they should only be bought with prescription, they are widely accessible to the public through unregistered pharmacies. Medics told the Star that legally, clients must always give informed consent before they are sedated. This is because the medications can cause complications and damage vital organs such as the brain, heart, lung, liver and kidney. In some cases, use of these medications may result in paralysis, heart attack and even death from both known and unknown causes. This is a common outcome to victims of robbery who are forcefully overdosed by criminals. Related: Slain Kiru principal drugged with toxic animal sedative - analyst “All sedatives, hypnotics and barbiturates are supposed to be bought through prescription and every pharmacy is supposed to account for any gramme they dispense. However, what we are seeing is a parallel system, which is part of a worldwide game,” former PPB registrar Dr Kipkerich Koskei said recently. “You could say the existence of illegal chemists is fuelling the crime, but we also need to ask ourselves where those unregistered pharmacies are getting these drugs from because they are not manufactured in Kenya.” Sedatives largely work by affecting the brain chemicals that conduct communication between brain cells. This decreases brain activity to produce drowsiness. Leading psychiatrist and dean of the Moi University School of Medicine Prof Lukoye Atwoli told the Star there are hundreds of sedative brands available with varying outcomes. “They should only be accessed through a presciption. But I cannot comment [on the Miguna Miguna issue] because no professional is able to make intelligent guess on a patient they have not seen or examined,” he said. At higher doses, most sedatives may result in slurred speech, staggering gait, poor judgment, and slow, uncertain reflexes. The length of a sedative effect depends on the dose given. Publications by Johns Hopkins University show sedatives at low doses do not relieve pain themselves. This means someone who was forcefully sedated would have endured all the pain if they were molested. Police have reported that sedatives such as midazolam (marketed in Kenya as Dormicum), Flunitrazepam, and, to a lesser extent, Temazepam are used for date rape drugs and being administered to unsuspecting patrons in bars or guests at parties to lower the intended victims’ defences.  Click here for the latest political news