To start with, Opposition leader Raila Odinga has
done the right thing to accept reality. That is what most of his truest friends
have been telling him. And his friends are these Western powers, including
the Americans and others. They have been telling him to be realistic. So, there is a sigh of relief on both sides.
Because this is Western powers’ liking and they were kind of disappointed that
he was not behaving as they thought he would do – in a mature way. The handshake seems to lessened that deep disappointment;
remember he had said very nasty words about United States Ambassador Robert
Godec, and all those other envoys. Raila’s move kind of makes it easy and possible for
Godec and the people he represents – the Western powers – to continue
supporting Raila in a more open way. As the envoys do all these things, do not forget
that they are pushing their interests, they want protection of their interests. What the handshake has done is to make it easier
for Western powers to continue pumping money into Raila's coffers. There is that reconciliation effort that is being
met for the Western powers and Raila's camp. It is going to be rosy form now on,
within certain parameters. The handshake has created a very nice atmosphere
for all sides: For the West, for the Kenyan government and for Raila. You have a three-way happiness - if you can call it
that way - the Uhuru side is happy that the tension has been lessened, Raila is
happy and he can even go and play golf and Godec is also happy, because he will
not be insulted in public anymore. It is returning to normal in terms of diplomatic
normalcy. It is a good thing that this has happened, because
it has lowered the temperatures across the board. It is very positive for the
country. In the absence of the handshake, there was the possibility
of Raila being put on the list of unwanted people – I don't know whether it had
come to that – but there was always that possibility, that if you should appear
to be overly unrealistic, and if your behaviour tends to be associated with
violence, then it is possible that a lot of countries will be careful not to be
associated with you. The writer lectures in International Relations
at USIU  Click here for the latest political news 