The Competition Authority of Kenya has backed the National Youth Service for deploying buses on seven populous Nairobi routes. The buses charge a standard Sh20. CAK director general Francis Wang’ombe said the government is only buffering a shortage. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, he said no complaint has been filed, but the NYS has not breached any competition laws. But matatu operators have cried foul. Operators on the seven routes usually charge up to Sh100, especially during rush hour, or whenever there is heavy rainfall. Matatu Owners’ Association chairman Samuel Kimutai says industry players are not afraid of competition, but they want the NYS to jump through the same hoops that public service vehicle proprietors do before plying any route. The introduction of the NYS buses has raised questions whether the government has long-term plans to take control of public transport. The 27 buses deployed by NYS last week are plying the Kibera, Githurai, Mwiki, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Dandora, Kariobangi and Kawangware routes. “If there is a shortage in supply and the common citizen, especially the poor, are suffering, any reasonable government should come in and mitigate the issue,” Wang’ombe said. “If somebody complains, we will follow the law. But I don’t think government is competing with matatus.” Lucrative industry The matatu industry is estimated to rake in over Sh150 billion annually, which could be motivation for government to sink its teeth into the enterprise. NYS director general Richard Ndubai and Youth and Gender CS Margaret Kobia did not respond to calls from the Star. They also failed to reply to SMSs asking whether the NYS bus deployment is the government’s first step to re-entering the transport industry. Kimutai has said the NYS should be subjected to the same regulations matatu owners are required to comply with to create a level playing field. The matatu industry veteran said the NYS deployment risks destroying investments made by thousands of people as well as many jobs. “We don’t want confrontation. If they want to compete, it is okay, but it is bad to come and disrupt a business by undercutting. In Nairobi alone we have about 100,000 youths relying on the industry,” Kimutai said. “We have seen the vehicles they have brought in and they [NYS] cannot maintain them. I don’t see them staying for long. These people aren’t compliant. They haven’t paid taxes like us or complied with NTSA regulations. They don’t feel the pain we feel.” The NYS on Monday said it would deploy 50 more buses to ply other routes, mostly the ones with steep surges in pricing during rush hour.