The Holy Week began with the blessing of palm fronds in churches across Kenya as faithful celebrated Palm Sunday on March 25. This day marks the moment Jesus entered Jerusalem in triumph riding on the back of a young donkey while crowds, who would later call for him to be killed, paid homage to him. Nairobi Consolata Shrine priest Evans Mochama led the faithful in blessing the fronds outside the church before hundreds of people to commemorate the day.  Consolata Shrine priest during Palm Sunday./NANCY AGUTU After his blessings, the faithful entered the church as the priest continued to bless them with the holy water. Parishioners waved their fronds, which the priest blesses before they can take them at home. Singing as they take their seats, the priest was the last person who got into the church and kicked off the mass. The first reading was read from the book of Isaiah 50: 4-7. Part of it reads; "The Lord God has given me a well-trained tongue, that I might know how to speak to the weary a word that will rouse them. Morning after morning he opens my ear that I may hear, and I have not rebelled, have not turned back..."  Palm Sunday at Consolata Shrine in Nairobi./NANCY AGUTU The responsorial psalm was from the book of Psalm 22: 8-9, 17-18, 19-20, 23-24. Part of it reads; All who see me scoff at me; they mock me with parted lips, they wag their heads: "He relied on the LORD; let him deliver him, let him rescue him if he loves him." (My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?) The second reading was from the book of Philippians 2: 6-11. It reads in part: Christ Jesus, though he was in the form of God, did not regard equality with God something to be grasped. Rather, he emptied himself, taking the form of a slave, coming in human likeness; and found a human in appearance,
he humbled himself, becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.... GOSPEL Mark 14:1–15:47  A nun holds crosses made of palm leaves during the Palm Sunday Mass in Saint Peter's Square at the Vatican, March 25, 2018 REUTERS The Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were to take place in two days' time. So the chief priests and the scribes were seeking a way to arrest him by treachery and put him to death. They said, "Not during the festival, for fear that there may be a riot among the people." Christians believe it was a week before his death and resurrection, and the events of that day are recalled in special Palm Sunday services each year. It falls on March 25 this year which is the first day of Holy Week and the most solemn time in the Christian calendar. After mentioning the part of the gospel recounting how Jesus was denied justice and abandoned to his fate, Mochama added in unscripted remarks that the church should show compassion to each other the way Jesus did when he died for us on the cross. Pope Francis also led the faithful Saint Peter square in commemorating the day. Click here for the latest political news  