Allies of DP William Ruto have criticised Raila Odinga’s leadership and cautioned him against attempting to wreck Jubilee from within. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang’ and Senator Samson Cherargei accused Raila of having a “bad record of destroying political parties”. They said they won’t allow him to “destroy” Jubilee. The duo said Raila had been assured of recognition and his retirement pension, but he will not get any position in the Jubilee administration. “We will not allow Raila to get even the smallest seat in our house. We know Raila is used to wrecking parties, but this time we won’t allow it,” Cherargei said. He said the Kalenjin community had at one time nicknamed Raila “arap Mibey” in respect, but in 2013 they named him “Arap Lebey” which meant he should be politically swept away by waters. Cherargei said Raila’s handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta was only symbolic and it did not mean anything. The two said the Kalenjin community, led by DP Ruto, is ready to negotiate within ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula for a political deal ahead of 2022. Sang’ and Cherargei spoke at Tuloi Primary School in Nandi during the homecoming ceremony for Kaptuiywa MCA Geoffrey Kevolwe. The event was attended by NASA leaders Mudavadi, Wetang’ula and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. “What I saw Raila’s group doing is the exactly what he has been talking about. He has been claiming he doesn’t like nepotism, but he removed Wetang’ula as Senate Minority Leader and replaced him with James Orengo. That is nepotism,” Sang said. He said when Raila met Uhuru recently, he demanded to be given the title “His Excellency” and a pension, which Jubilee leaders advised the President to do. “That is clearly a person who is headed for retirement and we don’t need to fight him. Let him retire peacefully,” Sang said. During the event, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula hinted at merging the two parties to form one strong outfit that will unite the Luhya community. The two said they are already in talks with other political leaders in the region and the merger will be announced at the right time. “Every other time we have been fielding candidates as a community, but it will not happen again. I and Wetang’ula will work together to unite our people,” Mudavadi said. Wetang’ula and Mudavadi accused Raila of betraying them, saying they will unite the Luhyas. “We will heal and move on and hence we are in talks with my brother Mudavadi and others like Khalwale, we will soon show our people the way forward,” Wetang’ula said.   