The
extension of the SGR in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, is being
delayed by high compensation demands by local communities. The Chinese
Communications and Construction Company has asked the National Land Commission to urgently address the impasse so the project can be completed on time. This emerged during
a meeting on yesterday to elect new representatives for the new Section 11 site, which will
deal with telecommunications for the modern railway line. A senior managers at the Chinese company said the
demands by residents were hurting the project. The manager, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said some sections on the Nairobi-Naivasha route were behind schedule due to the
frequent wrangles and demands from the communities. “Some
pastoralists are demanding Sh2 million for a manyatta for compensation. We have
asked the Land Commission to urgently deal with these cases,” he said. The extension of the SGR in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, is being delayed by high compensation demands by local communities. The Chinese Communications and Construction Company has asked the National Land Commission to urgently address the impasse so the project can be completed on time. A senior manager at the Chinese company said the demands by residents were hurting the project. The manager,, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said some sections on the Nairobi-Naivasha route were behind schedule due to the frequent wrangles and demands from the communities. “Some pastoralists are demanding Sh2 million compensation for a manyatta. We have asked the Land Commission to urgently deal with these cases,” he said. The manager, however, said the project is on track, despite the recent rains that pounded the area, forcing workers to suspend work. This emerged during a meeting yesterday to elect new representatives for the new Section 11 site, which will deal with telecommunications for the modern railway line. During the meeting, Naivasha MP Jane Kihara clashed with some residents on the issue of representation. Kihara said those community leaders who had been elected for the SGR Section 4 committee cannot be nominated again to represent Section II. “There are a few individuals who want to be representatives of both sections for their own selfish interests. We cannot allow this as a new committee has been formed,” she said. Kihara accused some few individuals of using the name of their community to enrich themselves. “Some individuals who have in the past benefited from KenGen projects have turned their eyes on the SGR. We shall not keep quiet as the project is meant to benefit all,” she said. Last month when he toured Mai Mahiu, NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri said they are evaluating the structures along the route.