It really shocked me the fact that the NASA fraternity would be breaking up right before our own eyes and within a very short time after the golden handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. It makes sense sometimes to know that we should not interfere with the politics of another party, but if NASA breaks up, it will weaken the Opposition, which is not good for the country. The ODM party raised very pertinent issues about the Senate, on what is called pro rata distribution of the positions and, to be very clear, when you do not have much numbers, and this is where Moses Wetang’ula finds himself. ODM has more numbers yet it has less leadership positions in the House. So it makes sense for ODM to take the action it took. However, I want to think that the NASA principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Wetang’ula himself should be able to sort out that. Why did they give Wetang’ula the Minority Leader position in the first place and now withdraw it from him? Are the reasons anything beyond what we are suspecting? Are they giving us fodder for suspicion? So I do sympathise with Wetang’ula, but, like our Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, said, he has to convince his side to keep him as the Minority Leader. You cannot impose yourself on the position. So I want to register my shock that the Opposition is splitting up and divorcing or threatening to divorce. Secondly, it is sometimes the right of the majority to have their way. The Orange party wants to take back their seat and Wetang’ula has a chance to retain the position as long as there is respect - he is still a principal in NASA. Even after the Uhuru-Raila handshake, comments from the other parties have been very disturbing, it is already like deep divisions have occurred. NASA is ending - each party is going their own way. The truth is ODM is actually joining Jubilee - they have said no but are they divorcing its partners! It seems to be going in that direction. We welcome the move for the unity of purpose and I hope ODM will be what is called the loyal Opposition -able to take on government without street demonstrations or those things that cause chaos in this country. The writer is the Senator for West Pokot