The Opposition NASA coalition yesterday sunk further into disarray after defiant senators finally dethroned co-principal Moses Wetang’ula as Senate Minority leader and replaced him with Siaya Senator James Orengo. The move by NASA senators drew a furious response from three member parties – ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya – which accused the dominant ODM of bullying its partners in the alliance. But Wetang’ula received another lifeline when the NASA Summit stood by him, in what seems to be a contest of supremacy between the elected representatives and the coalition’s top decision-making body, by calling another Parliamentary Group meeting on Thursday to revisit the coup against the Senate Minority leader. ODM leader Raila Odinga, who was reportedly reliably upset by the development, called an urgent meeting attended by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Wetang’ula at a Nairobi hotel yesterday afternoon. Senators, who were in session, instead sent representatives led by Orengo to the meeting, where it was agreed that another Parliamentary Group meeting be held to persuade the senators to reverse the decision to replace Wetang’ula. It remains to be seen if the senators, who have stuck to their guns, will back down. “They are bitter with Wetang’ula and how he treats them. This has nothing to do with the parties,” a source that attended the meeting said. The co-principals had met on Sunday and instructed NASA chief executive Norman Magaya to write to the Speaker informing him of the Summit’s decision to retain Wetang’ula. His letter, delivered on Monday, fell short of the Standing Orders, and the Speaker ruled that Wetang’ula had been properly replaced. Ford Kenya deputy leader Boni Khalwale dismissed Wetang’ula’s removal as a non-issue, while bemoaning the party’s contribution to NASA leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid. He said the party would not sit and watch as its leader is “ridiculed and demonised”. He claimed the meeting that resolved to replace Wetang’ula was purely an ODM affair, although the senators had voted 19-nil for the senator’s replacement earlier in the morning before Speaker Kenneth Lusaka’s ruling upholding their motion. “If there was to be any such removal, it would have been the decision of the NASA Summit. Our party leader sits on the Summit. He would in fact be the one communicating it to the rest of us,” Khalwale said. “The decision of one member of NASA cannot be the decision of NASA. The decision of NASA is made by the majority.” National Assembly Deputy Minority Whip Chris Wamalwa warned ODM that choices have consequences. Speaking to journalists on the sidelines of the Ford Kenya meeting yesterday, Wamalwa said: “We have seen the excitement of the new marriage. If you are in a marriage and your husband does not love you, you walk away.” Last week when Wetang’ula’s removal was first brought before the Senate, he said the “divorce would be noisy and messy and with casualties.” During the meeting chaired by Wetang’ula, the party flatly refused to engage in talks that would result in being swallowed by the government side or working with the government of the day. Instead, they resolved to gang up with Wiper and ANC to strip ODM of the Minority role and check the ruling Jubilee. Ford Kenya said they will push for their recognition as the Official Minority Alliance, isolating ODM, which however enjoys superior numbers on the Minority side. Wetang’ula’s party also demanded that ODM surrender the Minority positions it currently holds in both Houses of Parliament. Secretary General Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) said the battle is headed to the floor in the two Houses, where they will stage a fight for official recognition as Minority. “The party will now enthusiastically live up to its constitutionally mandated role to hold the government and its new partners to account on behalf of the Kenyan people who require and deserve an accountable government,” said Eseli. Khalwale added the three NASA parties have already instructed their MPs to officially communicate to the two Speakers to make the ruling barring ODM from being recognised as the Minority party. “It cannot be done informally, we have given instructions to our Parliamentary Groups to take the matter to the floor of the two Houses for the Speaker to make a formal ruling,” said Khalwale. Read:Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted        