Meru MCAs now want all the 1,030 casual workers sacked by Governor Kiraitu Murungi reinstated on permanent and pensionable contracts within two weeks. Kiraitu terminated the contracts of the workers on January 31. The labour and public service committee on Tuesday said the termination was illegal. The 19- member committee chaired by Njia MCA Isaiah Kanyaru said the governor flouted the Employment Act, the Labour Relations Act, the County Governments Act and the Constitution. The MCAs said payment of terminal dues and allowances had not been implemented when the workers were sacked. "The Employment Act provides that an employee whose contract has been terminated shall be entitled to service pay for every year worked," Kanyaru said when he tabled the report. The committee which probed the sacking concluded that the workers be absorbed. They gave Kiraitu 14 days to act on the report. Speaker Joseph Kaberia extended time for debate as MCAs called for the full implementation of the report. The commended the committee for their work. Julius Mbijiwe (Mwanganthia), Paul Bagine (Ntima West), Andermson Muriki (Athiru Gaiti), Makasi Martin (Nkuene), Robert Kithinji (Nyaki East), Muthuri Mworia (Nyaki West) and Karimi Njeru (Nominated) asked the executive not to infringe rights of employees and instead subject them to fair labour practices. The MCAs said it was ironical for the county to sack 1,030 workers and then advertise 400 vacancies. The county has already shortlisted 400 people to be hired as cleaners, loaders, gardeners, cooks and security guards. The MCAs also faulted Public Service executive Arithi Kiautha for lying to the committee. Kiautha told the MCAs that the county was paying Sh150 million to the casual workers per month. The committee established that the employees wages amounted to Sh15 million per month. The committee had been asked to investigate the sackings and table a report in 30 days. A motion for the probe was tabled by deputy speaker Elias Murega on February 14, on behalf of the casual employees who had petitioned the assembly. Besides seeking permanent jobs, the workers also asked MCAs to ensure they are given first priority whenever any opportunities arise. They also wanted an audit to determine whether the laying off was prudent. The committee heard from the workers, the executive, chamber of commerce and the county Public Service Board.