One of the most important books I’ve read is: The Law of Recognition by Dr. Mike Murdock. It is based on the thesis that: everything you need is around you, awaiting your recognition. You don’t have a money problem; all the money you need is around you in some form, waiting for you to recognize it. This principle affects every aspect of life. Recognition is a game changer. In this context, recognition is to acknowledge, understand and appreciate the true value of the people, things, opportunities, etc., around you. Currently, you are surrounded by enough resources to take you to the next level. Believe it or not, all you need to move forward, you now have. And recognition is how you access these resources – it is an important skill to have. Here are three principles to help you master this skill. See: The Key – At the core of recognition is sight. The quality of your life depends on what you see. I’m not talking about looking with the physical eyes. But, insight. The ability to look at someone or a situation and accurately read beyond the obvious to get the right information that you need to make the right moves. What do you see? What opportunities are you currently blind to? It’s annoying to suddenly realize that the answers to the questions that have troubled you for long have always been right under your nose. If you do not see it, you cannot access or enjoy it. Conversation: There is a proverb that says, “You become wise by walking with the wise.” How does this process work? How is wisdom transferred from person to person? Primarily: conversation; talk. As people talk, influence occurs. Ideas are shared, perspectives appreciated, and mind shifts take place. This process affects how you perceive opportunities. Who are you talking to now? Who has your ears? They have the power to shape your perspective and this in turn, affects what you recognize. Recognition is weakened or strengthened by association. Understand Problems: The late rapper, Biggie, said, “More money, more problems.” But the wealthy believe, “More problems, more money.” However, due to the initial discomfort that problems bring, it is difficult for many to appreciate problems as opportunities. The pain that accompany problems can be blinding. To recognize opportunities ask yourself: what opportunities are hidden in this problem? Truth is: if you seek, you will find. Yes. The opportunities you want are in your current problems. Search for them, they will emerge. Email: etoolbox@theyouideology.com