Taxpayers were saved Sh6.5 billion worth of assets and cash, which could have been lost through scandals in government ministries last year, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has said. Appearing before the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee, CEO Halakhe Waqo said the agency has disrupted and limited mega scandals at various institions. “We have recovered stolen assets and disrupted planned scandals in various departments and ministries. We have also valued them accordingly,” Waqo said. Related : Arrest Lusaka over Sh1 million scam, EACC told He told the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi that the anti-graft agency has accounted for all funds channeled to them. “We are conscious to ensure the resources channeled to us are utilised as we deliver our mandate to Kenyans. I can account for all the investments made since I joined the commission,” Waqo said. This was after Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi tasked him to explain the achievements made by the Commission with the budgetary allocation made to it every financial year. “EACC is heavily funded but the output made is always low. Kenyans need value for the billions of shillings channeled to the Commission every year,” Bunyasi said. Waqo called on Parliament to allocate the anti-graft agency enough funds to effectively curb corruption. In its 2016-17 annual report, the EACC said it had completed 32 asset-tracing inquiries over Sh5 billion public assets that had been fraudulently acquired. Related : Go for corruption giants, not 'petty small fish', Mandago tells EACC The report tabled in the National Assembly early this year showed that 574 reports on violations of Chapter Six of the Constitution were received. Of these 111 were analysed and completed. Waqo said 25 cases were finalised in court, resulting in 18 convictions and seven acquittals. Three cases were withdrawn. “Consequently, 143 files on corruption and economic crimes were analysed and submitted to the Director of Public Prosecutions for action while other cases are at different stages. Out of these files, the commission recommended 110 for prosecutions, seven for administrative action and 26 for closure,” Waqo said. He said EACC is deploying resources to address the situation and investigations are at various stages. He, however, said there has been an upsurge in reports on corruption and unethical conduct in the 47 counties. Click here for the latest political news