The old adage about how easier it is to become number one than to remain number one proved true for Mathare United as they were held to a 1-1 draw away at Thika United. Shami Kibwana won and converted a penalty six minutes after the break, only for Cliff Nyakenya’s header to deny Nicholas Muyoti’s charges their first win in five attempts. Having seen Gor Mahia go three points clear at the top of the table following a routine 2-0 win over Bandari, pressure was on Mathare to show they have the ammunition to sustain a title challenge with a win away at Thika. However, the Thika sub-county Stadium surface was barely playable following the incessant rains that have pounded most parts of the country. Francis Kimanzi’s charges started strongly with burly Francis Omondi firing a free kick just wide. Chrispin Oduor should have done better from the ensuing corner by David Owino but instead nodded the ball wide off Alan Owiny’s goal. Thika began getting a foothold into the game and had the first opportunity when Dennis Odhiambo’s fierce effort was pushed away by Robert Mboya. The ball was soon on the other end with Owiny having to come out to clear the ball with Clifford Alwanga baring down on goal. After a goal-less first half, the hosts took the lead in the 53rd minute when Kibwana was upended in the box by a rush challenge by Samuel Olwande. The young forward dusted himself and dispatched the resultant spot kick past Mboya. Thika had 40 minutes to hang on and claim a precious first win of the campaign but hardly survived half of the remaining time with Nyakenya heading in the leveler from Alwanga’s pin-point cross. The draw left Mathare with 11 points in second place— two points behind Gor. AFC Leopards decision to bar coach Robert Matano proved a masterstroke as they claimed victory away at Sony Sugar. The 2-0 win came courtesy of a goal from Ezekiel Odera and an own goal by Alfred Onyango. Ulinzi Stars long wait for a win since the opening day of the campaign ended with a bruising 1-0 win against Tusker. Masita Masuta scored the lone goal of the game 20 minutes from time to halt the soldiers run of three matches without victory. Wazito FC had little to celebrate at full time as they were thumped 4-1 by Kariobangi Sharks. The defeat was the second for Wazito in a space of eight days and served as a rude awakening after they dared to dream with a victory over Sony Sugar in their first ever match in the Kenyan Premier League.