I never in my life thought I would be arrested. But on Thursday night, I was arrested like a hawker by Kanjo askaris. They dumped us at Central Police Station. Last year was a complicated year for any Kenyan business because we politicked for the whole year! Zero financial gain was achieved in 2017 and for most youths, “tulikula ngumu”. Businesses suffered a good one! Fast forward to 2018: Kenyans were hopeful and even celebrated the magic handshake between Uhuru and RAO! So, my friends and I decided to launch a second entertainment company, “A1 Entertainment”. The launch was planned and we invited all the dope amazing Kenyans for the March 29 big reveal at a five star restaurant to come celebrate the milestone. Organising the event was not a joke. It cost serious cash, not to mention the time spent contracting services from over 20 young men and women to make the event a success. The theme of the event was Gatsby...Giving off Swagger. It as based off the F. Scott Fitzgerald novel The Great Gatsby of the 1920’s so all invites guests came to our launch looking amazing. But, alas! Before we could seat and have our dinner, the event was invaded by the county officials, who arrested ushers and the company directors. I have always expected to one day get caught in serious altercation with the law but not Kanjo. The askaris crudely stormed the event, handcuffed me and my partners and threw us in the back of their old ass pickups and struggled to drive us to Central. It was a mess. A big mess! Embarrassing and demeaning. The old pick ups were so tired that I felt like I was in the back of a lawnmower. The ruffian looking kanjo askaris who arrested us were not even cops they were not in uniform they had never been to Dusit or even known their was a Hotel called Dusit the whole thing was a mess. They ruined the event not to mention they dumped us at Central police station then decided to run away living us their stranded behind bars. I always follow the law and my dream of being arrested was the Jimmy Wanjigi type of arrest with real cops with real guns and not drunk county askaris, who have no clue what’s up! Not for launching a company at a private hotel and or being accused of having a long beard. Yes, askaris, who were visibly inebriated invaded our privacy and our freedom had the audacity of talking about my beard, claiming my beard is criminal...so to cut the long story short, we were at Central for about two hours the event was disrupted and my beard was violated. Believe it or not! But #TheRaverend would like to say asante sana, to the Central police boss, who rushed from home to come and save the day for both the police officers on duty who were embarrassed like whooo!!!! Because we were arrested for zero crime and they were demanding for 50K bond for each person arrested. The total was 500K! The Central police boss was shocked and embarrassed at the situation. The askaris were missing and as a result, we were all released. However, whoever sent the county thugs who operate drunk proved his point by shutting down our company launch. It’s just sad that an individual would go to such lengths to show young hard working Kenyans how powerful he can be! #TheRaverends beards and A1 directors, tumelamba lolo this time around, but we hope to launch our company officially at a later date. That said, it is Easter and Kenyans are very religious. We always turn to God in hard times and also in good times we are just dope like that we appreciate and always give thanks. Just like the ancient days, we do still give sacrifices but not in form of slaughtering or praying to burning bushes, with all our tech and Wakanda paraphernalia. W still don’t have direct access to God like our forefathers, so we do the next best thing. We party hard during the festive seasons and we have churches, temples and mosques, tuko tu sawa... So anyone who judges us for over appreciating Easter holidays or Christmas holidays, utalamba lolo.