KNH boss Lily Koros and Clinical Services director Bernard Githae have been sent on compulsory leave after a brain surgeon opened the skull of the wrong patient. The leaves were ordered on Friday by Health CS Sicily Kariuki. This comes as health professionals speculated about who was responsible for one of the worst reported cases of medical negligence. “I apologise to the two patients and their families and especially the patient who was mistakenly operated on,” Kariuki said yesterday. Doctors John Ongech and Thomas Mutie will run the affairs of the hospital in acting capacity as investigations continue. This is the third huge problem for the hospital in about a month and a half. A baby was kidnapped two weeks ago and on January 20 some nursing mothers complained they had been assaulted or sexually harassed on their way to breastfeed their infants. The doctors’ union on Friday blamed nurses after one of their colleagues opened the brain of the wrong patient. They said the nurse who prepared the patient for surgery should be held accountable for wrongly labelling the patient. “The surgery was done on the wrong patient mainly because of wrong patient mainly because of wrong patient labelling by the ward staff,” the doctors said. But the nurses union’s secretary general Seth Panyako told the Star doctors should stop blaming nurses for a collective mistake. “To put the blame on nurses alone is being naïve. The surgeon and the anaesthetists are equally at fault for negligence,” he said. Panyanko said even though it is the nurse who admitted the patient, the surgeon and anaesthetist ought to have briefed the patient on the surgery. “They were also to check whether the patient was fit for the procedure. Caring for patients is teamwork,” he said. Peterson Wachira from the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers said even though a member of their union was part of the team, they will do their own investigations. On February 25, two men were wheeled into KNH unconscious. One needed head surgery to remove a blood clot in his brain and the other required treatment for a swelling on his head. However, during admission, the one with the swelling was given the name and ID number of the one who had a blood clot in the brain. Doctors only realised the mistake after they had opened the skull of the wrong patient and found no blood clot. On Friday Koros suspended the admitting rights of the neurosurgeon registrar, the ward nurse, the anaesthetist and the theatre receiving nurse. They were all given show cause letters. “The hospital deeply regrets the mix-up and has done all it can to ensure the safety and well-being of the patient. We are happy to inform the public the patient is recovering very well.” Koros said in a statement. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board has written to the management of the hospital to submit a report on the incident by close of business on March 5. “I have also asked them to submit certified and paginated files of both patients and statements of the personnel,” CEO of the board Daniel Yumbya said in a letter. He said once the documents have been received, they will convene a preliminary inquiry committee which will look at the allegations raised two weeks from the day they receive the report. Until then, the country awaits to hear what action will be taken against the doctors and the entire management as the hospital tries to redeem its image and reputation. Read:KNH suspends surgical staff after brain operation on wrong patient Also Read:KNH drama: Did doctors follow due pre-surgery procedures?