Most developers do not hire engineers and instead resort to cheap labour from masons, which results in unsafe construction. Masons yesterday told the National Construction Authority that engineers are only hired when the developers are seeking City Hall approval. They are then discarded and their work left to the less qualified masons. Officials of the authority were in Zimmerman, Nairobi, to oversee the demolition of two unsafe buildings. The masons said they built the houses, although they are not skilled enough. They said most construction is done without engineers on site. “Most developers do not want to engage engineers, for cost-cutting reasons. They only bring engineers at the beginning and later when seeking government approvals,” a mason who did not want to be named said. The owners and caretakers of the buildings disappeared before the officials arrived in the company of police to demolish the houses. Most tenants had vacated. The rest were forced out. NCA said the demolitions are part of the government’s efforts to stop fdeaths and injuries caused by collapsed buildings. The agency plans to bring down two more building sin Kariobangi. Buildings Safety Testing and Quality Assurance acting MD Samuel Charangu said they will then move to Huruma where six other buildings have beenmarked for demolition. Building inspectors are assessing structures following the collapse of a building in Kariobangi two weeks ago. The cave-in i of the four-storey structure left scores homeless. There were no casualties. A report by Buildings Inspectorate in the Housing and Urban Development department said 217 Nairobi buildings are extremely dangerous. It called for a probe of another 688 structures. About 330 buildings have been marked for demolition; only a handful have been pulled down. There are there more than a thousand considered unsafe and requiring reinforcement and repair. City Hall says so few deathtraps have been demolished because owners rush to court and obtain injunctions. It also says demolition equipment is extremely expensive to operate. Read:[VIDEO] Demolition of condemned buildings begins in Zimmerman Also Read:Demolitions of Nairobi's death traps to begin Thursday