President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga must apologize to Kenyans for the suffering they underwent during the prolonged electioneering period last year, Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot has said. Aukot said this is the only way that will show the truce between the two leaders is genuine. “If we are to talk about reconciliation, let us also apologize for doing Kenyans wrong. We played dirty politics that threatened to destroy the country. “It is not enough to say that we are reconciling as a country. Let us admit we made certain wrongs,” Aukot said. Read; It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru He spoke on Saturday during the burial of Alice Maitha, the third wife of the former powerful cabinet minister from the Coast, the late Karisa Maitha, at their Mzambarauni home in Kilifi county. Aukot asked Uhuru and Raila to own up to their roles in taking the country dangerously close to chaos. “There was a handshake. But there were people who were killed before this handshake. Who will compensate these people - people who lost their loved ones, husbands, children - because of the kind of politics we play in this country?” said Aukot. He said Raila should apologize for disparaging the Presidency of Uhuru. “He must stand down as the People’s President. He must refuse People’s Assembly. That way, we can believe there is really a true and honest reconciliation. Let us not lie to each other,” Aukot said. “I must speak the truth. If you want to chase me from here, do it. But I must speak the truth,” he said The former presidential candidate said Uhuru and Raila should include compensation for the innocent lives lost and property destroyed during the electioneering period in their talks. “Peace or handshake of leaders must go beyond. Let’s talk about how these people will be compensated. Let’s now have a serious conversation about national issues like hunger, corruption. Let’s not close our eye on these issues,” he said. “As we send off Mama, let’s do it with respect but also let us speak the truth,” Aukot said. Read; New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Click here for the latest political news