Farmers in Eldoret on Thursday held demonstrations to oppose plans by the government to allow cheap maize imports from Uganda. The government is planning to allow importation of more than six million bags of maize. The farmers said the National Cereals and Produce Board is still receiving maize produced locally. They demanded that the government first pay them Sh4 billion for the maize supplied since December last year. In January, the government said it would allow maize imports from this month to avert an increase in unga prices. Then Agriculture CS Willy Bett said the maize the NCPB is buying from farmers in the North Rift could only last until end of February. The board was buying a 90kg bag at Sh3,200. Bett said there has been progress in buying of maize from farmers this year compared to last year. This is despite a reduced maize harvest against a growing demand. He said Kenya is a maize-deficit country and continues to import maize from its East African neighbours and international sources to meet demand. “Our traders are importing from Uganda to meet demand of the customers. Soon we will consider waiving import duty to allow millers to import in bulk to meet demand and to stabilise the local market,” he had said. In February, Parliament promised to ensure the price of a 2kg packet of maize does not exceed Sh115. In May last year, the government imported maize from Mexico. The maize was meant to lower the prices of maize flour, which had skyrocketed to Sh150 for a two-kilo packet. After the maize was shipped in from Mexico, the government subsidised and branded maize flour. A 2kg packet of maize flour was retailing at Sh90. The subsidy ended in December last year. According to a report by the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, between July and September 2017, Kenya brought in 92 per cent of the region’s imports, approximately 144,329 tonnes. Out of this, maize imports were, 22, 35, and 43 per cent from Tanzania, Uganda, and Ethiopia, respectively. On Thursday the farmers also said they are yet to get fertiliser from the NCPB. Uasin Gishu Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said the farmers are unhappy with how the Agriculture ministry has been distributing fertilise