The first meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga has been described by some naysayers as a ‘mere handshake’ or a ‘betrayal’. Others call it ‘historic’. The handshake may have a far-reaching impact on the careers of a number of politicians and the conduct of politics in years to come. In a trend that climaxed in 2017, Kenya has produced politicians who thrive on presenting politics as a matter of life and death and as a question of their communities’ survival. They thrive on blood-curdling speeches, whipped- up tribal emotions and stage-managed protests. Many Kenyans cannot recall ever feeling worse about their country and politics than in the run-up to the 2017 election, the months after and until the handshake. With the handshake, at least for now, we are looking at the end of the politics of fear, hate and division. Nowhere has fear been created and exploited more than between the Luo and the Kikuyu. It is both a historical and present fact that the perceived irreconcilable differences between the two have been exploited to advance political careers and to champion an ethnic agenda. This often to the exclusion of both or one of the two communities. No two leaders are better placed to deal with the matter than Raila and Uhuru. There has never been a clearer way to send a message, especially to politicians, that as a nation we are rejecting the politics of division and saying everybody matters more than the historic handshake and agreement to bury the hatchet. Fear grips the country every election year because politicians often focus on what divides rather than what unites communities. Some of what divides us are rooted in historical occurrences, like the parting of ways between founding fathers Jomo Kenyatta and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. This has been used over the years to foment fear and hatred between the Luo and the Kikuyu and to build the careers of individual politicians from within and outside the two communities. Whole political careers, negotiations and power arrangements have been pegged on and consummated on the premise that the Luo and the Kikuyu are, should and will remain enemies. With the handshake, careers founded on this premise have to be rethought and recast. This won’t come easy, though. Even as Uhuru and Raila shook hands, many are the politicians whose hopes for ascending to power at all levels still rest in instilling fear and invoking division. They are looking for abstract ways of stoking the fires of division, summoning and validating it. The politics of fear has led to Kenyans being declared outsiders in certain parts of their own country at election time while others have been dismissed as unfit to lead based on their age and cultural traditions. This too is going on covertly in the wake of the handshake. Yet as a country, we have every reason to put aside politics of fear and division. We have seen desirable government programmes, such as the conservation of the Mau water tower, come a cropper as politicians seek power. The country has stalled. Fear makes people hold on to what they have and know more tightly and refuse to venture outside the familiar comfort zone and explore other possibilities. Fear makes communities feel like they have to be protected by one of their own. It is at the root of the violent competition for political power and the desire to exclude others once power is obtained. Purveyors of fear ascend to power by painting non-members of their communities as enemies that should be kept at bay or be destroyed. This has long been the case in Kenya,which has run on politicians painting a terrifying picture, then looking for events to validate it. This has been the case since the return of multipartyism, particularly in the last three elections. The handshake brings hope for other conflicts in the region and across Africa that no situation is too bleak to be resolved where there is mature and brave leadership. There must be no going back. The handshake in itself does not guarantee peace or political stability or reconciliation. It however makes all these possible. All it will need is the courage and commitment by all politicians and Kenyans.  Rongo MP