Deputy President William Ruto yesterday shrugged off critics and said his track record on conserving the environment is impeccable. He unveiled a task force to unearth problems ailing the forest sector. Ruto said matters to do with water catchment areas should not be politicised. “Degradation and deforestation are serious matters, not for photo ops and publicity stunts as seen in the past. What we have seen in the past is people going to Mau, planting two trees, making big statements,” he said at his Karen residence. Read: Raila to Ruto: ‘I was right on Mau recovery’ The DP directed the task force to restore the country’s forest resources. He said the task force’s work is not a public relations exercise. The DP added that past events have ended up being a hoax and publicity stunts. Ruto said the task force has a clear mandate. Some 120,000 acres of indigenous forest have been destroyed. Ruto said trees should be planted on a further three million acres. But to achieve this, sacrifices will have to be made, the DP said. “To achieve management of forest resources, some sacrifices have to be made. The government is ready, willing and able to make those sacrifices,” he said. “Criticism is part of national discourse.” Opposition chief Raila Odinga in the past spearheaded the conservation of Mau Forest, the country’s largest water tower. The government on February 24 suspended all forms of logging. Ruto said all the task force’s recommendations will be implemented to the letter. Related: 'Ruto worse than Raila': Mau forest IDPs refuse to vote for Jubilee He said the team’s recommendations will inform whether the ban will be lifted or not. Other things the task force will look into include resource mobilisation, review of laws and mobilising Kenyans to plant trees. Ruto said there has been serious degradation of water catchment areas and over-exploitation of indigenous and plantation forests around the country. The DP said even though climate change is a global problem, it is the country’s duty to mitigate the effects. Green Belt Movement chairperson Marion Wakanyi will head the task force. Others include Environment Institute of Kenya vice chairperson Linda Munyao, Rhino Ark executive director Christian Lambrechts, Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga and Kenya Water Towers Agency chairperson Isaac Kalua. Other members are KCB director Adil Khawaja, Kepsa environment, water and natural resource sector board chairperson Duncan Kimani, Cotu official Ernest Nadome and lawyer Faith Waigwa and Gideon Kilakoi. Ruto asked the task force to approach the issue with an open mind, saying the government will give financial and political goodwill. Ruto said the task force will explore if it is possible to increase forest cover to 10 per cent before 2030.  Click here for the latest political news 