“How do you think?” That’s one of my favourite questions in my coaching sessions. I’m interested in my clients’ mindset. I want to know what principles govern their thought processes because thinking is the foundation of a person’s existence. I know it’s cliché, but the truth is: you are what you think. Your thinking or mentality forms the basis for your decision making. This principle applies to every aspect of our lives – especially work. So that a leader’s thoughts and attitude about excellence is what they will bring to the table. That is what they will pass on to their team. If your boss does not care about excellence, it won’t be a standard in your organisation. A mentality of excellence will build systems of excellence. Care. Let’s explore this word. Care is the root of excellence. Mediocre systems simply don’t care about doing things right. The system and its leaders don’t care about the highest or best possible expression of the corporate vision. The organisation can operate like the wild and nobody cares. The systems could be in disarray and no one is bothered. Excellence appears when somebody makes a conscious, quality decision to care about how things run. The intensity of care about the quality of an organisation’s output determines the level of excellence in the company. Care births passion and produces the drive needed to initiate and sustain excellence. It is important for leaders to understand how excellence works. It doesn’t just happen. Leaders who have deep care for excellence easily stand out because there is no room for mediocrity. They keep at it until they get it right. These leaders insist on the highest quality. Deep care gives you deep appreciate for details. You begin to see beyond the obvious to know how to make things better. This mindset ensures that you don’t take things on face value. You’re committed to precision and the proper order of things. Your keenness for details is proof that you’re committed to excellence. This commitment to excellence is why great professionals keep studying to gain deeper insight into their craft. The mentality of excellence means that you’re a lifetime student of your endeavor. You never arrive. And the more you study, the more your area of expertise opens up to you. That is why the masters can sustain their interest and practice of their craft for decades. Quincy Jones has done music for over 60years – and at 85, he has no retirement plans. Email: etoolbox@theyouideology.com