Western Stima consolidated their lead in the National Super League after beating Nakuru All Stars 1-0 at Afraha Stadium. The former Kenyan Premier League got their lone goal of the match through goalkeeper Samuel Odhiambo, who stood tall at the penalty spot after defender Japhet Makanji was punished for handling the ball inside his area in the 68th minute. The defeat left the Nakuru-based side winless in nine matches exposing them to the risk of relegation to Division One League. At the same venue, St Joseph Youth and Nairobi City Stars laboured to a one-all draw. At Thika Stadium, KCB thumped Bidco United 2-1 to take their tally to 17 points. It was a perfect return for their head coach, John Kamau and Crispinus Onyango, who had been away with the national U-23 team for friendly matches in Uzbekistan. Samuel Mwangi put KCB ahead in the 35th minute before Kelvin Migele doubled the scores few minutes to the half time. Sean Okwara pulled one for Bidco in the second half and efforts to restore parity were futile as he bankers held till the final whistle to move second. At Bukhungu Stadium, Kibera Black Stars bounced back to winning ways when they pipped hosts Green Commandos 3-1. Coast Stima battled to a 2-2 draw with visiting Kangemi All Stars at Mbaraki Stadium, Mombasa. Meanwhile, Kenya Police will put their unbeaten run in line today when they face struggling GFE 105 at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma. Police are yet to have their guns silenced in seven matches and they will be looking to safeguard their run against a side which has won just once in eight attempts. Under the tutelage of Charles ‘Korea’ Omondi, Police have won four and drew three times and have a game in hand. Despite the siblings duo of Patrick Oboya and Ibrahim Dawo mourning the demise of their mother, Korea confirmed that the they will available for selection. “We are ready for the match the boys are psyched up and we are looking forward to a good match. Oboya and Dawo will play. They are mentally strong. I have talked with them and I believe they will give their best. They are two disciplined players who love football and we extend our condolences to the family and friends.” Elsewhere, mid-table sides Ushuru and Talanta clash at Camp Toyoyo in the only second tier match to be staged in Nairobi. Ushuru have had a start to forget having won three, drawn two and lost three of their matches so far. However, they will be seeking to build up on last weekend’s 3-1 triumph over Nairobi Stima. Similarly, Talanta have also had a poor start where they have won two, drawn three and lost two duels. Nairobi Stima will be seeking to get back to their winning ways when they encounter Isibania at Karuturi grounds.