William Mwangi, an ICT officer in a Nairobi based Communication firm, is paid Sh40,000 gross salary a month,  a figure he says cannot sustain him through the month. He has turned to borrowing to make it to the next pay day. On receiving his pay, the 30 year old first pays pending loans from multiple digital credit providers, most charging interest rates above the 14 per cent rate approved by Central Bank of Kenya. After clearing outstanding loans, he has no money left for daily needs, hence he is forced to immediately borrow again to help meet his needs. This cycle remains the same month after month. Mwangi is an example of an estimated six million working Kenyans who are unable to sustainably meet their day-to-day needs without short-term credit from digital lenders, a new study has revealed. “Digital credit remains ill-suited for the majority of livelihoods...many borrowers report cutting on consumption to repay the loans, and many report dipping into their savings,” the report says. As reported by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics last week, there are currently 17.9 million employed Kenyans against the 25 million working age Kenyans of between 15 to 64 years of age. According to the digital credit survey Kenya released last week, at least 40 per cent of mobile credit accessed by employed Kenyans is used to meet their day-to-day needs , while 18 per cent is to meet personal needs and purchase household goods. The digital credit survey was conducted by Financial Service Deepening- FSD Kenya in partnership with the Central Bank of Kenya, KNBS and the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor popularly known as CGAP. It further revealed that up to 14 per cent of credit taken by the employed population is used to finance their airtime needs, 21 per cent to finance their eduction, 17 per cent for side-business, eight per cent for medical emergencies and upto 10 per cent is used to lend to others. As per the findings of the report, the trend to finance day-to-day needs also leads across other occupations such as casual workers, farmers and the self employed.      