 Kenya has been
embroiled in political conflicts for many years now. Regrettably, the result
from these conflicts is that it is the ordinary Kenyans who have paid a steep
price, and not the politicians: Innocent Kenyans have died and thousands
displaced. Tens of children rendered orphans. The list is endless. Concurrently, politicians
have always mastered the art of negotiating deals that give them a lifeline and
this is always at the expense of the Mwananchi. We have seen instances of a
bloated (expensive) Cabinet just to satisfy selfish politicians. We have been
duped into thinking what ails our country is ethnicity. And we invest many
resources in pampering tribes not to rise against each other. But is ethnicity
our greatest undoing?  I disagree. Kenya is a mosaic
of over 42 tribes. When grouped and classified, Kenya is a coalition of tribes.
Each tribe has it its own unique history, culture, values, and beliefs.
Speaking from my tribe, and in conversations with elders, nowhere in our
tradition were other tribes viewed as “enemies.” My grandfather used to narrate
to me the story of Achieng’ Oneko, and how he would join other Kikuyus to
oppose the dehumanising “Kipande” (ID card ) that every Kikuyu was required to
carry. In fact, there is a song Oneko would lead to show this solidarity: “Nie ndaniriria
njuge ndi Mugikuyu” (I am shouting the loudest, saying I am a Kikuyu). This was
meant to incite the colonizer to arrest him and other non-Kikuyus standing in
solidarity. Conflicts in
Kenya, as a result, have never been about ethnicity. Properly defined, a
conflict is a disagreement, usually a serious one, that exists when one or two
parties are engaged in the pursuit of a limited resource. In this context, the
limited resource is  “power.” Power is the
ability to control or influence (people, resources et al). In Kenya, the
presidency is viewed as having immense control over (limited) resources. As President,
you can appoint your friends and acquaintances to key government positions.
Ultimately, the essence of power entails the ability to control taps and the
floodgates of (illegal) riches.  It is
all about engaging in brazen corruption without the possibility, ever, of
getting prosecuted if found culpable. With the trapping
that power accesses, it is not a surprise that people will seek it by all means
necessary. And the best approach is to incite one tribe against the other.
There has to be an enemy.  To this end, violence
is intrinsically linked to inter-ethnic conflict embedded in competition for
power, with elections acting as the trigger. Politicians have
perfected the art of using ethnicity as a decoy towards power. That is why we
engage in “mtu wetu” fights whenever a politician, say from the Rift Valley is charged
with corruption. It soon diffuses from being a fight over illegalities into a
check against persecution of a certain tribe. Never mind, those who engage in corruption
eat alone. You and I are never counted! Our role, as perfected by politicians,
is to incite and fight for them so that they can eat without any distraction. People are now frustrated
because  with each passing day, the
deceit by politicians becomes more visible, if not blatant. What happened to
the jobs? What happened to justice? What happened to the rule of law? What
happened to universal healthcare? What happened to affordable living
conditions? While lauding
Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta for finding common ground, my hope is that the newfound
bromance will be utilized to transforming Kenya and leading it out of the
current hardships into a prosperous country, where everybody feels part and
parcel of the republic. At the same time,
we have to be cognizant of the adage that a doctor will open a half healed
surface if he believes a dangerous infection hovers on the inside. To this end,
we must be true to the country and look to heal the ills that have bedeviled us
in the past. For example, is it time to open the servers? If in the future
there will be election reforms, we have to set a solid foundation for such an
exercise, and it has to start with knowing the truth so that whatever changes
are proposed be solely to improve the process and not to change everything just
because someone did not win. Finally, in the
words of Sun Tzu in the Art of War,
“When you surround an enemy, leave an outlet free.” According to Sun Tzu, it is
important to dupe the enemy that there is a road to safety. And when he is all
in, Sun notes: “Crush him.”  Mukurima is a
partner, MBS Conflict Resolution Group  