WhatsApp will soon give you more time to unsend embarrassing messages. The app currently allows users to recall messages up to seven minutes after they have been sent as part of its 'Delete for Everyone' tool. That time window could soon be extended to just over an hour. The new feature is currently being tested on select Android users, and it is unclear how quickly it will be rolled out globally. Messages that are recalled are replaced with a 'this was deleted' message. There's still a chance a user will have seen an opened message before you've had a chance to recall it. WhatsApp's FAQ page explains how sent messages can be deleted. It says: "Deleting messages for everyone allows you to delete specific messages you have sent to either a group or an individual chat. This is particularly useful if you sent a message to the wrong chat or if the message you sent contains a mistake." After its initial launch last year, the option to delete sent messages was well-received. Its only shortcoming, in the opinion of users, was the seven minute time limit. As a result, the original 420 seconds (seven minutes) window has been broadened to 4,096 seconds (68 minutes and 16 seconds). According to WABetaInfo, the feature will work for all WhatsApp messages, including: GIFs, files, locations and videos. To delete a message, open WhatsApp and go to the chat containing the message you want to delete. Tap and hold the message, then choose Delete from the menu. Tap 'Delete for everyone' and the message will disappear. Messages you successfully delete for everyone will be replaced with 'This message was deleted' in your recipients' chats. After that deadline, WhatsApp users are only able to delete the message from their own device. Other recipients in the chat will still be able to see the message. Similarly, if you see 'This message was deleted' in a chat, it means that the sender deleted their message for everyone. The WhatsApp FAQ added: "In order for messages to be successfully deleted for everyone, both you and your recipient must be using the latest version of WhatsApp for Android, iPhone or Windows Phone." Another worry is that if something goes wrong and the deletion doesn't work, you won't be notified. As well as the extended time-frame for recalling a message, the update also comes with other updates. WhatsApp is trialling stickers in iOS and, similar to Snapchat, users can now tag a location, as well as the current time. Snapchat allows users to add stickers specific to their current location. In the latest beta update, WhatsApp is also trialling the capability to forward messages from one chat directly into another one. Similar to emails, this would show the information about the original message such as sender name, number and time stamp. Click here for the latest local political news