Wiper and Ukambani leaders are convening an emergency meeting on Monday in response to the expected merger of Ford Kenya and ANC. Wiper chief Kalonzo Musyoka told the Star on the phone on Friday, "I think it's going to be an earthshaking event." Saying he was "only invited by the conveners", he called it "a meeting by the community where they want to shape their political direction. It is not just Wiper but all Ukambani leaders." Read: Wetang'ula + Mudavadi + Kalonzo = zero Related: Raila walks the tightrope Kalonzo, a NASA co-principal and Raila Odinga's running mate, increasingly appears to be the odd man out. The ANC-Ford Kenya merger plan and resulting brouhaha has isolated and sidelined Kalonzo, more so because NASA chief and ODM boss Raila Odinga already cut a cooperation deal with Jubilee. ODM appears ready to go it alone. Despite denials and Kalonzo's proposal to register NASA as a political party, the National Super Alliance appears to be splitting at the seams. The situation is fluid, dynamic, changing by the day as parties and players position themselves for 2022. On Friday Kalonzo and Wiper vice chairman, Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr confirmed the emergency meeting will be held in Nairobi. Makueni Woman Representative Rose Museo is one of the conveners and Kalonzo said her agenda will have a bearing on the political direction of the Kamba. Kilonzo Jnr indicated strongly that the meeting was prompted by the ongoing realignments within NASA. “The meeting will either give direction or spell out what the party intends to do, particularly Kalonzo, going forward,” he told Star on Friday on the phone. “I saw Ford Kenya going to see Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday. Everybody is positioning himself. Wiper and the Kamba leadership have arranged that meeting on Monday. It will involve a conglomeration of leadership from Ukambani to exchange ideas or chart the way forward for the future of Kalonzo." The unilateral decision by Raila, the ODM leader, to partnering with President Uhuru Kenyatta initially galvanised Wiper, ANC and Ford Kenya to forge their own NASA agenda. However, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula's newfound unity, and their MPs' Thursday meeting with DP Ruto, appear to have undermined prospects of tripartite unite after ODM's tactical exit. Yesterday Mudavadi, through his spokesman Kabisu Kabatesi, told Star that the legislators who met Ruto had the full support of their party leaders, but he denied any political realignment was in the offing. “The MPs had the blessings of their party leaders to go and meet the DP on matters of their constituencies. For anybody to try to twist it and make it sound that they have defected is not correct,” Kabatesi said. Read: Raila is not Nasa leader, ODM position vacant - Mudavadi's party If the warming up of Western Kenya leaders to Ruto's side materialises, this would be the second time Mudavadi would be working together with the DP after Uhuru's infamous 'Madimoni' moment that ended the2013 agreement. Mudavadi, according to the agreement, was to be the presidential candidate to champion the interests of Uhuru and Ruto who were facing crimes against humanity charges at the International Criminal Court. It's not clear that Mudavadi will play second fiddle to Ruto. Ford Kenya deputy party leader Boni Khalwale last weekend asked Ruto to step down in favour of Mudavadi on grounds of Mudavadi's seniority and to show appreciation for Western's support to President Daniel Moi, who hails from same region as the DP. Raila's ODM cooperation — yet to be explained —with Jubilee has threatened NASA unity and longevity up to 2022. This despite some Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC notions that the alliance still stands. Kalonzo is among those maintaining NASA still lives. “As of now, NASA is together. You saw a statement yesterday (Thursday) by Musalia on behalf of the four of us on what is happening in the country. That shows we are together and we are talking,” the Wiper leader and NASA principal said. This is despite the ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna and his Ford Kenya counterpart Eseli Simiyu publicly saying the coalition is dead. “NASA as a brotherhood died on the January 30. It only exists on paper as a coalition,” Sifuna said. ODM says it does not owe Kalonzo, Wetang'ula or Mudavadi support for the presidency in 2022, after they skipped Raila's swearing-in as the 'People's President' on January 30. Kilonzo Jnr cast serious doubt on the future of the opposition alliance, saying he is not surprised by ODM's stand that owes nothing to anyone. “People are realigning themselves and whether NASA will remain up to 2022 is a very serious question, and it's doubtful from the way affiliates are positioning themselves in public,” he stated. Ford Kenya deputy boss Boni Khalwale, who spoke to Star on the phone on Friday, endorsed Kalonzo's proposal to register NASA as a political party, despite Ford Kenya and ANC merger plans. “I have no problem if the leadership of the three parties articulated the idea of registering NASA as a party. The proposed merger of ANC and Ford Kenya is being processed by organs of the two parties,” Khalwale said. NASA's 2017 pre-election agreement stipulates that Kalonzo will be the coalition's presidential flag bearer in 2022, since Raila and ODM are barred from fielding a candidate. A week ago Kalonzo proposed that NASA, officially recognised as a coalition, should be registered as a party. This means he would be its preferred presidential candidate based on the decision deposited last year with the Registrar of Political Parties. The three other principals have not weighed in on Kalonzo's proposal, although Kilonzo Jnr said the move means his party will reclaim its position and Kalonzo will fly the NASA flag in 2022. “In the 2022 arrangement, Kalonzo was supposed to be given priority in NASA, exclusive support. Ultimately, the breach would come from ANC and Ford Kenya because they have interests in the presidency,” Kilonzo said. He insists the National Super Alliance is not dead, although he blames the Summit under the four principals for the strife threatening to cause its implosion. The Makueni Senator said NASA's leadership in Parliament is intact and it can only be disbanded by a joint resolution by the National Delegates Conference of the four affiliate parties. “The problem with the whole NASA saga, be it its registration as a political party, the strengthening of affiliate parties or the viability of the coalition as an entity, just points to a breakdown of communication at the Summit level,” Kilonzo said. Also See:NASA fallout as partners cry foul over ODM tyranny Click here for the latest political news