Rights activists on Tuesday asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to hasten the implementation of Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report. Kenya National Commission on Human Rights said this will be a means of finding closure to past social injustices. The agency holds that full implementation of the report will help resolve issues that trigger the frequent social, economic and political conflicts in the country. In his State of Address to the Nation last year, Uhuru directed Parliament to have the report tabled and debated. Even though the report was tabled, it has never been scheduled for debate, a situation KNCHR chair Kagwiria Mbogori should be changed. "The president should command his troops in Parliament to prioritise the report," she said in a statement. "While we and other actors are working on a reparation policy, the Commission brings to your attention that TJRC report alone is the ultimate policy on reparation." She said the commission believes that the implementation of the recommendation will go a long way in healing the nation in order to avoid future human rights violations. "In this respect your excellency, the KNCHR behooves you to consider a phased implementation approach to the TRJC recommendations," Mbogori said. She added that this will mitigate the political violence that keeps recurring in the country every five years in respect to land representation, marginalisation among others. The commission also called on the president to order the National Treasury to immediately operationalise the Restorative Justice Fund. KNCHR said this will be achieved by adopting regulations to guide reparation of victims and survivors of abuses. In 2015, the president in his address to Parliament offered a public apology to victims and survivors of historical injustices and committed setting up Sh10 billion restorative justice fund. "Since then, efforts towards administration and disbursement of restorative justice funds to victims and survivors has not been realised," Mbogori said. "In the absence of such operationalisation, the commission hereby holds that the state of victim and survivors remain the same or even worse, especially those that suffered bodily harm." The commission further raised concerns over thriving corruption occasioned by lack of effective prosecution of cases, which has led to the diversion of resources meant for development. The unabated corruption Mbogori said derailing critical reforms and development. "Corruption and human rights are interlinked in that a cause-effect relationship exists between them," she said. "On one hand where corruption prevails, human rights abuses will occur in one way or the other." Read: Mr President: Order cops to stop killings, urges KNCHR Also read: 92 killed by cops and civilians in August, October poll violence - KNCHR Click here for the latest political news