Somali novelist Nuruddin Farah begins his novel Hidden in Plain Sight with a shattering event. Aar, Somali man in Mogadishu, dies in a horrific terrorist attack at the UN compound where he works. His death sets of a series of life-changing events for his closest kin and turns the story into a family tale told from the perspective of Bella, his beautiful younger sister. Bella has always adored her big brother and his death leaves her devastated. Nevertheless, she gathers her wits, leaves her successful job as a fashion photographer in Italy and hurriedly travels to Kenya to look after his children. Bella also intends to take over as the executer of Aar’s will. However, she discovers that her brother left important personal documents with his secret lover, a Swedish woman called Gunilla, who lives in Nairobi and is wary of Bella’s intentions. It is imperative that Bella cultivate trust with Gunilla. In the mix of all this arrives the children’s mother, a woman called Valerie, who abandoned the family many years ago. She brings along her lover, an Indian lawyer of Ugandan birth. Bella and Valerie have a prickly relationship, and Bella suspects that her manipulative sister-in-law is really after Aar’s estate and the children. Valerie’s daughter welcomes and accepts back her mother quite early on. But we see her son struggling to remain faithful to his father’s memory, which leads to sibling tension. Bella herself must retain her cool to secure guardianship over her brother’s children. At the same time, she is wresting with the idea of permanently settling into family life, a role she has studiously avoided. Through this novel, Farah brings us the other side of terrorism and religious fundamentalism by exposing the devastation wrought on loved ones left behind by parents. He takes away stereotypes by portraying an Islamic Somali family that is modern and moderate in its views. The book is rich in female characters. Topics such as lesbianism or female circumcision are discussed nonchalantly by the family. Bella herself is a worldly Somali woman with a series of casual affairs with men in different countries. Farrah, 72, has lived outside of Somalia since the 1960s after fleeing from the rule of Siad Barre, the Somali dictator. But most of his writing still centres around his homeland. In dealing with a topical subject, I appreciate that Farah has largely chosen to focus on a family dealing with loss, which is the experience of many ordinary Somalis. His own sister, a UN worker, was killed in a terrorist attack in Afghanistan. A few loose ends remain untied and there were inaccuracies in describing Nairobi. But my main disappointment is the lukewarm emotional journey of a story that started off with such a heartbreaking bang. Farah is a prolific novelist and a playwright of over 40 years, and has been nominated several times for the Nobel Prize in literature.  Star Rating: 3/5