The EACC only deals with "petty, small fish" corruption cases instead of mega ones, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has said. Mandago has likened graft to a huge ogre that is proving hard to slay. "Those involved in big scandals including embezzlement of huge amounts of public funds and land grabbing no longer fear the EACC because no serious action is taken on them," he said on Tuesday. He spoke to members of the  National Anti-Corruption Steering Committee who paid him a courtesy call at his office in Eldoret. On February 22, Transparency International reported that Kenya had jumped two places in its Corruption Index but remained among countries that are doing badly. The country improved from position 145  out of 176 countries in 2016, to position 143 out of 180 in 2017, with a score of 28. "Kenya has made dismal improvement. Punishment and recovery of assets acquired corruptly are necessary if Kenya is to make improvements in the fight against corruption," Executive Director Samuel Kimeu noted Details: Kenya still among most corrupt, Transparency Index reports Also read: Kenya needs to see a 'big fish' convicted of corruption - EACC boss Mandago further said graft is now institutionalised so it must be fought from the roots. "Corruption is another form of cancer that is eating up the country's economy, causing increased poverty and other challenges.. The county boss proposed that learning institutions castigate corruption from primary to university level. "There is a saying that samaki mkunje kama angali mbichi. We need to bring up children [while teaching them] that corruption is bad," he said. "The Ministry of Education must now incorporate the fight against corruption into the school curriculum so children are discouraged from it." Committee acting director David Gathii said they will work with all stakeholders to educate Kenyans on corruption and its dangers. He added counties should incorporate anti-corruption strategies in all their systems. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has formed teams of 12 members to help fight the vice at county level. Also read: Kenya's leadership on trial, corruption a pandemic - Maraga Click here for the latest political news