IS a plot afoot to deny
outspoken Alfred Keter the JP ticket
in the Nandi Hills by-election? Word has it that some top Jubilee lieutenants
are scheming to end his political career for being a thorn in the flesh of the
party's leadership. The plot was made even clearer over the weekend, when the
same operatives hinted at the plan in different public functions. The plot puts
Keter's political future at stake and many are wondering whether he will still
gallantly fight for the JP ticket or shift to Kanu to disprove his detractors
by reclaiming the seat. **** A top official in the
Executive is the talk of the town after acquiring a series of hotels but it seems
he is not done yet. Corridors has it that the man, whose appetite to amass
hotels has shocked many people, is said to be eying more. Here is how the
routine works. Before he buys any asset, he conducts a thorough night tour of
the property. Staff in one of the top hotels in Mombasa told Corridors that the
combative warrior has set his eyes on a high-end hotel along the
Mombasa-Malindi Road at a whopping Sh2.5 billion. This was after he bought
another beach hotel from another investor of Indian extraction in Diani, on the
South Coast, in 2015. A few days ago he reportedly acquired more land in
Donholm, Nairobi. Land sharks beware. **** WORD has it that some ODM
supporters and residents of Embakasi East are happy with the nullification of Babu Owino's election. The ODM
supporters want the party to field former MP John Ogutu Omondi to contest for the seat and lock out Babu on
integrity issues such as allegedly assaulting night guards in Westlands and his
numerous court cases. Some of his constituents were heard lamenting that Babu
has been busy politicking since he assumed office. No bursaries have been issued,
they complain, and Babu has no functioning office.  On the other hand,
Jubilee flagbearer Francis Mureithi
is reportedly afraid of contesting for fear of losing to an ODM candidate. *** THE heavy rains in the
country have opened the eyes of some citizens to the truth of some of the
Jubilee projects contained in its online delivery portal. A fuming Mt Kenya
resident took to social media to decry the state of dilapidated roads listed as
done on the portal. The resident singled out the 6-km Kieni Kia Ndege-Maraa
road, in South Imenti, Meru County, believed to have consumed Sh324.5 million,
and another two roads in similar condition that cost Sh325 million, according
to the portal.  