University lecturers have filed a notice of appeal to suspend orders directing them to call off the strike and resume work. In an application filed under urgency, the lectures said Justice Onesmus Makau issued a ruling that erred in law when he ordered them to return to work without a counter proposal being presented before court by vice chancellors. “The orders made in the ruling if executed will conclusively determine the pending suit ... and it will deny the parties an opportunity to ventilate their cases at the full trial,” the affidavit reads. The lectures said they have a chance of success since the orders made directing the parties to conciliation are contrary to the law. The dons say they heeded the VCs’ request that the strike be called off to enable the parties engage in CBA negotiations. They urged the court to compel the VCs to engage in fair labour practice as it appears that the actions, behaviour and conduct is geared towards stifling fair labour practice. Last week, the Employment and Labour Relations Court directed lecturers to call off the strike and resume work yesterday. Justice Makau further directed the government to present to the Labour CS a counter proposal for the CBA 2017-21 and serve the lectures within 30 days. “The strike is not in compliance with the mandatory procedure provided in the Labour Relations Act,” the judge said. Makau said the lecturers may not have been served with the invitation to attend the conciliation on February 28. He referred the dispute to the Labour CS to assist the parties to resolve the dispute within 60 days. The lectures said the strike is legal and in line with the Constitution. Public university VCs moved to court to overturn the strike, accusing the dons of reneging on pay talks. But lecturers accused the vice chancellors of failing to table a counter offer to their 2017-21 CBA. The lecturers resumed a nationwide strike on March 1 over low pay, nearly three months after ending a similar protest. They have accused the Vice Chancellors’ Committee of sabotaging negotiations. “Failure by the claimants to submit their counter proposal stalled the negotiations. There was nothing to compare with the respondents’ proposal,” they said in their responses filed in court. The petitioners — vice chancellors — have never had any counter proposal to form the basis of concluding the CBA talks. They said when the period within which the parties agreed to conclude the CBA discussions lapsed on January 31, they notified the varsity bosses of their frustration on lack of goodwill, especially the reluctance to engage. The academic staff had no option but to issue a seven-day strike notice to the university managements and to the Labour ministry as required by law, they said. “In the absence of a counter proposal by the claimants, there was nothing for a conciliator to resolve, hence the need for a seven-day strike notice,” lawyer Titus Koceyo, representing the lecturers, said. He told the court to dismiss the case because it is frivolous, superfluous, has no merit and was filed in bad faith. The lectures have also asked the court to urge the vice chancellors to file their counter proposal. The Vice Chancellors’ Committee says it was unlawful for the University Academic Staff Union and Kenya Universities Academic Staff Union to call the strike, yet talks were ongoing. Read:Strike on, Uasu tells lecturers, to appeal court's return-to-work order