IS the era of MPs living in
fear of 'Mr Speaker Sir' back? Well, since the last election and subsequent
swearing-in of legislators, Corridors have learnt that a number of MPs are yet
to make their maiden speeches on the floor of the House. For instance, in Kisumu
county four legislators out of the nine elected are yet to speak in Parliament.
The MPs - who are most vocal in funerals - first convinced their constituents
that NASA was boycotting Parliament, hence their silence. But since the
Harambee House handshake between President Uhuru
Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila
Odinga, the MPs have to find new excuses for their sewn lips. ***** SOME politicians from Bungoma
and Trans Nzoia are a happy lot. Reason? Word has it the politicians, who vowed
not to back ODM leader Raila Odinga's bid for the top seat in the land, are
laughing at Bungoma Senator Moses
Wetang'ula after he lost the Senate Minority role. The politicians were
overheard, during the weekend, whispering sympathies for the senator, but at
the same time mocking him for not heeding their earlier warning not to team up
with Raila. The Jubilee-allied politicians have loudly called for Weta to join
Jubilee: Or rather follow Raila to work with Jubilee! ***** So,
why is Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko holding on to the KPMG report he was handed
last week? A bird whispers to Corridors that there can only be two reasons why
he has not released the report to the public. Either the boss wants to use the
report's findings to negotiate with the culprits, or he is waiting for them to
come and confess their sins and pledge their loyalty. Either way, the outcome
is likely to be compromised. A source tells Corridors that emissaries of the
current and former finance departments at the weekend exchanged notes on
the contents of the audit. ***** A
former MP from Nyanza who lost a gubernatorial petition has been hospitalised
in what is seen as a post-petition loss complication. The ex-lawmaker was
stunned when his appeal application was rejected by a superior court last week,
throwing his political ambitions into disarray. A close relative whispered to Corridors that the night after the rejection of the appeal, the former MP was
rushed to a local middle-level hospital where his condition was stabilised
before he was driven in an ambulance to a high-end Nairobi hospital. The
politician was said to have been banking on the success of the appeal to
resuscitate his political career that has been on the line for some time.
 The politician is also said to be heavily mortgaged with auctioneers on
his trail.  Click here for the latest political news