Amani National Congress will not work with the Jubilee administration following the Uhuru-Raila pact, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said. He said the party will operate in the opposition and if necessary, remain alone if other opposition entities join government. Mudavadi said ANC will remain committed to NASA's vision of speaking against theft of public funds, non-accountability, arrogance, impunity, and negative ethnicity. "ANC advises against any arrangements that continue to foster these undesirable states of affairs," the ANC leader said told journalists on Tuesday. "The opposition cannot accept to go into a coalition or even be part of government with the Jubilee party." The former vice president held that the Opposition must accept to operate outside government especially when holding dialogue on reforms. "ANC will accordingly resist the woolly trappings and allures of high office and remain with the people of Kenya. If it becomes necessary, we will remain alone as the opposition as everyone else joins government," Mudavadi said at ANC headquaters in Lavington, Nairobi. His remarks were in reference to the March 9 unity pact between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM and NASA leader Raila Odinga. The two leaders said they had agreed to put aside their ideological differences and work together for the sake of uniting the country. Mudavadi, however, rubbished the deal saying it was driven by the desire to fulfil individual agendas and not for the good of the country. He said ANC will remain focused on pursuing electoral justice, review of government structure to introduce parliamentary system, strengthen judiciary and the rule of law, create police reforms and implement  Agenda 4 on constitutional instruments. He said the party will stay true to pushing for inclusivity in its engagement with the remaining NASA affiliate parties. "We cannot possible call for justice and rule of law in the country when we impress the rule of the jungle in the coalition." He called on all NASA affiliate parties to stay true and respect the tenets of the NASA power sharing agreement they signed during the formation of the coalition in March last year. "We recall the sacrifice that our party alongside Wiper and Ford Kenya made during the campaigns during last years general and presidential elections; individuals set aside ambitions to support one candidate." Mudavadi said this did not make other parties superior to others adding that they "regret that some have missed this point". He condemned the ouster of Moses Wetang'ula as the leader of minority of the senate saying the party will stand with him in solidarity. "We find this conduct highly reprehensible. Going forward, we will not accept this kind of tragic mischief," Mudavadi said. Read: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Also read: Ford Kenya trashes Wetangula’s ouster, say will strip ODM of minority posts Click here for the latest political news 