Construction firm Ernie Campbell has been allowed to attach assets owned by Githunguri Dairy Farmers to recover a Sh36 million debt owed by the milk processor's subsidiary. The Court of Appeal has lifted the corporate veil on Githunguri Dairy Plant Limited and allowed Ernie Campbell to pursue its owner—Githunguri Dairy Farmers—for the 15 year old debt. Githunguri Dairy Farmers Society processes the Fresha brand of milk, and is one of the largest players in the industry. Appellate Court judges Philip Waki, Roselyn Nambuye and Asike-Makhandia have ruled that Githunguri Dairy Farmers continues to be the biggest beneficiary of the processing plant, despite the construction agreement having been drawn by its subsidiary. They added that being owned by the same individuals, the two Githunguri entities have, even in court proceedings, demonstrated that they are intimately interlinked which was an indication of an attempt to evade paying Ernie Campbell's debt. “Githunguri Dairy Farmers incorporated Githunguri Dairy Plant Limited and then had it enter into an agreement with Ernie Campbell knowing well that it had no financial means or assets to meet the obligations related with the contract.” “In the absence of any reasonable excuse or justification from Githunguri Dairy Farmers for its conduct, we then find it safe to draw an improper and fraudulent purpose necessitating lifting Githunguri Dairy Plant Limited's veil of incorporation for purposes of ensuring justice to both parties,” the judges ruled. Ernie Campbell completed construction of the processing plant in 2003 after being contracted by Githunguri Dairy Plant Limited. The contractor however claimed outstanding dues and was awarded Sh13 million by an arbitrator, with interest at 12 per cent per year. The interest had pushed the amount to over Sh36 million as at 2017. High Court judge Luka Kimaru in 2005 allowed Ernie Campbell to attach Githunguri Dairy Plant Limited's assets, but found that the firm had none registered to it. All assets Ernie Campbell traced, including the milk processing plant, were registered to Githunguri Dairy Farmers Co-operative Society. The contractor then successfully asked the High Court to allow it attach the milk processing plant. It argued that Githunguri Dairy Farmers Co-operative Society and Githunguri Dairy Plant Limited are owned by the same individuals who were hiding behind the cloak of incorporation to evade payment. But Githunguri Dairy Farmers appealed the decision, arguing that it was a separate legal entity from Githunguri Dairy Plant Limited. The co-orporative society, touted as one of the best run in Kenya, added that it was not a party in the initial arbitration proceedings hence the judgment risked punishing it unheard.