President Uhuru Kenyatta has lauded the multi-agency approach promoted by the government saying it has boosted the war against organised crime. The president said the strategy taken to tackle terrorism and violent extremism has recorded significant success in dealing with threats to national security. The head of state cited the fight against terrorism as an example of the successes registered in recent months. "I encourage all recruits to make use of what you have been taught in this context. It has proven results," Uhuru said at Kiganjo on Friday. He spoke when he presided over the passing-out parade of 3,969 recruits who underwent a nine-month basic training under a new curriculum. The new study guide focuses on enhancing national security. Also read: Serve with integrity, Uhuru tells police as 4,000 recruits graduate Saying policing is at the heart of building a united and cohesive society, the President expressed satisfaction that the new recruits training curriculum – deployed at the Kenya Police College for the first time – has ample lessons on those national values. "Policing is at the centre of building a strong economy that leaves no one behind. And good policing is really the fulcrum on which shared prosperity rests," the President said. Uhuru reaffirmed his commitment to facilitating the Kenya Police Service to serve Kenyans efficiently and effectively, saying his administration has radically revamped the service. "You have better, modern equipment and are in a better place to respond to routine requirements and emergencies. The police to civilian ratio is much improved," he said. He said his administration has also allocated considerable amount of resources to address welfare and overall conditions of service. Top on the list will be the construction of more and better housing units so that officers can live in a dignified manner, the president added. To the graduating police officers, the President asked them to embrace the fundamentals of good leadership and the concept of national security. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General Joseph Boinnet also spoke at the event. Click here for the latest political news