Teachers from Northeastern on Monday staged protests at the TSC headquarters in Nairobi over the state of insecurity in the region. They faulted the Teachers Service Commission's plans to hire 900 teachers to replace about 1,000 non-locals recently transferred from there. Read: TSC transfer non-local teachers from Wajir The lot accused TSC CEO Nancy Macharia and chairperson Lydia Nzomo of failing in their role to impartially deploy teachers across the country. They said the hiring of new teachers does not solve the problem of insecurity. "It is their role to formulate policies that are favourable in ensuring that teachers are supplied in all other countries. They have failed," one of the teachers said. "The only function they can execute is to close 250 schools. If that is the only function they can execute, is there any reason they should be in office?" The teachers also apportioned blame to the government saying it has failed to address the issue of insecurity which led to the transfer of teachers from the region. They said President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have remained silent on the issue, putting the education of children in region at risk. Over 2,000 teachers have applied to fill the 900 slots advertised by TSC in Wajir. Macharia said 585 teachers will be posted to primary schools while 315 will go to secondary schools. "She can take those 900 teachers to the schools she wants to take. We will not accept unless a clear modality is done and clear formula is done," the teachers said. Charles Owino, Kenya Police Service director of communications, said the government is doing everything to secure teachers in the region. He said the war on insecurity is not yet lost noting that the killing of three teachers in Wajir in February that triggered the current crisis was an isolated case. "We are working together with the ministry of education and the general administrations of the regions to ensure that each and every child gets proper education and each and every teacher is secured," Owino told KTN in an interview. More on this: Suspect arrested after al Shabaab attack on Wajir teachers Click here for the latest political news  