Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has said he is willing to bail out Midlands Company in Njabini, but the firm must first be demystified. "When I was the ICDC chairman, I offered to give
between Sh200 million and Sh400 million to buy the factory, but the county leadership at the time refused. I was fought because I had shown interest in the governor's seat. I'm now in office, nothing will stop us from helping the firm," he said. He spoke on Friday during a forum to train suppliers and contractors
on the Integrated Financial Management Information System at Catholic Hall in Ol Kalou. Kimemia said he has formed a cabinet committee to investigate the
problems facing the company. He will work with the EACC to unmask a cartel that has brought the company to its knees, he said. He said the factory is not worth Sh1.2 billion and its true value must be ascertained so that money from public coffers does not sink into the wrong pockets. Kimemia said Nyandarua
residents own less than 5 per cent of the company shares. He wants the shareholders known and who benefits from the profits. The governor said there have been not reports on the company's performance, yet some leaders are making noise and
accusing his administration of not wanting it to be reverted to
residents. “When you ask for the account reports, there is none. If you ask for an audit report, there is no answer. Empty noise has
no value," he said. Kimemia said the 25 acres on which the company was built, and
the residents’ shares were used to guarantee a loan for the firm. It is imperative to establish where the money went, and why Nyandarua residents of Nyandarua do not get dividends. “Those who have been hiding in factory should stop insulting the intelligence of residents. They should be open about what they are doing," he aid. Kimemia said his administration and the Nyandarua
assembly is ready to allocate money in the budget to help residents buy
shares in the firm. He accused some leaders of being insincere in their claims to revive the firm as they had contributed to its downfall. Kimemia blamed some leaders, including former Deputy Governor Waithaka Mwangi of hampering development. On February 24 during an extraordinary general
meeting at Njabini, Mwangi accused Kimemia’s administration and elected leaders in Nyandarua of not wanting residents to own the factory. Kimemia said the company has been in existence for almost 20
years, even a time when Mwangi and other leaders championing for its bail were
in government, but they did nothing about it. “They should be ashamed that when they realised we are
planning to revive the company, they have started dirty politics and cheap propaganda," he said.    