Businessman Chris Kirubi has topped Kenya's Google searches for March, with the public searching for information on his health. The entrepreneur and industrialist, who heads several highly successful companies, flew out of the country in November 2017 for specialised treatment in the US. Kenyans also sought to know more about Stephen Hawking - a British scientist, professor and author who performed groundbreaking work in physics and cosmology, and whose books helped to make science accessible to many. Hawking died on March 14 after succumbing to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a form of Motor Neurone Disease that he'd been diagnosed with 50 years earlier. Read: Physicist Stephen Hawking, who conquered the stars, dies at 76 Trending at position three was the Uefa Champions League draw as the quarter-finals of the league took place on Friday at UEFA headquarters in Nyon, Switzerland. In fourth place was Rex Tillerson who was fired as United States Secretary of State shortly after a tour of Africa. He was in Kenya when the announcement was made following a decision by US President Donald Trump. More on this: Out in Africa? Tillerson trip leaves hosts startled A statement by Google on Saturday said Davide Astori - an Italian professional footballer who played as a central defender - took position five, The Fiorentina player died in his sleep at a hotel in Udine, prior to a match against Udinese, on March 4. An autopsy conducted two days later indicated that he died from cardiac arrest. The lecturers' strike took position six, members of the public seeking more details on the industrial action that has paralysed learning at public universities in the country since March 1. Education International has written to Education CS Amina Mohamed urging her to expedite negotiations for the 2017-21 CBA for lecturers. The lecturers’ strike entered its first month on Tuesday with little signs from the government to resolve it. Their grievances range from a distorted pay structure, career stagnation, pension, car loans, mortgages and lack of health schemes. Position seven was embattled Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula who lost his position as Minority leader following votes by ODM Senators. The Nasa co-principal was ousted on March 20 following a Nasa Parliamentary Group meeting that 19 Senators attended. Read: Resolve lecturers' CBA row to end strike, Education International asks CS Amina Also read: 'Bitter' Wetang'ula throws tantrums, says not interested in Minority seat Celebrated Kenyan comedian Eric Omondi took position eight, having been on the receiving end of criticism after a video emerged of him swimming naked with children. Palm Sunday - a Christian feast that commemorates Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem - was the ninth trending search item on Google. It marks the beginning of ‘Holy Week’ and usually falls on the Sunday before Easter Sunday. Closing the list of top ten top searches was 'bipolar disorder'.  Formerly called manic depression, this is a mental health condition that causes extreme mood swings that include emotional highs (mania or hypomania) and lows (depression). Manic episodes may include symptoms such as high energy, reduced need for sleep and loss of touch with reality. Depressive episodes may include symptoms such as low energy, low motivation and loss of interest in daily activities. The search probably demonstrates that the condition is prevalent and is being discussed more openly. In the 'how to' category, registering for SportPesa and deleting a Facebook account trended. The came how to play lotto, file KRA returns, lose weight faster and lose belly fat faster. "The [latter] two health searches have remained among the top 10 in this category since December 2017," read part of the release. In relation to sexual reproductive health, Kenyans searched how to count safe days. This was followed by how to create an email account and stop masturbation. Click here for the latest political news