Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has opposed plans to censure Health CS Sicily Kariuki saying the motion is ethnically motivated. The impeachment motion which is sponsored by Mandera North MP Bashir Abdullahi gained momentum on Wednesday after about 100 MPs signed it. MPs want Kariuki removed from the office saying she did not follow due diligence in suspending KNH CEO Lilly Koros. Koros was suspended following a surgery mix up that the Kenyatta National Hospital on March 9. The National Assembly Health committee has since recommended the disbandment of the KNH board. Kuria said the motion is ill-advised and will fail since the MPs were not acting in good faith other than the desire to protect a member of their own community. Read: MPs plan special motion to impeach CS Kariuki for abuse of office He said the "mtu wetu" (our person) syndrome needs to be nipped in the bud as it will encourage inefficient civil servants to continue sleeping on the job. The motion will also set a bad precedent where MPs will go after Cabinet Secretaries and heads of parastatals who try to hold non-performing officers accountable, he added. "That the Bashir motion to censure CS Kariuki will be defeated is not in doubt. What is annoying is this primitive 'Mtu Wetu' syndrome. Cabinet Secretaries have a job to do. So, we censure Sicily over Lilian Koros and not appointing a Somali to KEMSA, we censure Tobiko for firing Emilio Mugo from KFS despite the wanton destruction of forests, what is the end to all this?" Kuria posed. On Wednesday, Abdullahi confirmed that they have presented the motion and signatures to Speaker Justin Muturi and clerk Michael Sialai. He said he will table the motion next week and set the stage for MPs to start the debate on it. The MPs supporting the motion are largely drawn from the Rift Valley region, the region Koros comes from. Belgut MP Nelson Koech accused Kariuki of influencing a report tabled before the Parliamentary Committee on Health by the Kenya Pharmacist and Dentist Board to lay the blame on Koros. Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa accused the CS of arrogance and disrespect to MPs when she appeared before the committee. Kuria said if allowed to proceed, ethnically motivated impeachment motions will be replicated in other ministries and state agencies. "The acting CEO at KEMSA is a Luhya. Tomorrow the Luhya Parliamentary group also moves to censure the CS for their own reason?" Kuria posted on his Facebook page. He said the protection of errant civil servants by virtue of their ethnicity does not in any way benefit members of their community. In Kuria’s opinion, this amounted to a lack of common sense from the legislators who have back ethnic-centred decisions. "Other than Hon Bashir there are 87 other colleagues who have signed this motion led by Hillary Koech of Kipkellion West. Tell me how reinstatement of Koros will help the ordinary tea picking labourer in Kipkellion. I am floating an overnight tender for supply of common sense. Prospective bidders to meet me in parliament tomorrow (Thursday)," Kuria said. More on this: MPs plan to impeach CS Kariuki over Koros axing Read: 124 MPs sign motion as bid to impeach CS gathers steam  Click here for the latest political news   