The mobile phone has revolutionised many things in our lives. It has liberated individuals from the tyranny of communication multinationals and their other tyrannical siblings called national governments. Once upon a time, the telephone booth on the streets of Nairobi could hold one hostage for hours in a long line of those anxious to use it to talk to friends, family or business partners. Now, you only need to reach into your pocket, pick up your mobile phone and talk. This is an expression of fantastic freedom! But think about this in another way. People have already started to complain that this individual freedom to communicate with whomever you want at whatever time has encroached adversely into human relations. Family get-togethers are at times meaningless because everyone arrives with his or her phone, talks to whoever they want to talk to at whatever time during the family meeting. To add insult to injury, there is another phenomenon called “texting”. It is almost impossible at times to know who is talking to who and who is listening to who because the talkers are texting and the listeners are also texting with some pronouncing some syllables, while others are nonchalantly responding with non-committal phrases such as “I see”, or “how interesting.” Quite honestly, in this age of automation, what is really happening to human relations? There is yet another creature that has emerged from the inner workings of communication technology called “WhatsApp”, perhaps the most invasive form of enriching, exiting or polluting the mind. Individuals who quite often do not know each other can engage in the most intimate or the most violent exchange of words in this medium of social communication. Yet, WhatsApp also offers a very useful medium of passing useful information, organising meetings and undertaking professional work. Doctors, for example, can communicate with colleagues to discuss the diagnosis of a disease or patients’ notes. Likewise, they can discuss with patients and give directions on treatment avoiding the expenses involved in physical consultation and the time that such consultations take. Making calls on WhatsApp has also eliminated the prohibitive costs in international telephoning in particular: Kudos to the inventors. It has broken social barriers and brought people in touch in previously unimaginable ways. But now arrives the latest invention in communication: The driverless car! Experiments are already going on in the West, with this latest form of automation in communication. The idea is simple. The steering wheel, the gear and all those contraptions that you use when driving are now eliminated. That space in front of the car will now be occupied by passengers comfortably being taken (not driven) to their destinations by a computer-managed car! This assumes a near-perfect automation of traffic lights, road signs, etc, so that the driverless car will know when to slow down in heavy traffic and how to avoid a pedestrian who decides to cross the road where there is no zebra crossing. I think the automated car should take its time before it comes to Kenya! How will this car deal with our matatu drivers who hold road signs and traffic rules, let alone traffic lights, in utter contempt? I have a feeling the first passengers to get into a driverless car in Nairobi will perhaps be those who have already written their wills and deposited them with their lawyers, or those who want to commit suicide in style. Either way, they will have no guarantee of going to heaven. But the West is different. Apparently, people are really anxious for the advent of this car. Why so? Taxi drivers are a nuisance and Uber drivers are extremely impersonal. The best policy is to pick up the passenger, read the GPS and drive to the desired destination without saying a word. When this happens in a society where individuals really yearn for the possibility of communicating with somebody since there is loneliness at the home front, it becomes rather disheartening. On the other hand, taxi drivers take this yearning for communication a little too far. They feel they must complain about Uber to every passenger they pick up. There is, therefore, a very high probability that you will have the same conversation with a driver if you happen to use a taxi more than once. The driverless car, for these rather disconcerting reasons, seems to be awaited anxiously since many people don’t really want to drive in the traffic congestion in such cities as New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco. In the final analysis, the lesson we learn is that trying to find solutions to problems of human relations within the capitalist system using the same capitalist templates will get us nowhere. The driverless car assumes the basic problem to transportation in society must begin by making it easy and cheaper for the individual — not society as a whole — to move from point A to point B. But supposing we turned the problem upside down and argued the biggest problem we have in transportation is that the majority of people in society still cannot move from point A to point B because of the non-availability of adequate transport, or its high costs when it exists. People who can afford to buy a car do not usually complain about the cost of public transport: Their complaints are mainly about the inconvenience of public transport. So, the solution to both parties lies in making public transport both affordable and convenient to all. The popularity of Uber in the West is because it is convenient and affordable to those with enough disposable income to take it. The Uber model should be extended to its logical social end by creating a system of public transportation that will be so widespread it will reach everybody and, with the press of a button at any station, will respond to the needs of passengers. I say this because there is now adequate knowledge in communication technology to make this possible. The only problem is that, in the world of transportation, this technology is now geared to solve individual, not social problems. The invention of the driverless car is a case in point. It is a capitalist solution to a social problem in capitalist society. And if extended to developing countries such as Kenya, where the stunted capitalist development also includes underdevelopment of transport infrastructure, the result is obviously a disaster waiting to happen. I plead for the driverless car to hold its horse in the West and avoid any entry into the African scene, at the moment.    