Nurses on Tuesday rejected the
Kenya Medical and Practitioners and Dentists Board's report which blamed nurses on duty for the KNH surgery mix-up. KNUN Secretary General Seth Panyako said it was not nurses' fault that a patient ended up being misidentified at the facility. "Patient identification starts at
the records department. The first person responsible is the records department," Panyako said. Last week, the medical board cleared Dr
Hudson Ng’ang’a and Dr Mose Moraa but indicted nurse Mary Wahome whose
competency it said should be tested by the nurses' council. More on this: KNH lifts suspension of trainee doctor in brain surgery foul-up Panyako, however, maintained that
the doctors were the last people who were in contact with the patient and
should have noticed they had the wrong patient in the operating room. Read: How wrong patient got under the knife, KNH medics tell MPs He claimed that the report released by the board was doctored by the director of medical services to save doctors from being investigated. The union official said patients slated for
operation always bear marks on the area they are supposed to be operated on. "The mark is checked by the operating
doctor. It is put in place by the operating surgeon and confirm the
procedure to be performed," Panyako said. While addressing members of the press in Nairobi, the union leader said the blame should be squarely
laid on the entire operating team, including the anaesthetist. "We will defend the nurse because she is not to blame. This is a systematic failure it's an issue of administrative failure. Everyone must be blamed." "We are yet to receive the report from the medical board. We will write to the nursing council not to investigate the nurse being blamed for the brain surgery mix up," he added. Panyako said if their request is not granted, they will move to court. He said apart from the current crisis, some of the systematic issues ailing KNH include staff shortage, old equipment and over- crowding congestion. Meanwhile, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists' Board said it will conduct fresh investigations into the surgery mix-up. CEO Daniel Yumbya told the Parliamentary Health Committee that the report released last week exonerating the doctors was preliminary. Patients, KNH management and medics involved will be invited to give evidence before a report is released on April 10. Also read: [Statement] KNH doctors not to blame for brain surgery error - report Click here for the latest political news 