Activist Okiya Omtatah yesterday moved to court to challenge the government’s move to scrap age and term limits for State corporations CEOs. In the petition filed at the Labour Relations and Employment Court, Omtatah has sued Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, who issued the circular dated February 27. It exempts CEOs of public agencies from the mandatory retirement age of 60 years. In the circular, Kinyua changed the maximum tenure of the parastatal bosses from six to 10 years. The circular issued by Kinyua and copied to the Cabinet Secretaries, the Attorney General and the Principal Secretaries indicates that the terms of service for CEOs are contractual and renewable based on performance and business requirements. It also says that they are not subject to the general public service policy on mandatory retirement at 60 or 65 years or limit as to the number of terms served. Omtatah argues that Kinyua is not a regulation-making authority and he does not have the mandate to direct the operations of the public service by issuing the circular. He says unless the application is urgently heard and determined, Kenyans will suffer great loss. The activist also says the Constitution and the rule of law will continue to be violated and threatened by Kinyua and the PSC. “Unless stopped by court, the circular will be implemented across the public service,” the petition reads. Omtatah wants the court to issue an interim order of injunction prohibiting Kinyua and the PSC from implementing the circular. According to the activist, Kinyua issued the circular, which was subjectively created through an irregular, hurried, arbitrary and opaque process that did not involve public participation. “Kinyua is a busybody with no capacity to oust the mandate of the Public Service Commission,” Omtatah says. He says Kinyua has been “masquerading as the Head of Public Service” and purporting to have powers to instruct or direct Principal Secretaries, yet he has never been vetted by Parliament and is not an authorised officer. Omtatah wants the court to declare that the Office of the Head of Public Service does not exist in law and such designation are invalid, null and void. “I further seek a declaration that Kinyua is not a regulation-making authority and therefore had no capacity to make, alter, vary, or in any way howsoever to make statutory instruments,” the petition reads. The activist also wants the court to compel Kinyua to immediately refund to the PSC any money he has earned, while “masquerading as the Head of Public Service”. Read:Omtatah sues Matiang'i, Mucheru over TV shutdown Click here for the latest political news