A Safaricom agent has been charged for registering a mobile line in the names of Woman Rep Sabina Chege to another person with intent to defraud her. Catherine Nyaboke Omwene denied other counts of permitting falsification of the register and obtaining registration by false pretences. She also faced a third charge of fraudulently making a false document. Read: Sabina Chege denies close relationship with man conning MPs The accused denied all the charges before Milimani senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku. She was released on a bond of Sh200,000 or cash bail of Sh100,000 pending the hearing of the case on April 26. The prosecution alleges that on March 3, 2018, at Update shop in Donholm, the accused jointly with others not before court, being a Safaricom agent knowingly and fraudulently permitted the registration of Safaricom mobile number O727008230 in the names of Sabina Wanjiru Chege to one Waziri Benson Masubo with intent to defraud Members of Parliament. She is further accused of knowingly and fraudulently making and transmitting electronic registration details of Safaricom mobile number 0727008230 to Safaricom Kenya Ltd in the name of Sabina Wanjiru Chege to one Wairi Benson Masubo a fact she knew to be false. Two weeks ago two students of Multimedia University were charged with attempting to obtain money from politicians by false pretences. Derick Kimutai Ngetich and Edwin Ndiritu Warukira who appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi denied fraudulently attempting to obtaining Sh 100,000 from Former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo by purporting to have been sent by Muranga Women Representative Sabina Chege. They allegedly committed the offence on March 8, 2018, at Golden spot Restaurant in Nairobi county jointly with others not in court. According to police, the accused were among a cartel who have been defrauding politicians by sending obscene photos and defrauding them money. The police claim that from last year some Women MPs had received love text messages from somebody who was calling himself as Honorable Benson Masubo Chacha purporting to be a Personal Assistant to Former Devolution CS and Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru. It is said that most of the women Politicians ignored the messages and did not respond on the same. Police also claim that the matter went unreported until when the politician discussed on their social media and it was found that the same suspect was the using the same mobile number to all of them. The politicians claim that the suspect has also been sending abusive text messages to the politicians. The matter was reported at Parliament police station for action. The two accused person were arrested at Midiwo office premises by Kilimani police officers where they had gone to pick the Sh100,000. Also read; Man conning MPs is known to legislators - DCI  Click here for the latest political news