Ngong road rivals Impala and Quins face off today at the Impala club as the Kenya Cup playoffs enter the quarterfinal stage. This will be the second meeting between the two sides this season with the Sarries having won the first 10-8 at the RFUEA ground in January. At stake is place is a place in the semifinals where champions KCB lurk. Impala finished fourth in the group phase with 40 points and last weekend drew 9-9 with KCB in their final pool game as Quins finished fifth on the log with 33 points after drawing their final pool match with Nondies last weekend. Impala coach Frank Ndong said it will be an intense, physical battle with the history counting for nothing. “We beat them earlier in the season but this is a pressure match with the winner going to the semis. The stakes are high for both sides and it will down to who executes well on their tactics and show maturity for the 80 minutes,” aid Ndong. Ndong will rely on Dennis Karani, the versatile Davis Makori, Eric Kere and Paul Mutsami at number eight in the forwards with skipper Samson Onsomu, Samuel Motari, Ian Minjire and Mark Kwemoi the pick at the backs. Ndong said last weeks match against KCB played in muddy and wet conditions was ideal preparation for the showdown against their neighbours. On their part Quins have had an up and down season and will want to revenge the defeat to their fierce rivals in January. Brian Beckham starts at fullback to replace Ugandan David Ssemwani, who starts on the bench. Malcolm Onsando and Tony Mutai pair at second row as Lyle Asiligwa and Isaac Adimo the day’s half-backs. Patrice Agunda and Dennis Muhanji are on the wings as Edwin Okwema starts at inside centre. Quins coach Joel Ng’ang’a said they learnt lessons from their defeat in January. “Our preparations has been spot on and we are relishing the challenge of what will be an entertaining match,” said Ng’ang’a. The other quarterfinal sees fast improving Strathmore Leos make the long trip to Kakamega to face 2016 champions Kabras. Kabras finished third on the log with 43 and Strathmore finished an credible sixth with 25 points. The winner of this clash will face Homeboyz in the semifinals next weekend.