President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga’s handshake a fortnight ago has split MPs on the position to take when the President gives the State of the Nation Address in Parliament next Thursday. ODM’s unilateral decision to partner with Jubilee, leaving out Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC has left coalition members in an awkward situation, says National Assembly Deputy Minority leader Robert Mbui. Uhuru is expected to begin his Nyanza tour with Raila after the address. “This relationship between Uhuru and Raila has created confusion in the House. We need to have a NASA Parliamentary Group meeting before Uhuru’s address to have a way forward. We want to know whether we work together or apart,” Mbui told Star on the phone yesterday. He said party leaders Raila (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Musyoka) , Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) should give direction on how to transact House business. Read:It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru The Kathiani MP said members are confused since ODM has decided to work with Jubilee, but maintains it is in NASA. “Our leaders are saying they are united despite what we are seeing. We are in an awkward position,” he said.Raila should tell us how he wants NASA members to engage with Jubilee following his unilateral decision to partner with Uhuru, he said. “Does it mean he is going to work with him continuously? Did he mean we stop putting Jubilee on check? ,” he said. Minority leader John Mbadi dismissed claims of a split among NASA lawmakers. This is despite some ANC, Ford Kenya and Wiper members led by MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) and Dan Maanzo (Makueni) publicly demanding ODM leaders holding positions in the House to relinquish them. “I don’t see any two NASA factions in the House. Some members may have issues and talk about them but that does not create factions. Who is leading another faction yet I’m the one leading the NASA coalition in National Assembly?” Mbadi said. Before the ODM and Jubilee partnership, the Minority leader led a boycott of Houses sessions and the vetting of the President’s appointees. NASA had vowed not to recognise Uhuru as the Head of State. In September last year, NASA members boycotted Uhuru’s address during the reopening of the 12th Parliament. Mbui, also the Wiper Organising Secretary, said they might attend Uhuru’s address, but they expect direction from their leaders. “ I don’t think our leaders will tell us to boycott, but if they do, we won’t attend. Whatever we are told, we will do,” he said. Also Read:Nasa intact, Uhuru handshake doesn't mean Raila 'jubilated' - Kalonzo 