The price of irish potatoes has gone up by Sh20 per kilogramme, and will continue rising until May. Wachira
Kaguongo, the National Potato Council of KenyaCEO said the price rise has been occasioned by the planting season as
farmers have planted and those that are harvesting potatoes cannot
meet the current demand. He
said the prices have increased from a low of Sh16 per kilo two months
ago to a high of Sh36 per kilo. “April
to May is normally a period of shortage for potatoes and we sometimes
get potatoes from neighbouring countries like Tanzania in order to
meet our demand,” said Wachira yesterday while speaking to the Star
on phone. The
agricultural commodity price shows that a 50kg bag of potatoes in
currently selling at an average of between Sh3000 to Sh4,600. According
to NPCK, the country's potato value chain involves approximately 2.7
million people among them 800,000 farmers. The sector contributes to
more than Sh50 billion to the economy. The
Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service states that irish potato has
a huge potential in addressing food security, unemployment and low
farm incomes due to its versatility in utilization and the high
productivity per unit area. Wachira
confirmed some major challenges facing the sub-sector including
access to certified potato seeds, which he said the government is
working closely with other key players to produce seed potato
cuttings and other seeds that farmers can buy directly from the
agrovets. “Besides
the cuttings, we are also working on more technologies to ensure that
farmers will in the near future be able to buy potato seeds from the
agrovets, just like they do with maize seeds. This will be a game
changer and will help with increasing production,” he said. He
added that they are also looking into the issue of packaging which
has farmers have constantly complained that traders are exploiting
them and packaging potatoes in a 110kg bag instead of the recommended
50kg bag. “In
view of this, we will be holding a meeting in May at the Kenya
Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation headquarters to
discuss among other issues potato packaging standards,” Wachira
said. Some
of the major potato producing counties include Nyandarua,
Meru, Nyeri, Nakuru, Narok, Bomet, Kiambu, Taita Taveta, Elgeyo
Marakwet, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Uasin Gishu and West Pokot.