Two major open air markets in Marakwet East and East Pokot have been re-opened as peace returns to the volatile Kerio Valley. Kolowa and Tot markets are key trading points between the Marakwet and Pokot communities. The dispute between the warring Marakwet and Pokot communities is over control of grazing fields and water along Kerio River, he said At least 15 people were killed and over 3,000 livestock were stolen after banditry attacks erupted on January 5. Residents said yesterday guns have gone silent since February 19 after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i toured the area and ordered re-opening of at least 50 schools that were shut down because of the mayhem. He ordered security bosses to step up efforts to combat banditry. Resident Wilson Kiptoo said Marakwet vegetable traders have started going to Kolowa market in Baringo East in the past two weeks. He said Pokot residents have also started flocking to Tot market where they buy grains and vegetables. “Bandits have stopped attacks. Livestock traders from Marakwet bought about 100 cows at Kolowa market last week,” Kiptoo said. Residents who had fled their villages have now returned and are now preparing to start farming. However, people who lost their loved ones and livestock during the attacks are demanding compensation from the state. Special deputy county commissioner James Chacha, who was appointed to coordinate security operations in the Kerio Valley, said residents from the two warring communities are holding a series of peace meetings. “They have agreed on a ceasefire. We are now enjoying peace and calm. We are working to unite to unite the communities. The peace process is going well," Chacha said. The dispute between the communities is over control of grazing fields and water along Kerio River, he said. Chacha said elders have helped calm down the youth who stopped retaliatory attacks. Marakwet East subcounty director of Education Kimutai Chirchir said enrolment in schools that was affected by the violence has now improved. Elgeyo Marakwet County commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo on Friday called on political leaders to work with security agencies in search for a lasting solution to insecurity in the Valley. “We can’t lead people who are fighting and killing each other because of cows,” Galgalo said. Governor Alex Tolgos said establishment of additional technical training colleges and schools will cement relationships among warring communities in the Kerio Valley.   