Tana River pastoralists are living in fear after 15 of them disappeared mysteriously between November to date. In November, a deranged man was allegedly killed by KDF officers and the matter is yet to be resolved. The families of the deceased and those who remain untraced have narrated their ordeal, squarely laying blame on KWS and KDF officers. Read: Haki Africa demands probe into killings of al Shabaab returnees KWS has denied knowledge of such attacks or forceful disappearances. KDF, on the other hand, was yet to comment by press-time after an email was sent to them. The mentally-ill Roba Galole, 40, was killed November 2. Muslims for Human Rights has taken up the case and is gathering evidence. Executive Director Hassan Abdille warned that such "brazen attempt to murder innocent civilians in Kenya" should not be let go. Galole was being treated at Port Reitz Hospital before his death. A postmortem from Mpeketoni police station addressed to a pathologist at the District Hospital partly read: "The deceased person was shot by the KDF personnel within Witu area. Please assist and determine the probable cause of the death." The autopsy was done on November 4 at Mpeketoni Sub County Hospital. Wardhei community chairperson Dahir Bile said: "The killings started in 2013. About 30 people have been found dead. Some we were told are in prison but we don't know which one." Related; End enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killings, Lobby groups tell government He and others, including activists from Muhuri spoke at Gardeni Conference Centre in Garsen town on Thursday where victims converged to tell their stories. "Our rights are being violated. Already there are pastoralists in courts because of trumped up charges of murder and terrorism whose penalty can be life imprisonment. What will become of them?" Bile asked. Those who disappeared are said to have been arrested in Pangani, Kipini, Gamba, Mnazini, Odha and Assah Kone areas. Bile said Deputy President William Ruto intervened and ensured Sadik Farah who had disappeared in 2017 returned. "We became tough on the DP and he acted. The rest are untraced... We have buried three of all who mysteriously disappeared since 2013," he said. Muhuri field officer in the county Ogle Abdi said youth are living in fear. He said Government is to blame. "Such violation must stop. The atrocities, it seems, are being targeted to this community under unclear circumstances," he said. "Tana River has reached a level where it is possible for the herd to come back without a herder." Relatives of Farah said he was subjected to waterboarding. This is an interrogation technique involving water poured over the face or head of the subject, in order to evoke the instinctive fear of drowning. "He said he was blindfolded, smelled blood as others made noise," the field officer said. Adan Hamis, a resident of Garsen said that he has lost three of his brothers to KWS officers. They were grazing cattle in Assah Kone area bordering the Tsavo East National park. Bakero Abdala who is a resident blamed local politicians of politicizing the issue. KWS senior warden John Wambua said no report has been made. “I don’t have any information about this. There is nowhere I can inquire because it has not been reported… we don’t have records of those who have disappeared,” he said on phone. Wambua denied pastoralist have ever faced torture under KWS custody. “The only person who can claim to have been harassed must be possessing a game meat,” he said. Wambua said most complainants are arrested from Tsavo Park or ranches grazing in restricted areas. Muhuri boss Abdille said cases of forceful disappearance are true and urged the government to fight the problem. He said Galole case was first reported to them. “We need the Government to follow and investigate,” he said. Those yet to be found include Farah Bile, Said Mohamed (under-age), Abkia Halo and Osman Abdi. Hassan Mohammed, Abdirahman Omar, Adan Nur and Hassan Omar cannot be traced. Others are; Hassan Mohamed, Mohamed Mahati and Ahmed Ali. Field officer Abdi said Muhuri has set up a trauma centre to help rehabilitate victims who managed to get back alive. Cases of extra-judicial killings have mostly been reported at the Coast. The Government has always denied involvement. Also read Extrajudicial killings an epidemic, Haki Africa says, details 81 cases  Click here for the latest political news