Prices of food and household goods are rising in Mandera since the Kenya-Somalia border was closed three months ago. Business people want the border opened and free trade resumed between Kenya and Somalia. The government closed the border with Somalia late last year, following a wave of attacks in Mandera by suspected al Shabaab militants. Following the closure, the government ordered strict monitoring of uncustomed goods from Somalia. Security agents and custom officials were put on high alert to prevent Somali traders from smuggling goods through the porous border. The commodities are various foods, sugar and cooking fat. Residents now must buy Kenyan goods from Nairobi, which are relatively expensive. A kilo of sugar had been trading at Sh80. The price has shot up to Sh100. Somali businesspeople in Bula Hawa say the closure has undermined their livelihoods. Somali national Mohamed Hussein told the Star on Sunday in Mandera town that closure of the border has hurt residents on both sides. He said mutual coexistence between the citizens of the two countries is important for business. “After the border was closed, goods’ prices went high. We urge the Kenyan government to open the border for free trade,” Hussein said. In 2016, former Wajir East MP Abass Sheikh Mohamed wanted the Kenya-Somalia border opened for free movement of goods and services. He said the closure led to inflow of contraband goods and illegal weapons. Kenya shares a 800km-long border with Somalia, stretching from Kiunga in Lamu to Mandera. Mohamed urged the government to establish offices for revenue, immigration and standards agencies to ensure proper inspection and taxation of inbound products. “This will generate revenue. Above all, it will bar entry of contraband goods and illegal weapons,” he said. In the past, al Shabaab militants have attacked Kenya security officers in Gerille in Wajir East and Diif in Wajir South. “Enough is enough. We must allow free movements of goods and services, and ensure we know whom and what we are dealing with,” the ex-MP had said. 