Civil society organisations in Lamu yesterday said the Lamu coal-fired power plant is far more dangerous than the mangrove logging ban. They criticised the 90-day logging moratorium that includes mangrove trees. They called the government’s decision ill-timed and unfair. Save Lamu and the Muslims for Human Rights said the government is hypocritical because it imposed the nationwide logging ban but is pushing for a coal-fired power plant that damages the environment and human health. They called for alternative, sustainable sources of energy — solar and wind power. The logging moratorium is meant to fight environmental destruction, protect water towers and mitigate effects of the drought. Mangroves are essential to the environment, protecting shores from storms, limiting soil erosion, purifying water and providing homes to marine life. Speaking in Lamu yesterday, Save Lamu secretary general Walid Ahmed said if the government is serious about protecting the environment, it should abandon plans for the huge coal-fired power plant in Lamu. The Sh200 billion coal project is to be established in Kwasasi village, Hindi. It will be built by the Amu Power Company, a consortium co-sponsors – Gulf Energy and Centum Investments. The project is expected to generate 1,050MW. It is part of the government’s blueprint to produce 5,000MW in 40 months. The plant will first rely on coal imported from South Africa and later on switch to coal mined from Kitui county’s Mui Basin. Walid said the government is simply using the ban on logging to oppress those dependent on the trade. “As a society, we feel the government is being selfish by banning mangrove logging on one hand and pushing for the coal plant on the other. The whole world knows how deadly a coal plant can be,” he said. Thousands of acres of mangroves were felled to pave way for the Lapsset project, a move Walid said greatly disrupted rainfall patterns in Lamu. Destroying the mangrove forests also hurt marine life. Muhuri field assistant officer in Lamu Habib Ali said, “The tradition with mangrove logging for decades has been to cut one tree and plant several in its place. That is what our people have been doing.” If calls to preserve the environment are true, then the coal plant must go, he said. “It shouldn’t cross anyone’s mind to build it.” Save Lamu chairman Mohamed Abubakar said the coal project is not sustainable due to its destructive nature.   