A family of 50 people in Kilifi spent Thursday night in the cold after an Arab tycoon demolished their 18 houses that sat on a disputed piece of land. They were woken up early in the morning by police officers, people they said were hired goons, graders and bulldozers, and ordered to vacate the eight-acre property at Uwanja wa Ndege area in Rabai constituency. All houses, including some built recently, were brought down leaving the elderly, women, children and men hopeless and which nowhere to go.  The remnants of houses demolished by an Arab tycoon at Uwanja wa Ndege area in Rabai constituency, Kilifi county, March 29, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI  The remnants of houses demolished by an Arab tycoon at Uwanja wa Ndege area in Rabai constituency, Kilifi county, March 29, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI It is alleged that the tycoon called PK Mashru was using his wealth to frustrate the family which is poor and unable to challenge him in any way. When journalists arrived at the scene in the evening, there was total destruction of what was once called a home. Some of the items the victims saved were taken to a neighboring village. Women and their children contemplated their next moves in a season of heavy rains. Some, who were seen preparing and drinking strong tea with bread, said it was the only meal they could have since the demolitions. A team of police officers secured the area. The tycoon decided to build a perimeter wall on the side bordering Kajiwe Primary School, blocking a path pupils used to access it. On the other side, a barbed wire fence was erected.  A grader digs up an area of disputed land at Uwanja wa Ndege area in Rabai constituency, Kilifi county, for the construction of a perimeter wall by an Arab tycoon, March 29, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI  The Arab tycoon's workers construct a perimeter wall on a disputed piece of land at Uwanja wa Ndege area in Rabai constituency, Kilifi county, following the demolition of 18 houses belonging to 50 people, March 29, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI Mkuzi Magongo, 72, wept as he narrated the ordeal to journalists. He said he was born there and had not known any other home so he didn't know where he and his relatives would go. “I have children, women and grandchildren. Where I will take them? This is total injustice," he said, adding the tycoon told him he bought the land at Sh15 million. Victim Joha Magongo said they were being victimised because of mistakes made by the late Kajiwe, a medicine man who was given the land by his forefathers. After his death, he said, his son conspired with tycoons and sold the land to them illegally and without their consent. Local leaders led by area MCA Mae Mwadena termed the action inhumane and noted the victims were poor and unable to respond in equal measure. The ward representative said Rabai MP William Kamoti was seeking court orders against the evictions. He added the tycoon should stop building the perimeter wall as locals may bring it down. Mashru neither answered calls nor responded to SMSs for comment on the matter. Click here for the latest political news