Chinese President Xi Jinping is changing the country’s constitution to allow him to say in power indefinitely. On hearing this, US President Donald Trump said a few days ago he might do the same. Although he said this somewhat jokingly, one cannot but believe that’s truly what he hopes so he can be President for life — not at odds at all with his self-perceived greatness above all others. Trump would, indeed, want to turn America’s centuries old democracy into a dictatorship in which he is in charge. That belief would not be without basis, given Trump’s history of admiring dictators In a recent meeting with US governors, Trump said he had “great respect” for Xi, and a “very good relationship” with him. President Xi isn’t the only authoritarian figure Trump has complimented. He has repeatedly praised Russian President Vladimir Putin, for example, saying he gets an “A” in leadership and he admired his approval numbers in two separate interviews in late 2015. He has also touted his “great friendship” with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Trump has also been friendly with Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte, telling him, in May last year, he was doing an “unbelievable job on the drug problem”. This is someone who has killed thousands of people in his so-called war on drugs. What Trump fails to recognise is the simple fact that one can have all the power in the world to dictate as one wishes but, without innate ability to wisely use it for the benefit of the people, it is totally useless in the larger context. It only makes things worse for everyone, including yourself, as people laugh at your failures, despite their suffering even as you fool yourself you’re the greatest among leaders in the history of mankind. This is not hyperbole but a phenomenon Trump himself has proven over and over and still continues to, despite his living in denial. One of Trump’s early actions as President was a shameless effort to ban Muslims from travelling to America — a move the courts quickly rebuffed and it has been downhill from there to the point the White House is now fully engulfed in one crisis after another. Indeed, every evidence shows the White House is in what others are describing as “hyperchaos” and without precedent. But to Trump, that’s not chaos. It’s conflict. And it’s a good thing, which is a total lie he feeds his gullible core base of supporters. He knows, as he put it, they would believe anything he says and not lose their support. This herd mentality willing to follow and support even a clearly flawed person such as Trump is not only contributing to the ruining of American politics and way of life as it largely accounts for Trump’s presidency but also the same reason we have seen the fastest destruction of democracy in Kenya: Most people are not even aware democracy is dead. With people entrenched in their cocoons and refusing to hear or see evil, even when it is against their interests, what little we had gained in democratic ideals in the recent past was tossed out of the window. Kenya is now basically a de facto one-party state, much as it was in the heyday of Independence, and the question remaining is, will William Ruto or Gideon Moi complete the journey in becoming absolute power possessors? The only thing that can save the country, looking ahead, is having noble men and women of impeccable character and compassion vying and capturing every possible governorship and the bicameral Parliament and only then we can have a check against a moribund presidency like the one we’re witnessing in the United States. The time to start preparing for that is now.    