Two businessmen in Gatanga, Murang’a, have promised to prepare a feast and welcome NASA leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Joram Kinyanjui and Stanley Kimure will slaughter more than 30 goats to honour the two leaders’ truce. The feast is meant to improve peace, love and unity among Kenyan communities. Speaking in Kenol town on Tuesday, Kamau said peace and unity are what Kenyans need to steer development. “We will use our resources to prepare the feast so we can dine as brothers and sisters and show love for one another. We want to nurture peace, love and unity, as planted by our President and Raila,” Kinyanjui said. He said the decision to bury the hatchet and unite the country was long overdue. It is the much-needed move to start healing the nation after a long period of heated political debates. “We are glad they realised poor politics will only deter the country’s development plan,” Kinyanjui said. Kimure said all Jubilee and NASA  leaders must spread peace and unity. “All leaders, including MCAs, MPs governors and senators, must be ambassadors of peace to create a conducive working environment,” Kimure said. The political handshake between the scions of the founding fathers of the nation, the late president Jomo Kenyatta and the first vice president, the late Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, marked an end to decades of bitter rivalry between the families. If anything, it evoked the sweet memories and experiences Kenyatta and Jaramogi enjoyed before and after the former’s release from detention and subsequent Independence. Despite the falling out between the two leaders, the families’ ties remained close-knit and were jealously guarded by the leaders and their scions. On the political platform, Odinga and Kenyatta went different paths and the feud was to be inherited by their sons, namely Raila and Uhuru. The two became bitter political rivals but maintained a close relationship and often referred to each other as Big Bro and Small Bro. A sense of respect was a common feature among them despite the tense political rivalry and orientation. The handshake at Harambee House marked a new journey that reconciled the two families on the political front and subsequently thawed the tension between the Gikuyu and Luo communities.  Raila has defended his move to engage Uhuru in a unity pact, saying it was for the interest of the country. Raila said it was a painful decision to make but after deep thought on challenges facing the country, he had no option. “I sat with President Uhuru to sign the memorandum because I greatly considered the interests of the country,” Raila said. “It was, however, a painful decision to make but in order to deal with a myriad of challenges facing Kenyans I had to do so,” he added. Meanwhile, the traders welcomed the move to approve Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wairia’s Hawkers Bill, saying everyone willing to work towards the growth of the nation should be protected by the law. The 2018 Hawkers and Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihoods) Bill aims to regulate hawkers and street vendors as primary pillars of economic and social development. Kinyanjui said every leader must support the bill to empower hawkers who contribute towards economic growth. “We have more than five million hawkers in the country and the impact the make to our economy is enormous. Therefore, they must be protected. Fighting hawkers will render them jobless,” Kinyanjui said.    