Former Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter has said he won’t defend his seat on the Jubilee ticket after his election was nullified on Thursday. The Jubilee rebel said he would not appeal the ruling. Keter has been urged to join Kanu or ANC. His ally and JP rebel Bowen Kangogo also lost his seat as Marakwet East MP in the same court on Tuesday. Keter blamed President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President for his troubles. Speaking at rallies in his constituency after the ruling, Keter said he was a marked man because of his stand against corruption. Keter said Jubilee has mistreated him and he feared for his life. He promised to announce his next move soon. “As you have all seen, these two people don’t want us. The judgment nullifying my election as your MP speaks volumes about government interference,” Keter said. “Don’t allow anyone to dictate you who should be your MP. You should decide on who represents you,” Keter said. “You all know what happened to your son Kiplimo Rugut [former NYS director general] who was hounded out. Devolution CS Anne Waiguru was forced to resign. “Former Agriculture CS Felix Koskei was pushed out. See what they have done to the ministries headed by our people,” Keter said. The vocal Jubilee critic was given a rousing welcome, but there was near pandemonium at one of his stops in Nandi Hills town when a group jeered and praised his rival Benard Kitur whose petition was upheld. Keter was declared the winner in the August 2017 General Election after garnering 28,634 votes against Kitur’s 13,472. Kitur ran as an independent candidate. Keter’s troubles started when he and other rebel Jubilee lawmakers defied orders to step down as chairmen of parliamentary committees. He together with Kangogo, Embakasi North’s James Gakuya, and Moiben’s Silas Tiren were stripped of their positions. Committee members were summoned to State House by President Uhuru Kenyatta and told to pass a vote of no confidence against them. On Thursday, Keter met with his lawyers and allies after addressing two rallies in Eldoret and Nandi Hills after Justice Kanyi Kimondo nullified his win. In Eldoret, supporters urged him to either join Kanu or ANC. He was accompanied by Tiren and Emurua Dikir MP Johanah Ng’eno. At the same time, petitioner Kitur claimed he has been receiving threatening messages. “I will not be cowed. It is my right to seek legal redress because I felt the election was not free and fair,” he told journalists. Kitur said he would vie for the seat when the by-election is called.