As the world marks International Day of Forests today, deforestation remains the biggest threat to Kenya’s water towers. It is the culmination of sustained destruction of forests for timber, posts as well as clearance for farming and illegal settlement. Rapidly growing towns and cities are driving up the demand for water, so the effects of dwindling supply are being felt countrywide. Reports by water companies in Kenya’s major towns indicate a worrying shortage. It shows towns and cities that can’t meet water demands for residents. Nairobi water and Sewerage Company reports a shortage of 200,000 cubic metres of water per day. The company supplies 500,000 cubic metres per day against a demand of 700,000 cubic metres per day. Mombasa water supply and sewerage company supplies 42,000 cubic metres, against a target of 186,000 cubic metres of water per day. University of Eldoret lecturer Christopher Saina says cities and towns should begin to roll out plans to harvest rainwater and avoid overreliance on water originating from forests. “County governments should be water sufficient to meet the demands of increasing populations in towns,” he says. Saina says towns and cities benefit from forests in water supply and building material, and they should provide resources to save the declining natural resources. To establish the root of the problem, we overfly one of the hard-hit water towers. Embobut forest in Marakwet is part of the larger Cherangany water tower, and the level of degradation is terrifying.  INDIGENOUS FOREST DWELLERS Embobut is bedevilled by the incessant crackdown by the Kenya Forest Service to evict indigenous communities to pave way for proper conservation. In the middle of the 21,000ha Embobut is Mary Komen. She says the state lacks a proper plan to conserve the forest. Komen is a member of the indigenous Sengwer community. She has declined to move out of the forest, saying it is her ancestral home. “KFS has torched my house 18 times. The fire that destroys our houses extends and burns sections of the forest,” she says. The mother of four says water levels in rivers originating from the forest are declining year after year. In 2014, the state compensated 2,900 forest squatters and evicted them after receiving Sh410,000 payout each. Embobut and Moiben rivers, supplying water to Lake Turkana and Chebara dam respectively, originate from Embobut forest. Chebara dam supplies water to Eldoret town, Uasin Gishu county. Komen says: “As women from this community, we suffer as we live in caves inside the forest. We no longer have elderly people. They died of pneumonia after years of destruction of our dwellings.” Sengwer and the Ogiek communities are the two major indigenous communities occupying the two major water towers: Cherangany and the Mau forest complex. Komen says the community uses traditional methods that include harvesting medicinal herbs and wild fruits without cutting down trees. “Our medicinal herbs have been destroyed by persons bent on destroying the forest for commercial purposes,” she says. Paul Kiptuka, a spokesman of the Sengwer community living in Embobut forest, says the community has documented its customary by-laws. Kiptuka says the by-laws, named Governance structure and community of Embobut, encapsulate customary laws used by community elders to conserve forests. He says the community cherishes the forest, as it relies on it for honey and livestock keeping. “We don’t engage in timber and charcoal business, but we take care of forests to generate flowers so that bees can thrive,” Kiptuka says. He says regulated grazing is entrenched in his community’s culture. “During the dry season, indigenous communities take their animals outside the forest and return them to the forest during the rainy season to avoid degradation and maintain undergrowth,” Kiptuka says. The spokesman says about 17,000 out of 21,000 hectares of Embobut forest have no undercover, adding: “Forests can’t survive without indigenous communities. They are interdependent.” A tour of the forest by the Star showed how animal sheds, huts and burning of undergrowth vegetation have made the forest a shell. Kiptuka says the indigenous community should be left to conserve the forest the same way their elders did. He recalls how water levels in Embobut River have worryingly reduced over the past two decades, saying it may soon dry up if Embobut forest is not rehabilitated.  HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS Indigenous communities and the KFS previously got along, but things fell apart. The discord has alarmed the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights. The commission began a tour of the Cherangany water tower in a fact-finding mission on March 14, and reported to have encountered the grim reality of the destruction. KNCHR vice chairperson George Morara said in Iten on Monday that they were in the area to establish the truth after numerous complaints of human rights violations committed by KFS wardens as they carry out conservation duties. Morara said the commission will talk to affected communities and experts in conservation before compiling a report to be submitted to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko for action. “We want the conservation of forests to be done in a framework that respects human rights,” Morara said. “A lot of work needs to be done to restore the forest to its former glory. We held a meeting with the CS and we want to get to the bottom to the human rights violation claims.” The mission comes hot on the heels of suspension of a Sh3.6 billion grant by the European Union after one person was killed during an alleged attack by KFS wardens in Tangul, adjacent to the Embobut forest. KNCHR commissioner Shatikha Chivusia praised the role played by indigenous communities in forest conservation, saying the communities “were conservationists since time immemorial”. She said the communities should continue with the conservation culture.  REPLANTING IN APRIL KFS has announced a plan to plant at 1.8 million trees in a scheme to replace forest plantations harvested in Cherangany water tower in the past two years. Elgeyo Marakwet KFS ecosystem conservator Anthony Musyoka says the service aims to plant trees in at least one acre of land in every school in the county. “We also encourage farmers and sawmilling companies to establish tree plantations in private farms to avoid overreliance on forest trees,” Musyoka says. Governor Alex Tolgos and his Uasin Gishu counterpart Jackson Mandago have agreed to jointly conserve Kaptagat forest The forest is a source of water for River Sosiani that passes through Eldoret town. Mandago says the two counties have a plan to grow bamboo in Kaptagat to save the forest that was recently declared a water tower. He says the North Rift region may stare at starvation if North Rift counties are not protected. The region is the highest maize producer in the country. “The ramification of forest degradation in our areas could be so serious. Maize and unga prices may become too high,” the county boss says. In October 2017, Kenya Water Towers Agency began to establish a Sh1.2 billion bamboo processing factory and encouraged farmers to plant bamboo near Kaptagat forest. The agency said the factory will enable local farmers earn from bamboo growing, as they help increase forest cover and save a highly depleted Kaptagat forest from further destruction. Its director David Chepkwony said locals living adjacent to the Keiyo South forest will be educated and encouraged to grow bamboo. He said bamboo matures in less than a year and will enable farmers to earn money regularly when the factory begins operations. The bamboo will be used to make tooth picks and timber products, as they maintain forest cover.