DP William Ruto has urged NASA principals not to take hardline stances against their leader Raila Odinga. Ruto said Friday's meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila should not be criticized because it was for the common good of the country. He asked Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula to play a leading role in the country’s unity process and the transformation agenda. Read: Not consulted? Accept and support unity pact, Ruto tells Nasa principals “I want to tell those who are yet to join us to come so that we can take this country forward," Ruto said. In a joint statement on Friday, the three co-principals said they were not informed about the meeting between Raila and Uhuru. On Saturday, Mudavadi dismissed the unity deal saying NASA advocated for dialogue on national issues and not talks between two individuals. Kalonzo said his heart was at peace with the deal and that he had been vindicated for calling for dialogue since last year. Read: 'My heart is at peace', Kalonzo says of Uhuru-Raila deal [VIDEO] Mudavadi trashes Uhuru-Raila pact, says not reflecting the will of Kenyans Raila will meet the trio on Monday where they are expected to discuss Friday's developments and the way forward. Even then, political pundits have started speculating on whether the Uhuru-Raila pact deals a natural death to the NASA coalition. Ruto said the Jubilee Party has been working on uniting Kenyans since he joined forces with the president in 2013. He said the journey to unite the country has now been boosted by the Uhuru-Raila agreement. “The Journey to unite Kenyans began in Nakuru with President Kenyatta and myself in 2013. What happened on Friday was a culmination of that effort of bringing Kenyans together.” The DP spoke on Sunday at Njoro Anglican Inland Church in Nakuru County during an interdenominational service. Earlier, Ruto opened the Njoro Constituency Development Fund (CDF) and Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) offices in Njoro Town. He said the Jubilee administration was ready to work with all leaders with the aim of transforming the country. "I want to assure you we will unite as leaders to fulfill the Jubilee manifesto," he said. The Deputy President was accompanied by Nakuru County governor Lee Kinyanjui, his Nyandarua counterpart Francis Kimemia, and MPs Susan Kihika (Nakuru County), Kuria Kimani (Molo) and Charity Kathambi (Njoro). Other legislators present included Martha Wangari (Gilgil), Joseph Tanui (Kuresoi South), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West ), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and David Gikaria Kinuthia Gachobe (Subukia). Also present was Gatundu South's Moses Kuria, Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Rehema Dida (Isiolo County), Liza Chelule (Nakuru County) and Mpuri Aburi (EALA). Arama urged Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula to work with the government. “We want the remaining ones to come join us so that we can focus on development together.” Read: Why Uhuru opted to work with Raila Kimemia said Jubilee has fulfilled its 2013 pledge of uniting the country and ensuring peace prevails after elections. He said: “We thank President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto for fulfilling their promise that Kenyans will never fight again because of political competition.” Kuria welcomed Raila's decision to work with the government to end political divisions and unite the country. He said elections should be a one day event and not a three months' affair during which time the country comes to a standstill. Kimani said the time for political competition was now over and leaders should focus on serving Kenyans. Wangari lauded the Jubilee administration for reaching out to the opposition saying Kenyans should move forward together. “We thank you (Mr Ruto) and the President for having a big heart of accommodating everyone.” Dida called for the inclusion of reconciliation in the Uhuru-Raila peace agreement. Chelule appealed to leaders from across the political divide to lead the process of bringing Kenyans together. “Our job as leaders is to unite Kenyans so that we can move forward together,” she said. Kinyanjui praised the government for prioritizing food security in its agenda for the next four years. More on this: Raila, Uhuru unity deal is 2022 game-changer  Click here for the latest political news    