More than 30 coffin makers are among hundreds of traders who have been evicted during demolitions of illegal structures in Eldoret town. Bulldozers from Uasin Gishu county government flattened the structures near Sosiani Bus Park in the town. Some of the traders had little time to carry away coffins on display for sale. County security officers raided the area, asking them to vacate as soon as possible. The area is said to be a road reserve which the Kenya Urban Roads Authority says will be part of a bridge linking Kisumu Road, across River Sosiani, to the town centre. The demolitions started on Saturday. Governor Jackson Mandago ordered the demolitions of illegal structures in the town, including those on road reserves. So far more than 700 traders have lost their businesses since the demolitions started. The main bus stage in the town has been cleaned up after the county demolished illegal kiosks. “We are going to fully implementing the planning regulations because we don’t want to develop slums. In the coming years we could be talking about slum upgrading projects,” the governor said. Mandago spoke in Eldoret town, saying some of those who operate illegally in undesignated areas have ignored notices to vacate. “If you are asked to vacate through a notice, move. Do not complain later that the county targeted you,” he said. Ben Kimeli operates Roho Safi coffin stores in the town. He said they were forced to move the coffins to other locations when the county bulldozers arrived. “They even threatened to crush the coffins if we were do not move,” he said. Kimeli admitted that they had been notified of the evictions though they needed more time to look for alternative areas. In January, Uasin Gishu county askaris flattened more than 100 kiosks and other illegal structures on road reserves on the Eldoret-Iten road. MCAs in Eldoret stormed Mandago’s office, demanding the release of a colleague arrested by the county askaris following the demolitions. Nominated MCA Samora Machel was locked up in the court cells. He attempted to block the askaris from demolishing the illegal structures at Kimumu on the Eldoret-Iten road. There was a scuffle between ward representatives, led by Minority leader Ramadhan Ali, and the askaris. Mandago was not in the office, but the MCA was released after his colleagues intervened. “I went to protect my people whose property was being destroyed by the askaris. They could not understand me so they decided to arrest me,” Machel told journalists. The MCA said the assembly approved the demolition of structures on road reserves, but said owners were yet to be notified.