Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said his “heart is at peace” even as his co-principals expressed disappointment with Raila Oding'as pact with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kalonzo has been rooting for dialogue between NASA and Jubilee following the disputed August 8 polls. “About our country, we have agreed to meet as NASA on Monday and know what exactly happened yesterday (Friday), but my heart is at peace, I feel vindicated, what I have been preaching will happen” Kalonzo said. Read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say Read also: Mudavadi trashes Uhuru-Raila pact, says not reflecting the will of Kenyans He spoke on Saturday at Mua in Machakos County during the burial of Mzee Harrison Mulili Ndeti, father in law to former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau condemned Raila accusing him of highest degree of betrayal to Kalonzo who he said has stood by him for two elections. Makau said Uhuru and Raila's actions demonstrated their self-centeredness at the expense of justice for Kenyans. “Time has come for Uhuru to call his team and Raila to do the same then dialogue about Kenya, Kenya is for everyone not the two individuals,” Makau said. “Kenyans died because of this course, Kenyans were maimed because of this course and for what end, 10 per cent?" He said the union between Raila and Uhuru now clears the path for Kalonzo to vie for the presidency in 2022. "Hon Kalonzo the field is now open we now give you authority to go meet [DP William] Ruto, Gideon [Moi] and any other leaders." Read: Raila, Uhuru unity deal is 2022 game-changer The Mavoko legislator said Raila’s 'betrayal' has opened room for the Kamba community to seek alliance with other people to chat their destiny. Wavinya said that the loss of lives that followed the two disputed elections would have been averted had Raila and Uhuru heed Kalonzo's advice for dialogue in good time. “I wish Raila and Uhuru heeded our party leader's call way before the swearing in, we would have averted the unnecessary deaths and chaos” Wavinya said. Read: Why Uhuru opted to work with Raila  Click here for the latest political news 