Kenyans on Social media have unleashed their wrath against the British High Commissioner to Kenya Nic Hailey alleging that Kenyans will miss the outgoing US Ambassador Robert Godec. While some said Hailey is another envoy of 'doom' like his outgoing American counterpart, others said he is the worst envoy Britain has ever brought to Kenya and there is need for the UK to revisit his credentials. The High Commissioner had on his twitter account said there is no one who could question Godec's deep and untiring commitment to Kenya during his six year term of service. "Trolls gonna troll/haters gonna hate. But no one who has met my fellow Balozi @BobGodec could question his deep and untiring commitment to Kenya, the Kenyan people and the values and institutions that make Kenya strong. He will be missed," Hailey twitted. This however did not go well with his followers who hit back at him. Kibera MP Ken Okoth while terming Hailey as 'tribal chief' in his response said, "Hehehe, Balozi you're trolling and hating, SAD! ... Apparently the new Ambassador is fluent in Swahili and has vast experience in negotiating with "native tribal chiefs" ... you'll get along just fine. #TribalChief". Philip Etale‏, ODM Communications director said, "Your tweet fails every standard of DIPLOMACY. It is undiplomatic and a mockery". While another user by the name George Aseda said HAiley's first sentence sounds like a Kenya government official talking carelessly, Fred Omondi said just because Godec knows some Swahili words it does not mean he reflects the spirit of the people. Monsieur the Marquis‏ said, "We all understand that the quality of diplomats has deteriorated over the past few years. You have nothing on Sir Jeffrey James & Sir Edward Clay and neither does Bob have anything on Smith Hempstone & Prudence Bushnell. You're both cut off the same mediocre cloth" "I think the influence of USA and Britain has reduced drastically. Its not the quality of diplomats in question, is the ability of these states to push for their interests and other ideologies that has drastically reduced," said Kim Zhan Kong‏ Another user stated, "Nic, when you stay in a foreign country and you find that your opinion contradicts that of most of its citizens, it's time to assess yourself, and start real learning. It will help you in future. Start listening. @BobGodec was a big failure at the most crucial hour" While Polycarp said more than 70% of Kenyans are happy for the end of Godec reign in Kenya, Ida said the Ambassador is leaving the country with a more divided people than he found. Godec has served as the US Ambassador to Kenya for six years since his appointment by former president Barack Obama in 2012. He has gone down in the history as the longest serving US ambassador to Nairobi and anywhere in the world. Read:Senator Kyle McCarter to replace Godec as US ambassador Also Read:Out goes Godec and in comes political appointee Click here for the latest political news 