Not all of us may have fought in the times of war, but all of us must fight for peace, Mombasa governor Hassan Joho has said following criticism on the Raila-Uhuru unity pact. Joho was reacting to ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi who dismissed the Friday meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA's Raila Odinga. Mudavadi told journalists on Saturday that the coalition was rooting for a constructive dialogue on matters national interest and not talks between two individuals. "I hope the shaking of hands wasn't a PR prank to hoodwink Kenyans in anticipation of US Secretary of State Rex Tillers on visit." More on this: Mudavadi trashes Uhuru-Raila pact, says not reflecting the will of Kenyans Read: Why Uhuru opted to work with Raila But Joho took a swipe at the Amani leader's take asking the NASA coalition partners to accept the change of polity. "There’s a time for peace and a time for war. This is the time for peace. The time for war has come and gone," Joho said via twitter on Saturday. Noting that the country needs a new beginning, the governor said he supports Raila in his efforts towards unity, peace, and justice in Kenya. "I pray that God gives him strength and wisdom to deliver a brighter future for all of us in this country," he said. He further extended a hand of cooperation to colleagues from the competing coalition (Jubilee) saying that peace cannot be made from one side. "It is in the interest of every Kenyan that this Kenyan project succeeds. As we come with a clean heart and open hands, please remember that an open hand cannot shake a clenched fist," Joho said. The ODM deputy party leader said the party has always been in the right side of history further asking members not to lose hope. Realted: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya "To our party supporters, I wish to reassure you that our leadership has always been on the right side of history. As ODM, our faith in our leadership is resolute because it stands tried and tested," he said. "I also hereby pledge to be a joint custodian of all your concerns and interests. For all of us, too much blood has been shed, too many families broken, too many dreams shattered and too much property destroyed." Quoting Nelson Mandela, Joho said even if we {Kenyans} fight to ashes, it is among those ashes that we shall dialogue. "Let us cautiously and carefully build a platform for that new beginning. We shall forever remain committed to electoral justice, historical restitution, compensation, a free and fair society, inclusivity and shared prosperity," he added. Earlier, Raila's adviser Salim Lone said the Opposition leader had taken calculated risks to avert bloodshed in Kenya. Lone said the explosive stalemate had to be broken and a level of peaceful harmony restored. He said such an environment, in which discussions could be held on how to address these deeply divisive passions, was necessary. More on this: Raila took calculated risk to avert bloodshed - Salim Lone Also read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say Click here for the latest political news  