A week to the official inauguration of the new embassy, the Swiss Ambassador to Kenya Dr Ralf Heckner took a group of us on a guided tour of the ochre-coloured premises situated in Nairobi’s leafy Rosslyn Green Drive. The new Swiss Embassy in Nairobi isn’t just your standard brick and mortar diplomatic mission. It’s a serious statement of intent. That intent? Switzerland’s desire to forge lasting and mutually beneficial ties with Kenya. Amb Heckner is straight out of central casting. He is exactly what you would imagine the man who handles Switzerland’s business in Kenya to look like. A ramrod-straight polyglot with the unfailingly polite manner of a career diplomat. The ambassador told us the new embassy was meant to convey just how seriously Switzerland took its relationship with Kenya. “We are in Kenya to stay,” he said. “This embassy will be here for the next 100 years and so will we. Kenya is the place to be,” he added. To say the new Swiss embassy blends in seamlessly with its surroundings is an understatement. Because both the building and its perimeter fence were constructed from concrete with an earth-red hue, the sprawling embassy fits in so nicely with the lay of the land it almost seems to have sprouted out, fully formed, from the earth itself. And as the ambassador was to point out in an op-ed published on February 6 in the Star – on the very day of the official inauguration: “…Wangari Maathai’s Green Belt Movement inspired us, like so many around the world. So when it came to designing the new Embassy building of Switzerland, we decided consciously that the main trees on the plot should remain standing and that the new building would adapt to them rather than the opposite…”  GREEN ARCHITECTURE The new embassy is thus a study in green architecture. Current green construction principles put a premium on reducing a building’s impact on people’s health and on the natural environment. The new embassy ticks the checklist of the modern green construction code by being efficient in its use of water, energy and other resources, protecting the health of its occupants and reducing waste, pollution and environmental degradation. Amb Heckner explained why it’s no accident that the new embassy is so environmentally responsible and resource-efficient. It is both a conscious decision of those who conceived the project and a product of government regulation. "The federal regulations that apply to buildings in Switzerland also apply to government buildings in Nairobi. Then there is also Unep (the United Nations Environment Programme in Nairobi). We have to put our money where our mouth is and show that we value and want to meet every modern environmental standard,” he explained. Besides being accredited at the UN Office in Nairobi, Amb Heckner also doubles up as his country’s representative to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Somalia. For this reason, the envoy said he wanted the embassy to have an aesthetic that was as inviting as possible. "This embassy is quite an investment. We want it to be seen as Switzerland extending a hand of friendship. We really want people to see this embassy as a place where the Swiss and East Africans can meet,” said Amb Heckner. “This building brings all the people together,” he added in a hopeful tone. If “inviting” is what the Swiss were going for with the new embassy, then they certainly nailed it. There’s much to mention here but perhaps the two features that visitors will find most appealing is the spacious waiting room (that’s as elegant as a hotel foyer) and the garden, a big grassy manicured lawn punctuated with beautiful trees. A site for sore eyes if there ever was one.  DEVOLUTION — BEAUTY CONTEST Before leading us through a guided tour of the new building, Amb Heckner also managed to squeeze in a few minutes to talk shop. He was eager to convey his thoughts on how Switzerland was working with Kenya to fight corruption, build on the gains of devolution, encourage investment from private Swiss businesses and provide vocational training opportunities for the country’s young people. On corruption, Amb Heckner took pains to explain the various ways his country was working with Kenyan authorities to ensure a large sum of money corruptly wired to Switzerland as part of the Anglo Leasing scandal will soon find its way back to Kenya. “There are documents that Switzerland sent to Kenya regarding Anglo Leasing and they helped the Kenyan authorities to come up with a court case that is on going against Kenyan citizens that are accused of corruption regarding Anglo Leasing. It is important for Switzerland that this Anglo Leasing case is moving forward and comes to an end. In case of a conviction Switzerland would then sit together with the Kenyan government to repatriate the money that is frozen in Swiss banks,” he said. Amb Heckner was unequivocal that Switzerland was keen to communicate to Kenya and other nations that it is not the place to hide the proceeds of illegal activities or funds looted from state coffers: “We are not doing this just because there is corruption in Kenya, we are doing this because we want to prove to the world that Switzerland is not the place where you should hide your money that is the product of criminal and corrupt activities. That's the signal that Switzerland is sending out,” he said, assertively. Kenya’s experiment with devolution is proceeding briskly. Amb Heckner says there are many lessons Kenya can learn from Switzerland on how to make devolution work better: “We are a federal state. As such, 80 per cent of all taxes remain in your own Canton (the Swiss equivalent of the Kenyan counties) and only 20 per cent is sent to the central government. In Kenya the ratio is the other way around. But nevertheless there is some money now with the counties and I’m very much convinced that this a huge opportunity for Kenya.” “Devolution is a beauty contest. In 15 years you will be able to point out which counties have been well administered and which have been pitiful. Today in Switzerland, we know exactly which county has the best business environment and which one has the best healthcare system. Kenya’s governors should take heed.” Indeed, they should.