It’s official, the gloves are off, ODM leader Raila Odinga will not support Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula or Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi for the presidency in 2022. In a communication from ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna “they will not allow cowards to be fronted by the Opposition alliance in the next General Election”. This writer had commented in an earlier article that “when a hyena wants to eat its own children, it first accuses them of smelling like goats!” It is now becoming increasingly clear that the January 30 “swearing-in ceremony” was a well-choreographed plot to lock out the other coalition principals from the 2022 presidential election. The fact is they were informed of the actual ceremony whilst it was already in progress, making it difficult for the principals to attend. They are now being tarred with the treacherous brush of cowardice! Raila quickly followed with a sensational claim that he was about to be betrayed by either one or all of the principals. Really? For starters, the plot in this comedy is too simplistic to be believed. What ODM is stating in effect is that Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula were honourable, courageous and loyal men of integrity for as long as they played second fiddle to the ODM leader. That the trio were cogs in a big wheel. Who is fooling who here? The NASA coalition agreement lodged with the Registrar of Political Parties specifically prohibits Raila or any other ODM member from running for president in 2022. ODM is aware and awake to this fact. A good number of ODM MPs and MCAs usually get elected through the euphoria associated with the charisma and persona of ODM Supremo Raila. Faced with the daunting task of individually facing the electorate in 2022, the wind has been taken out of their sails. They then conspired to muddy the waters for the remaining principals by painting them as un-electable for presidency. That they were devoid of courage and the wherewithal to summon an effective presidential campaign. This is one of the biggest political fallacies/lies ever perpetrated by a political party and will definitely not sail. As for the ODM leader being betrayed by one or more Judas Iscariot within the NASA, this is the joke of the year! Kenyans must ask themselves who is being betrayed. Can a person who signed a document prohibiting oneself or any other ODM member and lodged it with the Registrar of Political Parties turn around and accuse his co-principals of treachery? ODM must stop convoluting facts forthwith. They are insulting the intelligence of Kenyans and making an absolute fool of themselves. Need I name the Judas here? The reverse psychology being applied by ODM is a cheap trick! If the ODM leader is a man of integrity and honour, he ought to be working on his succession plan. That is what great leaders do and not demean/disparage their colleagues/associates. He is on record as having stated that Election 2017 was his last bullet and he pleaded with the co-principals for a whole day and night to allow him a last shot at the presidency in 2017. His co-principals were magnanimous enough to grant the request. Will he now turn against them? Does he not have a conscience or fear God? Great men retire honourably by grooming successors and having clear exit plans. Nelson Mandela set the bar for good leadership in Africa by retiring honourably and gracefully. The ODM leader has a choice in following that example or that of others like Robert Mugabe, who disgraced themselves. Demonising Kalonzo, Wetang’ula and Mudavadi is the height of political bad manners. It will not earn ODM sycophants any political bonga points.