More than 4,500 people in Malindi and Magarini, Kilifi county have been affected by floods, while 70,000 more require relief food. Magarini MP Michael Kingi on Friday said seven schools including one secondary have been closed. "We are calling on the Devolution ministry to help the flood victims with not only relief food but also with nonfood items such as mosquito nets and water purifiers to prevent an outbreak of diseases," he said. Read: Expect some sunshine from tomorrow, says weatherman He spoke during a tour by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa to the affected areas. The CS said the government will build gabions along River Sabaki area in Magarini to prevent flooding. Wamalwa said this will act as a short-term measure to ensure the area where the river breaks its banks.  A trailer carrying relief food arrive in Garashi Magarini constituency  to help flood victims on March 23./ALPHONCE GARI Speaking in Garashi when he dispatched relief food to the flood victims on Friday evening, Wamalwa said he would send a team of experts to look for ways of setting up the gabions. “We shall come up with preventive measures to see how to prevent the floods next time, I will send a team of experts to see what can be done to prevent flooding,’’ he said. Wamalwa also said the Government will build a large dam along the river to tap the water and use it for irrigation at the Galana Kulalu food security project. He said the Galana Dam, once complete shall also reduce flooding as the water would be made useful and help in the production of food.  Magarini residents fetch flood water for drinking on March 23. The residents are at risk of contaminating water borne diseases /ALPHONCE GARI Apart from Galana Dam, he said the government plans to set up Mwache Dam to help supply water in Kwale and Mombasa. Wamalwa said the government has over 140,000 bags of rice and enough food in its stores to distribute to those in need. The Devolution CS said no food will be transported to Nairobi before ensuring the Coast region residents have relief. “In our strategic grain reserve we have three million bags of maize I would ask for cooperation between the county and national government to ensure the relief food reaches the people in need,’’ he said. The CS was also accompanied by the Chief Administrative secretary for Devolution Ambassador Hussein Dado, Principal Secretary Mikah Powon and the area MCA Peter Ziro. Click here for the latest political news  