The presence of NASA Chief Raila Odinga’s daughter Winnie Odinga at Friday’s announcement of the political truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila is causing jitters among NASA honchos. Word has it that some are seeing her as a threat to their succession plans. It is said top Jubilee lawmakers couldn’t stop making jokes over the new ‘development’ in ODM and also against their NASA counterparts at an upmarket restaurant in Nairobi. Our mole has told Corridors some political heavyweights keen on succeeding Raila were heard plotting to ensure Winnie does not outshine them politically to become an enigma like her father. ***** A Chief Administrative Secretary is the talk of the town. Sources whisper to Corridors that the man has been openly going out with a junior officer who is now stationed in his office. It is whispered that his squeeze, a lady with numerous disciplinary cases, stays along Thika Road. So, recently, the CAS, in a GK car, ordered his driver to take him towards the Superhighway and right into the lady’s house, well past midnight. He then ordered the man to leave and come for him the following day. Drivers in the ministry are complaining that the man is too difficult to work with and are unwilling to be assigned to him. The girlfriend too is rogue: It’s alleged that when disciplinary measures are initiated against, she claims she is being sexually harassed. ***** Have burglars laid siege on Wote town? Well, criminals have been raiding homes and residential buildings almost daily, mostly targetting government workers. Isn’t it time for a major shakeup in the security apparatus over claims of complacency? Corridors is informed several county government staff have been injured or robbed. Suprisingly, county security agencies are doing nothing to arrest the situation that has been deteriorating in the last few days. Fed up with robberies and burglaries, residents petitioned the office of the County Commissioner but it is yet to act. To make matters worse, there are no police patrols and no arrests, despite cases being reported daily. ***** Is the government going to extend a handshake to civil society too, in the new spirit of moving forward? As the country grapples with low cash flows, the civil society sector is in disarray. Sources whisper to Corridors the CBK is still holding billions of shillings that were sent to the NGOs to disrupt civic education and other projects that would benefit the majority of Kenyans. The amount started two years before the disputed August polls. The initiative was meant to ensure the status quo remains.