The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission can now proceed with investigations into the loss of Sh400 million at the Homa Bay county assembly after a case barring the probe was withdrawn. The case was filed by the county assembly. A similar case was filed by Focus Building and Construction Company and Damila Enterprises to stop the anti-graft agency from taking action against their directors. EACC launched investigations into the case in march last year. The two firms are suspected to have aided the embezzlement of the funds. The suspects filed numerous applications against EACC in both Homa Bay and Nairobi courts. The agency had already recovered documents confirming an the existence of a cartel fleecing the assembly through phony companies. The companies belonged to senior officials of the assembly and got payments yet they had done no work. Last week, the Nairobi Anti-Corruption Court ruled that the firms be investigated. Justice Hedwig Ong'udi said the applicants failed to to show that EACC was acting within its mandate to conduct investigations. Ongundi said the search conducted by EACC at the county assembly offices was lawful. The judge said the court can only stop investigation and prosecution if there had been clear violations. On Tuesday, the county assembly withdrew its case following Ong'udi's decision. EACC senior corporate communications officer Pamela Jepkemei yesterday said the withdrawal of the case will allow the agency to conclude its investigations. Jepkemei said EACC has preserved several suspect properties valued at Sh2,000 million. The properties belong to senior officials of the assembly. Late year, the commission won cases against other suspects, led by the assembly’s clerk Kephas Otieno. The suspects had moved to court after their accounts were frozen. EACC found that Otieno had received more than Sh200 million. The money is suspected to be part of the Sh400 million lost at the assembly. Account and taken over his property estimated to be worth more than Sh200 million after it was discovered him together with his wife had received huge amounts of money in a suspicious manner. The body commenced investigations following complaints from members of public on alleged embezzlement of public funds. According to EACC Third Quarterly Report covering the period between July 1 - September 30, 2017, a total of 52 files were forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecutions. Forty two were recommended for prosecution, seven recommended for closure and 17 files were recommended for prosecution and the cases are already lodged before court while four files were returned for further investigation. In addition, the agency had six files whose recommendation for closure was accepted and one file where closure was not accepted. Click here for the latest political news