There is trouble in paradise for mangrove loggers in Lamu county. After logging was banned for 90 days last month, women started walking out on their men for no longer bringing home the bacon. The county has over 30,000 mangrove loggers, mostly in Lamu East subcounty, who depend on the mangrove logging business for sustenance. Most dealers were forced into the business after their other sources of livelihood — fishing and tourism — were disrupted by al Shabaab attacks. They say they have lost millions of shillings ever since the ban was introduced. Deputy President William Ruto banned logging on February 24 to fight environmental degradation, protect water towers and mitigate the effects of drought. And now families in Lamu are reeling from the ‘side-effects’. Hadija Mohamed, who fled her matrimonial home shortly after the logging ban, said she doesn’t regret her decision even for a second. “I couldn’t just stay there. I am a woman who has grown up surrounded by money and a good life. I married my husband because he had proved beyond doubt that he had the means to take care of me with the logging business. He makes millions, you know, but now that isn’t the case. I just can’t stand living in poverty. We have two kids and I took them with me,” she said. Hadija said she could think of going back to her husband in case things get better in future, “but at the moment, I am back at my parents’ house”. Pate island marriage counselor Yusuf Mohamed said many men are having “a rough time”. “Those who are lucky are still with their wives but even then, they are being disrespected since they are now thought to be incapable as providers,” he said. “Others aren’t as lucky, since their wives have since fled in this brief period that the ban has been in place. It’s an unexpected development but it is happening. The situation can’t go on like this. Marriages here are in serious trouble.” Extramarital affairs have also increased ever since the logging ban came into effect, making Mohamed wonder why some couples take marriage vows in the first place. FEES, MEALS AT STAKE Women loggers who also spoke to the Star said it is hard to live with and bear with a man who cannot provide adequately for his family. Biti Abushir said: “Men can no longer pay fees for their kids. In some households, men can no longer afford meals for their families. Women can’t stand to see their kids suffering, and that’s why many opt to walk out. The logging ban is destroying marriages here. Something must be done,” she said. Husna Lali said the logging ban is frustrating the efforts of women who had found a means to employ themselves. “A lot of women here had embarked on the mangrove logging business, instead of sitting around waiting for the men to provide for them. Banning such a venture is similar to putting out the light for the women here,” she said. Last week, mangrove loggers in Lamu county demanded that the national government compensate them for the losses incurred since the ban came into effect. Abdulrahman Aboud, chairperson of the Lamu Mangrove Community Forest Association, said over 30,000 people have lost their jobs due to the ban. He said the business has lost more than Sh16 million in the one month that the ban has been effect, and that the figures continue to rise. Aboud said the government has two options: either compensating them for all the time they will be out of business because of the ban, or allowing them carry on with the venture. The chairperson said mangroves are not part of the forest cover required to draw rainfall or sustain the environment — a view contradicted by environmentalists. Aboud said mangroves have nothing to do with the frequent drought spells that keep occurring in the country, and as such, it was a punishment to keep them out of business for nothing. He said mangrove logging is the major source of livelihood for many residents, especially in Lamu East, and that such a ban would leave many poor and force the youth into crime for survival. “In the next three months, we will have lost Sh50 million just because of the ban. That’s why they must pay us for all that time and losses,” Aboud said. Fatma Fankupy, a female logger, said the government should be concerned about having the ban exist at the Coast, since the mangrove business has employed hundreds of youth who would otherwise have joined crime or even terrorism. Fankupy said in the absence of jobs, such youth become easy prey for terror recruitment cells. She said the government needs a clear plan on how to mitigate any side-effects of the ban “to avoid creating an even bigger problem in the course of trying resolve another”. “Mangrove logging has employed hundreds if not thousands of youth here, something the government has failed to do. Where do they go from here, now that business has been closed? Would you blame them if they turn to crime for survival? Let the government provide a clear compensation plan, so that lives don’t suffer,” Fatma said. MANGROVES NOT DISPENSABLE Environmentalists criticised Aboud’s claims that mangroves are not as integral to the environment as normal forests. They said mangroves play a vital role in the ecosystem, and that cutting them down for whichever reason depletes that mission. Evans Maneno, a Kenya Forest Conservator in Lamu, said the mangrove forest cover in Lamu makes up to 67 per cent of the mangrove forest cover in the entire country. The salt-tolerant trees provide a shoreline beautification, the canopies nest different types of beautiful birds, and the deep, wide-spread roots with coral reefs offer homes and hiding places for fish species like crabs. Maneno said the fishing sector and mangroves in Lamu go hand in hand, since the sector depends on mangroves, which are the perfect fish breeding sites. “Mangrove forests are home to a large variety of fish, crab, shrimp and mollusk species. These fish form an essential source of food for thousands of coastal communities around the world. The forests also serve as nurseries for many fish species, including coral reef fish,” Maneno said. Mike Olendo, a conservationist with the WWF in Lamu, said the dense root systems of mangrove forests trap sediments flowing down rivers and off the land, which helps stabilise the coastline and prevents erosion from waves and storms. “In Lamu, the mangroves also play a vital role in the tourism sector,” he said. “This is due to the diversity of life inhabiting mangrove systems and their proximity in many cases to other tourist attractions, such as coral reefs and sandy beaches. They offer unique snorkelling expeditions in and around mangroves to witness a marvellous variety of baby fish, jellyfish, and urchins against a magical background of interwoven roots delving deep into the sandy substrate. Great potential exists elsewhere for revenue generation in this manner.” Olendo said it is, therefore, essential that logging and all other unsustainable forest activities be brought to a complete halt, and that regeneration of mangrove forests be facilitated. He said in Lamu, mangroves are considered endangered due to over-exploitation.