Police in Ol Kalou have been accused of using three juvenile delinquents who have been held at the station for five months to rob residents held at the cells. Nyandarua Central OCPD Wilson Kosgei, Ol Kalou OCS Mark Masinde, Assistant county commissioner Hadya Abdullah and Ol Kalou taxi operators met at the ACK Hall on Tuesday to discuss security queries. Taxi operators said when they are arrested and taken to Ol Kalou police station they are not allowed to leave their phones and other valuables at the desk as expected. They are thrown into the cells where the three children are instructed to ransack them. “The arresting officer and those manning the desk don’t allow you to register your money and valuables for safe custody. They push you into the cells with instructions to the criminals to ransack you,” one operator said. A second driver added, “What makes us angry is that those being held for theft are the ones being instructed to ransack you. At home your wife and children are waiting for unga, and here the police are giving instructions that you be robbed.” Masinde said the matter will be investigated. He said there has never been a complaint prior to Tuesday’s meeting. “Everyday I come to the cells asking if those held are alright and if there is a problem.” He advised the operators to see the OCS in case they are ordered to go into the cells with their valuables. The OCPD said it is common to have such incidents in the police cells. Those arrested must ensure they leave everything of value at the report desk for safe custody, he added. In the cells, there are what they call the ‘head master’. Once one has been frisked by the police upon arrest, another search is conducted in the cells without the officers’ knowledge. “But you decide to hide some money and when you are thoroughly searched in the cells the head master finds Sh10,000 on you. Who will you blame?” Kosgei said. Kosgei said the juveniles, whose ages he refused to share, are being held at the station following a court order. He said the matter has never been reported. “So, this is an allegation,” Kosgei added.