A lobby group has sought urgent temporary orders stopping appointment of presidential nominees to the Judicial Service Commission, saying the process was not transparent. The Yash Pal Ghai-led Katiba Institute eventually wants the appointment of the three nominees — Olive Mugenda, Felix Koskei and Patrick Gichohi — invalidated. The three were nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 13 and vetted by the Parliamentary Committee on Justice on February 21. [VIDEO] Uhuru nominates Olive Mugenda, Felix Koskei to Judicial Service Commission The Katiba Institute says the nomination of the three blurs the separation of powers between the Executive and the Judiciary. It will also undermine public perception of the independence of the Judiciary, it said. On February 28, a special motion was moved in Parliament and the three approved as nominees. The lobby group says it presented a memorandum before the House committee, raising various issue. CLAIMS OF GRAFT DISMISSED For example, the lobby says Gichohi was nominated by the President, contrary to the provision of law requiring that he or she be nominated by the Public Service Commission. The lobby group said Mugenda is accused of wasting public resources. However, the allegations the Institute made against Mugenda were dismissed as nonfactual. Appearing before the committee, Mugenda said she has a track record and exemplary leadership abilities. She said should the committee approve her nomination, she will help to transform the Judiciary. Former Agriculture CS Koskei also dismissed corruption allegations against him, terming them a fabrication by “enemies of development”. After the committee approved the nominees, the Katiba Institute moved to court. It seeks interim relief pending determination of their case. If the court does not intervene and stop their swearing-in and appointment, the lobby group says, its case questioning the constitutionality of the nominees will be null and void. “Failure to issue a conservatory order would ultimately make the court’s final decision a mirage, as there can be no use of a favourable determination to the petitioner (Katiba Institute) if the appointments proceed while the petition is pending determination in court,” the suit papers read. The three are yet to reply, as the case has been freshly filed.  Click here for the latest political news