A Sh130 million online portal has been created to keep track of projects rolled out through ministries, county and national government geared towards achieving vision 2030. Under the Ministry of Devolution, the State Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation is seeking to pit the government bodies against each other ranking them based on budget usage, timeliness and the quality of the project. “We have created an improved style of reporting which not only delivers information in real time but holds those in charge accountable for where tax payer money is going,” Monitoring and Evaluation Director Samson Machuka said. He said digitisation will be key to transparency moving into the future having set up monitoring and evaluation committees in each ministry and county, mandated with keying in verified data into the portal. “Through the portal, we will be able to see those who are actually doing their job and those who are not,” he added. A report by Deloitte East Africa released last month revealed that cost and time overruns are the major reasons infrastructure projects are abandoned in Kenya with 87 per cent of projects having a time overrun. Deloitte Africa Infrastructure & Capital Projects Leader Jean-Pierre Labuschagne said project overruns in Kenya were due to procurement delays – either upfront or during the construction period, which in turn cause significant cost escalations. Misappropriation of funds and poor project delivery have emerged as major issues across the country with both ministries and counties unable to account for development projects aimed at achieving Vision 2030. A fortnight ago, the Auditor General Edward Ouko released a damning report that found the Jubilee administration was unable to account for Sh40.2 billion in the 2015/2016 financial year. The report documented discrepancies in government departments, alleging that several failed to provide supporting documents for expenditures. One such was the Ministry of Health which could not account for Sh11 billion. According to the report, the Presidency spent about Sh1.11 billion in unaccounted-for, confidential expenditures while the Interior ministry operated a mystery account through which it transacted over Sh8.7 billion without the authority of the National Treasury as required by law. Machuka said monitoring and evaluation has been under funded over the past few years with poor human resource capacity. This poses a challenge especially when it comes to verification of information. “We are seeking one per cent of government’s development budget to be able to better implement our strategies which we have highlighted in a policy statement currently at cabinet level,” he said. The statement also suggests data collected through the portal should be used to determine resource allocation. “Those who perform well should be allocated more and the poor performers allocation should be reduced since they were wasting it,” Machuka said.