Dagoretti North M P Simba Arati may withdraw the case in which he sued the government for revoking his firearm license. Through his lawyer Arnold Ochieng Oginga, Arati told the court that they are in the process of having the case settled out of court because his security had been reinstated by the government. Ochieng further told Justice George Odunga that he Attorney General had not filed his submissions in the case. In his ruling, Justice Odunga directed the AG to file their submissions in court. Arati had sued the State challenging the decision to revoke his firearm license and surrender his gun back to the Licensing Board. He sued the Board’s Secretary, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett, and Cs Fred Matiang’i. In the petition, Arati says the government acted in blatant disregard of the law and the constitution by revoking his license. He argued that the decision was not only arbitrary but was also against the rules of natural justice as no notification was whatever issued and neither was he afforded an opportunity to be heard. He claimed that the move by the Board was an affront to the principal of the constitution and his right to a fair hearing. “The process leading to the making of the decision was accented with secrecy and driven by ulterior motives political considerations in a manner that violates the provisions of law and defeats the principles of the constitution and right to fair administrative action” he said. Further, Arati argued that the decision to take away his security detail failed to not adhere to the principles of good governance set out in article 10 of the constitution and his rights to equal protection. In their defense, The Firearm and Licensing Board Secretary Samuel Kimaru in its response to Arati urged the court to dismiss the case on grounds that the lawmaker has not approached it with clean hands having not disclosed that the last time he applied for renewal of the certificate was two years ago. Kimaru further added that Arati is in violation of the Firearms Act for being in possession of a firearm when he has not renewed his firearm. The case will be mentioned on April 13 when parties are expected to tell the court if they will have a settlement by then or not.