The High Court has allowed AMU coal power project to proceed after dismissing a case seeking to suspend the environmental impact assessment license for Lamu Coal Power Plant. Justice James Olola dismissed a case filed by activist Okiya Omtatah, saying the respondents complied with the statutory framework established for a project of that nature. Omtatah had named Kenya Power, Lamu Power Company, Treasury and Energy PS, Nema and the Attorney General as respondents. He argued the Power Purchase Agreement between Kenya Power and Amu Power Company Ltd for the building of a proposed 1,050 MW coal power plant in Lamu would commit Kenyan taxpayers to pay about Sh36 billion per year as capacity charges for the plant. Omtatah said the plant was a scandal of monumental proportions that does not make sense as there is already an overproduction/oversupply of electricity in Kenya. It was his argument that members of the public were not given adequate notice and the opportunity to participate in the consideration of the impugned Power Purchase Agreement. “A draft of the impugned agreement ought to have been published and subjected to public participation so members of the public could be given adequate opportunity to meaningfully and qualitatively participate in its consideration,” he had said in court documents. Omtatah had also argued the mandatory environmental impact assessment reports issued under the Environmental Management and Co-ordination Act, and upon which the state licences development projects, are inadequate for protecting rights and fundamental freedoms. The judge, however, said from the record, it is apparent the Energy Regulatory Commission put an advert in the Daily Nation and Taifa Leo newspapers on September 12, 2016, notifying the public of an application by Lamu Power Company for an Electricity Generation Licence. “It is apparent the state through the Ministry of Energy commenced the activities complained about in 2013 when the requests for expression of interests were first published,” the Judge said. Olola ruled that the complaints raised by Omtatah ought to have been raised as an objection after the public was notified of the application for the licence.