The Nairobi county government has given business and property owners until March 31 to pay for their licenses and rates. Finance executive Danvas Makori said those who will fail to beat the deadline will have to bear the burden of a three per cent interest per month which will be imposed on them. “And this year, let me make it very clear that there shall be no waivers because people have been waiting after the 31 that we shall give them waivers. We shall stick to the deadline,” Makori said. Addressing a press conference at City Hall on Sunday, Makori said they will not hesitate to seek legal action to auction property whose owners have defaulted or use other enforcement mechanisms to ensure defaulters pay up. Makori said only 43 per cent of businesses have paid for the unified business permit as at last Friday, a figure he said was too low. “Don’t wait until we send our enforcement unit to your door to ask for what is due. So I encourage all the business owners to pay on time so that they do not incur interest and other penalties,” he said. The county has failed to meet its revenue target since 2013. According to the county’s 2017-18 fiscal strategy paper, collected Sh11.7 billion in the 2015-16 financial year against a target of Sh15.2 billion. was a shortfall of 23.5 per cent or Sh3.5 billion. In 2014-15, the city missed its local revenue projection by 12.8 per cent. The shortfall stood at 23.1 per cent in the 2013-14 financial year. “Internal revenue has been experiencing hurdles over the years, the shortfalls resulting in the erratic financing of projects and programmes and sometimes derailing timeliness in implementation,” the report reads. But Makori said the new administration has sealed most of the revenue loopholes. This, he said, has significantly increased daily collections. Most of the loopholes were associated with the manual system. The CEC said the county has automated 96 out of the 126 revenue streams. “In January, we collected Sh1.6 billion and in February we did Sh 1.7 billion. Overall, there is an increase of over Sh700 million per month,” he said. The county targets to raise Sh 2 billion in advertisements alone this financial year. On average, Sh700 million is generated from the stream every year. It seeks to collect over Sh600 million in rent from its properties, especially those in Eastlands. Makori said the county will from this week deploy more parking enforcement officers to the streets. “Nairobians do even need to come to City Hall because payments are automated. They simply need their phone to make payments,” he said. Also read: Sonko says he is confident of raising Sh1.7 billion from county revenue in February  Click here for the latest political news