Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o and his sister have denied their nephews are part of beneficiaries of their late father’s property. Nyong’o’s nephews Geoffrey Omondi and Kenneth Okuthe sued the Governor and his sister Nyagoy Nyong’o for leaving out some relatives in the list of beneficiaries to his father’s estate. Omondi and Okuthe said the administrators left out two of their siblings’ children from the list. Omondi is the eldest son of Judith, now deceased. Upon her death, she left Omondi and another sibling, Fiona Atieno. Both were taken care of by their grandfather. The governor’s father Hesbon Shimei died on November 10, 2006 without a will. The applicants say they have never benefitted from the deceased’s estate. They accused the two of neglecting the children of Margaret Awuor and Judith Nyong’o, who were daughters of Shimei. The respondents said the governor and his sister were made the administrators of the estate after the local chief certified that the two and their mother and other siblings were the true beneficiaries. The applicants are accusing Nyong’o and Nyagoy of concealing important information on confirmation of the grant and not accounting for the estate. The duo are in court seeking revocation or annulment of the letters of administration. Following the court’s order that the governor and his sister file a response before yesterday after the petitioners complained, the duo in their replying affidavit dismissed the case as incompetent and intended to paint the family in bad light. They argued that even though Nyong’o took care of the two nephews after the death of their parents, they were not beneficiaries of Nyongo’s father’s property. Nyagoy told the court his brother governor Nyong’o made sure the two nephews went to school and even secured them jobs, but have been ungrateful and have not been helping their ailing mother. “The applicants are not dependents or beneficiaries of Hesborn Shimei’s estate within the Law of Succession Act,” Nyagoy said. The applicants’ lawyer Rogers Mugumya raised concerns over some of the issues Nyong’o and his sister listed in their replying affidavit. Justice Thrispisa Cherere said the case will be heard on April 16. At the same time, she urged the parties to consider an out-of-court settlement. 