It has been an eventful last few days in Nairobi. Monday saw dramatic
scenes at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport
as the government attempted to prevent the return of Miguna Miguna, whose
citizenship it had revoked and whom it had deported as punishment
for participating in opposition leader, Raila Odinga’s self-inauguration as
“the People’s President” on January 30, following last year’s disputed
elections. The commotion at the airport was significant
for more than the threat it poses to the country’s ambitions to begin
direct flights to the US. The government’s blatant defiance of
court orders that had suspended the withdrawal of Miguna’s Kenyan passport and
required it to facilitate his re-entry into the country has demonstrated the
limits of engaging the state through the legal process. Three senior members of
the Uhuru Kenyatta administration have been found
guilty of contempt of court, but it is unlikely they
will actually suffer any consequences as a result. Further, the fracas happened in the presence
of Raila, who had gone to the airport to attempt to rescue Miguna, and showed just
how helpless he, and the political class he represents, were in the face of a
state determined not to play by the rules. Just three weeks ago, Raila had met
with President Uhuru, and announced a political programme to begin to heal a
country left deeply wounded by the election and the dispute that followed. For
the many Kenyans who were skeptical of the “Harambee
House handshake”, the scenes of Raila scuffling
with security officers at the airport underscored just how
far his star had fallen. More importantly, it indicates the salvaging of the
country and the reform of the state can no longer be entrusted to the
machinations and deal making of the political class. Then on Tuesday, eight respected columnists
for the Nation abruptly and publicly resigned, decrying the interference in
editorial independence at NMG’s print and broadcast outlets. This, too, is
significant because many of these columnists are luminaries of Kenya’s struggle
against the dictatorship of former President Daniel Moi, from the late 1980s
and 1990s. However, their resignation was not just a protest against the state,
but also a challenge to the unholy alliance between the state and Kenyan media
which, in their
words, had resulted in the ““circumscribing
independent voices”. "Will the elite, which has inherited
power from the colonialists, use that power to bring about the necessary social
and economic changes, or will they succumb to the lure of wealth, comfort and
status and thereby become part of the Old Establishment?" Moi’s successor
as president, Mwai Kibaki, posed in 1964, as related by Daniel Branch in his
book Kenya: Between Hope and Despair,
1963-2011. The question is even more relevant today and the answer remains
the same. Those, including Kibaki himself, who have
become part of the New Establishment following the end of the Moi dictatorship
in 2003 and the constitutional change of 2010, have behaved little differently
from their predecessors who inherited the colonial state from the British.
Kenyans may finally be waking up to the fact that it is they, in their
multitudes, who are the ultimate check on the behaviour of their elites, not
power-sharing arrangements between politicians, an independent press (as
important as that may be) or even nice words engraved into a constitution. This realization is perhaps what has fueled
the rise of the likes of the obstreperous, populist and misogynistic
Miguna. His refusal to acquiesce to the old politics of compromise which has
seen Kenyans repeatedly thrown under the bus by the same cast of characters for
the last half-century, feels like a breath of fresh air to many. It is,
perhaps, a feeling many Americans may be familiar with. During his failed run
for the Nairobi governor, Miguna had few qualms about comparing himself to
Donald Trump, vowing
to “make Nairobi great again” and to “drain the swamp”. Though the government
finally succeeded
in deporting him on Wednesday night, this is likely
not the last we will hear of this. By its treatment of him, it has given him a
larger platform and more legitimacy than he could have ever hoped for. Like
Trump, he may end up being the “human
Molotov cocktail” that the public throws at a system
that has woefully failed them.  A version
of this article was first published in The Washington Post