For strangers and friends, it has been the place for your favourite cold drink, delicious African cuisine and relaxed meetings. Since 1997, when it started of as a Chinese restaurant, Simmers Bar and Restaurant has been the apple of Nairobi’s eye, the centrepiece of the roaring entertainment scene. For two decades, it attracted people of all races, tribes, professions, ages, genders and spirits. It was a bia baridi and nyama choma parlour that left everyone who visited with stories to tell of the cantina’s escapades. “Simmers is a place you would walk in as a stranger and leave as friends,” says William Nganyi, alias DDO (Daily Drinking Officer), who frequented the social hub. The restaurant, which sat on a prime open space on Kenyatta Avenue, dwarfed by Ecobank and 680 Hotel on either side, provided a ‘heavenly ambience’ within the crowded city. During the day, it provided a rare peek at the sunrise above the famous Uganda House. At night, the alternating Congolese bands took over to sing, dance and entertain thousands of revellers preyed upon by prowling sex workers. LIVE BANDS From Rumba Japan to Keco band, the patrons were always assured of a gyrating ‘heavenly’ experience under the moonlight, partly modified by artificial lights. The old would shake their heads to the electric movements of hippy, scantily dressed Congolese dancers, who shook body and ground to the kick and palpitations of rumba music. Many had graced the Simmers stage, but the trophy of resilience belonged to the 10-member Rhumba Japan band, led by Vasco, Gobi and Fils. They had a mysterious connection with the clientele, who seemingly appreciated their every tune, and would hum along effortlessly. It was nostalgic. “Batoto ba Kenya bazuri wote wapatikana figure 9, 11 and 8, ile unataka (Kenyan girls are beautiful and you will find them in all shapes; Figures 9,11 and 8,” Amari Xavier, a Congolese in gold business, who has settled in Kenya, told the Star. Bands that gave the tiny bar an international profile include Bikassy Bijos, Maroons Commandos, Viva Mosukusuku, Limpompo International, Igwe Prezda Bandason, Bilenge Musica Du Congo, Fiesta, Generation Wenge, Mangelepa and Mbali Mbali Sounds. On an ordinary day, multitudes of beautiful girls thronged the restaurant to lure thirsty men taking a break from the hustles of city life.  Although not award-winning in service, affordability of the African delicacies and favourite drinks made Simmers a magnet to many middle-income earners and idlers in Nairobi. END OF THE ROAD Nearly 200 staff have now lost their employment. “It has changed our lives as employees. Some have gone back to school, others started businesses and a number bought land,” a manager who did not want to be named said. The waiters dispensed about 200 crates of beer to 500 consumers daily. That sales record was only rivalled by Kinangop restaurant in the CBD. “Omera, we are talking about good food, alcohol, beautiful women and good music,” Lemmy Majanga, an old customer, says. Those visiting Kenya found a place to rest and enjoy an African treat. Visiting villagers, especially from Western Kenya after sugar harvest sales, found a serene place to experience the city life. It was not always a happy ending. Some unlucky patrons have been conned in counterfeit trade. The lucky ones got hitched and even married. Similarly, many are the families that were destroyed by spouses who got lured by the glitter of Simmers. “Stories started here at Simmers, or ended here,” another reveller adds. Now the iconic and monumental Simmers Bar and Restaurant has been flattened due to a protracted ownership row between former Kimilili MP Suleiman Murunga and the family of the late former Finance minister Arthur Magugu. “The case is not over,” Murunga says, accusing the authorities of subverting the law. “The police stormed here, and instead of being an arbiter, they have came with orders that have not even been served on me,” he says. The former MP went to court in 2014 after a 99-year lease of the plot to Magugu expired in 2009 to claim that Nilestar Holdings Limited, owned by Magugu, had no right to demand rent. Murunga says he was then allotted the plot, but Magugu’s family says they still have the title deed. Is someone trying to be smart?