Siaya Senator James Orengo has said he will not let go the position of Minority Leader in the Senate. Orengo, however, said he will accept the outcome of the Nasa retreat scheduled to take place in two weeks time. On Saturday, Orengo asked Siaya residents if he should take up the position during the burial service of Justice Joseph Onguto and received an emphatic yes from the crowd. "You are fit don't let the position go as ODM party is the majority in the Senate go for the position," shouted the overwhelmed crowd. More on this: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Addressing residents at Dudi, Orengo said it's not bad if he occupies the position on an interim basis before Nasa fraternity meets. Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula who was ousted from the position on Tuesday has blamed ODM party leader Raila Odinga for betrayal. Wetangula likened Raila to a hyena who has suddenly resorted to eating its own children under the pretext that they smell like sheep. "If a hyena wants to feast on its children, it first starts by accusing them of smelling like a goat, Wetang'ula said. The comment that has forced ODM leaders to ask Orengo to stay put in his new position as the Senate minority leader. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo who is also an ODM legislature asked Wetangula to respect the decision of independent institutions like the Senate. Otiende said as ODM they have always observed democracy and they will respect the independence of the Senate. "The constitution says parliament is independent and if the Senate in its wisdom has decided to change the leadership of the minority there is no problem with that," Otiende said. The Rarieda MP added that he is even happy to be among the first people to interact with the newly elected leader of the minority in the Senate James Orengo. Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo who was also in attendance congratulated Orengo for his new position saying he is the best fit for the position with his qualifications. Odhiambo asked Nasa coalition not to interfere with the business of the Senate but to leave the Senate to exercise its independent powers in choosing its leadership. "What I know is that Orengo is now the new Senate minority leader, other discussions out of the Senate will just come and go," Odhiambo said. More of this read: Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge  Click here for the latest political news 