Former Finance Minister Amos Kimunya yesterday said the government did not lose any money in the controversial Anglo Leasing police E-Cops project. He told Milimani magistrate Martha Mutuku the government cancelled five contracts, which it had earlier awarded to foreign company Infotalent Ltd and the company returned the cash. The project was worth EUR 59.6 million — about Sh7.426 billion. Kimunya said the contract to supply police equipment had been done before he took over as Finance minister from the late David Mwiraria. After the contracts were cancelled, he and other senior officials in the Treasury published the cancellation in the newspapers to protect members of the public, he said. The Kipipiri MP told court the transaction was under investigation by the Anti-Corruption Commission — an anti-graft agency that existed then. He was testifying in a case in which the late Mwiraria, three former PSs Joseph Magari, Dave Mwangi and David Onyonka, and businessmen Deepak and Rashmi Kamani have been charged with conspiring to defraud the government of Sh7.426 billion through a suppliers financing agreement for computerisation of security, law and order system. The court also heard that another former Finance Minister Chris Okemo chaired a security crisis meeting in which the controversial Anglo Leasing project was discussed.  Okemo meeting The court was told top government security officials, including former Commissioner of Police Philemon Abong’o, then-GSU commandant Samson Cheramboss and then-CID director Francis Sang, attended the critical security meeting at the Treasury on September 16, 2000. Prosecution witness Margaret Biana, who took minutes of the meeting, said the meeting discussed special and critical security project under the Office of President. Biana worked as secretary at the Treasury. She said none of the accused persons were present in the meeting, which was chaired by Okemo. By then, the Kanu administration was still in power. Biana identified the minutes document. She confirmed that it was the one she took and signed. She said the need for the E-cops project was identified before the accused persons assumed office. Witness Cromwell Fumbu, a former clerk at the Treasury, said the project was budgetted as approved by Parliament and the additional funds required were reallocated with the approval of the Treasury.