The cruel sun glared at Kitui county, its malevolent eyes unblinking. The sky did not provide even a wisp of cloud to soften the rays. As the elements conspired against residents, Samuel Muthui felt like he was in an oven. With every step he took, his feet sank into the searing sand. He could not take it any more. As a teacher at Thua Primary School, Muthui knew in his heart that extraordinary times calls for extraordinary measures. “We have faced a lot of changes due to the ever-changing climatic conditions. I knew that something had to be done,” he said. Muthui is one of the innovative green teachers who was recognised last month during the awarding ceremony of the Green Initiative Challenge. The ceremony took place at Shamba Primary School in Embu county on February 28. Thua Primary School emerged position one and got a cheque of Sh50,000. Thirty students from the school are set to visit Haller Park and Kipevu Power Station in Mombasa on a three-night trip. One student from Thua is also set to get full secondary scholarship, with the school getting a facelift of Sh1.5 million. Other benefits are certificate of excellence, Sh10,000 for head teacher, Sh10,000 for green teacher and a voucher worth Sh5,000 for the green teacher. HARD WORK PAYS During the awarding ceremony, many wondered how a little-known tiny school with harsh sunlight and dust devils could win the green challenge. Kitui county is mostly dry and hot, with temperatures ranging between 14°C during the coldest months (July-August) and 34°C during the hottest months (January-March). It receives an average rainfall of 900mm a year. Muthui said a leap of hope and hard work enabled the school to beat a long list of 120 schools. The green challenge in Thua primary started in 2016. They were given 150 seeds of Melia volkensii (Mukau), an East African indigenous tree species in the plant family Meliaceae (Mahogany). However, there were problems galore. “After planting, there were heavy rains that swept almost all our seeds,” Muthui said, adding that giving up was not an option. They immediately marshalled pupils to remove water that had flooded their farm before doing maintenance. Water shortage hit the project, as the place is dry. Domestic animals preyed on their young seedlings. And as if that was not enough, diseases, such as root rot, raided the farm. However, there was no giving up. Pesticide and insecticide were used to rid some of the pest and diseases from the farm, Muthui said. Muthui said despite all their efforts to ensure their farm succeeds and scoops the award, there was a negative attitude from the community. “Some of them were not willing to allow their children to support us in the initiative, because the nearest source of water [a river] is 1km away,” he said. The school had to rely on children to fetch the water, a move some parents did not take kindly. Community awareness had to be done to enlighten them on the need and aim of the challenge. This changed perceptions. “When they [parents] had been informed about the challenge and the importance that comes with tree planting, they immediately provided jerricans as well as fencing for the farm to keep off livestock,” Muthui said. A public meeting was also called in a nearby village to enlighten the community and ask them not to allow their animals to wander to the farm. When a first assessment was done, teachers, pupils and parents were motivated with the preliminary results. And after winning the first assessment, the school was highlighted, with the tiny unknown school getting to the limelight among the peers. “We were really excited and motivated to work even better,” Muthui says. INCOME, FOOD BENEFITS Once established, the trees would accord the school an opportunity to diversify income through sale of timber as well as non-timber products. Muthui knew at the bottom of his heart that a lot of work still needed to be done. "We had to do maintenance, drip irrigation, terraces, half-moon, pruning and inter cropping by planting maize, green grams, passion fruits and pawpaw,” he said. The pupils could now have maize that could weed the pangs of hunger, improving learning. Green grams were sold before resources were channelled to support the activities of the club, as the school has an environmental club. Flowers have also been planted in the school in a move to beautify it. Muthui said the school has around two acres of land, with one and a half acres being occupied by the trees. The school is located near a hill. Muthui said pupils supported the initiative in a big way, as they are the ones who took care of irrigation. He feels proud the school overcame many difficulties to win the challenge. A pupil in the school, Daniel Kyalo, 13, said despite trees being beneficial, more still needs to be done to stop their wanton destruction. Kyalo, who wants to be one of the best pilots in the near future, said environmental conservation is a collective responsibility. “Everyone, no matter where they are, must take up tree-planting, as weather patterns have shown that it is becoming very hot, while most of our rivers have dried up,” he said. Kyalo, who is in class eight, said he was excited when his school scooped the award. He urged schools that are yet to scoop the award not to lose hope but maintain their eyes on the coveted prize. Mwenda Munanie, 13, said citizens in the country must borrow a leaf from what laureate Wangari Mathai used to do. “I’m happy our parents have really assisted us in ensuring we won this award,” she said. Munanie, who wants to be a doctor in future, said planting trees will help the country gain its lost glory. When the winner was announced, parents, who had gathered in the scotching sun, danced and celebrated the award. Tabitha Muthakye, a teacher in the school, said they succeeded due to team spirit from the parents, teachers, pupils and school board of management. “Well-wishers also enabled us to succeed in a big way. We worked as a team. We decided what to do at every point and we got it,” she said. Students were put in different categories to fetch water in the morning, lunch time and evening, armed with jerricans. When something went awry, they would sit down, figure it out and correct it. She said every success was celebrated no matter how small or big it was. INNOVATION ENCOURAGED Speaking at the awarding ceremony, KenGen Foundation managing trustee Mike Njeru praised the efforts of the winning schools. “We encourage you to continue with the innovative measures you adopted over the last three years to maintain the beautiful woodlots that you now have.” But even as the awarding ceremony was going on, lorries were illegally extracting water from river Thiba, which is almost dry, to irrigate their miraa farms. Susan Maingi, Bamburi Cement sustainable development director said the manufacturer is committed to environmental conservation through afforestation. “As Bamburi Cement, we are delighted to be a partner in the GIC Initiative, which is aligned with our Sustainable Development Agenda. As a responsible cement manufacturer, Bamburi is proud to be playing its role in environmental conservation and restoration, and mitigating the impacts of climate change through the GIC partnership,” she said. “As we launch Phase IV today, we remain committed to working with the communities through such collaborations with like-minded organisations, to jointly reverse the climate change effects in Arid and Semi Arid Areas in Kenya.” Better Globe Forestry executive director Jan Vandenabeele said: “Reversing the effects of climate change requires collective action through afforestation. We urge you to replicate the knowledge you have gained over the last few years, and replicate the same in your homes and communities with your parents.” The ultimate goal of the GIC is to raise the awareness and participation of school children in environmental conservation and ultimately increase the country’s forest cover from the current 7 per cent to the 10 per cent recommended by Unep. The project will also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases through carbon sequestration, and control soil erosion by increasing topsoil infiltration and reducing run-off.