The Kenya Water Towers Agency yesterday moved in, securing 70 water towers set for protection. Water Towers Agency chairperson Dr Isaac Kalua said the move had been taken following problems the country is experiencng. “All we have to do as a nation, if we are to make good progress, is to protect our water towers,” Kalua said at his NHIF offices. He cited problems such as water shortage, soil erosion and illegal logging. Kenyans have not realised that over a long time we have lost good soil that could have been used to improve farming, Kalua said. Water towers are found in landscapes owned as community land, public land and private. There has been wanton destruction of water towers in the country. As a result, many Kenyans are going to bed hungry while the taps run dry. Already, 3.4 million Kenyans are starving, with experts citing the devastating effects of destruction of water towers. The country is facing an unprecedented and acute water shortage that has run into three years. Drought cycles have become intense, while rain patterns have completely changed. The country’s critical water towers are Aberdare Mountains, the Mau Forest complex, Mount Kenya, Mount Elgon, and the Cherangani Hills. Others are Mt Kulai, Loita Hills, Kirisia Hills, Nyambene Hills, Mathews Range,Marmanet, Ndotos, Mount Marsabit, Mount Kipipiri and Huri Hills. Kalua was with senior officials who said farming has been carried out inside gazetted forests, a move that continues to deplete the forest cover. “Loss of biodiversity is a serious issue that must be dealt with,” he said. The agency has established seven new regional offices in Narok, Kisumu, Kitale, Nyeri, Marsabit, Nyambene and Mombasa. The offices, Kalua said, are set to deal with water towers in counties.  Increase forest cover Title deeds illegally issued on water towers are set to be revoked. The agency wants resources increased to help it protect the towers. Kalua said resources needed to secure the new towers will be established once valuation has been completed. “With availability of resources, we believe that if well managed, and if there is proper community participation, there will be unrivaled capacity to sustain and improve livelihoods in our water towers,” Kalua said. He added that the agency will continue identifying water towers in its bid to not only ensure there is clean water, but also increase the forest cover. Kenya’s forest cover stands at 7.24 per cent. The Constitution envisages a cover of 10 per cent, a move the agency said could be achieved before 2030. Kalua said a survey will be done on the identified towers before delineation is done and fenced off. According to the agency, Chyulu Hills alone is valued at Sh40.8 billion, with most of its water serving Mombasa county. The water towers agency proposed water towers in Kajiado, West Pokot (two), Migori and Homa Bay, Elgeyo Marakwet and Turkana (two). Others are Meru, Laikipia, Nyamira, Nyeri and Taita Taveta (three).