My Kenyan friends tell me that if I was to send out a researcher to stop people on the streets of Nairobi and ask them what the company I lead — Proparco — does, the most common answer most likely would be that we are a newly established professional packing company. Very few would know that we are a leading global source of development finance, and that we have been active in Kenya for decades. Indeed, my current visit to Kenya is part of the celebration of our 40th anniversary, a milestone that coincides with a new strategy that will take us to new heights. We are indeed committed to doubling our annual commitments, to reach 2 billion euros (Sh250 billion) a year by 2020, and to tripling our impact on development. So what exactly is Proparco? We are the subsidiary of the French Development Agency dedicated to the private sector. That is to say that we provide long-term funding — both debt and equity — for development projects brought about by companies or financial institutions around the world. Our objective is to promote the emergence of a buoyant, innovative, socially responsible private sector in developing and emerging economies. We believe that it can effectively contribute to sustainable economic growth, creating jobs, and supplying essential goods and services. The obvious question which arises here is this: What do we have to show for our 40 years of existence? Proparco has its roots in Africa and works from a network of regional offices. Our office in Nairobi, for example, covers all East Africa and has committed over $1 billion (Sh101 billion) over the last 10 years alone. Let me give you a few examples of projects we have supported: First is Kenya’s Green Gold — tea. The tea subsector in Kenya provides income to hundreds of thousands of producers. The Kenya Tea Development Agency has over 600,000 tea farmers as shareholders. This subsector has been highly successful, with millions of Kenyans’ well-being depending on tea farming, and Kenya is now the world’s top tea exporter. This is a wonderful success story in which Proparco has played an integral part, since 2002. In 2015, Proparco provided the KTDA with a loan for the construction of seven small hydropower plants that supply clean energy to 24 factories managed by the KTDA. And I am very happy to announce that we will very soon grant a new loan to help farmers develop a new type of tea — Orthodox tea — opening up new markets worldwide. The other example is the mass production of flowers for export to Europe — once again a central pillar of the Kenyan economy and an employer of about 500,000 Kenyans directly, and many more indirectly. Bigot Holdings, which was formerly a small flower growing operation, has now grown to become one of the top rose exporting companies in Kenya. Proparco has been one of its key investors from the beginning. Bigot has grown to employ over 1,100 staff, of which about half are women. And all staff receive full medical support and other social benefits. Bigot is also Fairtrade certified, which means that part of the revenues it earns are invested in social projects for the surrounding community. But we’re not limiting our support to large companies; we are also greatly committed to helping the many young entrepreneurs and SMEs that make Kenya such a vibrant and dynamic country. Through investments and venture capital funds, we are supporting start-ups like Andela and Lynk to grow. We believe such companies, which hire and train talented developers or bring the amazing resources of the informal sector to everyone, will help fuel the economy and improve access to essential goods and services. Our focus on having a positive impact whenever we invest isn’t just a vague hope. It is deeply embedded in our nature. We work continuously with our clients and partners, big or small, to help them improve their environmental and social practices. So we have been part of the Kenyan success story over the past decades. And we intend to keep on doing more because Kenya definitely doesn’t lack ambitious individuals and companies. With just a little bit of funding they can make a great difference. The writer is the CEO, Proparco