President
Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga yesterday appeared in public
together for the first time since last year’s disputed elections to announce a
new initiative to unite the country. The
meeting at the Office of the President on Friday took the country by surprise,
ending with a joint address to the nation and a press statement. On
the steps of Harambee House on live television Raila said the time had come to
resolve their differences. Read: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya [Statement] Miguna rejects Raila's 'betrayal' after waking up in Canada Uhuru
said: “We have a responsibility as leaders to find solutions. Elections come
and go, but Kenya remains.” He
added: “We have come to a common understanding, an understanding that this
country of Kenya is greater than any one individual, and that for this
country to come together leaders must come together.” The
two announced a plan for a programme to overcome a deep and longstanding ethnic
and political divide, but gave few details of what it might involve. Raila,
who spoke first, read a prepared statement. “Throughout our Independence
history, we have had doubts on how we have conducted our affairs in the face of
a growing divide along ethnic, religious and political lines. Regrettably, we
have responded to our challenges by mostly running away from them. The time has
come for us to confront and resolve our differences.” The
Uhuru-Raila joint venture immediately drew sharp reactions as the political
ripple effects began to be felt. Raila’s
co-principals in NASA, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula,
were caught unawares. They said they would meet Raila on Monday in a
pre-scheduled summit. Read: Moses Kuria, Nakuru's Lee Kinyanjui welcome Uhuru-Raila pact Also read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say Among
the issues the two are expected to address are ethnic antagonism, lack of a
national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, divisive elections, security,
corruption, shared prosperity and responsibility. The
nine-point agenda, according to Uhuru and Raila, intends to end ethnic tension,
and create favourable living and working conditions while promoting patriotism. “His
Excellency Uhuru Kenyatta and His Excellency Raila Odinga are the two leaders
who symbolise the many ways in which the country has gone full circle in its
divisions. They were witness to the unity and hope that was followed by discord
and division,” Uhuru and Raila said in their joint statement. Without
specifying when, the duo said their joint programme shall be officially
launched “soon”. Uhuru
was sworn in last November for a second term after winning a repeat
presidential election last October 26 boycotted by Raila. The Supreme Court had
earlier nullified the August 8 poll and ordered a re-run. An
estimated 150 people were killed in protests called to prevent the repeat
election, and the declaration of Uhuru as validly elected. Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent On
January 30,Raila swore himself in as the “People's President” and
continued to press on with his campaign for electoral justice, calling for
fresh elections. The State responded with a hammer, arresting a few NASA allies
while avoiding Raila. The State also banned the NASA affiliate National
Resistance Movement and subsequently arrested its leading proponent, Miguna
Miguna, who was eventually deported to Canada. Uhuru
and Raila said in the joint statement that they had agreed to establish a new
office staffed by advisers to tackle the divisions, ranging from Opposition
complaints over the election to tensions between ethnic groups and
corruption. Details of what the joint initiative will entail were scant,
as the leaders did not announce any. Uhuru
picked the director of the Counterterrorism Centre, Martin Kimani, while Raila
opted for his lawyer and confidant Paul Mwangi. Kimani has been the director of
the National Counterterrorism Centre (NCTC) and special envoy for Countering
Violent Extremism (CVE) in the Office of the President since 2016. He was
previously Kenya's Permanent Representative and head of mission to the United
Nations in Nairobi and UNEP. Mwangi
on the other hand is a long-time friend of Raila and has represented the former
Prime Minister in several private and political cases. Before
the Friday meeting, the two men had defied calls from various quarters,
including religious leaders, diplomats and civil society, to hold talks. “We
need to save our children from ourselves. My brother and I have come together
to say that this descent stops here. This is a call for self-reflection. We
have to look in ourselves,” Odinga said. “Leaders
must be able to discuss what the reason for these ethnic differences are. We
have a responsibility to come together and find solutions that will bind our
country and give us a cycle bigger than five years. Starting today, we will
begin a process of bringing our people together,” Uhuru added. Uhuru
said the country's future should not be dictated by elections, which have
traditionally brought business to a standstill over the years. Gatundu
MP Moses Kuria said the meeting could be the beginning of the end of the cycle
of disputed elections and their ruinous impact on economic growth. “We
are the only country that goes for elections and ends up with an economic
slump. It is not good for the country,” he said.  Click here for the latest political news