The political walls of Africa were shaken by three significant events recently: The exit of South Africa President Jacob Zuma and Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, and the death of Zimbabwean opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai. In Tsvangirai's demise, I believe, lies a lesson for budding African democracies. His death means President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zanu-PF will have a easy win in his first election. Many pundits agree that after Tsvangirai's exit, there currently lacks another politician able to rally the country against the Zanu-PF hegemony. The vacuity left by Tsvangirai says a lot about opposition parties/movements in Africa. One main reason African opposition leaders oppose serving head of states is because of the incumbents' unwillingness to pave way for others. The opposition reminds us of the need for fresh leadership to reenergise a nation. The new fad among Africa's dictators is crafting propaganda that convinces the general populace and foreign nations that their absence from power will create a vacuum and their countries will disintegrate without them. In Rwanda, President Kagame lieutenants vehemently argued that he pulled the nation from genocide and his exit would leave the country in danger of sliding back to another genocide. They didn’t provide a solution to Kagame's mortality. In Uganda, the ruling NRM replays clips of past murderous political turmoil and coups, which were the way of life before President Yoweri Museveni. The argument that a Museveni exit will mark the return to such turmoil is economic with facts that Museveni rode to power via the barrel of the gun. In the court of public opinion, it’s Museveni forever or a Uganda in turmoil. Our very own President Moi served as President for 24 years because multiparty would “divide Kenyans along tribal lines and threaten nationhood”. Many others have used such survival tactics to usher in life presidency. Back home such a narrative exists but, surprisingly, not in government but in opposition circles. Jubilee's aim is to hold on to power for 100 years between two communities. In the opposition however there exists a well-crafted narrative that only Raila Odinga can “make the government sweat”. It was among the points raised during the NASA flagbearer negotiations in April last year. With the swearing-in fiasco, he reinvented himself as the main opposition leader with guns for yet another run at the presidency. Friends who have walked with him since 2005 say the man's word is law in ODM, he is always right and he is as clean as a whistle. Any challenge to his authority is met with sycophantic rage. All must pave way for him because he is courageous and the father of democracy. He brought democracy, we are told, so he must be the one to always run for President to make democracy work. William Ruto, Musalia Mudavadi, Ababu Namwamba or any other who dared to raise a contrary voice was demonised or ousted. The trouble in NASA is that Raila is jettisoning others so he is not barred from running on the NASA ticket again. Can’t Raila pass the baton to another? Shouldn’t there also be fresh leadership in the opposition, the alternative government? Is he interested and committed to having a line of succession after him or is he waiting to exit politics one day like a “hero" who was “the only one able to make the government sweat?” Is exiting opposition politics without leaving a clear line of succession heroism? We hate dictatorships, but one must marvel at the level of organisation when it comes to succession. In Zimbabwe Zanu-PF always had a plan to replace Mugabe. In South Africa, ANC has a clear line of succession so much so that wresting power from them seems almost impossible. Even Tanzania's CCM has always had a working succession plan. Key opposition luminaries on the continent who accuse sitting presidents of holding on to power must themselves demonstrate they have clear succession mechanisms in their outfits. It is only logical that a President who is unable to steer the nation forward should pave way for another, equally when an opposition leader infinitely fails to dislodge incumbents or a ruling establishment, he should then pass the baton. The idea that Kenyan opposition politics will wither away with Raila's exit is illogical. In the spirit of democracy, which he preaches, Raila should facilitate a change of guard. At least, this is the argument NASA co-principals put forth in 2017 and are stating now. Kenyans deserve the freshness of change in the opposition. As much Raila may represent the ideals and aspirations of many, fatigue has set in. Good leaders mentor better leaders. Raila should learn from Tsvangirai and respect the NASA Agreement. To walk away from NASA is to betray the trust Kenyans have in him and a dishonour to his co-principals. Student leader, University of Nairobi