A man has been arrested for impersonating a police officer and soliciting bribes from traders in Thika East. Police say the suspect, John Nyaachi had been terrorizing Gatuanyaga ward residents. He was cornered at Ngurai shopping centre on Saturday as he tried to extort money from a boda-boda rider. "He was nearly lynched by angry residents who were baying for his blood, I had to save him," Gatuanyaga community policing Chairman Stephen Kiarie said. Read; Imposter traffic cop arrested in Kajiado after stopping police The locals claimed that Nyaachi has been roaming the entire ward carrying handcuffs which he used to threaten his victims. "At times he claimed to be working with National Environment Management Authority and would pounce hard on traders using plastic bags," Kiarie said. A boda-boda operator Lukas Wamwea who was ferrying the ‘cop’ from Gatuanyaga town to Ngurai area said that he threatened to arrest him because of talking on the phone while ferrying ‘an officer’ “He told me that it was disrespectful to talk over the phone while ferrying a police officer and that I was risking the life of a state officer. I saw him through the side mirror remove the handcuffs but on reaching Ngurai centre I raised an alarm that attracted other members of the public,” Wamwea said. Wamwea said it was here that another victim Richard Sawanda, a snacks vendor, identified the fake cop who had a week ago extorted Sh 2,000 from him for packaging his mandazis in polythene paper bags. “He presented himself to me as a NEMA official and chained me for using polythene bags in my business. He was demanding Sh5,000 to free me. I gave him the money I had and he left,” Sawanda said. Kiarie said that the man was not a police officer attached to Munyu police post as he had been claiming. The residents descended on him with blows and kicks while others rushed to get petrol to lynch him but he was saved by Kiarie. Thika East police boss Julius Kyumbule said that the matter will be thoroughly investigated warning that any police officer found to have to work in cahoots with criminals to terrorize residents will be in hot soup. “We will get to the bottom of this matter and anyone one involved in it will be punished accordingly,” he said.  Click here for the latest political news