Former Gor Mahia captain Musa Mohammed will take up the place of Brian Mandela in Harambee Stars’ friendly against Comoros this evening. Musa, who ended his career with Gor on a winning note by skippering them to a record extending 16th top flight title, linked up with his compatriots in Marrakech, Morocco on Thursday. Mandela was pictured with a bandaged right leg but details of his injury remain scanty. Musa, now of Albanian side, KF Tirana defender, will likely start on the right side of defence to allow David Ochieng to partner David Owino in the centre of defence. Slavia Sofia’s Aboud Omar will certainly start in his regular left-back position. Coach Stanley Okumbi, who will be reacquainting himself with being in charge of the national team is spoilt for choice in goal with Patrick Matasi, KPL keeper of the year and Farouk Shikhalo, vying for the starting berth. Matasi has been the first choice shot stopper but faces stiff competition from two highly rated shot-stoppers in Bandari’s Shikhalo and Kariobangi Sharks’ number one Oyemba. But it is who will play in midfield that will attract the attention of most fans. The return of McDonald Mariga has added depth into the squad and Big Mac is certain to start up alongside his brother and team captain Victor Wanyama. The duo have not played together for the national team for almost four years and Okumbi will be desperate to see them click to give the national team a heavyweight option in the middle of the park ahead of the Afcon qualifier against Ghana later in the year. Jesse Were, fresh from helping his Zesco side overturn a first leg deficit to reach the group stages of the CAF Champions league, will get another opportunity to transfer his goal-scoring exploits at club level to the national team. Should he start, then he will be paired alongside his prolific compatriot Michael Olunga. Ayub Timbe who shrugged off a reported injury to join up with his compatriots in Morocco will start on one wing with Paul Were or Clifford Miheso taking up the other flank. With another friendly against Central Africa Republic coming up on Tuesday, Okumbi will use his squad sparingly to give all a chance to feature in the week-long tour that will have ramifications on Kenya’s ranking in the world football pecking order.