But first, what is PR? Its point is to ensure that the number of seats in a
legislative body reflects very closely the percentage of votes each party wins. The US, Canada, Australia, India and the UK are among
countries that have a system of single member constituencies, like ours. Much of
Europe has PR. The simplest PR system involves people voting for parties,
not individual candidates. Each party publishes a list of candidates that
voters can study before the election to decide whether they like the list, as
well as thinking about other reasons for voting for or against each party. Each
list is in order of preference. When the result of voting is known, and, for
example, the largest party wins 40 per cent of the votes, enough candidates are
taken from the party’s list, starting at the top, to fill 40 per cent of the
seats. In some countries, including the Netherlands, the whole
country is one constituency. Everyone has to choose between the same lists. In
others there are many constituencies each with many seats. Some countries, including in Scandinavia, have “open list”
systems:  Voters can also vote to move individual
candidates up or down the list, or even say they want to strike some off the
list. In Ireland, among other countries, voters vote for
candidates (not lists) in order of preference. If there are three seats in the
constituency, say, a voter may mark three names, ranking them 1 to 3. So voters
do not have to restrict their choice to one party, or even to party candidates
at all. A voter’s second and third choices will be used if their first choice
is elected with more than enough votes. This system is a bit more complicated for
voters, and a lot more complicated to understand. In some countries, including Germany and Lesotho, there are
two types of member. Each voter votes for a constituency candidate and a party
list. At least one third of the members will usually be list members in this system
— called Mixed Member Proportional (MMP). Enough candidates are taken from each
list to ensure the final make-up of the elected body reflects the overall voter
support for the party. This is different from Kenya, where list members are
assigned depending on how many seats
each party won in constituencies, so do not make the whole body proportional to
votes. I have sometimes thought that if all MPs were members for
large constituencies (or even for the whole country) and were elected through
party lists, this might cut down corruption. At present, a candidate can try to
bribe enough voters to affect the result. If a constituency was very large,
bribing voters would be that much harder. Is this naive?  ADVANTAGES OF PR The first argument in favour is that it seems fairer: Winning
votes means winning seats to the same extent. With a PR system, the Mombasa county assembly, to take one
example, would probably not be so overwhelmingly ODM. In the presidential
election, Mombasa voters supported Raila Odinga to the extent of almost 70 per
cent and Uhuru Kenyatta to almost 29 per cent. If they supported ODM to the
same extent in the county assembly elections, of the 30 ward seats, ODM would
have won 21. Jubilee supporters would feel less excluded. And maybe there would
have been a stronger opposition voice in the assembly. Similarly, Uasin Gishu
assembly might not have 90 per cent Jubilee members when 78 per cent voted for
UhuRuto. Votes are not “wasted”. Now, in Mombasa, Jubilee voters
probably feel, “What is the point of voting; we can never have any impact?” And
ODM voters may feel, “Why bother to vote; the result is a foregone conclusion”.
In a PR system, every vote counts. In our current system, parties may hardly bother to campaign
in their opponents “strongholds”. But in a PR system, it is worth campaigning
everywhere, giving voters more of a choice. In a PR system it is common for there to be more parties
winning seats. Smaller (and newer) parties get a better chance. Often none has
a majority. So governments are very often coalitions. Parties must work
together and extreme views are moderated to achieve compromise. Politics
becomes more cooperative and less confrontational. More groups and communities are often involved in
government. There is more inclusion – a national value under our constitution. Party lists themselves are often inclusive. Every party
wants to broaden its appeal to all voters. They can see the benefit of
including among their candidates persons with disability, women, and minorities
(because these people also vote and their votes count). It is easier to require parties to ensure women are elected.
Parties may be required by law (or they may choose) to alternate men and women
on the list, or have a woman at least every third name on each party list. Some
countries even require party lists to begin with women. Rules such as this much
increase the chances of having a good percentage of women elected. In PR systems (except MMP), all MPs are elected on the same
basis, unlike Kenya now, where some MPs, senators or MCAs represent a clear
geographical constituency, while others have a less clear role, which is often
misunderstood. Ogindo argues that PR countries score higher on human
development indexes. Whether this is true is unclear.  DISADVANTAGES OF PR Some are unenthusiastic about having many small parties. “Way-out”
ideas may find their way into legislatures. Coalitions may comprise many
parties and be unstable. Parties involved may cease to agree, and may vote out
the head of government. In some countries this may happen quite frequently.
Some countries limit the number of small parties by saying no party gets any
seats unless it gets, for example, five per cent of the overall votes. A party with a clear programme may find it hard to carry it out
if it has to compromise in order to get into government at all. In some ways, PR may be less democratic. In negotiations to
form a government a small, even extreme, party may insist on its policies being
adopted as a price for entering government. These policies may have very little
public support. Sometimes independent candidates cannot stand in list
systems. (Sometimes the law does allow groups of non-party people to form a
list to offer to the voters. A very popular individual might even be able to
stand alone.) Voters have less connection with those elected, who have no
roots in particular places. People can’t identify “our MP”. Parties have a lot
of power in choosing candidates. Accountability to voters may be weaker. However,
sometimes in PR countries parties allocate their elected members to certain
areas to strengthen links with voters. Presumably our MPs would insist on this
– otherwise how could they have CDF?  OTHER CONSIDERATIONS How a system works in a particular country depends on many
factors, including parties. Ours are usually ethnic parties, though not by
name, or they group people from several communities. Their members are not
united by political philosophy or policy concerns. There is little continuity
of party membership, or indeed of parties. But a new system might change
politics. Parliamentary elections here do not decide who forms
government: That depends on the presidential election. PR systems have more
impact in a parliamentary system (like most of Europe and New Zealand). In our current system, the President must get more than half
the votes. Another party might get more than half the seats, even with under half
the votes. PR might make this less likely — if the same percentage support the
President’s party as support the President. To change to PR would need a constitutional amendment. It is
unclear whether it requires a referendum. If PR is a serious possibility, we
need a thorough debate on the subject, though there is no way to do justice to it
in 1, 300 words. 