The government owes Uasin Gishu county about Sh3 billion in unpaid rates, governor Jackson Mandago has said. Kenya Railways owes the county Sh2.5 billion while other government agencies owe more than Sh400 million. “We want the Senate to intervene and ensure that government departments pay us the money so we can use it on development programmes,” Mandago said. He spoke to the Senate Public Accounts Committee at Uasin Gishu county assembly on Wednesday. The county has pending bills of more than Sh319 million. Mandago said his government would have paid the bills were it not for delayed and haphazard disbursement of funds from the Treasury. He said the county had cleared most of its debts, including those inherited from the old Uasin Gishu County Council, the Eldoret Municipal Council and the Burnt Forest Urban Council. The county boss said upon taking over he worked with the Transition Authority to document all the county’s assets and liabilities. A comprehensive record of county property is available at the county offices, he said. Mandago said many public plots had been grabbed and his government is working to take them back. The National Land Commission has revoked illegal titles and allocations of more than 260 public plots in the county, he said. “We are following up more and we urge the Ministry of Lands to speed up registration of the public plots we have,” Mandago said. The governor told the Senate the Ifmis system used by counties to manage finances is cumbersome and should be reviewed. The system adds no value to financial management, he said. Mandago said his county and others in the region have few internal auditors. He asked the Auditor General to help counties build capacity. The government is weighed down by swelling public debt and faces the possibility of a debt crisis, which means the state can’t repay what it owes. Kenya’s current public debt stands at approximately Sh5 trillion, translating to 56.4 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product. This is up from 42.8 per cent in 2008. In other words, the country owes more than half the value of its economic output (GDP). With a population of 51 million, it means every Kenyan owes about Sh96,200.