Middle and upper income earners will take the biggest hit if MPs endorse President Uhuru Kenyatta’s memorandum. Even though Uhuru cut the VAT on petroleum products from 16 to eight per cent, he has gone for the middle and upper class to plug the budget deficit. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics defines middle class as individuals earning Sh27,000 to Sh150,000 per month. A new 1.5 per cent tax up from an earlier proposal of 0.5 per cent for the Big Four housing programme will raid the pockets of those in formal employment. This means that an employee earning Sh150,000 per month will have to part with Sh2,250 while those earning more than Sh330,000 will pay the Sh5,000 maximum. The employer will have to match the employees deduction. Bank transfers of more than Sh500,000 will attract a 0.05 per cent transaction fee. Such transfers are only common among the moneyed who fall within the upper class. Car owners who are mostly within this bracket will pay a 30 per cent excise duty to import a vehicle. Fuelling the vehicles, most probably bought on a loan from the bank or co-operative society will equally come at higher cost. However overall, an increase in the price of petroleum products will raise transport and production costs triggering a price surge in other commodities consumed by all people regardless of income status. ‘’Fuel cost is a key factor in determining final prices for most commodities. Tax on petroleum products whether at 16 or eight per cent will automatically trigger a price surge, hence higher tax margins for the government,’’Abraham Muriu, country manager International Budget Partnership said. In July, the Institute of Economic Affairs executive director Kwame Owino termed the housing levy a backdoor strategy by the government to raise revenue from heavily taxed formal workers. Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) and Kenya Association of Manufacturers have opposed the fund saying that it will further push up operation costs. Kenya’s middle class is known to prioritise spending on electronic devices and is hailed for high smartphone and internet penetration in the country. A 2016 survey by global research consultancy Globescan shows that 66 per cent put tech devices at the top of their buying list over the past five years. By increasing telephone and internet data services Excise Duty from 10 per cent to 15 per cent, Uhuru has dealt a huge blow to this segment of consumers who are already paying almost 30 per cent in income tax. The president has further slapped 20 per cent Excise Duty on money transfer service fees up from 10 per cent. In the new power tariff review effected on August 1, the Energy Regulatory Authority raised power costs for middle class by up to 54 per cent.