The truth of the matter is that MCAs are trying to oversight the county governments but they still have a lot of work to do. At the onset of devolution, we realised there was rampant misuse of public resources, for example, the recent revelations of looting in Migori county. Some of the county assemblies are trying their best to oversee the rolling out of development projects at the grassroots. However, MCAs do not have a fund to role out their own projects at the ward level and they wholly depend on the county Executive to implement projects. They are, therefore, obliged to worship the county bosses and are turned into puppets. Apart from a few MCAs who try to be independent and are articulate in their legislative roles, most of them are clueless about budget-making. Some castigate governors for rolling out projects but forget that these were anchored in the budgets that they themselves endorsed. We cannot issue a blanket condemnation of MCAs for failing in their monitoring role but we can say there is room for improvement. The legislators have attended numerous trainings but some do not take them seriously. When an MCA dashes into a training session and leaves after 10 minutes, what do you expect? During the first five years of devolution, there were teething problems in county assemblies but over the years we have seen some progress. Implementing the new Constitution was difficult and  unprecedented; there has been a lot of improvement. Rules and regulations now are in place to guide the assemblies and lawmakers in their roles. Today we don't have many unnecessary impeachment motions from the assemblies, as witnessed in the first term of devolution. This either means the governors are doing exemplary work or MCAs themselves have been compromised not to expose illegalities in the running of county governments. Devolution is indeed working, things have changed and we have seen lives being transformed at the grassroots. However, this is a work in progress. The Laikipia Senator and Devolution Committee chairman spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news