For decades, cattle rustling has been a key driver of insecurity in the North Rift region, costing many lives and property. Leaders tried in vain to disarm combatants and resorted to holding peace talks instead. This led to proposals on projects to end hostilities. In West Pokot, the projects have focused on improving the livestock sector. The county is distributing Sahiwal bulls, dairy heifers and Artificial Insemination services to improve breeds. It is also introducing fish farming along the border with Turkana. Some 600 Sahiwal bulls and over 2,000 gala goats have been distributed for cross-breeding and to help increase meat and milk production. Launching the programme, Governor John Lonyangapuo said: “Cattle rustling has been encouraged by local breeds, which most of our farmers have. The improved breeds will help eradicate the problem, since the animals will not be able to walk long distances,” he said. He said in 10 years, all breeds will have been changed and residents will be reaping huge profits from the animals. “We need to take advantage of the relative peace we are currently enjoying and start investing in long-term measures to eradicate cattle rustling,” he said. The governor said the community had helped them determine who to distribute the livestock to. “We have identified farmers who can take good care of their animals even during dry spells. We don’t want to lose them since we have invested heavily in the animals. They will have full ownership of the animals after five years,” he said. Lonyangapuo said farmers have been making losses after being exploited by middlemen. He said the county wants to ensure there is enough livestock for meat production before Nasukauta meat processing plant is operational. “Currently a goat is being sold at Sh5,000-8,000, but when we improve our breeds, and with the availability of a ready market, we shall sell them at Sh10,000-20,000,” he said. GOOD FOR PROFITS Farmer Eliud Tuliandale welcomed the programme, saying it will help them get better prices for their livestock and reap profits. “We sell our animals to brokers at a throwaway price, who then sell them to markets in Nairobi and Western province at abnormal profits,” he said. In highland areas, the county is distributing dairy heifers to help in milk production. Speaking at Laikong when he handed over 17 dairy heifers, Lonyangapuo said small-scale farmers will not be left out. “Soon 1,000 households per location will each receive five chicken to lift the economy within households,” he said. Lonyangapuo said the county will set up a milk-processing plant, but it needs to have enough milk to make it viable. “Our milk is transported over 300km away for processing, and yet we have the capacity to set up our own factory,” he said. He said the government has set up many cooling plants to prevent farmers from incurring losses. The governor also pointed out that his government was working on feeder roads to ensure farmers deliver their milk at cooling plant on time. “Farmers have been using donkeys to transport their milk to cooling plants since roads are impassable,” he said. “My government wants to ensure no farmer encounters losses during the rainy season, when milk usually goes bad in the hands of farmers.” FISH FARMING Famers say the programme is likely to change their lives. They said milk prices have fallen because of poor breeds and drought. “Despite this region being known for milk production, poverty levels are still high, and the heifers will help people earn a living and reduce poverty levels,” farmer John Makilap said. He thanked the county for improving the state of roads, shielding farmers from losses faced in previous years. “Last year over 5,000 litres of milk got spoiled due to the poor state of roads,” he said. The county has employed extension officers to assist farmers get the most out of their livestock. It has also introduced livestock keepers to fish farming. The idea is to get the Turkana and Pokot communities to benefit from fisheries at Turkwel dam. Lonyangapuo said the project will address food insecurity, social economic problems and poverty, as well as dissuade communities from attacking each other. “We are trying to use these natural resources as an intervention to keep people together. That way they are able to exploit the resources and have some livelihood to alleviate hunger and reduce poverty,” Lonyangapuo said. He said fish farming looks promising as residents take up fish eating, even in the open market. “The project is changing fortunes for Pokot farmers. The community is now learning how to diversify from livestock farming. We want to change the narrative and boost our source of livelihood,” he said. The county bought three modern boats to ease transport at the dam. Lonyangapuo said the boats will help during emergency services. NEW DAWN Livestock executive Geofrey Lipale said the county has restocked more than 100,000 tilapia fingerlings in the dam, and after three months, they will be ready for harvesting. He said Turkwel dam can produce close to 500,000kg per year of fish meat, equivalent to 0.2 tonnes. The county wants to scale up to reach a target of half a million fingerlings. “The Pokot and Turkana communities living around the dam will depend on the project to change their diet and boost their livelihoods, now that the fishing has attracted demand from as far as Kapenguria and Turkana South,” he said. Some beneficiaries said the programme has changed their mindsets. “Locals now opt to do fishing rather than rear livestock for meat. We believe our lives will be transformed and cattle rustling will be a thing of the past,” resident Joel Lokomul said. Chief William Lomada said security agencies have been having sleepless nights in the fight against cattle rustling, but it is now a new dawn as both communities engage in fishing instead. “The locals will now get money to pay school fees for their children. This will also reduce cases of youths dropping out of school to engage in cattle rustling. We are hopeful the community will embrace fishing and develop the region,” he said.