Cracks have emerged in the Jubilee house in Bungoma county as party branch chairman and Sirisia MP John Waluke has engages in a war of words with Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa. The supporters of Barasa, a first-time Jubilee MP, and those of Waluke have been tearing into each other on social media. Jubilee won four MP seats in last year’s polls - Waluke, Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Didimus Barasa (Kimilili) and Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and some MCA seats. Barasa’s supporters have claimed Waluke betrayed the MP when he appeared last week before the assembly committee probing bribery allegations to shoot down the contraband sugar report. Appearing before the Powers and Privileges committee chaired by the National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Waluke denied ever meeting Barasa when a section of MPs were allegedly being bribed Sh10,000 by Wajir woman representative Fatuma Gedi. It is also alleged the rift has been escalated after Waluke recently insulted Barasa during an interview with a radio station. On Thursday, a group of women from Kimilili constituency called on Waluke, who has also declared he will be vying for Bungoma governor in 2022, to apologise for “insulting” their lawmaker. The women, led by Alice Nekesa and Janet Wanyama, told Waluke to stop using “unprintables” against Barasa. They addressed the press at Matili Friends Church in Kimilili. “Waluke is on record calling our MP ‘kiroboto’; he also paid some county Jubilee youths, led by their chairman Bernard Machunga, who verbally attacked Barasa. We need to be each brother’s keeper not fighting each other in public,” Nekesa said. Wanyama warned the Sirisia lawmaker against setting foot in Kimilili constituency, saying they will chase him away. On Wednesday, Waluke supporters also issued a press statement at Bungoma Members’ Club and claimed Barasa did not respect his fellow “senior” MPs. “We want to tell Barasa that he should come slow on our party county chairman and know his limits. He is only a first-time MP and should learn from his seniors instead of trying to create wars and division that he will not finish,” Machunga said. He alleged Barasa has also been using Bungoma cane farmers by opposing zoning of cane. There also appears to be a supremacy war between Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa.