Samburu leaders on Saturday asked the DPP to drop corruption charges against Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe. They are MPs Alois Lentoimaga (Samburu North), Naisula Lesuuda (Samburu Central), and Maison Leshoomo (Woman Rep). The legislators on Saturday said that it was unfortunate that the 'fight against corruption has been politicised'. Lesiyampe and eight others are facing charges related to the Sh6 billion National Cereals and Produce Board scandal. More on this: PS Lesiyampe, 8 others charged over NCPB maize scandal Lentoimaga claimed that the PS was being framed "since he doesn't handle money that comes from the National Treasury." "It was the government that ordered purchase of maize during drought. Why accuse Lesiyampe over the same?" He spoke at Yare camel camp during the Maralal International Camel Derby. Deputy President William Ruto was present. Lentoimaga asked the DP to consult with President Uhuru Kenyatta with a view to withdrawing the case. "We want all the malicious charges dropped. The president has powers to order a nolle prosequi. He should do so by Monday," he said. For her part, Lesuuda said that even as they support the fight against corruption, the rule of law should be followed. "Lesiyampe should be reinstated once he is found not guilty," she said. Leshoomo said that investigations by the Senate committee on Agriculture did not find any fault in Lesiyampe adding that the war on corruption should be dignified. "It is hurting to ambush and arrest people on the wee and ungodly hours of the morning when they are with their families," she said. "As leaders, we restrained more than 500 Samburu residents from demonstrating to Nairobi when Lesiyampe was arrested." Governor Moses Lenolkulal agreed with the leaders saying that the fight against corruption should not be malicious. "Such harassment is set to spoil people's careers. We have systems to fight corruption decently," he noted. Lenolkulal added that people's ambitions are being destroyed when summons are issued through the media. He said that those who fail to honour court summons or calls to the DCI are the ones who should be arrested. The deputy president, in his response, said that the government is following the law in the war on corruption. He said that the fight against the vice is a national endeavour meant to eliminate wastage, and mismanagement of public funds. "Everyone will be given a fair hearing," he said. Click here for the latest political news 