Wrangles in Murang’a county’s water sector continue to escalate with executive Paul Macharia facing charges of robbery with violence. Macharia was yesterday arraigned in a Murang’a court and accused of robbing Eston Gathima of Sh13,450 and assaulting him at Kiawambeu water treatment plant on August 27. Macharia was on Wednesday arraigned in the same court charged with another offence of assaulting Gathima, who is a board member of Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company. He pleaded not guilty and his lawyer Alex Ndegwa applied to have both cases consolidated. He asked principal magistrate Anthony Mwichigi to prefer a reasonable bail or bond to allow the CEC to continue with his work. The lawyer further told the court the suspect presented himself to the police on Wednesday and appealled for hastening of the case. The defence’s application for bond was protested against by the complainant’s lawyer - Theophilis Kamwaro - who said given his position in the county government, the CEC may interfere with witnesses. “If granted, then the bond should be hefty and have conditions,” Kamwaro said. But Mwichigi asked the prosecution to make use of the Witness Protection Agency if it feels witnesses may be interfered with. The law, Mwichigi said, provides for all suspects to be provided with bond or cash bail. The magistrate released Macharia on a bond of Sh200,000 and a surety of the same amount or bail of Sh200,000. Mwichigi directed the prosecution to consolidate both cases before November 17 when the case will be mentioned. Two other aides of governor Mwangi wa Iria, Alex Mbote and Stephen Chege, were arraigned before Mwichigi on Wednesday facing charges of assault. This turn of events could escalate wars between the county government and Muwasco that has been ongoing since last month. Wa Iria is expected to hold a stakeholders’ meeting at Ihura Stadium to discuss water issues both in the county and Central region. Unconfirmed reports indicate a contingent of GSU officers will be brought in to stop the meeting from happening. The governor on Wednesday accused county commissioner John Elungata of being impartial and vowed not to work with him and asked the national government to transfer him. Wa Iria has also called on security agencies to arrest and prosecute staff members of Muwasco for switching off water in Murang’a town for two days late last month in protest against his decision to appoint Joseph Kimura to replace Peter Munga as Muwasco chairman. On Tuesday, Ng’araria MCA Simon Wamwea was arrested after MCAs clashed with the police as they attempted to hold a public meeting at Ndaka-ini shopping centre. Police officers said they had received information that the MCAs were planning to forcibly access Ndaka-ini Dam.