MPS who allegedly took bribes to shoot down the sugar scandal report could be prosecuted. Sources within Parliament indicated that the Powers and Privileges Committee could recommend the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe and prosecute the MPs. Tomorrow, the committee, which is chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi, is expected to grill the MPs who made the allegations that money exchanged hands to  shoot down a report on the sugar scandal. Up to 15 members of the National Assembly are expected to appear before the committee to provide the evidence on what they know about  their colleagues who are accused of  receiving the Sh10,000 bribe. Read:Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report Apart from from James Onyango K’Oyoo (Muhoroni) and Didmas Barasa (Kimilili) who Muturi has publicly communicated that they will appear, others said to be lined up for grilling include Ayub Savula (Lugari), Fatuma Gedi (Wajir Women Representative), Simba Arati (Dagoreti North) and Jayne Kihara (Naivasha) among others. Both K’Oyoo and Barasa sit on the powerful House committee which prefects the conduct of MPs in and out of Parliament. “I have singled out the two members because they are members of the Committee of Powers and Privileges that forms the jury that will hear and determine claims of bribery. As a principle of law, you cannot wear the hat of a judge on a matter in which you are appearing in the hat of a witness,” Muturi said. He added: “In this regard, a number of members are or may be required to appear before the committee of powers and privileges as whistleblowers to assist the committee to get to the bottom of those grave allegations of bribery in the House. They will have to recuse themselves from the sittings of the committee until the committee has concluded the inquiry on the allegations of possible bribery since they will be invited by the committee to adduce evidence”. Also read:Sugar bribe dished out in toilet – MP The speaker has insisted that the grilling will be open to the public, calling on those with evidence to inform the committee, which will sit at Parliament Buildings tomorrow and Thursday. “If you say you saw and you are an MP, you have an obligation to say what you saw,” Muturi told a meeting of editors in Mombasa over the weekend. Last month, Devolution Cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa likened the MPs who shot down thev sugar report to economic terrorists. “It is so disheartening to see MPs being mentioned as being corrupt by receiving a paltry Sh10,000 to Sh30,000 to shoot down the important report,” he said. Click here for the latest political news