Twenty-one steel footbridges will be constructed on the Mombasa-Nairobi-Eldoret highway and Nairobi-Thika Superhighway in three years, Kenha announced yesterday. Kenya National Highways Authority director general Peter Mundinia made the announcement after signing a commercial agreement with Victor Buyck Steel Construction, a Belgian steel design and supply company. Mundinia said the project will be funded by the government of Belgium which is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. “The project will be carried out at a cost of Sh2.98 billion for a period of 36 months under an OECD concessional loan facility,” Mundinia said. He said the installation of the footbridges will enhance safety interventions that Kenha is undertaking along the Northern Corridor and on the Nairobi-Thika Superhighway. The interventions include the construction of a 10km dual carriageway between the Kabarak junction and Kibunja section of the Nakuru-Eldoret highway and erecting road signs among other works. “Footbridges will also be installed at Garden City, School of Monetary Studies, Witeithie and Mangu Road (Jomoko) along the Nairobi-Thika Superhighway,” Mundinia said. Read: KeNHA to build two Mombasa Road footbridges for Sh363 million The director said speed bumps will also be standardised to conform to the East Africa Codes of Road Safety. Gantry images will also be installed to enhance safety information along major highways. “Kenha is working closely with the National Transport and Safety Authority, the county governments and regional coordinators to implement road safety measures,” Mundinia said. VANDALISM He said they are also working with the security agencies to set up surveillance teams to safeguard road furniture against vandalism. “In the long term, Kenha is working to have the Mombasa-Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit expressway constructed to increase efficiency and enhance safety on the Northern Corridor,” Mundinia said. Construction of Witeithie and School of Monetary Studies footbridges along the Nairobi-Thika Superhighway have started. The footbridges are expected to speed up traffic flow along the superhighway and enhance safety for pedestrians. The authority will remove the safety bumps which have been installed in the locations once the bridges are completed. Read: KeNHA starts construction of four footbridges along Thika road Click here for the latest political news