A second woman has come forward with
allegations of sexual misconduct against President Donald Trump's US
Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. Deborah Ramirez, a Yale university classmate of the judge, told the New Yorker that Mr Kavanaugh had exposed his genitals at a dormitory party. The judge has denied both allegations, labelling the latest "a smear". The make-up of the nine-judge Supreme Court is crucial, as it has the final say on often highly contentious laws. Before Kavanaugh can take up the vacant seat, he has to be approved by the
21-strong Senate Judiciary Committee and then the whole Senate. Prof Christine Blasey Ford, who last week came forward alleging Mr Kavanaugh had sexually assaulted her in the early 1980s, has agreed to testify before the Senate committee on Thursday. Senator
Dianne Feinstein, the ranking Democrat on the committee, called for the
"immediate postponement of any further proceedings" relating to
Kavanaugh's nomination in an letter sent to the committee's Republican
chairman on Sunday evening. Ramirez alleges the incident
occurred when she was a freshman at Yale University alongside Mr
Kavanaugh during the 1983-4 academic year. She says they were
both taking part in a drinking game at a dormitory party where people
sat in a circle and selected others to drink. She says at one point, a plastic penis was pointed in her direction by one man, and later another exposed himself directly. "I remember a penis being in front of my face," she said. "I knew that's not what I wanted, even in that state of mind." Ramirez said she was mocked and taunted when she remarked it wasn't
real, and then ended up touching the genitals while attempting to push
the man away. "I wasn't going to touch a penis until I was
married," she said, referring to her devout Catholic upbringing. "I was
embarrassed and ashamed and humiliated." She says she remembers Kavanaugh standing to her right and laughing, pulling up his pants. The
article says the 53-year-old acknowledges gaps in her memory caused by
alcohol that night, which is said to have made her hesitant to come
forward when contacted. What have other people said about the incident? The
journalists behind the piece, Ronan Farrow and Jane Mayer, say they
contacted dozens of classmates to try to corroborate Ramirez's
account. Three former students, who were not independent
eyewitnesses, recalled being told or discussing the incident in vague
terms at the time. Two males allegedly involved in the incident
disputed her account, alongside several other classmates, adding the
allegation against Kavanaugh was "completely out of character". In a statement, the Supreme Court nominee strongly denied the allegation. "This
alleged event from 35 years ago did not happen. The people who knew me
then know that this did not happen, and have said so," he said. "This
is a smear, plain and simple. I look forward to testifying on Thursday
about the truth, and defending my good name - and the reputation for
character and integrity I have spent a lifetime building - against these
last-minute allegations." A White House spokeswoman says the
administration stands by the nominee, labelling the allegation "the
latest in a co-ordinated smear campaign by the Democrats designed to
tear a good man down". It then released a further statement highlighting perceived weaknesses and uncertainties within the New Yorker's account. What are the other allegations? Prof
Ford alleges Kavanaugh tried to drunkenly remove her clothing,
pinned her to a bed and covered her mouth at a high school party when
she was 15 and he was 17. Some Republicans, including President
Trump, have accused her and Democratic politicians of deliberately
trying to delay and obstruct the judge's confirmation using the
allegations. Michael Avenatti, a US lawyer known for representing
adult film actress Stormy Daniels in her cases against President Trump,
has alleged on Twitter that he is representing a third woman with
"credible information" regarding Judge Kavanaugh and the alleged witness
to Prof Ford's assault, Mark Judge. Click here for the latest political news