Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter has warned of a silent revolution in the country as a result of the 'near collapse' of the economy. Keter says the country, with the Sh 6 trillion debt and corruption cartels seizing most sectors of the economy, is literally bankrupt. In a statement, he blamed those in charge of the economy of living in denial and continuing to drive deep into more problems. "The tragedy is that the drivers of our economy are still in denial and are still taking us into a ditch at a very supersonic speed." The legislator thanked his colleagues who fought in Parliament to shoot down the new 8 per cent tax on fuel. "I want to sincerely thank all the members who supported us to reject the presidential VAT proposal," Keter said. Details:  Uhuru must go! Lawmakers shout after House fails to overturn 8% fuel tax He said all is not lost "despite cartels in the August House hijacking the procedures to push the Finance Bill through." Keter said what happened in Parliament was history and the MPs who stood with Kenyans must now lead the 'boiling revolution' from the front. He said the MPs must stand to fight impunity by "removing cartels masquerading as House leadership." "History will judge us (MPs) harshly if we leave those behind the chaos at Parliament to get away with it," Keter said. The MP said Kenyans are waiting for MPs to show direction not only on how to reduce the tax burden but to also to remedy the financial crisis. "I was surprised on hearing a politician say the government has put in place austerity measures to deal with the economic situation," Keter said. "That is ridiculous! Which government? Is it the same government that hardly two weeks ago was proposing to change police uniforms?" The MP said austerity measures are used by governments who are unable to pay debts, by either cutting on expenditure or by increasing taxes, or both. "Which government facing a financial crisis like the one in Kenya will be making proposals of changing police uniforms??? Those are misplaced priorities." Read: Uhuru announces merger of police force, unveils new uniform Keter asked MPs and Kenyans to stand up and" be part of the ongoing silent revolution that will save the country from collapse." "MPs who stood with Kenyans are now the leaders of that revolution since it lacked this before Thursday. At the moment, we are leading from the front," he said. He said revolutions in history are never loud, "but are always silent, spontaneous and can explode anytime." "The worst of such a revolution is that if you don’t change it, it will change you," Keter said asking MPs to stick together and save the country from going to the dogs. "There is a famous native American proverb that says, we don’t inherit our country from our ancestors, but we borrow it from our children," the legislator said. During the passing of the vote last week, the 215 MPs tried to reject the Bill by chanting and remaining in solidarity with each other. Uhuru must go! Uhuru must go! the MPs chanted after the proposal was passed. Shouts of "Haki yetu! Haki yetu!...Muturi must go! Muturi must go!" were heard as the MPs made noise in the National Assembly. Also read: Zero! Zero! MPs shout in opposition to amended Bill staging 8% fuel tax Click here for the latest political news