The national women's volleyball team was on Sunday caught up in Japan’s Typhoon Trami after the cyclone reached the mainland from the Pacific Ocean. Malkia strikers are taking part in the FIVB World Championship in Hamamatsu which is located between Tokyo and Osaka. Team manager David Kilundo said the players were rushed to their hotel after the rain started pounding the city. The team had finished their second Pool 'D' game against Serbia. “The dreaded typhoon has just begun. Streets are deserted…there are strong winds accompanied by rains. We are now being rushed to the hotel,” Kilundo said via WhatsApp. The team has 14 players and five officials. One of the players told the Star they have been moved from the 15th floor at Concorde Hotel Hamamatsu, where they are staying. to the second floor.  MMA typhoon formation in the ocean. /COURTESY Malkia lost to Serbia (25-16, 25-9, 25-8). On Saturday, the team registered a historic 3-0 (3-0(25-23,25-22,25-21) win against Kazakhstan in their opener. They are lined up against Puerto Rico on Monday in their third game as they seek to book one of the four slots up for grabs ahead of the second round. According to AccuWeather, an American media company that provides commercial weather forecasting services worldwide, the strength of Typhoon Trami was forecast to fluctuate to a Category 3 or strong Category 2 storm. Typhoon Trami, the third western Pacific storm this month achieved Category 5 status while still in the ocean. A Category 3 storm is the lowest level of major hurricanes but it can cause devastating damage. Scientists rate a category 3 storm as one with wind speeds of between 111 and 129 miles an hour. A Category 2 has winds reaching 96-110 mph and is more likely to see trees uprooted and power lines going out. On Sunday, Channel NewsAsia said Typhoon Trami had ravaged Japan’s southern island of Okinawa on Saturday injuring at least 17 people. It said the storm was travelling at 216 kilometres (134 miles) per hour. In early September, a category 2 typhoon named Jebi hit southern Japan killing at least 11 people and injuring more than 470 others.  How typhoons are formed Typhoons start off as tropical thunderstorms. Water in the ocean’s surface is heat directly by the sun’s radiation creating warm humid air on the surface. Strong winds then pull in moisture from the oceans and thunderstorms convert the moisture into heat. The heat causes more air to flow to the centre of the storm causing evaporation. All the heat and airflow toward the eye creating a typhoon. Click here for the latest political news