Last week the phrase ‘kieleweke’ was in literally all newspapers. The reason, in my opinion, was the political mismanagement of an innocent young man at a fundraiser in Mukurweini, Nyeri county, where Deputy President William Ruto was chief guest. The incident concerned a young man called Albert Nderitu, a student at a local college in Mukurweini. He decided to attend the fundraiser wearing a T-shirt with the message ‘Kieleweke’ on the front and ‘Big Four First’ on the back. Though he wore the T-shirt under his shirt, somehow a security officer saw it (through the shirt?) and decided it was a threat. Albert was then arrested because apparently he was suspected to be planning to heckle the DP, taken to Mukurweini police station where he spent the night in the cells. He was released the next day. I have never met Albert though I am associated with the ‘kieleweke’ message. I even have a similar T-shirt. ‘Kieleweke’ simply means ‘Let it be understood’. The concept behind the slogan is just as simple. Kenyans went to the polls a year ago and elected leaders at different levels on a five-year mandate to deliver on a specific responsibility. ‘Kieleweke’ is about rallying support behind those currently in office so that they can deliver on these expectations. It is also about telling elected leaders not to keep Kenyans in divisive political campaigns for five years as this will affect national unity and patriotism. ‘Kieleweke’ also specifically seeks to rally Kenyans to support President Uhuru Kenyatta on his three-pronged socioeconomic agenda: Big four, Building Bridges and fighting corruption. ‘Kieleweke’ is not about fighting the DP’s 2022 political agenda. On that issue our position is clear: This is not the time to have a conversation on who will take over after Uhuru. It is the time to work under Uhuru for Kenyans. However after what happened to Albert someone clearly believes that the ‘kieleweke’ message is meant to fight the DP. This is very unfortunate. *** Last week I had a session with my local political team. They were unhappy with the position I have taken on the fuel levy issue. They believe I should be with the ‘people’ and take the popular position of fighting increased taxes. I told them I cannot sacrifice ‘right’ for ‘popular’. There is going to be a cost if we are to achieve the Big Four agenda. This cost will be reflected in taxes. If we want more services from the government then we must pay for them. The discussion should therefore not be whether to pay more or less in taxes, but whether we want to have all the benefits proposed, or less. Once we agree on that, we can then discuss what we need to pay for what we want. But we cannot talk about ‘Big Four’ benefits and then insist on paying less tax. It is like having your cake, and eating it too. I told my team that in politics some people will always prefer to be popular and only say what t their supporters want to hear. Then there will be those who want to do the right thing and speak the truth, even when it is not what their supporters want to hear. History has very interesting lessons on this. Elected leaders who make bold decisions based on what they think is right tend to last much longer than those who seek only to please the crowd. This is because people want their leaders — like their doctors — to tell them the truth, not just what makes them happy.