ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve his current “crisis-ridden” government and reconstitute a new one to regain Kenyans’ confidence. “Given the escalating stalemate over the budget and taxation, the President ought to think out of the box. In situations of paralysis like this, governments resign or dissolve,” he said in statement yesterday. Mudavadi said endemic corruption in the government is a large contributor to the budgetary crisis. He said the situation has been magnified by the fact that “a large chunk of loans and the budget are stolen within government bureaucracy”. Mudavadi said the current crisis is self-inflicted by the Jubilee government due to lack of fiscal discipline. He said the ruling party cadres are at variance with the President, having publicly expressed their anger at Treasury technocrats for apparently “misadvising” the Head of State. Mudavadi said the Finance Bill fell short of the threshold, adding “it protected the status quo and sacrificed the bigger vision”. “The President is irked that his technocrats have put him at cross-purpose with key governance institutions. They caused a dip in the relationship with the Judiciary when they expurgated its budget. He is then at variance with Parliament he accuses of taking the easy path instead of rising to the challenges of our time. It was good politics, but bad leadership,” he said. supports eight per cent vat Mudavadi said the Jubilee government is living in denial over the rampage borrowing spree that has boomeranged. “With a Sh4 trillion debt and growing, creditors with due payments have come calling. The government is unable to service the debts and resorts to overtaxation of Kenyans,” he said. “Kenyans have to date not been told what the Eurobond which repayment is due was used for. It is Treasury that shocked Kenyans with the admission that it didn’t know what government departments did with their share of Eurobond disbursed to them. Of course, this was sheer despondency.” Mudavadi said the President needs pragmatic, predictable and consistent financial management. He said though he supports the President’s proposed reduction of VAT from 16 to eight per cent, his proposals attack the sustainability of the poor. Mudavadi said the President would pass for punishing Kenyans for daring to oppose an implosion of punitive tax. “He is taking with both hands and giving nothing back,” he said. Mudavadi said balancing the budget need not punish the poor.        