Tycoons from Mt Kenya region who have been meeting and financing anti- Deputy President William Ruto and sponsoring propaganda have reportedly given up. A mole tells Corridors that the businessmen and politicians who are opposed to Ruto succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta lost steam after it dawned on them that the DP is still popular with locals. A legislator from the region who has been leading the anti-Ruto campaigns is said to have sent emissaries to talk to the DP with a view to reconciling. ***** Was President Uhuru Kenyatta duped to destroy shells of the so-called counterfeit products? Corridors has learnt that most of the products impounded in the fake products raids that were destroyed on Saturday had been vandalized. For instance, it is said that most of the engines and other accessories in cars had been removed, leaving only bodies on display at the site. Similarly, the phones were empty shells without essential parts. Most of the valuables were “rescued” by the personnel that delivered the contraband goods to the destruction site and are now found in shops around Kitengela, Athi River and Mlolongo. ***** A senior official in the ministry of sports is the talk of town. Reason? The man is reported to be high handed and has been running his office like his own kitchen. Those in the know say the official who has refused to give audience to several chairpersons of sports federations is quite happy meeting slay queens in his office at the expense of developing sports in the country. Recently, the man is reported to have spent at least three hours charting with a young woman in his office as several directors in the ministry waited to meet with him. ***** Not all is well at a sacco in the aviation industry which is said to have lost Sh39 million in mysterious circumstances. Senior government officials are alleged to be protecting the management and members are wondering if DPP Noordin Haji and DCI George Kinoti could save them from the sharks who reportedly sunk another company in the sector. ***** Click
here for the latest political news 