Newly crowned world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge has cited teamwork as the secret behind his new world record set in Berlin on Sunday. “In sport you need to have a good team,” said the 33-year-old Kenyan. “That’s why, in terms of where I’m going to run next, I’m going to have a full discussion with the management, with the sponsors, technical team and coaching team. It’s part of the team where they hold me in their hands.” Speaking during a press conference, Kipchoge said before making any decision about his future racing, he has to consult this community. Kipchoge and his coach Patrick Sang, the latter himself with a distinguished track pedigree as an Olympic silver medallist in the steeplechase, have a partnership going back many years. Together they have created the path which took the then 18-year-old to the world 5000m title in Paris in 2003 to his current supremacy in the marathon. But the multi-faceted aspects of Kipchoge’s support team have taken time to develop. “It’s not a one-day event to bring together a good team,” says Kipchoge. “It takes ages, but I’m lucky to be working with Global Sports Communication and to be with people who think in a really positive way and we have come a long way together. “That’s why we have our teammates and we think together, we have a coaching system, management system, the sponsorship systems and, above all, we have the medical system whereby they handle us with massage and everything.” When asked about further improvements to his world record, Kipchoge responded that it was too soon to consider, having watched only the last few kilometres on television. “It’s too early to do that because it’s only a few hours since I ran the fastest time ever,” he said. “I don’t think it’s good to think about it—the core thing now is to make sure I recover fully.” He also said it is too early to consider competing in the marathon at the IAAF World Championships Doha 2019, but he doesn’t lose sight of the fact that he is the reigning Olympic champion as the Tokyo 2020 Games draws ever closer. If he is on the start line in Tokyo, his preparation for the race of races in the distance firmament will not differ from that for a big city race where finishing time as well as place are significant. “It’s about the gold medal but the preparation is the same—you should be comfortable with pacemakers and without pacemakers,” he says. “Tokyo seems far away but it’s at the back of my mind that I will really assemble myself in Tokyo. I am the Olympic champion and I feel like defending my title.”