Thirdway Alliance has made radical proposals to President Uhuru Kenyatta to tame the wage bill and avoid the imposition of eight per cent tax on petroleum products. The party has recommended abolition of Chief Administrative Secretary and county and regional commissioner positions and reduction of embassies abroad. It also called for the disposal of the presidential jet, drastic salary cuts in the public service and restructuring of recurrent expenditure. Party boss Ekuru Aukot said he was vehemently opposed to the eight per cent tax on fuel. Thirdway wants Uhuru to also scrap the building bridges task force formed after the March 9 handshake with Raila Odinga. “The offices, besides being unconstitutional, serve no meaningful purposes. Instead, they they continue to expend billions of taxpayers money with no value at all,” Aukot said in Nairobi. He was flanked by party officials. Read:High VAT shows state, lawmakers have failed us The position of CAS was created by Uhuru after the 2017 polls and was seen as a strategy to accommodate Jubilee campaign losers. Aukot said the abolition of the offices will save at least Sh5 billion annually. Third Way claimed there is no value for money for running most of the 55 Kenyan missions abroad. As such, the party recommended that the President reduces the embassies by half and appoint honorary consuls to head some missions. “We do not need a foreign mission in China as we are only their buying a trade partner. Their is no mutual benefit. We contend that we should maintain foreign missions that we have symbiotic trade relationships with,” Aukot said. “A mission abroad should be a market for our goods and services.” The party also wants Uhuru to dispose off the presidential jet as part of the drastic austerity measures. Aukot said the President can use the national carrier, Kenya Airways, as he recently did during his latest trip to China and the US. The party wants salaries of elected leaders reduced to tame the wage bill. It recommended that the President be paid nnot more than Sh500,000 inclusive of allowances. Uhuru’s current basic salary is fixed at Sh1,650,000 per month according to figures by the Salary and Remuneration Commission. Aukot also proposed that MPs earn an a salary of Sh300,000. The lawmakers’ salary is slightly over Sh1 million inclusive of allowances. Aukot also wants the the State to restrict expenditure on government seminars and meetings and completely abolish lavish forums in five star hotels. Aukot says Uhuru must also recover looted funds amounting to Sh647 billionsince 2013. Click here for the latest political news