Soy MP Caleb Kositany has written to the Speaker of National Assembly Justin Muturi proposing a Bill scrapping the Senate, Nominated MP, and MCA posts. In the letter seen by the Star on Wednesday, Kositany cites cost-cutting measures as the grounds for the changes. Kositany says he is crafting a Bill which will see the country save Sh3 billion annually once the positions, "which constitutes a heavy burden on the taxpayer", are done away with. "I wish to state that the objective of the Bill is to reduce the overall cost of representation of the public, reduce the wage bill and promote use of public funds." "This is, therefore, to request you to kindly authorise the legal services directorate to assists me in the formation of the bill," he avers in his letter. This is not the first a call is being made to scrap the Senate. Numerous past attempts were grounded on duplicate roles, high wage bill among others. Senators' major role is oversight the county government and to legislate matters pertaining to the operations of the 47 devolved units. On July 25, Cotu second assistant secretary Benson Okwaro asked government to scrap off the senate
and county assemblies. He said the move would save ordinary Kenyans from paying huge amount
of taxes, the same now expanded to included 16 per cent VAT on fuel. There is a proposal before the August House to have the new tax measures adjusted to bearable levels. Senators earn about Sh740,000 basic monthly salary; including allowances. The figure is slightly more than Sh1 million a month. In March 2017, former Senate speaker Ekwee Ethuro and Senators trashed
recommendations by a committee of the National Assembly to scrap the Senate. Ethuro
at that time suggested that it is the National Assembly that should be scraped as
it has more MPs. The National Assembly is currently made up of a
total of 349 MPs while the Senate has a total of 67 elected and
nominated senators. Read: Scrap seats to save cash, says Khaniri Also read: Senators abandon seats to go for MP, MCA and Governor Click here for the latest political news 