Collective investment in real estate offers Kenya a solution of bridging the huge affordable housing deficit, Infrastructure and Housing Cabinet secretary James Macharia said yesterday. He said Real Estate Investments Trusts (REITs) will help Kenya realise its housing agenda that seeks to put 200,000 units into the market annually. Macharia said this at the inaugural REITs conference that brought together at least 250 delegates to discuss investment opportunities, asset classes and pressing developments in the real estate sector in Kenya. ‘’The launch of REITs Association of Kenya’s annual conference is timely as it coming when the government is focused on closing the annual gap of 200,000 housing deficit across the country; through the 500,000 affordable housing programme,’’ Macharia said. He added that REITs brings a raft of new and regulated opportunities into the sector and diverse innovative programs that will be all inclusive, to allow small investors in Kenya to own property. REITs are regulated investment vehicles that enable collective investment in real estate, where investors pool their funds and invest in a trust with the intention of earning profits or income from real estate, as beneficiaries of the trust. They source funds to build or acquire real estate assets which they sell or rent to generate income. The income generated is then distributed to the shareholders at the end of a financial year. REITs Association of Kenya chairman Edward Kirathe thanked the government for developing framework for the establishment of REITs in Kenya. ‘’REITs will enable investors diversify income streams as well as grow through professional management and economies of scale that allow them to transcend individual circumstances in continuing to generate wealth,’’ Kirathe said. “The conference has created an opportunity for key players in the real estate sector to be apprised on the potential and opportunity presented by REITs as a viable investment vehicle through which local and international investors can tap into the booming real estate sector in Kenya,’’ NSE chief executive Geoffrey Odundo said. The Nairobi Securities Exchange in became the fourth African bourse to launch the Real Estate Investment Trust (REITs) market in what coincided with the opening of the Stanlib Fahari I-REIT public offer in October 2015. Although Stanlib Fahari was well received at the bourse, recording Sh108 million in profits for the year ended 2016; no other investor has joined the segment since then. Other countries that have REITs at their stock exchanges in Africa includes: Ghana, Nigeria and South Africa.