Some 3,903 graduands were on Friday awarded with degrees and diplomas during the 59th University of Nairobi graduation ceremony. As early as 6am, hordes of people were already gathered at the university's graduation square, loud and scuttling for a place to sit. The ceremony marked a hallmark in the graduands' lives as they revel their academic achievements. The university awarded 1 doctor of science degree, 70 PhDs, 402 masters, 2,845 bachelors, 14 postgraduate diplomas, and 571 diplomas. Notable personalities who were conferred included Samburu Senator Steven Lelegwe who graduated with a PhD in Project Management. Prof Julius Ogeng’o - a University of Nairobi Human Anatomy expert, received a Doctor of Science Degree Award (DSC). He joins the ranks of four other professors who have achieved the coveted feat since the establishment of the University of Nairobi. The well-polished graduands, seated under white tents that stretched about a 100 metres away, expressed confidence of style and manner. With faces drenched in make-up and smiles, making them resemble fairy tales from fictional works. Vehicles big small scrambled about parking space in the university vicinity while people walked in cliques some with striking resemblance that could easily give a family impression. Doctorate graduates wearing red gown while their masters, bachelors and diploma counterpart gloomed in black. Thanks to technology the students could not help but capture the last moments their last moments in campus. Summoning an air of confidence and authority, Education CS Amina Mohamed challenged the university to enhance their asset portfolio. The CS challenged UoN to harness its research assets and embark on studies that can be implemented to easily transform the economy. "On your part as universities, I expect to see significant growth in your Intellectual Property (IP) Portfolios – including growth in IP Assets and their commercialisation," Amina said. Despite the colorful ceremony, some graduands expressed fears as they move to compete for positions in the job market. Actuarial science graduate Ann Nyakio said she was sure if her degree will be a substantial asset or a drain on her parents finances. Outside the tents it was a different kind of business. People trying to make a dime from those attending the ceremony. The University, since its inception in 1956, has awarded degrees & diplomas to over 200,000 graduates. Click here for the latest political news