No police officer will be sacked in the ongoing reforms and restructuring, spokesman Charles Owino has said. Owino dismissed claims that more than 300 top officers are set to lose their jobs once the merger between Administration police and Kenya Police is effected. "Nobody is going to lose their job or their rank in the restructuring system. And as a matter of fact, no officer will be forcefully retired as a result," Owino said. Owino was speaking on NTV's morning show on Wednesday. He said only the officers who have attained the retirement age of 60 years will be served with a notice. "We do not force officers to retire. It is our norm to serve a notice of retirement a year earlier to officers who have attained the limit. And for your information every year between July and December there are so many officers that leave the service either after attaining the limit of self-volition to pursue other careers," he said. Read: 300 top cops to be axed in new changes Owino maintained that following the 2007/08 post election violence, recommendations had been made to have a reformed police service headed by an Inspector General. He said this followed by the formulation of the IPOA and National Police Service Commission. "Unfortunately the AP's and Kenya police did not reform but just names changed from a force to a service. They continued to undertake general duties which are parallel to each other," he said. This Owino said has resulted in a lot of conflicts in the command structure. "When people are accusing police of things like extra-judicial killing, we have had serious problems holding anyone to account due to the command structure with same ranks which has been confusing," he added. He said all AP posts have been merged to police stations and officers transferred to Kenya police. He added, "We are moving the police stations slightly inside to serve the people and coming up with bigger camps for APs for border patrol where we would have 200-300 officers with better equipment". President Uhuru Kenyatta earlier on defended the reforms saying they intend to transform the police from a force to a service that will integrate with the community in its service delivery. Read: {SPEECH} Changes aimed at streamlining police operations - Uhuru Click here for the latest political news   