The Registrar of Societies on Saturday cancelled elections of Njuri Ncheke council of elders amid fight by splinter groups. Former secretary general Phares Rutere and ex-chairman Paul M'thinkia have been opposed to September 22 election. The poll, which was to be presided over by Registrar General of Societies at Nchiru shrine, was to usher in a new leadership at the council. The cancellation was reached in order pave way for arbitration, peace and resolve differences between the two Njuri Ncheke factions. The election was called by the team led by current secretary general Josephat Murangiri and chairman Linus Kathera. Murangiri accused Rutere of escalating the woes affecting the once-revered council of elders. The latter had earlier told the Star that elections are not done at the shrine, saying it was equal to parliament. "Anybody saying they will meet at the shrine to elect leaders are violating the Njuri Ncheke constitution." "The legitimate council will not attend those alleged elections," Rutere said in an interview earlier this month. He accused the Registrar of Societies of being biased in the council's arbitration process. The Ameru Njuri Ncheke council of elders, Tharaka Nithi chapter, had also vowed not to take part in regional leadership elections. Their chairman Kang’ori M’Thaara said Kathera and Murangiri had polluted the shrine by allowing women in against the norm. Kang’ori called for the postponement of the polls by 21 days to allow them to purify the shrine. But Murangiri said the cancelled election was part of Rutere's agenda to cripple the council's unity bid. "There was no legal notice cancelling the meeting before we received the cancellation letter from the Attorney General." This was even as King'ori's team maintained that they will not allow a female officer from the Registrar of Societies into the shrine to oversee the elections. Njuri Ncheke Treasurer Simon Mukangu said only members of the council are allowed into the shrine and the officer can only send a representative who must be a member too. "We have no problem with the officer but we want her to also respect our norms as she discharges her duties," he said. The divisions in Njuri Ncheke arose after Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki was installed as an elder and the Ameru community spokesperson in 2015. Former Meru governor Peter Munya then spearheaded Murangiri's faction to hold elections. Since then, the two factions have been sending out contradicting statements on the council's leadership. More on this: History, roles and impact of the once-united council of elders Click here for the latest political news