Good Morning, It is another warm day around Kenya with a forecast of clear skies and sun across the day in most parts of the country ahead of the short rains season expected from next month. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star on a day when beleaguered Migori Governor Okoth Obado remains in the news for all the wrong reasons. The Star has seen court documents where the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission is pursuing a trail of transactions involving an intricate web of suspected proxy companies. EACC says that it is through these companies that Obado is believed to have siphoned billions of county funds to local and offshore accounts. According to the documents, Obado and his associates registered about 30 companies soon after he became governor through which they have pocketed Sh2.5 billion in “fictitious” contracts. The firms would be paid by the county for the “high value contracts” after which they would wire the money to Obado's accomplices, especially one Jared Peter Odoyo Oluoch Kwaga. Obado remanded as DPP explains case on Sharon's murder Obado appeared in court on Monday to face charges related to the murder of 26-year-old Sharon Otieno who was brutally murdered two weeks ago. He denied the charges and remanded to the Industrial Area Prison ahead of his bail hearing today. A distraught Melida Auma, Sharon's mother, cried bitterly in court as she came face to face with the Migori Governor. Auma sobbed into her hands looking up only briefly with tear-filled eyes. Two women sat next to her with a comforting hand on her shoulders. Obado was in court as early as 7 am. He is the first person to be charged with the murder of Sharon. Other suspects among them Micheal Juma Oyamo Caspal Obiero both said to be a personal assistant to the Governor will be charged on Wednesday. In a statement, the office of the DPP, DPP says persons featuring prominently in the matter were employees of the county government Others are close acquaintances of the Governor assigned to handle the matter carefully to avoid public ridicule and political backlash. Reclaim all islands grabbed by Idi Amin in 1971, Raila tells state In Kisumu, opposition leader Raila Odinga on Monday challenged the government to go after Lake Victoria Islands under the custody of  Uganda. Raila wants the islands, which he says were grabbed by former Ugandan President Idi Amin, to be reclaimed by the Kenyan government. He said Amin took Remba, Lolwe, Sigulu and Hama islands, which belonged to Kenya, in 1971. He said those living in those islands are Luos, Manyala and Samia. "The islands were in Kenya and were taken by Amin. We want them back," Raila said. Reject EPZ job, it's meant to silence you, Msando widow urged A lobby wants the widow of former ICT manager Chris Msando to decline a state appointment as a way of fighting for justice for his murdered husband. The ex-IEBC officer was tortured and slain just days to the August 8 vote. His widow, Eva Buyu, was appointed on Friday to the EPZ Authority Board. Yesterday, the Kenya Independent Candidates said Msando’s killers have not been brought to book and appointing her widow is "laughable and ridiculous". Standoff looms as MCAs vow to block Elachi After a month-long recess, Nairobi MCAs are back on Tuesday and have vowed to not let Speaker Beatrice Elachi conduct any business in the County Assembly. The defiant ward representatives have vowed to block speaker Beatrice Elachi from accessing her office and presiding over sessions. They said Elachi stands impeached and they would not allow her to set foot in the assembly precincts or “impose herself” on them. Elachi was impeached on September 6 for alleged gross misconduct and abuse of power. Why former REA boss is in trouble An internal Audit by the Rural Electrification Board has exposed blatant abuse of office and manipulation of tenders that have now put ex-CEO Nganga Munyu in trouble. Munyu who was kicked out by the board is now being pursued by the anti-graft agency and is set to be grilled by detectives on Friday. The report a copy of which the Star has seen accuses the former CEO of manipulating tenders, misleading the board and puts him on the spot for frequent failure of transformers. According to the audit, there was evidence of contractors who were awarded jobs yet they had not been prequalified. For more on these stories and others, keep browsing the Star website for the latest news making headlines across Kenya and around the world.  To get the Breakfast Briefing right into your inbox every morning, click here to register.