Plans to scrap 27 constituencies in the forthcoming boundary review are discriminatory and meant to deny minority rights to representation, an MP has said. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics is to carry out nationwide census next year. The IEBC will use the new figures to review boundaries before 2021. The law requires that such a process be conducted a year before the General Election. Some constituencies could be scrapped and new ones created. The Constitution caps the number of constituencies at 290, but the IEBC can alter the boundaries. Yesterday, Bura MP Ali Wario said representation is not just about numbers but must also take care of minority groups. He warned in Garissa town that residents will not accept to have their constituency scrapped. “As elected leaders, we shall use all means possible, including the courts and the Constitution, to ensure Bura is retained even if it doesn’t meet the population threshold,” he said. The lawmaker said Bura is home to more than 10 minority ethnic groups. Recently, Galole MP Said Hiribae said in Bura town that Galole and Bura will not be merged “come rain or come shine”. He urged residents to ensure they are enumerated during next year’s census to ensure they meet the population requirement. During the first review under the 2010 Constitution, some constituencies did not meet the required population size but were protected. They are Lamu East, Lamu West, Mvita, Mwatate, Wundanyi, Voi, Bura, Galole, Isiolo South, Kilome, Laisamis, North Horr, Saku, Siakago (now Mbeere North), Ndaragwa, Tetu, Murkurweini, Othaya and Kangema. Others are Mathioya, Samburu East, Marakwet East, Keiyo North, Mogotio, Vihiga and Budalang’i. During that review, the population threshold was set at 133,000 — a figure that is likely to go up given the expected population increase. For a constituency to maintain its status, its population must be greater or lesser than the quota by either 40 per cent for cities and sparsely populated areas or 30 per cent for others.