 PATH OF SELF-DESTRUCTION Jonah Kimaiyo, a confirmed alcoholic from my village,
abandoned his church-wedded wife and moved in with the woman who ran the local shebeen - if only to get close to his
favourite drink directly from the source. And she supplied it unreservedly. To
finance his habit, Jonah put his ancestral land on sale to finance his habit
and it was not long before his family was homeless. Former US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson famously
stated, “…China’s approach … encourages dependency using opaque contracts,
predatory loan practices and corrupt deals that mire nations in debt and
undercut their sovereignty denying them their long-term self-sustaining
growth.” Indeed, Sri Lanka has lost its Hambatota port, which
it constructed using a facility from China. It soon discovered it could not
finance its loan and it now belongs to China for 99 years. Closer home, we have
Djibouti, which is about to lose its port due to toxic debt. The Maldives and also Pakistan are mired in Chinese
debts and may not be smiling for long. Also in deep trouble is Montenegro, the
tiny Eastern-European nation, which took in Chinese loans to build a highway
and it is having trouble repaying it. In Djibouti, China now has a military
base and due to its debt, there is talk of a Chinese company taking over the running
of the port. Our Lamu Port could just go the same way.  DESTROYING AFRICA If you have watched Prof Ali Mazrui’s epic documentary
‘Africa- A Triple Heritage’, you will probably remember his great analogy of how
European colonialism destroyed Africa’s ability to make its own things. He gives
the example of the Balunda, the Baluba and the Basanga people of what is today
the DR Congo, who used clay produced by termites to smelt copper from which
they made all manner of farming implements, weaponry and even decorations and
money. The coming of Western imperialism through predatory capitalism and appropriation
of resources killed local industries. Mazrui says, “…and then the Europeans came. Did they want to learn from the
technology they found here? Oh no! At least the Baluba and the Balunda had
consulted the technology of the termites and benefited from it. But European
technology was more arrogant more self-confident and less compromising. It
abolished the old technological order and in its wake it left new forms of
desolation in Africa.” Closer home, it was in Britain’s interest that we
bought a jembe forged in Birmingham rather than to make one here. China is today
the biggest producer of iron implements, sold so cheaply thereby robbing
Africans of their incentive to make them. We, like the tame lion, cannot hunt
anymore. Today, you cannot produce anything in Kenya which the
Chinese don’t already make, or make better and cheaper. The balance of trade is
heavily in their favour. Then they will happily extend loans to develop the
infrastructure that will make it easier for their goods to come, and which will
also increase the efficiency at which Africa’s resources will get to China. This is at least the spirit behind the famous Belt and
Road Initiative. China is resource hungry while Africa is resource rich. Yet
even then, Africa is making little progress in poverty eradication, despite being
arguably the world’s richest continent by resources. Chinese concerns are busy around
appropriative industries, which further perpetuates the phenomenon that Mazrui
had observed in 1986 when he asked rhetorically, “And yet the digging
continues: Dig, Dig, Dig, is it for wealth? Or is it for the collective burial
of a people?” If Prof Mazrui were to comment on this, he may have asked if the
‘Belt’ was meant to collectively bind a people.  CHINA’S PATH TO MODERNITY It was not an easy path for China to get where it is. Until
the turn of the 20th century, China was under the firm grip of
feudal lords and dynastic imperial rulers who were out of touch with the needs
of the people. Then the revolution of 1911 happened and the Emperor was
overthrown and modern China was born. Ideological differences plunged the young
nation into conflict and the vagaries of both wars had a devastating effect on
the nation. But in 1949, Mao Zedong triumphed over Chiang Kai-shek and ushered
in a Socialist revolution that emphasized on self-reliance. By this time, China
was backward, poor and hungry. I dare say that Kenya, under colonial rule, was
doing much better than China at this time. Chairman Mao got to work, and
redistributed land and socialised agriculture. He created cooperatives and
collectivised production and all private property. He also embarked on
ambitious industrialisation projects and to enhance localised industrialisation,
ordered that each of the collectives produce steel under a programme designed
to ‘overtake England and catch up with America.’ Every metal item was smelted albeit
crudely and even though the product was not of much use, they were learning
something. After much fumbling, they began to get it right. Industrialising
China was now a bottom-up approach and soon they were producing goods at very
low costs, which were exported. In between these developments were grave policy
errors and mistakes that cost lots of suffering.  The long story short, China was soon making
everything the world could use and exports began to make the country rich. The
cost of production was also very low; soon every international producer was
trooping in to China to set up production plants further aiding its growth.  CHINA TODAY Today China is effectively the world’s largest economy
by any standard and it is standing at the cusp of being the global superpower its
founders dreamt it would be. If it began its grand march in 1949, then it will
also take the record of having developed in a much shorter period than what it
took its rivals in the West — America, Britain, Germany and France — to get to
where they are. Today it is awash with cash and lots more to spare and which it
is ‘investing’ in Africa entering a continent the Western powers were turning
its back to. Most of the infrastructural development is carried out
by Chinese firms using Chinese capital, equipment and to some level, labour.
One of the major criticism of this approach is that little, if any, technological
transfer is taking place and this perpetuates not just technological but
financial dependency. China prefers to work with its own firms and banks to
execute projects rather than do so with local firms or even banks. During the
Beijing 2018 Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, Chinese leader Xi
Jinping announced a $60 billion package for Africa and stated that 25 per cent
of the amount will be interest free. He immediately came under international
criticism for exacerbating Africa’s indebtedness and slowly edging it into a
debt abyss that it may not leave. If you are a parent, you know that if you give children
everything they want, they will never make much of themselves. They will
continue on the path of dependency through their lives and you better be there
for them until they grow old. No matter how much money you have, it is always a
good idea to make children go to work and earn their keep. Photos of US
President Barack Obama’s daughter, Sasha, working at a fast-food restaurant,
did the rounds on social media sometime back. This is despite her coming from
an extremely wealthy family. No matter how much money you have, your children,
brothers and sisters, must go to work. And they should not be choosy. Supervise
them and let them do mistakes until they get it right. China is Africa’s big
brother who became wealthy. And he prefers to reduce Africa’s capacity to work
by giving them easy money. None of the Chinese loans are helping say in import
substitution. We will still buy clothing pegs from China and we will never make
them locally.  CHINA’S FOREIGN POLICY Even though it firmly believes in non-interference in
foreign matters, its desire for global dominance is undeniable. It realises
that to drive up global dominance, it must secure raw materials for its
resource-thirsty industries and maximise its wealth. Towards this, China is
building global infrastructure in order to ease the flow of resources (raw
materials) to itself and finished products to the rest of the world. This
informed the formation of the One Road One Belt initiative better known as the
Belt and Road Initiative. Although it is recent in formulation, the BRI is only
building on longtime Chinese development strategy. It offers many nations
money, asking very few questions in sharp contrast to the more stringent World
Bank and IMF conditionality-laden lending. It soon became the darling of debt-dependent
nations including Kenya, which quickly gained an appetite for Chinese loans. To
be fair, the Chinese do offer conditions, like special taxes for our SGR and in
some cases, rather absurd ones.  ABSURD CONDITIONS For instance, you must never recognise Taiwan as a
nation except as a (renegade) province of China. You must also make sure that
the Dalai Lama does not ever set foot on your soil. Kenya very quickly obliged to
these conditions even denying the Dalai Lama a chance to visit the Maasai Mara
on holiday in 2007. In fact, the ease of accepting such drivel conditions is in
itself a measure of our dependency on Chinese goodies. No nation on earth should be told who to allow as a
visitor or have diplomatic ties with. America is notorious for denying others association
with her foes (such as Cuba or Iran) but if we insist (like when we imported
doctors from Cuba), they will not really mind. Kenya for instance cannot import
Taiwanese doctors without risking a major spat with Beijing. This is despite
Taiwan having engaged with Africa for a very long time. As we speak, only the
Kingdom of eSwatini (formerly known as Swaziland) is Taiwan’s only friend in
Africa. It is hosts Taiwan’s only diplomatic footprint on the continent and
needless to say, King Mswati III was not invited to Beijing.