Spanish artist Pablo Picasso is credited with inventing
the art form known as Cubism in the early 1900s, as a challenge to realism art.
In this abstract style of painting, typified by lines, angles and geometric
shapes, Picasso was influenced by African art, especially masks and wood sculptures
from West and Central Africa. Over 100 years later, Kenyan sculptor Robin Mbera
is on a mission to return Cubism to Africa. A collection of his stone carvings
is on exhibit at the Nairobi National Museum in a show called Afro-Cubism Journey #1. By carving three-dimensional objects, Mbera is returning to the original form that inspired
Picasso, and he has deliberately named his creations Afro Cubism to remind us of
the artistic roots. The abstract sculptures are made from locally sourced silicate
stone, which Mbera sculpts with power tools. Only the piece New Year’s Celebration is hand-carved from Kisii soapstone. The
figures are mostly black and dark grey, while few are coloured in a kind of red
ochre dye. They have angles, straight lines, spherical shapes and
some etchings. The surfaces are glossy or have a matt finish, and all the
carvings are viewable from any side. On closer inspection you can see the
natural patterns of the stones, such as dots, splotches and curvy lines. For five years, Mbera worked solely on this project, and
the 26 medium-size sculptures are uniquely different from the art you see
locally. His work speaks of modern everyday
experiences, cultural life, relationships and the natural world. Breadwinner is
an angular, abstract piece about fathers, who are the providers of the family. The
straight lines and jutting parts tell of the father’s stabilising role and the
burdens he carries. In Brothers you
can make out the heads and tangled bodies of fraternal brothers supporting each
other. A slender grey piece with a touch of earth brown is called Elephant Probiscidean. In the elephant, Mbera
sees the harmonious working of the trunk, ears, big body and legs as a metaphor
for human co-existence. Mbera, 36, is based in Tabaka, Kisii county, an area
famous for traditional stone carvings and contemporary artwork. Although he was
mentored by skilled stone artists such as Elkana Ong’esa, Mbera has had no
formal art training and is mostly self-taught. He describes his approach as a
“physical, hands-on research of stone”. The entire collection belongs to Kenyan businessman and
art collector Mutuma Marangu, who has a particular interest in sculpted works.
He describes himself as a rigorous intellectual, who likes to see people succeed
in whatever medium they choose. Marangu collaborated with Mbera on this project from the
beginning, working intentionally to create sculptures that projected a
“continuity of ideals and ideas over many years”. He hopes that Afro-Cubism will have a lasting,
positive impact on the Kenyan and African sculpture arena. Mbera is working on the next set of sculptures that will
form Afro Cubism Journey #2. The Afro Cubism #1 continues at Nairobi
Museum until September 30.