The owner of the Airgate Centre, formerly known as Taj Mall, claims he lost items worth Sh3 million to looters on Saturday. This even as the demolition of the building – valued at about Sh7.2 billion – continued under tight security. According to Julius Wanjau, the officer in charge of the operation, it will take the team between 10 and 14 days to completely flatten the multi-storey building. It is being pulled down by the Nairobi regeneration team for standing on a road reserve. Ramesh Gorasia said that rowdy youth broke into his Rams supermarket and looted items. Other valuable items were also destroyed. “We are still doing stock-taking before we come up with the exact figure but it is somewhere between Sh2.5million and Sh3 million,” Gorasia said. On Saturday, the rowdy youths overwhelmed the police officers and broke into the building. They stole metal wires and other items that they came across. This forced the officers to fire teargas and live shots in the air to disperse them. But Gorasia said that the youths broke into the building again on Saturday night when the supermarket items were being loaded into a truck and stole more valuables. Wanjau said the officers will protect the site 24/7 until the exercise is completed. Gorasia claimed that the structure which was built in 2008 and launched in 2011 by the then vice president Kalonzo Musyoka was last month valued at Sh7.2 billion by a valuation firm – Redfern. “I am yet to clear the $5 million (Sh500 million) loan I took to build this mall. I have lost more than Sh3 billion since KURA gave me the first letter telling me that this building is on a road reserve,” he said. He also lamented the government to demolish the entire building despite the National Land Commission having only revoked a title of part – 1.75 acres – of the of the 3.75-acre plot where it stands. The suspended NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri had in 2015 said that the government compulsory acquired the 1.75 acre piece in the 1960s for the future expansion of Outering Road and North Airport Road. Kura has said the building has encroached the road reserve and has hindered the completion of the expansion of Outering Road. The authority was forced to change the design of the road but there was still no enough space for construction of service lane. This has made vehicles to terminate on the overpass causing heaving traffic jam on the busy 13km road. Airgate Mall became the fourth high-end building to be pulled down in the operation targeting structures on riparian and road reserves. Southend Mall on Langata road, Ukay Centre and part of Oshwal Centre in Westlands have all been brought down.