Indian Prime Minister
Narendra Modi faced calls for his resignation over allegations
of corruption in a military jet deal with France after former
French president Francois Hollande was quoted as saying New
Delhi had influenced the choice of a local partner. Indian political parties have been gunning for Modi over the
2016 purchase of 36 Rafale planes from Dassault Aviation
estimated to be worth $8.7 billion, saying he had
overpaid for the planes and had not been transparent. In recent months, the opposition has questioned the
government on the choice of billionaire Indian businessman Anil
Ambani's Reliance Defence as Dassault's local partner instead of
a state-run manufacturer with decades of experience. On Friday, Hollande, who cleared the intergovernmental deal
when he was in office, was quoted as saying New Delhi had put
pressure on Dassault to choose Reliance. "We had no choice. We took the interlocutor that was given
to us," he was reported as telling the French news service
Mediapart, fuelling a political storm in India. Under Indian defence procurement rules, a foreign firm must
invest at least 30 percent of the contract in India to help it
build up its manufacturing base and wean off imports. For that, the French firm picked Reliance and not Hindustan
Aeronautics Limited, the state-run giant that has been
producing planes for decades, most of them Russian under
licence. "The PM personally negotiated and changed the Rafale deal
behind closed doors. Thanks to François Hollande, we now know he
personally delivered a deal worth billions of dollars to ...Anil
Ambani," Rahul Gandhi, the president of the main opposition
Congress party, said in a tweet. "The PM has betrayed India." Modi, who stormed to power in 2014 promising to rid India of
deep-seated corruption, had no "moral right" to remain in power
after the revelations from Hollande, senior Congress leader
Anand Sharma said. Smaller parties also joined the attack on Modi who is
already under pressure to shore up his political base ahead of a
series of state elections this year followed by a national
election in 2019. Modi's office did not respond to a request for comment. The
defence ministry said in a tweet that neither the French nor
Indian government had had a say in the matter. "The report referring to fmr French president Mr. Hollande's
statement that GoI (government of India) insisted upon a
particular firm as offset partner for the Dassault Aviation in
Rafale is being verified. "It is reiterated that neither GoI nor French Govt had any
say in the commercial decision." Reliance did not immediately respond to a request for
comment. Dassault denied the report, saying it had picked
Reliance as a partner for industrial reasons. "This is Dassault Aviation's choice, as (Dassault) CEO Eric
Trappier explained in an interview published in MINT newspaper
on April 17," the company, which also makes Falcon business
planes, said in a statement. "Dassault Aviation and Reliance have built a plant in Nagpur
for manufacturing parts for Falcon and Rafale aircraft. The
Nagpur site was chosen because of the availability of land with
direct access to an airport runway, an essential condition (for)
aeronautic activities." The French foreign ministry published a statement saying
French authorities were not involved in the choice of Indian
industrial partners involved in the Rafale deal. "The French government is in no way involved in the choice
of the Indian industrial partners which have been, are or will
be, chosen by French companies," the statement said. "In accordance with the Indian procedure, French companies
have full freedom to choose the Indian industrial partners they
consider to be most pertinent and then to propose to the Indian
government for approval the offset projects they want to carry
out in India with local partners to respect their obligations,"
it added. The deal with Dassault was expected to deepen strategic ties
with France and the company itself has hoped it would lead to a
larger order for combat jets that the Indian air force says it
needs to face a perceived twin threat from China and Pakistan. India picked the Rafale plane to replace its ageing fleet of
Russian aircraft from a field that included Lockheed Martin
's F-16, Saab's Gripen, the Eurofighter
Typhoon, Boeing's F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and the Russian
MiG-35. Click here for the latest political news