The parameters
of such arrangements are more transactional and border on practices of the
underworld. These arrangements are normally presented as love relationships,
yet they are incepted more as black market economic enterprises. The men are mostly
in marriages and of high-standing in society. They are
businessmen, artists and political and religious leaders. The women are mostly
single and either students, in early career ladder or upstarting business
ladies. The men seek out these young women to access unexploited youthful
sexual fantasies. In pursuit of these young lases, the men offer unrealistic
promises, with no intention of fulfilling all. What is known but rarely
discussed is the economic aspect of these sexual relationships. The women seek
out the older and established men not for love but economic progress and good
life while at it. College girls are in it to get marks, cash for upkeep and
possibly start life after studies on a high note. Career ladies seek to
influence their upward mobility using the influence of their partners now known
in common parlance as sponsors. While
those in business use this influence for opportunities to boost their turnover
through capitalization and sales. The slay queen is the latest variant of
women in commercial sex as business. It is the sophisticated and modern version
of prostitution. For long, prostitution has been regarded as the oldest trade.
However, if looked at critically it would be established that the culture of
slay queen is as old as that of prostitution. Cleopatra had used her charm and
sexual appeal on Julius Caesar and Mark Antony to gain power, while in the
Bible, Bathsheba pushed David to anoint her son Solomon successor while still a
toddler. In these
instances as is the current state of slay
queen culture, the women in question deployed the allure of their
curvaceous bodies. They used this to gain political and material favours
instead of working their way up the ladder of power. As if taking cue from the
ladies of old yore, prostitution has morphed into thrifty business. The ladies
discovered that lining up along the red streets was not sustainable as age soon
caught up with them. It was thus extremely important to make as much hay as
possible while the curves lasted. In came the socialite; the girl who would spend time trimming and priming her
body for display. The display of such toned and tanned bodies would come at
premium costs.  The process of making the
bodies pieces of sexual attraction involved delicate and sometimes painful surgical
procedures. It is premised on the theme of combining the slender mzungu figure at the top with a
generously well-endowed lower parts of the body, the African style. The slay queen is the hustler socialite. While the socialite considers herself high class
and sophisticated, the slay queen is
thrifty but both make money from their bodies. What is not
publicly acknowledged is the correlation of this emerging amoral business with
the management of the economy. At the turn of the 21st century,
Kenya has witnessed exponential growth in graft. In tandem, the underworld
business enterprises have thrived and fed into corruption channels. Theft of
public resources reached crescendo during the inaugural term of devolution.
Suddenly, there was immense wealth at the local level without requisite vision
and skills to manage the devolved government. Pilferage and outright theft
became the order of the day. Corruption was
practiced with reckless abandon at both the national and county levels. The
women who wanted quick riches, easy career progression and opulent lifestyle
targeted the government honchos. The business cartels locally referred to as tenderpreneurs were not spared either. The
symbiotic relationship between the tenderpreneurs
and power barons created an open ended opportunity for pilferage. Funds would
now flow freely from the public coffers to private pockets. The rate of flow of
funds was higher than the capacity to absorb in terms of expenditure. This therefore
created an overflow known in economics as excess liquidity. The national and
county officials lacked the necessary capacity and willful commitment to public
good. Yet there was abundance of resources to support public service delivery. This
was thus fertile ground for devious minds to exploit the loopholes. They
developed networks of phony companies to supply imaginary services and goods to
the government. Their payments were processed in record time and most of the
time without regard to due procedure. The slay
queens came in handy. They would be registered as owners of companies they
had no idea of so as conceal trails of payments. In exchange, they would get
portions of the funds wired through their accounts. Further, they would also
provide sexual escapades and company for entertainment during the many
exclusive parties. The parties would be organised in high end estates where it
is alleged drugs are consumed in excess to provide cover the binge. Some became
smart and also brought in their personal companies and demanded fictitious
orders. In addition to processing the sponsors’
orders, they got also some in their names. Since the women
engage in illicit but luscious sexual relationship, blackmail has been
introduced into the game. Government officials, business leaders and to some
extent the clergy have found themselves intricately entangled in this web. They
need graft to finance their opulent lifestyle and yet cannot disengage from the
pioneer conduits. New entrants are recruited regularly and inducted into the
game. The women trick the sponsors into compromising outings where they record
the happy happenings for future use. The recordings would be useful for
blackmail to leverage in government business. They could also be used for
extortion or in some cases both. The sponsors
are highly placed and, therefore, allow to be deluded by power and influence.
Most of the time, they throw caution to the wind and later regret the
consequences of their relationships. Many have been cited for child neglect and
compelled by courts to support their former slay
queens, while others have cooled their heels in the correctional facilities
for corruption-related offenses. Corruption has thus helped develop the culture
of slay queen into a thriving
underground business enterprise. The relationship
between corruption and the culture of slay queen has promoted strong desire for
easy, extravagant and exhibitionist lifestyle. It has helped thrust young women
into the murky world of corruption and Mafiosi. The women in
this league have learnt the ropes and some have mastered the modus operandi.
The recent events in Kenya’s fight against grand corruption exposed the extent
of women’s role in graft. Previously corruption was treated as a men only game
and no woman was ever suspected of economic crimes. However, since the NYS I
and II scams, the nation witnessed in shock the number and ages of women
involved in the plundering of public resources. The women charged with economic
crimes had traits in common. They were young with questionable educational
background, but rare courage to execute mega deals. They had quickly amassed
material possessions in unexplained circumstances. They had excess makeup and
had no qualms exposing their ignorance. They flaunted their bodies in a manner
of cat-walk display. They lived large and frowned upon those who dare
questioned their source of wealth. In the mix are
college students who consider their education and training as insignificant to
their life success. In one way or the other, they were linked to powerful
individuals in high places. The bond between them and the power men was more of
sexual than business nature. On occasions disagreements have arisen between the
sponsor and the slay queen on the implementation of the relationship. Since the
relationships are governed by underworld business rules, elimination becomes
inevitable. Cases of gruesome murders have been linked to these corruption-fueled
relationships. Many of these are never reported, and disappear without public
and police scrutiny. There are many cases of women killed in unclear
circumstances. Many men have died in strange circumstances suspected to have
involved consumption of libido enhancing drugs. Meanwhile, the complex web of
corruption and economic sex continues to grow.