The ongoing war on corruption is not targetting any community, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto on Saturday said that individuals implicated in corruption dealings will be treated in accordance with the law. He spoke during the official opening of the 29th edition of the Maralal International Camel Derby, 2018, in Maralal town. The event was themed "Celebrating our unity in cultural diversity through sports, tourism and community conservation." Ruto was responding to concerns by Samburu leaders who claimed Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe was being framed. More on this: Samburu MPs in push for state to drop charges against PS Lesiyampe The PS, who hails from Samburu, is facing charges related to the Sh6 billion scam at the National Cereals and Produce Board. Ruto told the leaders, among them Governor Moses Lenolkulal, that the law was clear on how the state should deal with corruption. He said the ongoing crackdown is a national endeavour to eliminate wastage of public resources. "No one who is innocent will be treated unfairly. Everybody will be given a fair hearing and a fair treatment." Ruto asked leaders to support the government in the war against the vice. He said the Tourism ministry would from next year be involved in the planning of the Maralal International Camel Derby to make it more attractive. The DP lauded the role played by the annual event in promoting tourism and peaceful coexistence among communities living in the Kerio Valley. He said more efforts would be put to make the event more attractive to both local and international tourists. "I will be among those who will take part in next year’s camel competition." Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Mandera Governor Ali Roba, MPs Naisula Lesuuda (Samburu West), Alois Lentomoiga (Samburu North), Jackson Lentoi, (Samburu East), and Maison Leshoomo (Woman Rep) were present. Also present were Steve Lelegwe (Senator), Rehema Jaldessa (Woman Rep, Isiolo), and Francis Chachu (North Horr). The Deputy President said the government will spend Sh1.5 billion in the construction of Yamu and Wamba dams to solve water supply challenges in the county. Click here for the latest political news 