At least 1,000 constables are expected to be recruited in November as the Nairobi government seeks to improve services. The constables, who will be trained next month, will be responsible for traffic management and enforcing laws within the city. Then Devolution executive Vesca Kagongo said the county government has partnered with the National Police Service to ensure the constables are vetted for technical skills in security and disaster management. Kangogo was on Tuesday suspended indefinitely by governor Mike Sonko for insubordination following the Pumwani hospital dead babies issue. “Currently, we have at least 1,000 traffic constables but they are not enough. CBD alone requires 500 constables and they are still short of officers as they are required to work in shifts. You cannot have one person manage a stage for almost eight hours,” Kangogo said. She said the county government enforcement portfolio is to have 3,500 constables but currently, Nairobi has around 2,500 out of which most are set to retire in the next one or two years. Kangogo said the county will have to recruit more staff to be able to offer quality services as 731 county staff are expected to retire by the end of this financial year. equity “We agreed to decentralise all our services. Our plan is to be able to offer services to Nairobians at the lowest possible level, which will not require people to come all the way to City Hall just to get plan approvals and pay for business permits,” she said. “This means that at the ward level, there should be more of our staffs who can assist city dwellers to access our services.” Kangogo did not reveal the exact number of people expected to employed by the county government, but said it is expected that the number will be higher than the 731 who will retire. In the health sector, 253 employees have already retired and those are the positions which need to be urgently filled. “So very soon we are going to advertise for various positions to exercise equity in how we absorb people into public service. By doing so we will be giving a chance for people to competitively apply for these positions,” Kangogo said. “The county has only 36 technical civil engineers, but considering the government’s plans to improve works on the roads and infrastructure department, there will be need to hire more engineers.”  