Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi is among senior politicians whose land ownership documents have been revoked by the National Land Commission. The NLC cancelled the title granted in his favour and returned the parcel to Kakamega Golf Course and Club. The commission has revoked hundreds of public land titles that had been issued irregularly and upheld others after verification. In a Gazette notice, it directed the chief land registrar to effect the changes. According to the property listed, more than 100 titles belonging to the prisons department were nullified. Ownership documents for parcels in Kisumu, Kisii, Kilifi and Mombasa were also cancelled in the latest crackdown on landgrabbing. Read: NLC revokes 100 titles, returns land to county However, in land tussle between the Embassy of Rwanda and Mombasa county, the embassy won after the NLC upheld its Dongo Kundu title deed. Nairobi county was also one of the biggest beneficiaries after some 102 parcels acquired irregularly were returned. They include a plot that had Mulu Mutisya as an interested party. Karura Forest is the biggest a gainer after 150 title deeds were revoked. The parcels that had been illegally registered under several companies will be returned to the Kenya Forest Service. Kasarani’s Mwiki Welfare Association, Umagara Wiyonere Company Limited and Mwana Mukia Company were allowed to retain the title for a parcel. A portion of the plot will be allocated for a social centre to be held in trust by the Nairobi government for Mwiki residents. Another allocation of a Kasarani parcel will be revoked and the Treasury PS will hold its document in trust for the secondary school on site. Parties in the contested parcels include Kasarani MP John Njoroge. The East Africa School of Aviation (Kenya Civil Aviation Authority) also got back its land in the city. Lavington Primary School was one of the winners after a title held by Kensom Holdings Ltd was revoked. Road reserves have been returned to the Kenya National Highways Authority. More than 100 titles were revoked. In Fedha and along Manyanja road, Nairobi, several title deeds will be regularised. They will, however, forfeit seven metres for transport corridor. A title being held by Dubai Bank has been revoked as the land was vested in the South Eastern Kenya University through Legal Notice No.102 of 2008. In Uasin Gishu, a title held by Daniel Busienei has been revoked and the forestland reverted to the KFS. Kiambu county has also benefitted after more than 90 title deeds of illegally acquired land was cancelled. The Ruiru Sports Club’s land whose title had been issued to Samuel Kimondo Theuri was also declared illegal. More: Uhuru tells NLC to revoke Kibarani dump title deed, return parcel to county for park Click here for
the latest political news