Wilson Sossion will continue to serve at the secretary general of the Kenya National Union of Teachers following an agreement with TSC and the Registrar of Trade Unions. Sossion had been asked to step down from his position after the registrar argued that he is an MP and should not hold another public position. Sossion moved to court to block his removal. But an agreement between the three parties resolved to have Sossion retained. The parties appeared before Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Maureen Onyango and withdrew the suit filed by Sossion. “Upon hearing all the lawyers, I order that this case is marked as withdrawn with costs to the Registrar of Trade Unions and Teachers Service Commission in the sum of Sh100,000 each,” Onyango said on Friday. Read: Sossion, Milemba fired by TSC for joining politics Sossion had also sued Hesbon Otieno who had replaced him at the union when he was suspended. He was replaced by Otieno following a National Executive Council meeting during which 22 members voted for a motion to discuss his conduct. Only two members voted against the motion. Sossion said the motion to suspend him as secretary general was illegally and irregularly passed. On the same day, Sossion claimed that at a subsequent meeting of the National Advisory Council, the decision to suspend him was quashed. He said the suspension was declared illegal and that the council resolved he retains his position as well as that of nominated MP. “Despite the decision of a national advisory council quashing the unlawful motion, Otieno has purported to hold himself out and he is reportedly acting as the secretary general,” Sossion said. The MP had in May forgiven those who tried to remove him from his position. He made the announcement after he got a court order that temporarily reinstated him. “I was not suspended as SG. The move was mere politics of wishful thinking,” Sossion said. Read:I will not resign from KNUT, Sossion says in response to vacate notice Click here for
the latest political news