Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier has cleared the air on the controversial sale of Ugandan defender Godfrey Walusimbi to South African-based Kaizer Chiefs. Rachier quashed claims that he single-handedly cashed Walusimbi and pocketed the proceeds approximated at Sh7-12 million which were supposed to be wired to the club’s official accounts. K’ogalo parted ways with the talented left-back early in August after mysteriously signing for Kaizer amid accusations that they had unprofessionally tapped him. Gor were reported to be interested in launching a complain with Fifa for player tapping but later the two clubs began negotiations which saw Walusimbi pen a contract with Kaizer. His unanticipated switch to South Africa has divided the club’s executive committee with some claiming that Rachier acted as the agent to the player and received the money in his account. The long serving chairman, who has been out of the country, denied acting as the player’s agent and receiving the money through a “fake” account which is contrary to the International Transfers Matching Systems (ITMS) statues. He retaliated to the claims divulged and shared widely on social media by a vocal member of his committee and fans by saying that Kiazer had not wired a single cent to their account thus far but remained hopeful the money will be wired in a month’s time. Rachier minced no words to the perpetrators of the unsubstantiated claims and challenged them to contact Kaizer to ascertain whether they had remitted money to Gor. In a strongly worded statement, Rachier said: "It was a term of the agreement that the agreed sum would be paid to the Gor Mahia Football Club account in two installments, the first in August 2018 and the second in January 2019." "Despite the allegations of the misguided and disgruntled louts that these funds have been remitted and defalcated by certain officials and the perceived agents in their figments of imagination. "I categorically state here and now that not a single rand or penny has been paid to the club or to the officials of the club or alleged agent at all." He added: "The global village that our world is today, I challenge the demagogues and prophets of doom to call Kaizer Chiefs on +2711941-1465 or enquire by email info@kaizerchiefs.com to establish the veracity of what I have stated. I am not Walusimbi’s agent but I am confident we will receive the money in four to six weeks time." Click here for the latest political news