A teacher is Thika is distressed following complications occasioned by a piece of gauze bandage left in her womb by gynecologist at a prestigious private hospital in Nairobi. Jane Kageni Mureithi, 49, - a deputy principal of a school in Meru, said the 10-cm gauze bandage was left during an operation to remove fibroids. She was seen at the said hospital on August 26. The 10cm gauze bandage was removed in another operation at a Nairobi hospital after it had started decomposing, causing her a blood infection and clots. The teacher is currently recuperating at her Thika home after the second operation. She said life has been tough on her side for the past two months. "I cannot sit down, sleep or eat. I have to take strong painkillers to remain sane for even a few minutes," Kageni told the Star at her home on Friday. She lamented that the situation has reduced her to a pale shadow of her former self since she now "depends on her husband for practically everything". The distraught mother of three said it was regrettable that the hospital has not followed up on her case and yet they spent over Sh400,000 in the botched operation. "My husband followed up with the hospital through matron who only gave a flimsy excuse that the gynecologist had serious domestic issues at the time of the botched operation." Kageni says she sought alternative advice after nine days of excruciating pain and serious chest complications. The doctor, after carrying out several scans, found the decomposed gauze in her womb. "I was admitted in the hospital for over five days and had to part with an extra Sh450,000," the teacher said. Doctors reports showed the woman is under very strong drugs to fight the blood infection and to diffuse the clots that are lodged in her lungs.  Jane Kageni recuperating at her Thika home after the gauze bandage was removed from her womb at a Nairobi hospital. /JAMES WAINAINA Her husband Mureithi Kaara said their life has totally stalled as his wife requires constant care and he has had to stop going to work to attend to her. "My wife has only survived by the grace of God. We are hoping after the current treatment, the subsequent complications will be dealt with," he said. Kaara said doctors must at all times recognise that they are dealing with human lives and be careful with how they perform operations. The hospital's matron, a Wambui Kariuki, said that they were not competent enough to handle the matter in the press. She confirmed that they had talked to the family and were willing to engage them after consulting their legal department on the matter. Click here for the latest political news 