Parliament has kicked-off a process to radically reform the IEBC and eliminate two centres of power blamed for the vicious infighting that has nearly crippled it. Details of the planned restructuring coincided with the conclusion of an internal audit ordered by chairman Wafula Chebukati that has indicted, among others, CEO Ezra Chiloba. The audit is likely to escalate the fights in the trouble-ridden commission. It is seen as a killer punch by Chebukati against Chiloba after months of nasty feuds sparked by the management of the August 8, 2017 General Election. Uhuru's dilemma on fuel tax as Kenya waits to hear from IMF The government is between a rock and hard place over the implementation of the 16 per cent Value Added Tax on fuel. On one hand it is grappling with public outrage over the tax while on the other it not only risks losing a Sh150 billion IMF loan facility but the Sh5.7 billion it expects to raise monthly from the tax too. The IMF will be calling in less than 10 days with good or bad news on whether Kenya can access the loan aimed at cushioning our foreign exchange reserves. Phone records link senior judge to counterfeit currency syndicate Investigators from the National Intelligence Service are trying to piece together a case linking a senior judge to a counterfeit currency syndicate. A team from the Transnational Organised Crime Unit and the police arrested  Arafat Omar, alias Omar Rashid  (a Kenyan), and Fidel Ako (a Ghanaian) on Monday and yesterday, respectively. The two were also charged. Police were allowed to continue interrogating  Omar. Ako, who was charged with various offences, including money laundering, was released on  Sh200,000 cash bail. There are valid deportation orders against Ako. Speculation as Raila meets Peter Kenneth Opposition leader Raila Odinga has reiterated the need to find a solution to the 16 per cent VAT on petroleum products. Raila yesterday said the government should balance between protecting vulnerable Kenyans and raising revenue. He spoke after a meeting with former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth at his Capitol Hill office, sparking speculation on whether they reached an election deal. Cross-country run helps county get Cuban cardiologist, more tools and skills Early January this year, one doctor appealed for blood group O+ donations on his Facebook page. A seven-year-old girl needed a second operation to remove thousands of worms from her stomach. The appeal was made by Dr Emmanuel Ayodi, the medical superintendent at the Vihiga County Referral Hospital. Star Journalist Joseph Jamenya visited the hospital the next day, intending to file a story on the strange case. Dr Ayodi was not in his office, so he searched for him around the wards. Their encounter would change the tidings for the residents seeking health services. Fake exam papers on sale as leakage, parents warned The Kenya National Examination Council yesterday warned that fake KCSE and KCPE exam papers are being sold as leaks. The council cautioned parents and candidates not to fall prey to fraudsters. Knec said schools that will be involved in exam irregularities will be closed and those in charge held liable. Your Weather NAIROBI: Scattered showers. Low 13ºC. High 22ºC. Winds E at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. MOMBASA: Morning thunderstorms; Showers at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60%. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Low 17ºC. High 28ºC. Winds SSE and variable. Chance of rain 80%. Click here for the latest political news