Questions are arising on whether the government will deliver the targeted 500,000 units in the next five years even as it begins to tax employed persons to fund the ambitious project. There is also uncertainty on refunds for employees who do not qualify for the affordable housing plan and those who will not have benefited by the time of retire. Although Transport, Infrastructure and Urban Development CS James Macharia has assured contributors that refunds will be paid out with a return just like that of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), the recently enacted Finance Act 2018 is silent on the matter. “We have reached a compromise and agreed that if you invest every month and after you retire you haven’t got the house, you will get your money back with an interest. Nobody will lose out,” Macharia told journalists last week. His statement was reiterated in an advertisement placed by the ministry in a local daily yesterday. It indicated that all contributions refunded will earn a return to be determined by the fund management. However, Section 31 of the Finance Act that created National Housing Development Fund (NHDF) is silent on interest, only stating that persons who do not qualify for affordable housing will be refunded their contribution upon request at the end of 15 years from the start of the contributions either in cash, as a pension or transfer to a person eligible for affordable housing. According to the law, employers will contribute 1.5 per cent of monthly basic salary from each employee and remit it to NHDF on or before ninth day of preceding month. Employees will contribute another 1.5 per cent subject to maximum contribution capped at Sh5,000. On Monday, KPMG revealed that the government will after 15 years refund contributions of at least 77,000 employees who do not qualify for affordable housing plan as they earn above Sh100,000 per month. According to KPMG, of 2.48million Kenyans in employment in 2016 only 77,000 earned over Sh100,000 which is the threshold for affordable housing. Therefore, potentially 2.4million Kenyans qualify for affordable housing against the government target of 500,000 housing units in five years. In an email to the Star yesterday, Clive Akora, an associate director at KPMG said that the government is likely to raise Sh48 billion annually from the housing levy, more than National Social Security Fund’s (NSSF) annual collection of Sh12.8 billion per year. He said that while the government will have an easy task to consolidate funds for the project, the bigger issue is whether there is capacity to deliver the houses within the time in question. He said that the government can easily get this amount because the persons who ask for affordable housing are required to pay the full cost of the house. The 1.5 per cent contribution they make will only set-off part of the cost. So over a period of 10 years for example, the government will collect about Sh480 billion from the levy. ‘’There are questions on the capacity of local contractors to undertake the projects, ability of the local manufacturers to supply the building materials required for the project and the availability of the required artisans,’’ Akora said. Under the current plans, the government intends to build houses of one, two and three bedrooms which will be sold to the at Sh600, 000, Sh1 million and Sh3 million respectively.