Kenya and Uganda Governments have agreed to bury existing trade barriers hindering in order To ease trade between the two partner states. The agreement was reached in the stakeholders’ meeting at Hotel Levantes in Amagoro on Thursday co-chaired by Cabinet Secretary in the Ministry of East African Community and Regional Development Adan Mohamed and his Ugandan Counterpart Dr. Kirunda Kivejinja. Also present during the meeting that lasted over three hours included Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi, Principal Secretary in the Ministry of EAC Dr. Susan Koech. Addressing the press, Mohamed said Kenya will strengthen trade policies with Uganda, adding that they have mutual recognition of the standard bodies across East Africa aimed at facilitating trade. "Uganda recognizes Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) marks and vice versa. I am aware that the recent crackdown on illicit trade and contraband goods that may have affected some of our trading and regional partners’ flow of goods that were subjected to some of the inspection by bodies like KEBS. This was a temporary measure,” he said, adding that the spirit of mutual recognition is what will drive regional trade going forward. The CS said infrastructure works at the Malaba border crossing point which has hindered seamless trade will be completed by December this year, thus paving way for much smoother trade and movement of people at the port of Malaba. “I am very pleased and impressed with of the working relationship of customs officials on both sides of the border. It’s really a demonstration of the true spirit of bringing the customs union and common market to life like at the Mombasa Port,’’ he said. The CS called for an end to Non-Tariff Barriers that restrict imports and exports along the Northern Corridor from the Port of Mombasa. Dr. Kivejinja urged citizens in the partner states to stop focusing too much on manufactured goods which are always the source of “quarrels.” Instead they should exploit the unused arable land to produce more goods.