A court has temporarily stopped the transfer of some 4,000 teachers from the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) payroll to Public Service Commission (PSC). Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Onesmus Makau on Wednesday issued orders stopping the process until the case is heard and determined. "Conservatory orders be and is hereby granted barring the respondents from transferring services of petitioners from TSC to PSC." "...or removing petitioners from TSC payroll until notice of motion filed is heard on October 1, 2018," reads the order. The orders were issued after five teachers moved to court challenging the transfer which started on July 1, 2018. TVET PS Kevit Desai has been pushing to have the teachers moved to PSC as the government creates a new service scheme for technical institutions. In his argument, Desai said that the competency-based training would attract trainers from the private sector to give the right balance and flexibility. The Ministry argues that TSC recruitment criteria locks out potential trainers. If the ministry gets its way, all trainers currently teaching in vocational and technical training institutions would no longer be recruited by TSC. Desai said flexible recruitment and promotions criteria for trainers are part of the ministry's effort to create independent structures for quality training. Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) openly protested the transfer of the teachers claiming that the affected staffers are its members. In a July 3 letter to TSC CEO Nancy Macharia, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori said the move was ill-informed. "We want to reiterate that TVET teachers are employees of TSC and not any other state agency or commission," the letter reads in part. "Any attempt to unilaterally transfer them is illegal, procedural and in blatant breach of the Constitution and international labour practices." Kuppet questioned whether the Attorney General’s opinion was sought on the transfers and if individual teachers were consulted. The union also demanded that the process is subjected to public participation and structured negotiations initiated. Edward Obwocha of the union said a proper Memorandum of Understanding should be drawn before the transfers are implemented. The PS argues that the transfers are part of high-level reforms being undertaken by the Ministry of Education to promote quality assurance and governance of the institutions. Desai adds that the changes will see more graduates linked to small and medium entreprises. Click here for the latest political news