Is besieged Migori governor Okoth Obado (pictured) so popular in his backyard or is there a gang allied to the troubled county chief that is spreading terror? Sources whispered to Corridors that some people within the county have been violently attacked for reportedly talking about the governor’s current woes. Obado has been charged and remanded at the Industrial Area prison over the murder of Sharon Otieno with whom he had a relationship. On Monday, a group of women thronged the Milimani court to offer him moral support with placards emblazoned with political messages. Back in Migori, it is being alleged that those carrying out the attacks are members of the dreaded Sangwenya gang. Does Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti have his ear to the ground?  Aides of a top politician who lost an election petition and appealed are chest-thumping how they have bribed a judge to delay a ruling on applications presented to the court. Corridors is informed that apparently the same judge, who was to write a unanimous ruling on the applications, made a U-turn at the eleventh hour on whether to accept the application or not. The court is now in limbo, true to the words of the politician’s boys, who were claiming the ruling will not be coming soon. In the meantime, the electorate are already gearing up for a by-election.  A member of a powerful House committee yesterday stunned his colleagues when he walked late into a meeting and apologised, claiming he first went to sign up for another committee, which was sitting at the same time. Is this an indication of the honourable members’ insatiable appetite for cash? One of the lawmakers from the committee was heard saying loudly on the sidelines how colleagues have devised ways of covering up for the eight per cent VAT, which took effect last week. MPs usually earn modest allowances for every committee sitting they attend. In some cases, they just sign the attendance list and walk out.  Some top security officials were yesterday overheard laughing off a parliamentary committee, which had demanded the appearance of Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to shed light on the operations of the traffic department and rising road accidents. After appearing before the committee at Parliament Buildings, some police top brass were overheard saying they had information required by the MPs and that Boinnet’s appearance would not change anything. It remains a puzzle why some big fish find it difficult to appear before the people’s representatives. 