At least 136 bodies have
been retrieved after a ferry sank on Lake Victoria, Tanzania's
top police official Simon Sirro said on Friday. He said scores more
were still feared missing as rescuers searched for survivors on
the morning after the disaster. The ferry MV Nyerere capsized on Thursday afternoon just a
few metres from the dock on Ukerewe, the lake's biggest island,
which is part of Tanzania. Initial estimates suggested that the ferry was carrying more
than 300 people. Thirty-seven people had been rescued from the sea, Jonathan
Shana, the regional police commander for the port of Mwanza on
the south coast of the lake told Reuters by phone on Friday. Many
are missing even as rescue efforts resumed on Friday after being halted
overnight. The MV Nyerere ferry overturned near Ukara island on its way from Bugorora. It is thought the overloaded vessel tipped over when crowds on board moved to one side as it docked. BBC's Aboubakar Famau in Tanzania says fear has gripped residents of
the Mwanza region as they wait to hear the fate of relatives who
travelled on the MV Nyerere on Thursday. "I received a call
telling me that I have lost my aunt, father and my younger brother,"
says Editha Josephat Magesa, a local resident. "We are really saddened and urge the government to provide a new ferry because the old one was small and the population is big." Our reporter says the ferry's engines were recently replaced after local MP Joseph Mkundi complained about the previous ones. How did it happen? Local
media say the ferry's official capacity was 100 people, but officials
say the vessel was carrying more than 400 passengers when it capsized. It
operates on a busy route, crossing eight times a day between the
islands of Ukara and Ukwerewe, which are close to Tanzania's
second-largest city of Mwanza. The ferry was said to have been particularly busy because it was market day in Bugorora, on Ukerewe island. The vessel was also carrying cargo, including bags of cement and maize, when it capsized around 50 metres from the shore. It is thought that many of the passengers would not have been able to swim. An official investigation will take place once rescue efforts to find survivors have ended. Passenger figures unclear Transport Minister Isack Kamwele gave the new death toll on state television. So
far, 40 people have been rescued and are in critical condition,
according to Mwanza Regional Commissioner John Mongella. Local officials
initially reported on Thursday that 100 people had been rescued. Exact
figures, though, are yet to be confirmed - Reuters said the person who
dispensed tickets for the journey also died, with the machine recording
the data lost. Tragic history Tanzania has seen a number of nautical disasters, with overcrowding often playing a role. In
2012, at least 145 people died when a packed ferry sank while
transporting people to the island of Zanzibar in the Indian Ocean. The
year before, almost 200 people died in another major incident off the
coast of Zanzibar. Hundreds survived, some found clinging to mattresses
and fridges. In 1996, more than 800 people died when the MV Bukoba
capsized on Lake Victoria. It was one of the the worst ferry disasters
of the last century. Also read: 86 dead as dozens of bodies recovered in Tanzania ferry tragedy Click here for the latest political news