Hague-based Kenyan Judge Joyce Aluoch has made history after scooping the 2018 Fletcher Award. Justice Aluoch goes down in history as the first African to be feted with one of Fletcher School’s top awards in the United States. It is well known as the Fletcher Class of 1947 Memorial Award. Aluoch, who has finished her 9-year term at the International Criminal Court in the Netherlands, was recognised as a distinguished graduate who promoted the institution's standards. This was through top roles during her service both in Kenya and internationally. According to the University's Dean Prof Ian Johnstone, the memorial award is given annually to career professional Alumnus who embody the Fletcher Mission and has upheld those ideas throughout their careers. Each year, Johnstone said the recipient is honoured with a bronze and relief plaque which is hung in the Hall of Flags in the Carbot Intercultural Centre. "Welcome to Fletcher Convocation 2018! We are so pleased and excited to kick off this academic year with remarks from our interim Dean Ian Johnstone, Prof Susan Landau, students Rami Blair (MALD19) and Amy Rosenfield (MALD19), honoring H.E Judge Joyce Aluoch, a grad of the #FletcherGMAP program in 2008!," read a note on their social pages. Aluoch, in her inspirational remarks, said her journey in the legal justice hasn't been easy though she is happy with the progress she has made. "I am humbled and grateful to be the recipient of the Fletcher class of 1947 memorial award. My heart if full and my spirit light..... I may stand before you as someone with a rich legal experience and who has lived a full life but in many aspects my story is like your own,” she said. The event happened on Friday at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. Justice Aluoch said though she has lived a full life in the legal sector, getting to Fletcher is a clear indication that she demonstrated hard work and resilience. "My passion was always Master of Arts in International Relations and the Fletcher model was a perfect model. We always have to be optimistic for the order the emerging world will bring and the possibilities of what world can be," she said. Aluoch added, " Law was never my choice but my fathers', he woke me up some morning, walked me to a law school and registered me. He wanted the best of me and legal profession was his best choice. Today as I stand here, I have never regretted". Alouch has served 9 years at the ICC court as the First Vice president, Trial Division. She has now transformed into an International Jurist. "We are living in a rapidly changing world that is in dire need of justice. I want to remind all of us that justice is a cornerstone for a stable society," she said in her closing remarks. Click here for the latest political news