The late IEBC ICT manager Chris Msando's wife is among dozens of Kenyans appointed to parastatals and State Departments in changes unveiled on Friday. Eva Buyu Msando was named alongside former Mbooni MP Kisoi Munyao, and John Masaba to be members of the Export Processing Zones Authority for a period of three years. The appointments by Trade CS Peter Munya were effective September 20. President Uhuru Kenyatta has also appointed former Senate Speaker Ekwee Ethuro and Zedekiah Bundotich, popularly known as Buzeki, as parastatal heads in the changes unveiled in a gazette notice. He appointed Ethuro be the chairperson of the Higher Education Loans Board for a period of five (5) years. Most of the appointees are ODM leader Raila Odinga, his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka's allies and 2017 election losers. Buzeki was named chairman of the Board of Chemelil Sugar Company Limited. Most of the appointments were effective September 20 whereas date back to August. Former Vice LSK chair Faith Waigwa will for the next three years be the chairperson of the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board if she accepts the role. The President also appointed Paul Gicheru to chair the Export Processing Zones Authority, for a period of three years with effect from the October 2. Gicheru's appointment to PPARB was revoked in the changes which also saw former IEBC chairman Issack Hassan handed the helm of Kenya Industrial Institute for three years. The Head of State also appointed Mugambi Imanyara to be the chairperson of the Board of Kenya Industrial Estates, for a period of three years. Cash-strapped East African Portland Cement Company will be under the stewardship of Edwin Kinyua for the next three years.  NASA CEO Norman Magaya was named as a member of the Kenya Film Classification Board. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru also named Canon David Leparleiya, Nehemiah Kipkoech Maina, June Gachui, and Joyce Wamucii Ndumia as members of the Films Board for the next three years. Former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga was appointed by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko to be the chairperson of the Board of Trustees of the National Environment Trust Fund. Former Mwingi North MP John Munuve was named member and the non-executive chairperson of the Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority (SASRA) for a period of three years. Ex-Kitui Senator David Musila was appointed to be the chairman of the Board of the National Museums of Kenya while former Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu will be a member of the Board of the Unclaimed Financial Assets Authority. Former SONU president David Osiany has been appointed to the board of Chemelil Sugar as a member. He was named alongside Kisumu governor loser in the 2017 election Christine Atieno Otieno. Outspoken former Vihiga MP Yusuf Chanzu was named alongside Kenneth Otiso, Nathan Psiwa, and Miriam Cherogony as members of the the Board of Directors of the Consolidated Bank Limited. IEBC lawyer in the 2017 election petition Paul Otieno Nyamodi was named as a member of the Public Procurement Regulatory Board. He was appointed alongside Lydia Gachoya, Jared Maaka Siso, Cecilia Mbinya Sereka and will serve for the next three years should they accept the appointments. Experts drawn from various sectors of the economy were also handed the jobs. Click here for the latest political news