Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga has warned that Kisumu is staring at a high number of uneducated children. He said this follows findings that the county is one of those with high numbers of orphans and vulnerable children. Nyamunga said, citing data available in government records, said the trend is worrying hence something drastic has to be done. She said the records further shows that school dropout rates have also been on the rise lately. On this ground, Nyamunga initiated a scholarship program in partnership with Miral Foundation from South Korea. The foundations was launched by Ida Odinga at the weekend. The program will see more than 1,000 orphans and vulnerable children from Kisumu benefit in terms of school fees and protect from abuses. The Miral Welfare Foundation targets to sponsor children aged between four to eight years. Those listed will get funding for their education, health, security or other projects in their respective communities. The 10 year-long project was launched at Nyalenda primary school in Nyando with the support of well-wishers from South Korea. Nyamunga noted that initiative gratify for technical and vocational education training for children who would wish to pursue technical courses. "Apart from the children, parents and guardians will be trained on how to sustain themselves when the program ends," she said. The legislator said the beneficiaries should be enrolled in any of the 15 public primary schools where the program will be implemented. Among the expenses to be covered include general school stationery, uniforms, shoes, and healthcare. "The foundation will also provide for mentorship, educational trips and improvement of infrastructure in the schools." South Korean Ambassador to Kenya Kwon Young Dae assured that they will support and ensure the well-being of the children. Ida said it was unfortunate that young girls continue to face gross violation of their rights amid cases of defilement and alcohol abuse. She asked community to report those who defile children so that the perpetrators are prosecuted. Ida further cautioned those selling illicit brews to school children. "We will not sit down and watch our children being rendered unproductive by unscrupulous traders." Click here for the latest political news 