Likoni MP Mishi Mboko and MUHURI have given the DPP seven days to prefer charges against a Mombasa killer cop. The officer in question is accused of shooting Maitha Omar, 21, in the head and shoulder at close range on Monday. Omar was buried at a cemetery in Mtongwe, Mombasa according to Islamic rituals on Tuesday. His family said he was insane and denied claims he was a criminal. Police had accused the 21-year-old of stealing goats. During the burial, Mboko said the "wild, ruthless and dangerous" cop must be punished. "If the DPP fails to prosecute the officer, we will hold a demonstration to have him removed from here," the MP said at the family's home in Mweza. MUHURI rapid response officer Francis Auma said they are recording statements from the witness to incriminate the responsible officer. "IPOA is fully aware of the case and we want them to assist us in seeking justice for the family," he said. Auma and his colleague Fahad Changi lamented that the police have fallen four youths in Mombasa in one week alone. Three of them Bilali Masoud, 17, Kenga Ramadhan, 19, and Juma Kitsao, 18, were killed in Utange on Thursday. "All were unarmed and had surrendered," Changi said noting there is an elimination squad. Ali Swasuba, the spokesperson of Omar's family, called for speedy investigations. "The DPP gave us hope when he announced killings at the Coast will be looked into. We want him to get into the bottom of our case as soon as possible." DPP Noordin Haji on Sunday said police involved in youth killings at the Coast will soon be prosecuted. "If evidence links the killings to any officer, they will be punished," he said. The DPP said he will bring on board the Inspector General, IPOA, and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, to come up with a strategy of dealing with such cases. "Victims of police killings must get justice," Haji said. Read: Cops behind Coast youths' killings to face the music - Haji He further said his office will ensure there is no cover-up as they will closely monitor investigations. Mombasa county police commander Johnston Ipara said they will not give criminals breathing space. Click here for the latest political news