Three senior police officers working in Migori, Homa Bay and Vigilance House are said to be baffled by the ongoing probe into the murder of former Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. They saw a chance to mint money from the investigations when news of the death broke. A broker at the county allegedly paid a senior officer at Vigilance a tidy sum to smooth things out with IG Joseph Boinnet and senior officers in the counties. But a little bird in the team of detectives says the team that was friendly to the senior officers was dispatched only to find that DPP Noordin Haji and DCI George Kinoti had dispatched three parallel teams. The discrepancy in their probes stood out like a sore thumb and the plan backfired. So secretive have the investigations been that the officers have been reduced to following news of the arrest of suspects and where they are held on mainstream and social media platforms. ***** Did the Kenya Volleyball Federation fund a senior official to Japan disguised as a media attaché at the expense of journalists? A mole on the trip told Corridors of Power that the team is struggling to disseminate information back home and to other media outlets. The move has left Kenyans unaware of what is happening in Japan. Panicky KVF officials have learnt that Kenyans have no clue what is happening in Japan. The joyrider is said to have left Nairobi on Thursday with the team and is expected to stay in Japan for three weeks. ***** A top official at the anti-graft agency is trying to ensure he has a Master’s degree (even if it means a fake one) before the post of CEO is advertised early next month. The officer does not possess a postgraduate degree and is disturbed by the qualifications for one to head the EACC. In this era of senior state officials faking academic papers, everything is possible. The officer is said to be one of the most corrupt and his activities are said to have partly dented the agency’s credibility. ***** A leading ODM functionary has been singled out as the one plotting the removal of John Mbadi from the powerful position of National Assembly Minority leader. The third-term lawmaker is said to be working covertly with some sympathisers to shape ODM leader Raila Odinga’s succession in Nyanza. He is said to be behind Kilifi North MP Owen Baya’s petition to Raila on Mbadi’s ‘incompetence’. He allegedly met Baya and three other MPs at a Nairobi Hotel last weekend before the drafting of the petition seen as one of a series of moves to drive out Mbadi. Click here for
the latest political news