Security has been stepped up in Eldoret as senators arrive in the town for their first sitting outside Nairobi. The weeklong Senate Mashinani event starts today and police officers are on guard at top hotels that will accommodate the legislators and their staff. Also protected is Uasin Gishu county assembly — the venue of all Senate and committee sittings. MCAs will have first-hand experience on the operations of the Senate, which oversights the counties. Yesterday, county commissioner Abdi Hassan and Governor Jackson Mandago attended a security meeting. They assured that the event will run smoothly. “We’re proud to be the first county to host the first Senate sittings outside Nairobi. We’ve done all that is required for the success of the event lined up for the whole week,” Mandago said. Billboards have been mounted along the major roads in the town. They display welcoming messages and have portraits of all the senators. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka will preside over the meetings. On Friday, he expressed optimism that the forum will be the best experience for senators as they seek to assess the successes and failures of devolution. Yesterday, Uasin Gishu senator Margaret Kamar was part of a team that assessed the facilities to be used. She said they will have extensive deliberations on both national and local matters. Farming will take centre stage during some of the discussions. Kamar is chairing the ad hoc Senate committee on the maize crisis. It is expected to have public forums during the same period. Seven governors will appear before the Senate to respond to queries over their counties. Today, Baringo’s Stanley Kiptis and his team will be quizzed on audit queries raised by the Auditor General. They will appear before the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee chaired by Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang’. Mandago will meet the Finance and Budget Committee to explain implementation of the national government’s Big Four agenda. Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos will also meet the house team. On Thursday, West Pokot governor John Lonyangapuo will be before the Kajwang team to respond to audit queries. The Health committee will tour West Pokot county to probe claims of deteriorating healthcare. On Wednesday, Kisumu county chief Anyang’ Nyong’o will appear before the Budget Committee. Click here for the latest political news