Wajir woman representative Fatuma Gedi yesterday admitted she lobbied MPs to shoot down the sugar report but denied claims she offered them bribes. Gedi has been accused of masterminding the shooting down of the report by offering bribes for MPs to reject it. Appearing before the Powers and Privileges Committee, Gedi dismissed the claims, saying they were meant to taint the image of Parliament. She told the panel chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi that the allegations shocked and brought much pain to her. She asked the committee to punish those who made the claims. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said Gedi approached him with Sh10,000 in a blue envelope. Read: Sugar bribe dished out in toilet – MP The money was offered as bribe to vote against the sugar report prepared by the Joint Committee of Agriculture and Trade. Kiambu woman representative Gathoni Wamuchomba told the team she heard voices in the washroom confessing that Gedi had given them Sh20,000 and Sh30,000 to reject the report. She said she could not identify the voices because they went mute and she received a phone call. “The allegations are false. I did not bribe any member in the House,” Gedi said She challenged Barasa to give evidence linking her to the claims. “I don’t know where I gotsuch money to bribe 349 members. I am just a first-time MP,” Gedi said. She said she lobbied MPs to reject the report because it was shoddy and did not adequately respond to the mandate of the joint committee. The report recommended that Treasury CS Henry Rotich, his EAC counterpart Adan Mohamed and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett be held responsible for importation of contraband sugar. Also read: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), David Gikaria (Nakuru East) and Joseph Tonui (Kuresoi North) were also quizzed by the committee. Savula said MPs disregarded parliamentary procedures and acted in a manner that “bordered on rent seeking”. Tonui had been mentioned by Matayos MP Geoffrey Odanga who said the Kuresoi North lawmaker had directed him to where the bribe was being dished out. Tonui denied the claim. He said he was not aware of any bribery to kill the report. “I’m shocked. I rarely interact with Odanga,” Tonui said. Gikaria also denied claims by Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara that he approached her to vote against the report because it was touching on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet. Last week, Kihara told the committee that Gikaria informed her that he was under instructions from Majority leader Aden Duale to mobilise all Nakuru MPs to reject the report. The team will next week question Nyeri woman representative Rehab Mukami as it concludes the probe. Click here for the latest political news