“Authoritarian regimes” are described as where elections
take place but are either rigged, or operate within a system that in other ways
works to prevent dissent and ensure the regime remains in office. Kenyans have a reason to be happy that we are not Gambia
under Yahya Jammeh or Egypt under Sisi, or even Uganda under Yoweri Museveni.
We are not a one-party state. But should we be complacent? It is not right to insist on being permanently pessimistic
(a trait of academics, who love to find problems with anything, and Kenyans —
who tend to greet new developments with initial enthusiasm and soon shift to
suspicion and negativity). For example, we have had presidential elections with eight
candidates. In many countries, credible opponents to incumbent presidents have
been disqualified. In Egypt, a candidate must have the support of at least 20
existing MPs— but the existing President has the power to appoint as many as
that. And the other MPs eligible to support a candidate are only enough to
support at most three. When a young blogger circulated a photoshopped picture of
Sisi with Mickey Mouse ears, he was sentenced to three years in prison. Gado,
Vic and other cartoonists, whose critiques are often savage, are still allowed
to work and publish. But “The price of liberty is eternal vigilance” is not just
a cliché. Vigilance involves not knee-jerk suspicion, but avoiding naïve
optimism and assuming “It can’t happen here”.  FREEDOM OF SPEECH Sometimes one wonders why cartoonists can still publish. Can
it be because government believes that what is in the newspapers doesn’t have
much impact? But they get more worried about social media: read by more
perhaps, and by the young. Article 19, an NGO on freedom of expression, documented a
large number of attacks on the right to expression, especially against
journalists, in 2017-18.  They found 43
instances of assault on journalists and added, “Cases of attack on the freedom
of expression were documented in 15 of the country’s 47 counties.  Supporters of various political formations
were the main culprits followed by police, private individuals and unknown
assailants.” Police should be the protectors of journalists, and others,
including against political party supporters. Article 19 was among those who protested about the
introduction of the cybercrimes law that created vague crimes with harsh
punishments. The law is somewhat like old British colonial laws that penalised
“false news”. We can see how useful governments may find them from President Donald
Trump’s fondness for attacking “fake news”. A law attacking false news without
any necessity to prove any harm, or that the person making statements intended
to cause any harm, is a great tool for crushing unwelcome criticism. The
Ugandan Supreme Court declared false news laws unconstitutional in 2004. We had
already repealed them. It is no democratic progress to try to bring them back
in the cyberspace context. Still on expression, and level playing fields, who pays for
Presidential Delivery Unit “Government delivers” signs on the Kenya National Highways Authority
bridges? Admittedly, this is not formally an election period (though any time
seems to be election time in Kenya).  UNDERMINING INDEPENDENT OFFICES The Constitution sets up a number of bodies and offices, for
several possible reasons. One may be to take decisions that ought not to be
party political out of the hands of politicians, perhaps because they require
technical expertise. Another is to ensure equality before the law: To prevent obstruction
of accountability by political interests or desire to protect public officers. Some of these are being undermined. Take the Director of
Public Prosecutions. That office is supposed to take to court those suspected
of crimes, and against whom there is evidence likely to get a conviction. The
DPP does not have to prosecute, but must make a judgment on whom to pursue
without fear of reprisals or favour to those in power. It is not that the Executive
must be silent on policies. But neither the President nor any other person
should direct the DPP on which specific cases to pursue. But recently the media, and citizens too, think they see the
hand of the President in the corruption prosecutions. A particularly
unfortunate example is the prosecution of the Deputy Chief Justice. Precisely
because the President promised to wreak revenge on the Judiciary for the
election petition case last year, it is hard not to see, or imagine, some
connection between the DCJ’s arrest and the President’s threat. Taking a step further back, the former DPP had only about a
year of his term of office to run. The Constitution limits the DPP’s tenure to
prevent too cosy a relationship developing between him or her and either the Executive
or the criminal classes. The removal of the DPP is hard – exactly to stop the Executive
removing from the scene a DPP who is prosecuting government people, or not
prosecuting its enemies. But the President found another way to entice the DPP from
office – by making him a Cabinet Secretary. Imagine the impact on future DPPs:
“Rather than being jobless after this, if I am a good boy (or girl) in the eyes
of the President, I may get another plum job”. We have many parastatals. They are created to ensure expertise,
and non-political –sometimes-commercial – decision-making. But if appointments
are a matter of political patronage, as so many have recently been,
independent, technical decision-making is bound to be compromised.  THE JUDICIARY Kenyans gave up on the idea of Attorneys-General being
independent minded; the appointment is now political. But the Judiciary must be
independent, which requires separation between government and the courts. But
what happens (or might just happen) if judges, so hard to sack, can be
persuaded to become the government’s legal adviser? Members of the Judiciary feel they have been “revisited”
using Uhuru’s threat. They may be joking, but the cut in its budget (admittedly
by Parliament, but doesn’t the legislature usually do the Executive’s bidding?)
and now the attack on the DCJ (deserved or not) makes the Judiciary feel
insecure. Judges are human. How can we be sure they are not temped to go easy
on the Executive (or Parliament) for fear they exacerbate poor relations
between the branches. We are not arguing that poor relations are a good thing,
but from time to time, they are inevitable if the Judiciary is doing its job. And then there is the Judicial Service Commission. It is
intended to shield the Judiciary from political domination. But Parliament and
the President seem determined to bring it to heel, and, through it, the Judiciary. Media reports indicate discussion may take place between the
Judiciary and the President, and with Parliament. But when we know that other
branches are unhappy with court decisions, closed-door contacts make some of us
uneasy.  IS OUR CONSTITUTION PLASTICINE? A conference speaker likened the Egyptian constitution to
plasticine: Capable of being moulded to any shape to suit the government. We believe our Constitution is more like memory foam: Yielding
a bit to pressure to avoid damaging conflict, but springing back into shape.
But, with the assaults on accountability institutions such as the IEBC, the
EACC and the Auditor General, as well as those discussed here, it is under some
strain.