Embu county assembly chief whip Margaret Kariuki was on Thursday ousted by Jubilee MCAs who accused her of causing divisions among members. There was a brief stand-off as those opposed to the impeachment tried to block the move. Thirteen out of the 19 party MCAs supported Kariuki’s ouster, citing lack of confidence. Her accusers said she had caused disaffection against senior party leaders in the county and was behind the push for the removal of deputy speaker Steve Munene in April. Kariuki was replaced in acting capacity by Kirimari MCA Morris Collo. Collo will serve until a new chief whip is elected in elections to be conducted later in the year. Kariuki’s removal was later communicated to the house by speaker Josiah Thiriku. Ruguru Ngandori MCA Harrison Muturi said they were fed up with Kariuki. Muturi said Kariuki caused a lot of infighting within party members and failed to organise meetings for MCAs. He said the nominated MCA had failed to deliver. But Kariuki has said her removal was illegal and malicious and was motivated by selfish interests and vendetta. She said she had served the party and the assembly to the best of her ability. In April, MCAs impeached deputy speaker Steve Munene whom they accused of laziness, being aloof and undermining them. Munene blamed Kariuki for the impeachment, saying she engineered the motion that was tabled by Edna Muisyo. Munene’s impeachment was sealed after powers and privileges committee chaired by Thiriku found him guilty of seven accusations and recommended that he be replaced within 10 days. In a report read by Majority leader Michael Njeru, the committee said allegation against Munene had been proved beyond reasonable doubt. Among the accusations were failure to convene five meetings for the liason committee which is chaired by the deputy speaker. MCAs said Munene was always too busy with other engagements too look into the affairs of the committee. Muisyo said Munene often cut shot members who raised issues in the committee and dismissed them. Munene was also accused of attacking his colleagues on the media and discussing issues that were under debate in the house. Some MCAs accused him of visiting their ward and undermining their work.