Makueni MCAs have threatened to cut the health budget in half after the county government reinstated a nurse arrested for stealing medicines. A report tabled by the health committee on Wednesday revealed that the nurse was recalled and transferred to Kamuthini dispensary in Mukaa ward, where he is currently serving. Nurse Peter Alusa was found operating an unlicensed clinic in Sultan Hamud town in March this year. He was also found in possession of drugs and medical equipment belonging to the county government. Alusa was arrested and released on cash bail. The department of health demanded he write an apology, He was suspended in May after refusing to write the apology. Alusa said he was being victimised and that the subcounty medical health officer and the inspection team had demanded a Sh300,000 bribe from him. MCAs accused the Kivutha Kibwana government of handling a criminal matter casually. “It’s so unfortunate that with all the evidence available, instead of this person being taken to court and jailed he was just transferred to another facility,” committee chair Jackson Mbalu said. He said despite the good publicity the county health department had received recently, there was still massive corruption. “It is worrying that other counties have been coming to benchmark with Makueni on matters of health care but when you dig, you find that there is a lot of rot in our health department. “This case is a very clear indication that our county drugs are being stolen with the thiefs being treated with kid gloves,” Kathonzweni MCA Francis Mutungi said. The members threatened to reduce the health budget if the nurse is not punished. “We are spending 40 per cent of our budget on health but it seems around 20 per cent of that budget is being siphoned by individuals. I am suggesting that if the department does not streamline its operations, we should cut it’s budget by 50 per cent,” said Kasikeu ward representative Tangai Munari. Speaker Douglas Mbilu asked the committee to investigate and deliver a comprehensive report and recommendtions within 14 days.