City Hall has protested plans by the Murang’a county government to impose a 25 per cent levy on use of water from Ndakaini Dam. The protest came even as MCAs on Tuesday initiated a plan to engage their Murang’a counterparts to find a solution to the problem. The dam is Nairobi’s main water sources. Water executive Larry Wambua said the push to have Nairobi pay for water from Ndakaini was wrong because the dam is a national resource. “Ndakaini is a strategic national resource. We are working in partnership with the national government to resolve the matter,” Wambua told the Star on the phone yesterday. Acting speaker Mwaura Chege directed the Liason Committee to immediately take up the matter and report next week on progress. “The chair’s attention has been drawn to the matter of water resources sharing between Nairobi and Murang’a counties. This matter has greatly troubled residents of the two counties,” Chege said. He said he had contacted authorities, including the executive to find a solution. “The chair believes it is important that we engage our colleagues in the Murang’a assembly to find a lasting solution through a bipartisan approach,” he said. A City Hall source told the Star the county had left the matter to be resolved by the Ministry of Water. “The government has already deployed police to Ndakaini Dam as the ministry resolves the matter. We don’t want to go public on it because it may look political. We don’t want it to take that route,” the source said. About 84 per cent of water used in the Nairobi is supplied by Ndakaini Dam. Hundreds of thousands of residents still contend with rationing. Murang’a governor Mwangi Wairia and the county assembly have said they will stop the construction of the Sh6.8bn Northern Collector Tunnel if the county does not receive 25 per cent of revenue from selling the commodity to Nairobi residents. Wairia wants the same cut for Ndakaini Dam. He said water was the only natural resource from the county and he would not allow others to sell it to consumers when county residents had no water and received no payment for the natural resource. “Water is our oil. Residents in Turkana demanded their fair share through demonstrations and picketing until the government listened to them. We are not an exception,” Wairia said two weeks ago. Water CS Simon Chelugui did not respond to the Star’s phone calls and text messages seeking comment yesterday. Speaking during the Kenya Water Institute ceremony last Friday, the CS warned politicians against interfering with water management. MCA ARRESTED “No one claims the ownership of water resources. It is the responsibility of the national government to protect water catchment areas,” Chelugui said. On Tuesday, there was a fracas at Ndakaini shopping centre after police tear-gassed Murang’a MCAs who wanted to hold a public forum over the proposed levy. Assembly Majority whip Simon Wamwea was arrested and his colleagues blocked from accessing the dam. Police officers said they had received information that the MCAs had planned to vandalise property at Ndakaini Dam.