A section of Nairobi leaders have condemned the ongoing impeachment talk against Governor Mike Sonko. Woman representative Esther Passaris said MCAs should focus on services in their wards instead of threatening Sonko. “We are not interested in sideshows and unwarranted wrangles. Let us focus on development issues and services by the county government,” she said. Embakasi East MP Babu Owino said the threats by the MCAs hold no water as Sonko has been discharging his duties in accordance with the law. “I’m calling on the Nairobi MCAs to drop their threats against Sonko. The governor can work and sleep anywhere within the country. Let’s avoid politics until 2022 and give room to Sonko to deliver on his promises,” he said. The two legislators urged MCAs to set aside their political differences and support the governor. Two ward representatives have distanced themselves from the impeachment plans. Mlango Kubwa MCA Patriciah Mutheu and her Highrise counterpart Kennedy Oyugi termed the attack on Sonko as a “witch-hunt”. “The roads are being repaired, drainages are being cleared daily, bursaries have been distributed and rogue public officers are being arrested. So what more do they want ?” Mutheu asked. She said instead of minority chief whip Peter Imwatok being on the governor’s neck, he should put his efforts in serving his Makongeni ward. Imwatok has been asking Sonko to nominate a deputy governor. The position has been vacant since February after former Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe resigned. Oyugi said the impeachment plans will never come to pass. “Sonko is a unique leader who serves Nairobians without discrimination. You can take that to the bank. It [the impeachment] cannot happen under our watch,” he said said. On Thursday, the MCAs held a special sitting to discuss the conduct of the governor. Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto moved a motion on the status of the county. The MCAs gave Sonko 14 days to relocate from his Mua home in Machakos and serve Nairobi people from City Hall. They also want him to nominate a deputy governor. The ward reps want Sonko to open with immediate effect the finance, legal and land offices and stop intimidating county government staff. Failing to do so, the MCAs said they will move a motion to impeach the governor. On Friday Sonko said he will not stop going to his home in Mua because of pressure from Nairobi leaders. “I respect them but they should not interfere with my private life,” he said.