Is “power the ultimate aphrodisiac” as stated by former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger? Is power the eternal aphrodisiac that will thrive in all generations to come? What is the nexus between political power and sexual infidelity? Why are powerful men worldwide so easily seduced by Jezebels? Do men follow and obey a primal instinct or are they slaves to wrong or bad choices and habits? Kenyans were recently treated to the spectacle of a governor admitting on national television to acts of sexual infidelity — in the presence of his wife and adult children. It was an act of immense courage; in local terms or standards akin to self-immolation. The jury is still out as to whether the unprecedented act took out the sting from the scorpion’s tail. Men have over the ages have been ensnared and seduced by younger females. From the biblical Samson, who fell at Delilah’s bosom, to Mark Anthony, a member of the Roman triumvirate who forsook a kingdom for the arms of the Egyptian temptress Cleopatra. The late US President John F Kennedy was a renowned serial philanderer and more recently President Bill Clinton was snared by White House intern Monica Lewinsky. Current US President Donald Trump is battling allegations of an affair with porn star Stormy Daniels. Americans are no longer role models. Closer to home a host of political leaders, from senior national leaders to governors, senators, MPs and MCAs, are caught in a web of illicit affairs and are being pursued in the courts on claims of child support for children sired outside marriage. Indeed, the list is so long that it is easier to work on the few who have not yet fallen. It has been suggested that men in positions of power find more opportunities to have affairs because women are drawn to them. It makes these men have a sense of entitlement, as though extramarital sex is one of the perks and they think nothing of it or the lives they are harming. This is difficult to fathom even if they say power is an intoxicating elixir. What is it about the psychology of power that leads people to behave differently…and too often badly? Mind you, most of these men are of above average intelligence. Does the phrase ‘drunk with power’ acquire a new meaning? Power, they say, acts to lower inhibitions in the same way alcohol does. Could this explain why powerful people act with great daring? Others say men are just reckless as it’s pretty stupid to run the risk of having an affair, considering what is at stake, from their credibility, their jobs and money. What would stop a woman from cashing in on something like that when she gets the distinct impression that she’s being used and wants retribution? The man’s casual attitude to the affair can also make women more likely to speak out. People with power have the following characteristics: they are oblivious to what others think, they pursue personal satisfaction, are overly optimistic and likely to take risks. Women in positions of power have not fared any differently. A good number of them have been mentioned in scandalous relationships. In one extreme case, police allege a conman suspect, 23-year-old Benson Chacha, slept with more than 13 women MPs and senior government officials. If this be true, then he must be Kenya’s top serial Casanova. The famous words of Abraham Lincoln ring true, “Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man’s/ (woman’s) character, give him/her power.” The corridors of power are littered with temptation of every kind. Only a select few with the right values, moral rectitude and God’s invaluable grace will come out unscathed. Many have already fallen by the wayside. Beware the Ides of Power!