Nairobi MCAs yesterday said they will continue blocking, and if need be, evict embattled speaker Beatrice Elachi. The ward representatives said they have lost faith in the former nominated senator and will not allow her to step foot at City Hall. They made the resolution at a Kamukunji (informal meeting) held moments after ejecting Elachi from the office. Elachi had reported to work yesterday after the court reinstated her. At one point Elachi had to take cover in a washroom just behind her office. The MCAs had on Thursday impeached her. The ward representatives accused her of abusing her office, gross misconduct and conflict of interest. Elachi has defended herself and blamed politics and corruption at City Hall for her removal. She said her impeachment was unlawful as it did not follow the laid down rules and she was not given a fair hearing. Read: Not even Raila’s call could save Elachi from Nairobi MCAs’ ire Woodley MCA Abraham Njihia and his nominated counterpart Mary Njambi stormed Elachi’s office demanding that she leaves. Other members joined them and attempted to physically remove her from the office. The speaker was addressing a press conference at the time. “Atoke..atoke,…..Elachi must go ..Elachi must go, we have no faith in her,” the MCAs shouted. In what appeared to be self-defence, Elachi was captured using what looked like pepper spray to ward off the MCAs, but this could not deter the ward representatives. Moments later, majority leader Abdi Guyo and his minority counterpart Elias Otieno led some MCAs to Elachi’s office and asked her to vacate. Serjeant-at-arms and police officers manning City Hall were overwhelmed. They called for reinforcement from the Central police station. Central police station OCPD Robinson Thuku led a contingent of officers. Guyo said the house used the right procedures to impeach the speaker. Governor Mike Sonko has denied claims he has a hand in the speaker’s woes, saying he had had a good working relationship with the former Senate chief whip. Read: [VIDEO] Toka nje! Drama at City Hall as MCAs evict Elachi Click here for the latest political news