A group of Ugandan legislators
have petitioned the supreme court to overturn a lower court
decision that upheld a constitutional amendment allowing
long-serving leader Yoweri Museveni to seek re-election. Parliament, which is controlled by the ruling party, voted
overwhelmingly in December to scrap an age limit of 75 for
presidential candidates. The original legislation would have
effectively ruled out 73-year-old Museveni from standing in the
next elections due in 2021. Also read: Uganda court approves constitutional changes to scrap presidential age limit Opponents of Museveni, including lawmakers and individual
opposition activists, mounted a legal challenge to the amendment
but the constitutional court rejected it in July. Ladislaus Rwakafuzi, a lawyer for six lawmakers opposed to
the amendment, told Reuters that the group had filed an appeal
against that ruling on Tuesday. "We are dissatisfied with the verdict. We don't think they
evaluated the evidence properly. Hopefully the supreme court
will agree with our position," he said. "You cannot amend the
constitution without involving the people." As grounds for appeal, Rwakafuzi said lawmakers had been
bribed before the vote and that insufficient public
consultations had been held. He also alleged that soldiers
ejected some MPs from the chamber during the debate. The government rejected these accusations when they were
used in the original legal challenge. In power since 1986, Museveni has been accused by critics of
using security forces to stifle opposition through intimidation.
Political activists routinely allege arbitrary arrests and
beatings. Last month, two lawmakers critical of Museveni, including
popular musician-turned-politician Robert Kyagulanyim, said they
were tortured by the military after the president's convoy was
stoned in northwestern Uganda. [nL8N1VE3Y9 Kyagulanyim's supporters deny the allegations and say
Museveni enjoys genuine mass support. For their part, Ugandan authorities have rejected the
accusations of torture by both men but said they would
investigate them. The move to amend the constitution last year drew widespread
opposition and violent protests. Fistfights broke out in the
legislative chamber on two occasions. Read: Museveni signs law removing age cap for president Click here for the latest political news 