At least 700,000 people are facing acute food insecurity and need humanitarian assistance, the Kenya Food Security Steering Group has said. The alert was issued despite the sufficient rainfall received during the April-July season. The number represents a big decline from the 2.5 million in need of food aid after the end of the short rains in February. The Long Rains Assessment Report released on Friday shows the counties worst affected are Turkana, Samburu, Marsabit, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Tana River and Mandera. “These people are classified in crisis and therefore if no assistance is provided, they are likely to engage in irreversible coping strategies which will further erode their livelihood assets,” is says. The crisis classification means at least one in five households in the areas will have food consumption gaps with high or above usual acute malnutrition, even when assistance is given. The report shows there was good forage regeneration in most pastoral counties and varied crop harvests ranging from above average to below average in the marginal agricultural counties due to the rains. The distance trekked between forage and water sources has also declined in all pastoral counties from 10-15km to two to eight km. Milk production has also increased and is currently at one to five litres per household per day compared, with the maximum three litres erlier. This has meant a fall in milk prices from Sh60-Sh80 per litre to Sh50-Sh60. Read: Organic agriculture the solution to food insecurity The report says nutrition has also improved with the situation in North Horr , Turkana South, Turkana North and Turkana Central subcounties having moved from very critical to critical. “Despite these, the levels of acute malnutrition in several counties remain above the emergency global acute malnutrition threshold of 15 per cent,” it says. Turkana, Samburu, Mandera, East Pokot and North Horr are classified as critical ,while West Pokot, Tana River, Garissa and Wajir counties are classiified ‘serious’. The situation in Moyale, Saku and Baringo North and Marigat are classified as ‘alert’ while Narok, Kajiado, Makueni, Taita Taveta, Kwale and Kilifi counties are at the acceptable levels. The report defines phase one of the acute malnutrition classification pegged at six per cent as the acceptable stage. Phase two at between five and 10 per cent is the ‘alert’ stage while the ‘serious’ serious stage is classified at 10 -15 per cent. Phase four is critical at 15-30 per cent; phase five is the ‘very critical’ stage from 30 per cent and beyond. “The overall nutrition situation is projected to remain stable in most areas, but past trends suggest the potential for fast deterioration in highly vulnerable counties such as Turkana and Mandera because households here have not yet fully recovered,” the report says. See: Hunger, food insecurity plague the lives of millions in Africa Click here for the latest political news