The IEBC wants conclusive investigations into the academic qualifications of embattled Garissa governor Ali Korane. In a statement to newsrooms yesterday, chairman Wafula Chebukati seemed to distance the poll agency from the blame by lawyer Charles Kanjama that a second fraudulent file on the governor’s nomination documents had been sneaked into IEBC after commencement of investigations. Kanjama is representing former Garissa Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar. Mukhtar planned to challenge the authenticity of Korane’s academic papers. Read: Governor Korane may have lied about masters degree from UoN Korane is under investigations following the attempted murder of Mukhtar. On Sunday, the county chief said he does not hold a master’s degree and has at no time declared it to any state agency. Korane has also denied any involvement in the planning or execution of Mukhtar’s shooting on August 23. He was arrested on August 25 and questioned before being released the same day. Chebukati said Korane was cleared to run on the basis of the nomination documents he presented before the IEBC county returning officer. They included a self-declaration form that was shared with the EACC in February. “We caution against unfounded statements that are not justifiable and prejudicial to the investigations. The commission calls upon Kanjama and any other persons with any information that may implicate fraud or alteration of documents by IEBC staff to report the same and help with investigations,” Chebakuti said. “The commission invites the ODPP, the EACC, the DCI and any relevant government agencies to comprehensively interrogate this matter and ensure anyone found culpable is duly punished.” Despite Korane’s latest denial, documents at the and the EACC and the IEBC, and seen by the Star, show that he declared last year that he holds an MA in Business Administration. The disclosure was made in the IEBC’s Form S13 — candidate’s self-declaration form — and in an EACC declaration form that was submitted to Jubilee Party ahead of the April nominations. A copy of the form was stamped on May 20 last year. In the documents, the governor stated he graduated with a master’s degree from the University of Nairobi in 2011. In one of the interviews published by the Star on September 6, 2016, the governor said he graduated with a Master of Arts degree in Diplomacy at George Washington University, Washington, USA, in 1985. More: Korane not on list of UoN’s December 2011 graduands Click
here for the latest political news