The Jubilee Party is investigating the removal of Embu chief whip Margaret Kariuki on September 13, against the party’s wishes. Kariuki was kicked out by MCAs in an acrimonious meeting. Top party officials in the assembly were summoned on Friday to explain their defiance. He was dropped for allegedly dividing Jubilee MCAs and failing to call a meeting for a long time. Speaker Josiah Thiriku, Majority leader Michael Njeru and deputy chief whip Morris Collo were questioned by a party tribunal after chief whip Kariuki complained she was unfairly removed. The Star has learnt Kariuki accused the three senior assembly leaders of plotting her unprocedural and ‘illegal’ removal in violation of party policies and assembly standing orders. Kariuki sought reinstatement, denying the accusations against her. Party MCAs were divided into two groups that confronted each other. The chief whip’s supporters turned to social media where they blamed Thiriku, Njeru and Collo of being compromised by Kariuki’s political opponents to plot her removal. The three officials confirmed to the Star that they were summoned to the party tribunal where they defended themselves. "On the issue of the removal of the chief whip, it was purely a Jubilee Party affair. The speaker is not a party member and is non-partisan. Therefore when they did their election, they only informed me and to that effect I communicated to the assembly. That’ the only thing I did,” speaker Thiriku said. He denied involvement in any way in Kariuki’s removal, as a speaker is supposed to take charge of the assembly’s business. Thiriku said he informed the party headquarters about the Jubilee MCAs’ decision. He said although Kariuki reported him to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission over falsehoods, and he was bitter with her, that would not make him participate in her removal, since he is not supposed to intervene in party affairs. Thiriku said he was summoned by the commission last Thursday and defended himself. He said he is sure he would be vindicated. Majority leader Njeru also denied the allegations. He said the tribunal heard both sides and he would abide by its decision. Deputy chief whip Collo said he was absent during Kariuki’s removal by 12 Jubilee MCAs out of the 21 who met. He said the MCAs felt Kariuki was not delivering on her mandate. Asher deputy, he took over as acting chief whip until elections are held. Click here for the latest political news