A warrant of arrest is out for Kibwenzi West MP Patrick Musimba and his wife Angela Mwende after they failed to appear before court to be charged with stealing Sh 1.1 billion from Chase Bank. The couple was to be charged alongside the former bank's chairman Mohamed Khan, Dancun Kabui, James Mwenja, Makrios Agumbi, Luciane Sunter and Ronald Vlasman on Thursday but they did not turn up for plea taking. Only Khan took plea. Khan denied the charges before Senior Resident Magistrate Hellen Okwani and was detained at the Kileleshwa police station until Monday until when the magistrate will rule on bail application. Okwani issued the warrant against Musimba and the other suspects who were absent. The MP and his co accused persons and companies are facing charges of conspiracy to steal, stealing by servant and money laundering. They are accused of siphoning Sh1, 150, 125, 587 in different amounts from depositors accounts and transferring the same to accounts at Paramount Universal and Kenya Commercial Banks between January 2015 and March 2016. They allegedly stole the money by disbursing the said amounts to Porting Access Limited and Itec Limited without following the payment process as stipulated under the Finance Policy of the bank which was placed under receivership after the scandal. In one of the money laundering counts, Musimba and his wife are accused of removing Sh 409, 682, 900 from an account and transferring the money to an account held at the KCB Kipande Branch knowing or with reasons to believe the same was formed part of proceeds of crime, jointly with others. Kabui, Mwenja and Angumbi's lawyer Cecil Miler said they had not been informed to appear before the court by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations' Banking Fraud Investigations Unit and opposed an application for a warrant against them. The three are Chase Bank's employees and face an additional charge of stealing by servant. Miller said he had not received instruction from the MP, Sunter and Vlasman and could not mitigate for them. State counsel Mungai Warui said the BFID is still conducting investigations into the high-profile theft at the bank and suspects are likely to to be charged with stealing amount exceeding Sh 4 billion from depositors. If arrested, the suspects will remain in police custody until they are charged as they are deemed to have defied orders to present themselves before court. Click here for the latest political news         