The inability by the Jubilee administration to curb runaway corruption is to blame for the high cost of living, Westlands MP Timothy Wanyonyi has said. Wanyonyi on Thursday said billions of shillings meant for development projects have been mismanaged or stolen by a few individuals, making life difficult for the common wananchi. "During the Mwai Kibaki regime, so many projects including majors roads were done within the right budget. What we see now are overpriced projects and massive corruption," Wanyonyi said. Wanyonyi asked the President Uhuru Kenyatta not to relent in his efforts to end graft. "It is not too late. Everything we are going through, the buck stops with the leadership," he said. President Uhuru has on several occasions said that his government will not relax in the fight against corruption. Read:Uhuru lonely in 'huge' corruption war, needs help - Kibwana The legislature also warned the government against careless borrowing to finance infrastructural projects. Kenya has in the past few years borrowed billions of shillings to finance mega public infrastructure, including the standard gauge railway (SGR) line, power generation and road projects. "It is very hurting when you borrow to finance projects but the money is misused. The SGR project was overpriced. The government should make sure that this is controlled,"  Wanyonyi said. On the controversial 16 per cent VAT on Petroleum products, Wanyonyi said the executive should take quick measures to lower the tax burden on Kenyans. "If you overtax citizens, many evade and only a few pay. The government should think of how to reduce tax to at least 11 per cent," he said. In June, Wanyonyi declared that he will be contesting the Nairobi governor's seat in 2022. The MP will be seeking to remove Governor Mike Sonko from office and is likely to face stiff competition from the incumbent and Senator Johnson Sakaja. He said the desire to take over from Sonko is driven by "numerous complaints" he receives over bad roads and uncollected garbage "yet he is not responsible for them". Read: Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi declares '22 bid for Nairobi governor Click here for the latest political news 