Kakamega ANC ward representatives, who visited DP William Ruto on Thursday, have criticised secretary general Barrack Muluka who wants them to face disciplinary action. Isukha South MCA Farouk Machanje said there is nothing wrong with visiting other leaders as the Constitution allows for freedom of association and expression. He said there is no ANC rule that prohibits members from mingling and discussing development with other leaders who can contribute to their development agenda. “William Ruto is the DP and anybody is allowed to visit him. We have development projects that would be beneficial to our people and that is what we went to request from him. It’s not about us, it’s all about our people,” Farouk said. Nine ANC ward representatives from Kakamega and Vihiga assemblies received letters from the party on Friday to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for visiting Ruto at his Karen home on Thursday. The letter says they ‘worked against the interests of the party.’ The secretary general accuses them of attending a meeting with leaders from a competing political party “whose interests are adversarial to that of ANC.” They are accused of hatching a scheme to orchestrate the downfall of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi in 2022. Last month, Mudavadi said he will be on the presidential ballot in 2022. He said failure by the Nasa co-principals to support him in 2022 will not dim his ambitions. ANC gave the nine MCAs until September 9 to give reasons why they should not be expelled from the party. Otherwise, the case will be presented to the National Executive Committee and the disciplinary committee for action. Butali/Chegulo MCA Kevin Mahelo, a Jubilee MCA, led the delegation of 20 MCAs from ODM, Jubilee and UDP to Ruto’s home. He said they went to see him over development issues and in the spirit of the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. He said Muluka should stop threatening MCAs who have been duly elected and are doing everything within their means to deliver on their mandate. “I’m surprised that Muluka can send such a letter, yet he is not even the secretary general of ANC. The legitimate ANC secretary general is Godfrey Osotsi and he supports association and the spirit of handshake,” Mahelo said. He said he will lead more delegations to meet the Deputy President in the near future and then the President. “I don’t see a problem with visiting our political leaders. If the ANC leadership wants MCAs to visit party leader Musalia Mudavadi, we shall do so, as long as he assures us of tangible development for our people,” Mahelo said. Click here for the latest political news