Teachers employer, TSC, is accusing Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion of being dishonest about the ongoing negotiations between the union and the commission. In a statement to newsrooms yesterday, the TSC distanced itself from some of the grounds the union boss was quoted saying they had reached in the negotiations. The commission accused Sossion of twisting facts and misleading teachers on matters the two parties are yet to reach a middle ground on. Sossion was last week quoted saying the commission agreed to promote 30,000 teachers. Read: Knut, TSC plan five-day retreat to avert September strike This, according to the commission, was never agreed on during their first phase of the meetings, which saw Knut abandon plans to strike this term. “Sossion and some union officials have chosen to continue misleading teachers and telling falsehoods,” said the commission in a statement. The TSC also claimed Sossion recently attempted to sabotage curriculum implementation programmes like teacher appraisal by inciting staff to defy their employer. “This is regrettable and unfortunate. The commission takes great exception to such disgraceful action, especially when it is instigated and supported by an honourable Member of Parliament, who is also a state officer.” Attempts to reach Sossion for a comment were futile as he did not respond to his phone calls or text messages. Teachers, the commission said, should only take directions from the employer and no other agency. The commission added that it will take action against any teacher who fails to take up a transfer or appraisal. Appraisals, which include performance contracting and teacher performance development, were rolled out in 2016 to enable monitoring and evaluation of teachers’ performance. “Union officials who have been misleading teachers on the issue of transfer of teachers should be ignored. Regrettably, teachers who fail to proceed on transfer as directed will be dealt with in accordance to the code of regulations for teachers”. The two parties will on September 28 start a five-day retreat to address all issues arising from the implementation of the CBA. Read: Principals differ with Sossion on strike plan, root for dialogue with TSC Click here for the latest political news