The creation of an advisory board to oversee the Auditor General is illegal, the High court has declared. Justice Chacha Mwita said some sections of Public Audit Act which created the board were inconsistent with the Constitution because they take away the independence to the Auditor General. Justice Mwita said he considered the provisions of the Act against the Constitution and noted violations. “A declaration is hereby issued that sections 4(2), 8, 12, 17(1), 18, 27, 40, 42 and 70 of the Public Audit Act 2015 are inconsistent and in contravention of the Constitution and are invalid,” Mwita said. He said the sections failed the constitutional test on validity. “I'm however unable to find fault with the procedure adopted by the President in making his reservations over the Bill when he returned it to Parliament," he said. Transparency International had petitioned the Attorney General, saying the law makes the Auditor General answerable to people he is supposed to hold accountable over the use of public funds. The AG said the petition did not disclose violations or threats that violate the Constitution or rights and fundamental freedoms. He said independence of commissions and independent offices does not entail complete isolation from other state organs. “The impugned presidential actions consist of legitimate obligations hence there is no basis for the claim of interference in the law making process by the President," the AG said. He said the President was right in suggesting amendments to the bill, maintaining there was nothing to show that the amendments were intended to subvert the Auditor General’s mandate. The AG said the President can veto a bill and that is what he did in suggesting the amendments. He said the National Assembly forwarded to the bill to the President for assent after it had been passed by both houses of Parliament. “The National Assembly received a memorandum from the President returning the Bill to Parliament with recommendations on various sections/clauses," he said. The Auditor General, who was an interested party, said he was entitled to recruit staff as required contrary to what was implied by the impugned sections. Sections 15 and 17 imply the Auditor General cannot employ staff directly except through the Public Service Commission.  “The Act not only compromises but also undermines institutional independence of Auditor General by attempting to subject control of its staff to the Public Service Commission," the Auditor General said. Click here for the latest political news 