The National Treasury's imposition of 16 per cent tax on fuel with a view to raising funds to repay outstanding public debts that has now hit Sh5 trillion has sparked protests countrywide. CS Henry Rotich said the monies will cater for high recurrent expenditure and fund President Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda of health, housing, manufacturing and food security. The implementation of VAT on petroleum products will force manufactures and transport operators to pass the increased cost of doing business to customers. This will certainly raise the price of basic household goods and services like food and transport which form a key component in computing the cost of living (inflation). Friends of committee will now write to seek permission to sit Errant MPs who are not members of a parliamentary committee probing public officers but attend hearings for personal interests have been dealt a major blow. The National Assembly last week passed a rule for non-committee members, popularly referred to as 'friends of the committee'. They will seek permission in writing, which could either be granted or denied. The rule contained in the amended House Standing Order 195 restricts non-committee members from the traditional practice of attending the meeting without permission from the panel chairperson. Women shun contraceptives to increase libido, keep husbands Mombasa resident Khadija Mohamed (not her real name) has seven daughters between two and 12 years old. And she is two months pregnant. She uses the withdrawal method, which she admits is not so effective but leaves her sex drive intact so she can satisfy her husband, who wants more children anyway. "My husband’s desires come first. He can opt for another woman if I’m not satisfying him," Khadija, whose husband is customarily allowed to marry up to four wives, said. Her identity is hidden because her husband, a cleric, did not permit her to speak. The husband considers the withdrawal method 'sound'. More effective methods include oral hormonal pills, intrauterine devices, injectables, implants, male and female condoms. A study by Deutsche Stiftung Weltbevoelkerung found that injectable is the most common Family Planning method among women in Mombasa. Pumwani guard halts abduction of baby by woman using laptop bag A security guard at Pumwani Maternity Hospital saved the day after intercepting a woman trying to steal a 3.5kg baby she had hidden in a laptop bag. Mary Atieno tried to steal three-day-old Adrian from the Nairobi county-run facility at 5.30pm on Friday. His mother, Rebecca Kasaya, 35, had left him on a hospital bed as she went to process her discharge documents when he was abducted. Adrian’s abductor was intercepted by a security guard when the baby started crying just as she passed through the hospital’s main entrance on the first floor. Lack of credit information headache for startups, SMEs Lorraine Mwende plies her trade, shoe polishing, along Haile Selassie Avenue in Nairobi and has been in the business for two years now. She polishes shoes at a cost of between Sh50 to Sh200 per pair and could serve close to 15 people in a day. "If I need to add shoe polish brushes and creams, I borrow from the mobile money services and the most I can get is Sh3,000," Mwende said. Mwende is one of the few SMEs aspiring to boost their small business revenues and grow but are unaware of alternative sources of financing. They also fall short in their knowledge about credit agreements.  Click here for the latest political news 