Erratic changes in weather patterns perpetuate emergence of new diseases, a scientist warned yesterday. Lead environmental scientist with the Global Environment Facility Secretariat Mohamed Bakarr said this will complicate public health and and cause economic stagnation. “...we need innovative approaches to tackle climate change,” he said, adding that a strong link between diseases and the environment is emerging. Bakarr addressed delegates at the first African Environment Partnership Platform. Not there yet He warned that even though strides have been made, a lot still needs to be done. Bakarr said diseases such as ebola could be exacerbated by the changing climate. Among those who attended the session were Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, deputy executive Director of United Nations Environment Programme Joyce Msuya and Nepad programmes director Estherine Fotabong. Bakarr urged African countries to take science seriously, saying it will help them understand how the environment supports wellbeing. “Data should inform decision making,” he said, adding that the threats facing African countries are pervasive and increasing. Bakarr cited heavy metals, logging, land degradation, plastic and electronic waste as some of the challenges facing the continent. The illegal trade in wildlife was also cited as one of the problems the international community must address. Bakarr said the population of Africa is set to hit two billion in a few years. This, he said, will put pressure on. Read:Climate change decade to cost Sh68bn livestock Natural resources. “There is a need to transform agriculture to cope with the population,” he said. Bakarr added that urbanisation will also put pressure on natural resources. However, countries cannot afford to lose natural resources such as the Nairobi National Park,he said. Bakarr said Africa suffers as a result of changes associated with climate change, yet it contributes less. “Let us write our own narrative. It has to start now. Africa is youthful and we need to give it a chance,”he said. Bakarr praised Kenya’s move to ban plastic bags. The adoption of the sustainable development goals and coming into force of Paris Africa Agreement provides an opportunity for Africa to address environment and sustainable development goals. Climate problems The inaugural session of African Environment Partnership Platform 2018 will create an opportunity to implement regional flagship programmes. It further makes recommendations on strategies to support such programmes. Tobiko said the first African Environment Partnership Platform 2018 will pool resources to address climate problems. “The platform presents Africa with a chance to put environment issues at the forefront of policy discourse through engagement,” Tobiko said. Click here for the latest politicla news