Anti-graft agency detectives yesterday raided the house of National Land Commission director of legal affairs Brian Ikol. The sleuths from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission descended on Ikol’s home at 5.30am. They later went with him to his 12th floor office at Ardhi House. “The raid was both at his house and office. We seized documents and computers crucial to the ongoing investigations at NLC,” a source familiar with the raid told the Star without explaining what cases they were investigating. The source said Ikol was questioned and later released but he remains among other people of interest on the commission’s radar. This is not the first time Ikol is in the centre of a probe. Last year, he presented himself at Integrity Centre after EACC officers raided homes of key officials of NLC. A multi-agency team, which is combating corruption, has extended probe on all commissioners at NLC starting from acting chairperson Abigael Mbagaya. Last week, Mbagaya turned against her former bodyguard in an attempt to fend off claims of abuse of office. Through Osundwa and Company Advocates, she wrote to the bodyguard and his commandant SGB Uhuru Camp, accusing the former aide of damaging her reputation. Read: EACC recovers Sh17m after raids at Swazuri, senior NLC officials' homes Mbagaya accused the former bodyguard of possessing “intimate details of a corrupt scheme” with intention to defraud her. She demanded disciplinary action against him, as she accused him of being used by a third party to fix her. Mbagaya further alleges that her former aide is being used to perpetrate fraud and other connected crimes on members of the NLC. She has demanded that the former aide apologises and an unconditional withdrawal of a statement he made against her to the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and other investigatory agencies. “Your unwarranted pronouncements have irreparably tainted our client’s image in front of the civil service fraternity, her family, friends and the public at large which now perceives her as corrupt, fraudulent and an incompetent state officer,” Mbagaya’s lawyer said. Read: Swazuri narrates 50-hour ordeal in EACC police cell, cites rights violations Click here for the latest political news