The government has issued an alert on Rift Valley Fever outbreak ahead of the rainy season expected next month. Director of Veterinary Services Charles Ochodo said the short rains from October to December will pound Northeatern, Northwestern, Western, Central and Coastal regions. There will be enhanced rainfall in most regions. “In view of the above, there are possible outbreaks of the Rift Valley Fever disease and hence the need for all the county directors of veterinary service to be on high alert,” Ochodo said. He asked counties to put in place early warning systems and direct their field staff, public health officers, administrators and community leaders to be on alert. “They should also vaccinate livestock in high-risk areas as a preventive measure,” Ochodo said. The director called for enhanced surveillance. He asked the officers to investigate reports of miscarriage and deaths, especially in young animals, and blood samples sent to the veterinary centre in Kabete. Read:Outbreak of Rift Valley Fever feared as flooding persists Ochodo said field officers should carry out weather monitoring activities and file reports on changes in the level of precipitation and any events of flooding. “Officers should commence public awareness on disease reporting, personal hygiene and discourage bare-hand handling of animal carcasses,” he said. “Disease control committees should be activated with immediate effect.” Ochodo said early detection of the disease is important in minimising the effects on both human and livestock and also reduce the control costs. The October-December weather outlook provided by the Meteorological department indicates Busia, Vihiga, Kakamega, Bungoma, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Nyamira, Kisii, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties will receive enhanced rainfall. Those in Central, North Rift, north-western, coastal and Northeastern will receive above normal rains. At least six people died in Wajir in a reemergence of Rift Valley Fever in June. It was the first such tragedy since an outbreak killed more than 200 people a decade ago. Ten other cases were reported in the county. The outbreak was also reported in Isiolo,Garissa and Kilifi. Click here for the latest politicla news 