 We are accustomed to tossing about the
word “democracy” that we often forget it is not
an end in itself, but a means to an end. Democracy is supposed to be a
facilitating mechanism. The idea behind democracy is that everyone should have
an equal say in how their country or society is run. Unfortunately, millions of Kenyans
have been continuously denied this right
by our unfair voting system. Since Independence, Kenyans are only used to
a single-member constituency or winner-takes-all system of election, which has
become tradition. In fact, it is outside our imagination that there is a
better and fairer system of election. The traditional system ignores the wishes of millions of Kenyans who are keen on
voting on issue that are closest to their hearts, that affect them at
a personal level. It is imperative in a free democracy that
every vote counts. To achieve this imperative, we need to change our
election system from winner takes all to a fairer one based on Proportional Representation where
every vote counts. Proportional representation system of
election is underpinned by two basic principles: That all voters deserve
representation and that all political groups founded on different ideologies
deserve to be represented in our legislative assemblies in proportion to their
strength on electorates. The effect of this is that every vote counts. How does
proportional representation work? First, it uses
multi-member constituencies such as counties. Instead of electing one person in
each constituency, as we do currently, several people are elected in a
multi-member constituency or county. These multi-member constituencies or
counties may be relatively small like Lamu with only three national
assembly members or they may be large like Nairobi with 17
members of the National Assembly. Proportional representation system of
election requires electorates in a multi-member county to vote for
various parties presenting a list of candidates in that county. The parties
will then win seats according to the proportion of
votes they received. That is, if the candidates of a party win 40 per cent of the
votes in a 10-member county, they receive four out of the 10 seats or 40 per cent of the
seats. If another party gets 20 per cent of the votes, they get two seats and so
on. In effect, the overall goal of proportional representation is
to ensure that all voters receive some representation and that all parties are
represented fairly. The minority deserve representation just as much as the
majority. Countries currently using
proportional system include Rwanda, Algeria, Angola, Burkina
Faso, Denmark, Israel, Mozambique, Namibia, Norway, South Africa, Sweden,
Switzerland, Togo and Tunisia. Wider benefits have been
identified in countries using proportionate representation compared to those
using First Past The Post (FPTP), including higher score in the UN Human
Development Index, a measure of health, education and personal security, higher
economic growth, and better environmental protection. Here in Kenya there was stability,
peace and growth during the Grand Coalition Government of 2008-13 when a larger
section of the population felt represented. The folly of FPTP can easily be seen in
some constituencies in Nairobi where a candidate was declared
winner despite 65.4 per cent of the electorates voting against. In other words some
representatives are elected to the legislative assemblies with as low as 34.6 per cent of the votes. This
anomaly can only be cured by
proportional representation. Naturally, there would be higher voter
turnout at the polls under proportional representation as the electorates will
come to realise that their votes really count. Proportional representation will
facilitate minority parties to access representation if the threshold is
objectively worked out thereby enriching our national policy discourse.This
will encourage political parties to campaign beyond the constituencies in which
they are stronger or dominant, leading to more cohesion as opposed to the
current zoning. Proportional representation will easily
cure the gender parity question by simply requiring parties to produce a gender sensitive list at every level
of election. A well-structured party list will eliminate the need for
nominations to the county assemblies, National Assembly and even Senate, thereby
reducing the cost of representation. We must change our election system sooner than later from FPTP to
a more democratic and fairer proportional representation for a better Kenya.  Party leader, Green
Congress (Party) of Kenya martin.ogindo@gck.or.ke