US President Donald Trump and First
Lady Melania Trump have visited a memorial in Pennsylvania to mark the
9/11 attacks 17 years ago. Trump delivered a speech
commemorating the airplane passengers who are thought to have charged
the cockpit to stop the attackers. Ceremonies are also being held at New York City's 9/11 Memorial plaza on the World Trade Center site. It was deadliest foreign attack ever on US soil, killing 2,996 people. "America's future is not written by our enemies. America's future is
written by our heroes," Trump said in Shanksville on Tuesday. "As
long as this monument stands, as long as this memorial endures, brave
patriots will rise up in America's hours of need and they, too, will
fight back." The president spoke at the newly inaugurated Tower of Voices memorial, a 93ft (28m) tall structure with 40 wind chimes. On
11 September 2001, hijackers flew planes into the World Trade Center in
New York City, and the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia. Another plane, United Airlines Flight 93, crashed in a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. It
is believed hijackers were planning to aim that aircraft at the US
Congress or White House in Washington DC before it went down, killing
all 40 people aboard. Cockpit voice recordings of the hijackers
and mobile phone calls from those aboard to loved ones indicate
passengers tried to fight their way into the cockpit to regain control
before the plotters nosedived the plane. "A band of brave patriots turned the tide on our nation's enemies and joined the immortal rank of American heroes," he said. He is the third sitting president to attend the crash site, 70 miles (110km) south-east of Pittsburgh. Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, was among those who noted
this is the first year that Americans born after the attacks will be old
enough to enlist in the US military. During remarks at the
Pentagon, Vice-President Mike Pence told audience members they "must
learn the lessons of 9/11 and remain ever vigilant". The ceremony in New York was attended by New York Governor Andrew
Cuomo, US ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley and Mayor Bill de
Blasio, as well as his predecessors Michael Bloomberg and Rudy
Giuliani. Relatives of victims read out the names of the dead, and
moments of silence were observed at 08:46 and 09:03 to mark the times
when passenger jets struck the two skyscrapers. In the years since the attacks, cancer cases in lower Manhattan -
especially among first responders who dug through the toxic rubble -
have increased. The 9/11 Victims' Compensation Fund has paid out $4bn (£3.1bn ) to fund medical expenses for survivors of the terror attacks. Nearly 10,000 of them have had some form of cancer, according to the World Trade Center Health Program. Tens
of thousands of people inhaled fumes in the days after the attack, and
the number of patients coming forward with tumours has increased in
recent years, according to the fund. 