At least 126 Kenyans have benefited from Ford Foundation's fellowship programme for the past 10 years at Sh4.24 billion. The International	Fellowships	Program	(IFP) focused on marginalised Pokot, Turkana, and Maasai communities. Apart from the ethnic groups, IFP also included women, people from low socio-economic backgrounds, and people with disabilities. This is according to a report by the Institute	of	International	Education	(IIE)	in	collaboration	with	the	Ford	Foundation released on Friday. It highlights the	value	and	impact	of	fellowship	programmes	on	marginalised communities. "48 per cent of fellows were women, and 30 per cent came from the Rift Valley - a region with high populations of marginalised communities," the report said. The report	is	part	of	a	10-year	alumni	tracking	study which featured 60 women and 66 men from Kenya who pursued degrees under	the umbrella	of	social	justice. It says 27 per cent took	up	studies	in	International	Development,	21 per cent Education, eight per cent Environmental	Science, and others in Public	Health. A majority of the people studied in the United States (69 per cent), the United Kingdom (18 per cent), and Australia (7 per cent). Only 1 per cent stayed in Kenya to pursue graduate programmes. According	to	the	report,	the	programme	has	provided IFP alumni	with	important	experiences	of	fairness	in	the	socio-economic	processes	they	had	been through. It has also increased	their	confidence,	awareness,	self-identity,	commitment,	leadership,	and	career	advancement. "For	some, the	experience opened their	eyes	to	the	fact	that	they	had	all	along	been	victims of	injustices," the report states. Maurice	Makoloo, Ford	Foundation’s Eastern Africa regional director, said some of the IFP	Fellows were	the first in	their families	and	local	communities	to	obtain degrees. "This	study	confirms	that	when	every	person,	irrespective	of	their	background,	if provided	with	an	equal	opportunity,	they	develop	their	talents	to	incredible	high levels." He added: "Ultimately,	the	investment	in	these	individuals	empower	them	to	make	significant contributions	to	advance	our	society," he added. Half of the alumni currently work in fields that include community development (48 per cent) or education (51 per cent), the report adds. About one-third (30 per cent) of alumni work on gender issues. Moreover, the report highlighted corruption, economic inequality, tribalism and nepotism as the key challenges to Kenya's struggling education system. "Kenya has consistently been ranked among the most corrupt countries in the world," it states. "This corruption, coupled with tribalism and nepotism, has marginalized many in the country and contributed to ethno-political tensions that often boil over most recently during last year’s presidential elections." The program opened pathways to 22 developing countries in which Palestine recorded the highest literacy rate at 96 per cent. The research was conducted using a code system developed in collaboration with the IIE study team. Click here for the latest political news