Three factions of the Kirinyaga council of elders that have been divided in the pursuit of a share of the Mwea trust land have united to form a common front. The Mihiriga Kenda factions that were led by Gitimu Mureithi, Elija Njeru and Mugo Kabeu yesterday agreed to work together in the fight for the 54,000-acre land. They said the land belongs to the Kirinyaga county government. Both Kirinyaga and Embu counties are laying claim to the property. In February, a man was shot dead during bloody clashes between squatters and police. They were protesting the subdivision of the land to squatters from Embu and Mbeere. Kabeu said wrangling among their factions was not beneficial to Kirinyaga residents hence the move to seek a common front. "We know the boundary of Kirinyaga runs from River Rupingazi to River Sagana then to the boundary with Nyeri county. Mwea trust land falls within this boundary and that is why we are saying the land belongs to Kirinyaga county,” Kabeu said. He was speaking during a meeting of the Mihiriga Kenda factions at Wanguru Stadium. The meeting was attended by Mwea West deputy county commissioner Edwin Chambari. The elders resolved to put aside their selfish interests. “It is a new dawn. We’ve gathered here as Kirinyaga elders and not as factions because we have only one Mihiriga Kenda,” Mureithi said. The elders held out an olive branch to their counterparts from Embu. They said the two communities have lived harmoniously with each other and could dialogue and reach an amicable resolution to the dispute. "We have never fought with our brothers from Embu and this should not be the time to fight over an issue that we can amicably resolve,” Njeru said. Earlier at the meeting, Chambari told the elders that he would disregard them and choose those to work with if the elders had not reached a common ground. NINE SHOT He said members of different factions were flocking his office claiming to be bona fide elders of the council. Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira has welcomed the unity of the elders. The MP who has been involved in bringing together the wrangling factions said the move will strengthen their bid to reclaim the Mwea trust land. Governor Anne Waiguru also lauded the move. Her office said it will set the stage for her to negotiate with Embu governor Martin Wambora. The settlement scheme was subdivided for squatters by the Embu county government in April triggering protests from residents of Kirinyaga. Nine people were shot during clashes with police.