The manner in which the contentious Finance Bill, 2018 was finally adopted by Parliament last Thursday was disgraceful and borders on fraud and illegality. There are severe discrepancies in the way the vote was conducted and it can easily be legally disputed. The screen in Parliament was displaying a number higher than that of the total number of MPs. Deputy Speaker Soipan Tuya called for a division and put the question without first establishing the quorum in the House. This is unprecedented and does not qualify as an honest mistake. The Speaker and Majority leader are alleged to have conspired to order a fresh vote before Duale, in total contravention of House rules, whipped members out of the House to ensure that there was a lack of quorum. Both are guilty of having abdicated their responsibility in direct contravention of Chapter Six of the Constitution which demands they “exercise objectivity and impartiality in decision making and in ensuring decisions are not influenced by improper motives.” They failed to act honourably and with integrity. There is public indignation at Muturi’s declaration that those in support of the President's memo prevailed, even when the acclamations indicated otherwise. Parliament is an important independent arm of government which should conduct itself and act without fear or favour. It is a hallowed institution and the citadel of our laws. Its current leadership appears to be pandering to the whims of the Executive, which is unacceptable. These are ominous signs of a looming dictatorship or state capture of Parliament. That the Executive is meddling in independent institutions is not in doubt. The Judiciary has been deliberately starved of funds, perhaps as a penalty for the Judgment issued after the August 8, 2017 presidential election. MPs are regularly summoned to State House and given instructions on how to vote, applying the dreaded 'tyranny of numbers'. In the instant case Jubilee and opposition leaders, in a rare show of unity, managed to close ranks out of fear of being voted out in the next election. Voters were keenly watching MPs who supported these unpopular taxes, with a view to punishing them at the ballot box at the next election. Once the House leadership realised that MPs were about to defy their respective party leaders, they allegedly plotted to use underhand means to rig the vote. Equally disheartening is that Opposition leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka of ODM and Wiper whipped their members to vote for the Executive. Raila has for the first time stood on the wrong side of history. His attempts to couch it as a NASA statement fell flat on its face as it was an ODM affair. It also exposed his perilous position of trying to keep one foot in the opposition and the other in Jubilee via the famous handshake and Building Bridges Initiative. He would be well advised to make up his mind as his current stand is untenable. This is extremely unbecoming and a very sad day for someone known as a champion of democracy and human rights. The only man left standing with the people was ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. The government is currently in a state of paralysis due to poor fiscal discipline. Endemic corruption in government, burdensome loans, lack of consistent fiscal policies and rapacious borrowing have landed the country in a crisis. The creation of the post of Chief Administrative Secretary, ostensibly created to reward failed Jubilee politicians, should be abolished. The tragedy is that our government is seeking additional debt for infrastructure projects, including a six-lane highway from Mombasa to Nairobi at the astronomical cost of Sh1 billion per kilometre; additional funding from China to finance the SGR from Naivasha to Kisumu and others. The old adage that when one finds oneself in a hole they should stop digging still holds true. Jubilee must stop digging otherwise we are in for a rough ride.