As the country gears up
for World Rabies Day tomorrow, the main impediment to eradicating the deadly
disease is lack of awareness. Rabies kills at least
2,000 Kenyans annually, according to the Zoonotic Diseases Unit . The rabies virus is transmitted
through the bites or scratches of infected animals and has no cure. However, many
Kenyans who own dogs, cats and donkeys fail to appreciate the risk they are
exposed to when they do not take anti-rabies vaccinations. Kenya Veterinary
Association secretary general emeritus Kenneth Wameyo says vets and the
government aim to rid the county of dogs-mediated rabies by 2030. The drive, however, has
been slowed down by a shortage of resources. “We have tried investing
in informing people right up to the grassroots about rabies and how it can be
prevented, but have not penetrated enough,” he said. The theme of this year’s
celebration is: “Share the message, save a life”, indicating that the focus of
the anti-rabies messaging is public awareness. NATIONAL STRATEGY The government launched
national anti-rabies campaigns in Makueni county in September 2014. It unveiled
a strategy paper detailing what would be done to rid the county of the
incurable disease by 2030. “Elimination is
achievable through mass dog vaccination because dogs are responsible for
transmission of over 98 per cent of all human rabies,” the strategy paper read.
It was signed by signed by the then Agriculture CS Felix Kosgey and Health CS James
Macharia. The government, through
the elimination strategy, says rabies causes approximately 60,000 human deaths
worldwide annually, with one person dying of rabies every 10 minutes. The burden associated
with rabies remains highest in the developing countries like Kenya. Children
below 15 are the most exposed to the risk of rabies infection, especially in
rural areas. “The cost associated
with post-exposure prophylaxis in humans is high and exceeds the cost of rabies
control in animals through dog vaccinations,” the strategy says. Six counties with a high
burden of the disease were selected for piloting the mass dog vaccination
campaign, targeting more than 70 per cent of dog population annually for three years.
The piloting comes to a close this year and covers Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay,
Kitui, Machakos and Makueni. Wameyo, a veterinary
specialist and consultant himself, told the Star some of these problems will
form part of the thematic areas during this year's World Rabies Day celebration
to be held in Diani, Kwale county. World Rabies Day is an
annual global fete, and the KVA mobilises animal health practitioners and vets
to give back to the society by teaching animal owners proper husbandry, besides
mounting animal health camps. “We will do mass
anti-rabies vaccination camps in Kwale county on the day, targeting not only
dogs but also donkeys, cats and other domestic animals as part of our CSR,”
said Dr Wameyo. Similar activities will be done in other counties, including
Makueni, Nandi, Kisumu and Siaya. A scientific conference
bringing together veterinary researchers, doctors, and partners, including drug
manufacturers, the government, and animal welfare groups, including World Animal
Protection, will precede the day. Wameyo, who is at the
crux of the planning, says the conference will take stock of the successes in
the anti-rabies campaign, the setbacks and the way forward. “The conference always
provides an opportunity for experience sharing and assessing the strategies in
enhancing animal health in the country in general, not only among dogs,” he
said. SUCCESS STORY The strides made in the
drive to zero-rate human-mediated infections are evident in Makueni county, one
of those undergoing mass vaccination. Livestock chief officer
Martin Mboloi says the county has vaccinated 230,000 dogs. “This represents
about 64 per cent of the dog population, making us edge closer to the target,”
he said. “Soon after the launch
of the drive here, the county secured partnership with organisations in the
animal and human health sector, and this has given a boost to the campaign,
particularly focusing on responsible dog ownership.” The chief officer said
the county has invested Sh8 million and partnering organisations injected Sh24
million, making the devolved unit edge closer to being declared human-mediated
rabies free. World Animal Protection,
a charitable global animal welfare outfit, has been a dominant player in the
anti-rabies campaigns by the state. Besides partnering with
the government's Zoonotic Disease Unit to develop the National Rabies
Elimination Strategy, the organisation has been working with counties to train
people on humane animal treatment. In Makueni alone, the
NGO has committed Sh20 million in the drive, besides working direct follow-ups
with dog owners. Mboloi said the animal
welfare outfit has renewed this year’s funding for the programme. BOTTOM-UP APPROACH Emily Mudoga, the animal
in community campaigns manager at WAP, said Makueni county's efforts in
tackling rabies have succeeded largely due to a “bottom-up approach in decision
making”. “The county has been
operating on an open-door policy, allowing partners like WAP and the residents
to work together in enforcing the strategies,” Mudoga told reporters a press
road trip. “Much of the activities
in the campaign invested a lot in the people, reaching out to them and
educating them on proper dog husbandry,” she said. The aim was to make people
value their animals and see them as part of their socioeconomic dynamics. County veterinary
officer Mark Matheka said: “This made the people of Makueni own the drive.” The county has vet
officers on standby for calls by residents to attend to any case and also to
teach them on proper dog handling. Matheka said the county has
made the anti-rabies campaign broad-based, involving the Health and Education departments,
among others. “We involve the teachers
in the drive to teach children about responsible animal ownership, and so the
message has spread to the society. We also involve village elders,” he said. Livestock chief officer
Mboloi, a veterinary doctor himself, said his department is working on a bill
that will make responsible animal ownership mandatory, requiring that locals
have their dogs vaccinated annually and have a certificate for it. “Even cases of dogs
wandering in the local villages and Wote town have reduced drastically. People
also no longer beat up their animals, as was the case before,” he said. KVA’s Wameyo welcomed
the initiative, saying: “The bill should require dog owners to have licences
and punitive measures instituted to ensure people take animal health seriously.” Dog owner Joseph Mutui,
58, from Kathonzweni said the mass anti-rabies vaccination programme has made
people friendlier to domestic animals. He said he helps in mobilising people to
respond to the drive. “My dog, Bruno, is a
friend,” he said. “I even became a community health volunteer as part of this
mass anti-rabies campaign.” Bruno, a female dog, was
adopted by WAP when six months old in 2014 and has been a recipient of annual
vaccines. She is used as a model by the organisation to train the residents on how
to practise responsible dog keeping. Mudoga, also a vet, led WAP
staff in training Mutinda’s neighbours on how to care for pets. They received
Bruno’s puppies, who were given anti-rabies jabs. Retired civil servant Bernadette
Koki said her mother almost died of rabies in 1998, so she takes the county’s
anti-rabies campaign seriously.