The renowned business strategist and author of Unlimited Power, Anthony Robbins, said: “Long ago, I realized that success leaves clues, and that people who produce outstanding results do specific things to create those results. I believed that if I precisely duplicated the actions of others, I could reproduce the same quality of results that they had.” Robbins’ statement presents a simple strategy for success. It is good to know that you don’t have to reinvent the wheel. Someone has already done what you want to do or an aspect of your dream, find them, figure out how they did it and start. It’s fine to copy – especially at the beginning. That’s an easy way to start. So, how does this process work? Drive for Pursuit: Yes, success leaves clues, but the clues can be useless to you if you lack the drive or passion for pursuit. The motivational speaker, Dr. Mike Murdock, said: “Pursuit is the proof of desire.” Your passion for pursuit shows how much you want your dream. Your pursuit proves how much you want to achieve the same results that the successful have achieved. Desire without pursuit is unprofitable. Duplication Plan: You’ve decided on direction, you’re ready for pursuit, now what’s your plan? Having identified someone successful whose success you wish to model, what are you going to do? Here, it’s wise to come up with a systematic way to engage with the person. Do they have books, online courses, YouTube videos, seminars, workshops, conferences? On what platform are you going to engage with them? How have they left clues and how do you plan to engage this information? Modelling or duplicating success isn’t a haphazard affair. You must be intentional. Budget: Success duplication will cost you. Books, seminars, conferences, online courses can cost you money. Do you have a budget for your duplication plan? Are you willing to set aside some funds to enable you make the required investments? A budget is solid proof of your passion. If you’re willing to invest, then the duplication process is properly activated. Success duplication comes with a price tag. Practice: It’s duplication when you do the success clues that you find. Many people know the ‘secrets’ of success, but how many people are truly successful? Duplication isn’t complete without practice. As you study and learn how success clues work, it is wise to do them. Only as you practice the clues that successful people leave, will you get the same results that they got. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com