After a few
glasses of wine, I’m no closer to finishing the list that is to define my
relationship with Rob than I was two hours ago. I sigh and minimise the file on
my desktop, opening a new Word document. I’ll finish it some other time; right
now I have to write an editorial for my magazine. It’s
interesting but words that had failed me when writing my list, which should
come easily (you’re basically asking for everything you’ve ever wanted), seem
to flow easily now as I put down my thoughts for this month’s issue. I type
away, occasionally taking a sip of my wine. Forty-five
minutes later I read through it. I’m writing about the ‘rabbit out of a hat’
that Nike just pulled: Marketers, marketers, marketers... Gather around for
this stroke of genius. 2016 was not a great year for Nike. For the first time
in a decade that year, the Swoosh did not have the most popular sneaker in the
US. They lost that title to Adidas Superstar. Add to that, it had dropped a
significant market share from an amazing 60 per cent in 2014. But make no mistake, Nike was still a monster, with
46 per cent market share compared to Adidas’s 11%. In 2017, Nike took back the
Number 1 position with Nike Tanjun. This sneaker is comfortable and easy to wear,
making it very attractive to a lot of moms. Moms comprise a quiet but powerful
demographic. The name Tanjun comes from the Japanese word for ‘simplicity.’
Nike says it offered “an elevated everyday look.” But though back with the number one sneaker in the
land, great brands don’t just rest on their laurels. They come back even BIGGER,
determined to regain their 2014 glory and control over half the market share.
So they did something bold. They signed controversial figure Colin Kaepernick
to be the face of Nike's 30th anniversary Just Do It campaign, ensuring headlines
and massive #Trending on all social media platforms. For a little background if you’ve never heard of
Kaepernick, he’s an American Football quarterback who is currently a free
agent. NFL teams blackballed Colin after taking a knee during the playing of
the national anthem last season to protest police brutality against African
Americans. Other players followed suit and their protest against racial
injustice in the US ignited a firestorm of controversy with a polarising debate
between those for and against his chosen mode of protest. Last year he filed a grievance lawsuit against the
NFL and its owners, accusing them of colluding not to hire him. Colin follows the likes of Mohammed Ali, who lost
everything to take a stand they believed in. Nike signing Colin (who isn’t
playing) is clearly showing the middle finger to the NFL, who Nike is in
partnership with. Nike provides all NFL teams with game-day uniforms and
sideline apparel that bears the swoosh logo. Nike is on the right side of history with this one.
It will blow the competition out of the water. The likes of Amnesty
International have already awarded Kaepernick with an Ambassador of Conscience
award. There are, of course, some disgruntled right wing groups burning their
Nike apparel with this move but Nike is a worldwide brand, not just an American
one. And most of the world takes a very dim view of a lot of shenanigans taking
place in the “land of the free”. I think I'll go buy myself a pair of Nike
sneakers right now. And 50 of our readers will get a chance to win a pair as
well. Details are on the centrespread. Thank you, Nike. This is marketing
genius. I sign off the
editorial feeling proud of myself. Then I re-open my pending list. Well, as
Nike says, Just Do It. I start typing …