A group of youths in Nyamira are seeking the recall of Gusii MPs who supported the Finance Bill, 2018 introducing a set of tax measures. The Nyamira Bunge sacco members said the lawmakers failed in their expected mandate of shielding voters from repressive laws. Brian Makori and Beavon Magare, who led the group, said the members should not be representing the region in the assembly. "The MPs should be recalled so that we get serious leaders. The current ones do not know what they are doing in Parliament," Magare said. "We are tired of pretenders in the name of MPs who cannot fight for us when we need them most." More on this:  MPs fail to overturn Uhuru's 8 per cent fuel tax The youths, however, lauded MPs Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango),
Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), and Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South). The new tax, which includes an 8% levy on fuel, was implemented effective President Uhuru Kenyatta's assent to the Finance Bill, 2018. Uhuru signed the Bill on Friday with a commitment to ensure proper utilisation of public resources. Tempers flared in the House on Thursday amid accusations of betrayal after the vote failed owing to a quorum hitch. The House needed 233 MPs to be present, being two thirds of the 349 members, but only 215 were present. Leader of Majority Aden Duale confessed to leading a walkout of the members who were in support of the Bill to deny the opposers the needed numbers. The members protested against Speaker Justin Muturi, Duale, and Minority leader John Mbadi accusing them of pushing the law down Kenyans' throats. This followed allegations that the Nays carried the day but the acting Speaker Soipan Tuya declared that the Ayes backed the Bill by acclamation. Also read: Zero! Zero! MPs shout in opposition to amended Bill staging 8% fuel tax Separately, Kirinyaga deputy governor Peter Ndambiri urged Treasury CS Henry
Rotich to cast his net wider in tax collection but reduce levies on basic commodities. He told journalists in Kerugoya on Saturday
that much as the government needs money for development projects, it
should not overburden the citizens. "The 8 per cent VAT is fair
both to citizens and the government. Let's support the President on
that. Let the Finance ministry and key sector players to seal loopholes
in tax collection," Ndambiri said. Ndambiri
further called for measures to ensure no entity is allowed to evade
taxes adding that the move would help cushion Kenyans from high cost of
living. Click here for the latest political news