The two suspects charged with the attempted murder of former Garissa Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar will know their bail terms today. Mohamud Aden and Juliet Njoki were accused of attempting to kill Mukhtar on August 19 on Kandara Road in Kileleshwa, Nairobi, and conspiring to kill city lawyer Charles Kanjama between July 1 and August 27. Mukhtar is recovering at Nairobi Hospital. Aden and Njoki denied the charges. Another suspect, David Mwai, who confessed to the police of the murder plot, died in a Parklands police cell. He is said to have told the police how he was hired to kill Mukhtar as he left a mosque. A report by police chiefs said the man committed suicide, but the circumstances are unclear. Read:How I was hired to kill Idriss Mukhtar - David Mwai Chief magistrate Francis Andayi set the ruling for today to allow the probation department to conclude interviewing the families of the suspects — Mohamud Aden and Juliet Njoki. It is to table its report in court before the verdict is issued. The department was to establish the relationship between the two, their residences and financial capacity, among other issues, to help the court set the terms. The prosecution said the two are a couple, but their lawyer Githinji Mwangi dismissed the position. Assistant DPP Solomon Njeru said the two live near the porous Kenya-Somalia border “in circumstances that indicate they are wife and husband”.  But Mwangi said Aden lives in Machakos with his family, while Njoki lives in Nairobi. DCI officer Peter Kanagi opposed their release. He said they are a threat to Kanjama and are likely to execute their plan to fruition should they be freed on bond. Read: Suspect in ex-Garissa CEC shooting died of hanging, postmortem shows The detective yesterday said Njoki’s two children are in safe custody of their grandmother who has been living with them since 2013 when Njoki travelled to Qatar for greener pasture. Andayi had ordered Kanagi to furnish the court with information on the children’s welfare. He said the state has the responsibility of ensuring suspects’ children are safe during their trial. Last week, Njoki sought to reveal in camera how she was treated in custody. She is said to have been tortured to make confessions. The detectives have yet to respond. Click here for the latest political news