Deputy President William Ruto returns to the Coast today, plans to issue at least 6,100 title deeds and charm leaders in five counties. According to the DP’s tentative itinerary, he will land in Mombasa where he is to spend the night. Ruto will then head to Tana River county tomorrow to meet leaders in what ODM supporters say is not early campaigning — but ensuring residents get services. He will launch projects. The Star has established Ruto will issue at least 2,600 title deeds in Kwale county and another 3,500 in Mombasa county. The move aims to address the serious squatter problem rampant in the region. On Friday, he will be in Malindi, Kilifi county, where MP Aisha Jumwa has come under fire from her ODM party for supporting Ruto’s 2022 presidential ambition. Jumwa, Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori and 10 MCAs from Nyamira, Homa Bay and Nakuru counties have been summoned by the ODM disciplinary committee October 10 to show cause why they should not be expelled from the party. Jumwa and Dori have become Ruto’s main point persons at the Coast since the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. On Saturday, Ruto will be in Kwale where he will tour Msambweni, Kombani and Kinango. He will issue at least 2,600 title deeds in Kinango before opening a school there and in Mkokwani. On Sunday, Ruto will be in Mombasa where he will open the Miritini complex initiated by Jomvu MP Badi Twalib. The MP said the goal is not to politick but ensure Coast residents benefit from the government. “Unity among Coastal leaders and residents is what we are seeking. If we work with the government our people will get more than if we don’t,” Twalib said. “In Miritini, for example, there has been no high school there since independence, but now we are opening one,” he told the Star on phone yesterday. The Star has established that Ruto was to issue title deeds in Jomvu also but there are court cases pending. Later, he will head to Majaoni in Kisauni constituency where he will issue 3,500 title deeds to the squatters in the area who have been seeking the document for years. Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo said the issuance of titles to Majaoni would be historic. “The residents of Majaoni have been squatters in this land for 35 years,” he said. On Monday, October 1, the DP will finish his tour in Taita Taveta where he will meet leaders and possibly issue title deeds. Dori said he will resign if Ruto does not launch any project anywhere he tours during the forthcoming visit. “I will no longer be interested in being Msambweni MP,” he said. He urged those opposing Ruto to organise their own tours and initiate projects of their own to compete with the deputy president. 