Watamu is tropical
heaven with a serene, sultry skyline and a diverse marine life, which
live just off-shore. It has hot, golden sunshine and foaming, shimmering
ocean waves. The town is a renowned world
tourism destination that offers you the best excursion experience, one you will
never forget. The exclusive
excursion has turned out to be the undisputed jewel in the resort city. The Watamu Marine Park
and Reserve is renowned worldwide for its natural beauty and boasts a rich
marine life, from the visiting Whale Sharks and Manta Rays to three species of
Sea Turtle. Pristine, white-sand
beaches and reef-protected lagoons line the Watamu National Marine Park and
Reserves, which are the oldest in East Africa and cover over 229 square
kilometres. It is one of the
best kept secrets in the world, attracting
tourists from all walks of life to have a taste and feel of the marine
ecosystem. During a tour of
Watamu, one cannot afford to miss the excursion titled ‘Safari Blu’ by local
boat operators, who are experienced in marine tour operations, to showcase the
unique attractions available. Recently I joined the
local tour operators in one of their many excursions, and the tour was amazing
and memorable. The sea safari starts
at exactly 8am on a glass-bottom boat cruise, Sopresso, off to the adventures of the blue oceanic waters of the resort.  DOLPHIN WATCHING, SNORKELLING After a while, we
receive a call from one of the fishermen, who has spotted the dolphins within
the northern part of Watamu Marine Park. Here, we are joined by
other tourists, who are excited to watch the dolphins swimming. All other boats with
tourists, some seated on the rooftop, converge at the area to take in the thrilling view. We are lucky to see
more than 20 dolphins jumping up and down the waters, one at a time. The excursion, which
lasts nearly the whole day, is just one among the many attractions available at
the Watamu marine reserve. They are properly coordinated and organised by the
community in collaboration with the Kenya Wildlife Service. After about 30 minutes
of dolphin watching, we go for snorkelling to view fish within the marine protected
area. Tourists are able to
dive and swim with fish, which are very friendly and enjoy the company of
humans. Others can still view
the fish through the glass fitted at the bottom of the boat. As tourists swim and
enjoy the Indian Ocean water, there is music coming from the background, and at
times the tour operators begin singing and dancing happily with their
guests. Later the team leaves
for Garoda beach resort for swimming and enjoying the scenic white
beach. Garoda beach is
located at a strategic place among all the hotels in Watamu, and the beach attracts many visitors. Tourists take time and leave at their own pleasure to proceed to the normal excursion. Dadi Said, one of the
boat operators, says their excursion begins at Blue Bay beach in the
morning, off to the dolphin watch area, which lasts around 30 minutes. He says their next
stop is the coral garden, which is in front of Garoda beach resort. “At the coral garden, we take time until the tourists feel satisfied or tired. They go
down to check different types of fish,” he says. Previously,
tourists were allowed to feed fish with bread, but the KWS banned the practice. “We work in
collaboration with the KWS. This is an area for fish viewing. There are fish of
different colours,” Said says. Said says any tourist visiting Watamu enjoys because “it’s a village of sweet things”.  WAKA WAKA RESTAURANT After three hours
at the coral garden and Garoda beach, it was time to go for lunch, this time not
in the luxurious resorts. Tourists are taken to the historical Sudi Island in the mangrove channels west of the marine park. This is where they get
a taste of nature and cruise along the channels of mangrove with different
species of birds. The local community set up a restaurant called Waka
Waka that specialises in seafood, which is served with rice made with coconut
milk. At Waka Waka, a chef
only known as ‘Mr Alright’ specialises on seafood grilling. He gets
his grilled fish, lobster, octopus and prawns in order. The grilled fish is
served with rice, beer or soda, and tourists get to enjoy local cuisine in the mangrove. Alright says his
secret to the food is cooking them while fresh from the ocean. He was nicknamed
Alright because everything was perfect with him and alright for tourists. He has one
secret for lovers who visit there and always want to go back. Alright makes a special meal that keeps couples lively in bed
and enjoying their sexual desires. He learnt the
skills from his mother, who showed him some special spices to add in the meal to
arouse sexual desires for couples. Some tourists call him
their witchdoctor because their libido rose after eating his meals. He makes
octopus soup, and before serving the meal, tells the tourists they will
enjoy sex. “The results have
always been positive. They say they really enjoyed and do not want any other
types of foods,” he says. Alright says Waka Waka
restaurant has enabled him get income and offered employment to many
community members along the Sudi Island. He
makes lunch of 40-50 people, and all leave the restaurant happy. Most of his clients
are Italians and British. After lunch, tourists
are entertained with a traditional Giriama dance and made to wear traditional regalia. During the
entertainment session, locals sell curio products and other items
that are attractive to tourists. The idea of income-generating activities within the mangrove sites was initiated by conservation
groups. Pastor Nichodemus Baya, a resident if Kirepwe Island and founder of Waka Waka conservation group, says
they formed an association to conserve mangrove life. Previously they mainly
used to do conservation but were getting no returns for their effort. “We came up with
income-generating activities by setting up picnic sites for tourists. If they
visit, they enjoy and we get profits,” he says. Their association, which is among many others, is opposed to illegal fishing activities or
destruction of mangroves as the area is an important breeding ground for fish. He says over 200 people
benefit directly from the income-generating activities, while more than 1,000 also are
indirect beneficiaries.  BOAT OPERATORS Hussein Abdi, the
director of Sopresso glass bottom boats, who also founded Waka Waka picnic site, says they came up with the idea of excursion to showcase the hidden treasures
within the Mida creek channels and in the Indian Ocean. “Watamu has many
beautiful sites with fish, corals and different attractions. The channels at Mida
creek lead to many villages that are not known and offer good adventure,” he
says. To open up the area, they formed an association called Sopresso self-help group, which acquired
glass bottom boats specifically for the Watamu excursion. Today their excursion
has turned to be an attractive and undisputed jewel that tourists love. In future, the group
plans to set up a boardwalk to the channels and floating restaurants. “We urge the national
government and Tourism CS Najib Balala to come and visit
the area and bring investors to uplift the the locals' standards of living,” he
says. Ntindi Kassim, the
deputy warden at Watamu Marine National Park and Reserve, says the 32km stretch in the marine reserve is
dominated by mangrove cover. Among the channels is
Sudi Island, where most tourists visit for picnic, mangrove watch, bird watching
and excursion. Kassim says mangrove cover is
important because mangroves are depended on for the protection of the
shoreline and act as breeding ground for fish. Furthermore, Watamu marine
reserve is an Important Bird Area, with about 55 per cent of the wetland birds in
Kenya. “Most of the birds are
found within the creek in the marine reserve,” Kassim says. “It was declared as a man and
biosphere reserve in 1978 by Unesco, and within the reserve, there are different
activities going on.” Among the activities
are tourism, bird watching, mangrove conservation, sundowner lovers,
honeymooners, and picnicking. Within the reserve, she
says, there are some communities that are allowed by KWS to do some
sustainable activities, such as controlled fishing and eco-tourism. The reserve has nine species of mangroves. As we go back home in
the evening, we agree that the excursion is a unique experience
for any tourist who gets a chance to explore.