Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto has warned that corruption in government agencies risks derailing the Big Four agenda. He said the harmful effect of corruption has had consequences mainly on the country's ability to attract foreign direct investment. Ogeto said that due to graft, incompetence, and lethargy snake their way into public office hence affecting delivery and quality of public service. "Corruption leads to growing poverty levels, unemployment, inequality, insecurity, and general crime, among other social ills," he said. He said the national government is working towards the attainment of the Big Four Agenda within the broader Vision 2030 economic blueprint. "I have no doubt in my mind that these laudable plans that will transform the lives of Kenyans cannot be achieved unless we stem the tide of corruption." Ogeto said Kenya has a robust anti-corruption legal framework to enable it to fight the vice. He cited the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission's constitutional anchor as setting the stage for its independence and autonomy to fight graft. Ogeto added that the Judiciary was in a much better position and that all other institutions mandated to fight graft have the support of the government. "Other offices and institutions, such as the investigative agencies and the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions have also been granted greater independence and operational support," he said. Ogeto spoke during the official opening of the County Anti-Corruption Civilian Oversight Committees workshop at the Great Rift Valley Lodge in Naivasha on Sunday. He called on the committees to play their rightful role and ensure they promote good governance, integrity, transparency, and accountability at the counties. "The committees are suitable tools for this function because they are a check on the conduct of public officers, especially in terms of how they utilise public resources." The Committees are expected to watch out for allegations of bribery, fraud, abuse of office, misappropriation of public funds, and illegal acquisition of public assets. "They will inform appropriate legal action on these and other crimes that affect public service delivery," Ogeto said. Click here for the latest political news