With a week to payday en as Kenyans prepare to jump into the official Beer Month Octobeeer #TheRaverend has officially begun counting down to Drinkthemba, which is technically two months away...2018 has been a real roller coaster with corruption scandals and the Chinese taking the front row...The joke that the Chinese are taking over has now become a reality...News of the Chinese running a brothel in my shags, South C, was the confirmation. My mum has lived in South C for more than 25 years. All my siblings were born and raised in South C. She has survived the invasion of the pirates but now that the Ching Chongs are taking over she is afraid. In the spirit of the Chinese loaning Kenya cash, I need to get myself new friends. #TheRaverend would like to have the kind of friends politician and businessman Cyrus Jirongo has. None of my current pals can loan me even 20K without pressure, Cyrus the Vitus got a loan of Sh20 million from his boy and 10 years later he's still not paid it back and he's still breathing...If I owed anyone even 50K I would be bewitched or six feet under by now. How can some people be that generous to their pals? Some would say that’s stupid en that’s why #TheRaverend is looking for a new crew. My current crowd is full of poor peeps...So if there are any rich men out their who need a poor friend, kindly get in touch with #TheRaverend. ION, parliamentarians showed their true colours in Parliament Thursday evening as they protested against Uhuru’s tax proposals...The guys who I would like to believe are smart and very intelligent from how I see them interpret the law didn’t have to go full monkey on. National TV...All MPs are selfish, we the taxpayers and voters know that. The dancing and shouting during the Finance Bill vote was unnecessary, especially when you do all that monkey dance and still lose the vote; It’s ridiculous...Kenyan politicians need to stop with the theatrics and sideshows and prove to voters wako works! We have seen all these tricks before and we know who works and who are clowns, so let’s all respect each other or we send Redsan to deal with all of you! The highlight of the Bill is the eight per cent VAT on all petroleum products and the scrapping of Sh8 billion from the state's travel and entertainment budget which, as a taxpayer, #TheRaverend and all Kenyans welcome with “shangwe na vigelele”. But as for the 20 bob excise duty on all chocolate products that will stop fat Kenyans from growing any fatter, hiyo sijaelewa. Clearly we have a genius at Treasury—Einstein reincarnated...So all Kenyans with a sweet tooth watch out. As for all Kenyan ladies, no more chocolates for Valentine's or any special occasion thanks to CS Rotich! Enough with the sad news, let’s move on to some dope amazing news that’s happening for Kenyans outside Kenya...Eliud Kipchoge broke the world record in Berlin...This man is superhuman. To understand why #TheRaverend believes Eliud is a supernatural, he has run an equivalent of 105 laps on an athletics track at an average speed of below 70 seconds per lap. If you don’t understand the insanity of such human performance, next time you are on a track, run just ONE lap, just one lap, and run like you are being chased by poverty, 8% VAT and scarcity of avocados, then if you are brave enough, tell us your time. The man is from another planet en that’s why #The Raverend is celebrating Mr Fantastic Eliud Kipchoge today until another Kenyan achieves his milestone. 