Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri recalls growing up on the slopes of Mount Kenya, at a time when coffee was the pride of every village. But today, what used to be the leading foreign exchange earner in the country in the late 1960s and 70s is suffering decreased fortunes. “Coffee farmers are miserable. Just when did the rain start beating us?” he said. “It is unfortunate that while some farmers earn Sh100 per kilo from coffee bonus, others are earning Sh10.” Farmers doing well include members of Thirikwa Coffee Society in Kirinyaga county. Society chairman Ngari Gitari said they fared well in the 2017-18 crop year. “Our society was among the highest paid in the county. All the members were paid uniformly at Sh103 per kg of cherry, though this is lower compared to the Sh119 we received during the 2016-17 crop year,” he said. The society produced 10,000kg in the 2017-18 production period, earning about Sh1 million at Sh103 per kg of cherry. Other societies that received the highest payment include Gachatha Society, which paid farmers Sh105 per kg, while Kieni, Ndaroini and Rukira factories were paid Sh95. In the neighbouring counties of Murang’a and Nyeri, coffee rates were a bit lower. “Some farmers complain of poor returns from coffee, but with good crop husbandry and low cost of production, you will receive good returns every season,” Gitari said. “I have been in the coffee farming for 25 years and I cannot regret, even as others are complaining.” Peter Mwangi, chairman of the Kenya Small Coffee Growers Association, said cartels have infiltrated the sector, and people who do not own coffee trees are the ones benefiting at the expense of the farmers. “Farmers are no longer enjoying good returns from coffee as they did in yester years,” said Mwangi, a coffee farmer from Othaya, Nyeri county. “The industry has many problems, including low prices, low production due to climate change, and mismanagement of coffee societies. There is little to smile about for the thousands of coffee farmers.” “We have had discussions with the Coffee Task Force Committee on issues that need to be addressed to revive the sector. We hope the government can intervene and help farmers before we uproot the coffee trees.” WAR ON CARTELS The government is planning to carry out a forensic audit on all coffee factories to weed out cartels in the coffee value chain. “I am warning those officials and telling them their days are numbered. Even if people go to court, we will catch up with them. We must free the farmers and to do this, we must do away with the unscrupulous traders who have been exploiting farmers and depriving them of their hard earned sweat,” Kiunjuri said. Farmers will receive one million coffee seedlings as from the upcoming short rains season, he said. “We will also be providing subsidised fertiliser and soil testing, in conjunction with county governments. We want to support farmers who are harvesting two kilos of cherries per tree to get at least 10kg,” the CS said. Speaking during the launch of the national coffee exchange upgrading system on July 26, he said the government reform programme is facing problems from certain quarters that want the status quo to remain. “A day is coming when the law will catch up with those interfering and obstructing farmers from benefiting from coffee and the government from earning foreign exchange,” he said. Prof Joseph Kieyah, chair of the Coffee Subsector Implementation Committee, said the future of coffee looks bright. The committee was established in 2016 by President Uhuru Kenyatta to fast-track reforms in the industry. Keiyah said coffee farmers in Kenya receive 30 per cent of the global export price, while countries like Brazil, Vietnam and Colombia receive the highest price of between 80 and 90 per cent. “The government is seeking to use coffee as a credible vehicle for rural development and wealth creation to smallholder farmers,” he said. “Key on the agenda is strategies to reduce cost of production by providing adequate planting materials and training farmers on good agricultural practices. The receptive changes will help in luring youth into coffee business.” He said new areas are being opened in Western Kenya and Rift Valley as part of enhancing productivity per tree from two kilos to more than 10. EXPANSION PLANS According to the Coffee Directorate, the country is currently producing 45,000mt a year, but the government is planning to revive the sector and increase production to 100,000mt by 2022. Kieyah said Kenya has the potential to produce more than 300,000mt, but the highest it has ever achieved is 130,000mt in the 1987-88 coffee year. The annual production has been fluctuating between 40,000mt and 50,000mt since the mid-1980s. That is when the industry was affected by Structural Adjustment Programmes, which were introduced by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. “Farmers are unable to contribute to high rural growth due to high cost of doing coffee business,” Kieyah said. “The cost is raised by lack of access to improved coffee varieties, such as Batian and Ruiri 11, expensive farm inputs and low investments in terms of modern agricultural practices.” The 2017-18 coffee year started on October 1, 2017, and will end on September 30, 2018. Latest data from the Coffee Directorate shows that 489,239 bags of clean coffee were sold through the Nairobi Coffee Exchange as at May this year. This translates to about 30 million kilos of clean coffee, equivalent to 179 million kilos of cherry. In the last five years, from 2012-13, the area under coffee was estimated at 109,795ha. But currently in the 2017-18 coffee year, it has increased to 114,500ha, an improvement of 4,705ha. The main areas of expansion have been west of Rift Valley and western counties. These include Bungoma,Trans Nzoia, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Uasin Gishu and Kericho counties. In addition, limited expansion and replacement have been going on in the traditional coffee-growing regions of Eastern and Central Kenya. However, the focus in these areas has been increasing the productivity per tree per year, due to the limited land area available for new establishments.