ODM leader Raila Odinga remains the preferred presidential candidate in 2022, Siaya Senator James Orengo has said. He said Raila has fought for many changes and the best reward Kenyans can give him is to make him president. “He fought for multiparty democracy and brought a new Constitution, among others,” Orengo said in Raila’s presence on Friday. He spoke in God Bondo village during the burial of former Rangwe MP Ouma Muga, who died on September 6. Prof Muga was eulogised as an internationally renowned academician and politician who made great contributions to the Second Liberation. The Senate Minority leader said there is need for a constitutional review for good governance. He proposed a parliamentary system of government.“The current Constitution gives Kenyans [a heavy] financial burden that should be done away with,” Orengo said. Read: Raila's only option is to vie in 2022, Kalonzo a traitor - MP Odhiambo He criticised those against the truce signed between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The handshake is the best peace deal in the country.Those against it don’t mean well for Kenyans,” Orengo said. Raila, however, steered clear of the 2022 debate and urged Kenyans to remain united. He said the period between now and 2022 should be dedicated to development. Raila said the country is on the right track following the March 9 handshake. He said they committed to end poverty, election malpractices, economic malpractices and to provide proper healthcare. “After the handshake, President Uhuru Kenyatta and I held a private meeting, signed a memorandum of understanding and agreed that we must ensure that we tackle the vices [that have plagued] Kenyans since Independence together with the Big Four agenda,” Raila said. He said Kenya should not continue to borrow money from foreign countries which only ends up in a few individuals’ pockets. Kenya’s foreign debt stands at nearly Sh5 trillion. “Kenya borrows a lot of funds from foreign countries but only a few selfish leaders benefit. The handshake will ensure the government reduces the borrowing and makes life bearable for Kenyans,” Raila said. See: Rift Valley MPs dare Raila to vie against Ruto in 2022 Last week, Uhuru signed the Finance Bill 2018 which introduces taxes for a number of goods and services in a bid to raise more revenue to fund the Sh3 trillion budget. Raila urged the state to recover stolen public funds stashed in overseas accounts. “There are people who stole public funds and deposited them in other countries. The funds should be brought back to the country and channelled to development to change Kenyans’ livelihoods,” he said. Raila said he suffered with Muga in detention during the clamour to bring change to the country. “Both Prof Muga and I were charged with treason and detained in prison. We have lost a great man in the history of this country,” he said. In his condolence message, Uhuru eulogised Muga as a pioneer researcher on climate change. “Muga was a pillar in advising Kenyans on matters about environment. We have lost a great man,” he said. Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori said Muga was a champion of multiparty democracy and devolution. Misori said Muga made many discoveries on environmental science. “As leaders, we must emulate him to achieve economic prosperity in this country,” he said. Homa Bay woman rep Gladys Wanga also called for a constitutional review. She said it will create policies that will enhance the economic well-being of all Kenyans. “We can’t write Raila off because there’s still a lot of matters that need to be put straight in the country,” she said. Wanga urged Kenyans to support Raila and Uhuru in their war on corruption, adding that the country is in safe hands. Orengo said a constitutional review will ensure inclusivity, Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo urged Kenyans not to give the quest for a better constitution. “Kenyans are not tired of Raila and he will become president. We must support him to advance changes which are good for Kenyans,” she said. More: Signs Raila will run in 2022, NASA co-principals back to drawing board Click here for the latest political news