I am going to tell you a story. It is a true story. And that story’s title is, The woman who woke up in the future. In a small, brown brick council house in Manchester, 32-year-old Naomi Jacobs was just waking up. It was the 17th of April 2008, a Thursday and a grey day. Naomi first noticed the curtains in the bedroom, then the wardrobe, the chest of drawers, the bed she was in, the pyjamas she was wearing; she had never seen any of these things before. Where was this? Naomi wondered. She thought she was dreaming even as she jumped out of bed. Her body, the way she moved, something wasn’t quite right. And then she saw her face in the mirror. It was pale and withdrawn, it had aged. A sense of shock and panic began to wash over her. An odd, repetitive noise, a buzz accompanied music, started up across the room. Naomi thought it was a radio alarm clock when she heard it, but when she looked, she saw that it was coming from this sleek, black object vibrating across a bedroom cabinet. Hesitant, Naomi eventually picked it up. It was only then, when Naomi saw her sister’s name flashing on a screen on the object, did she guess that it was a phone. It was flip phone. She’d never seen anything like it before, and she couldn’t figure out how to answer it. Confused, Naomi left the bedroom and went downstairs. In the kitchen she saw a cordless phone, this sparked a memory, a telephone number but she didn’t know whose number it was. After running around the house, manic and frantic, trying to figure out what was happening, Naomi returned to the kitchen, picked up the phone and dialled. Naomi didn’t recognise the woman’s voice on the other end of the line. That didn’t stop her from crying down the line for help. It was her best friend, Katie, that Naomi had called, and Katie promised she’d be right over. As Naomi waited for Katie, stumbling from room to room in this strange house, looking at pictures of older versions of her sister and her father, and pictures of a little boy that looked like her, the sensation that she had travelled to the future started to take hold. As far as Naomi knew, she was 15 and the year was 1992. Naomi Jacobs, single mother of a 10-year-old son, unemployed but pursuing a degree in psychology, hadn’t woken up in the future exactly. She was going through what is known as transient global amnesia (TGA). Unlike other forms of amnesia, people suffering from TGA remember who they are and how to do stuff. What they forget is qualitative memories (memories that cannot be easily measured, like emotions and life experiences). In Naomi’s case, for instance, she knew how to make a call, she could recognise her older looking sister and father in a picture, but as far as her mind was concerned, 17 years worth of life experiences simply hadn’t happened. That’s all the experiential memory from growing up, having a child, and everything in-between, gone. The memories do return eventually, but before they do, the disorientating experience of feeling like you’ve travelled through time is unsettling. What that must be like. You wake up one day and you’re flummoxed as to how you got from teenager to adult in one night. The mind is extraordinary.