Matatu owners in Mombasa yesterday criticised the county for attempting to stop PSVs from dropping and picking up passengers at the KFA Stage near Nawal Centre. The county government has announced that all public service vehicles be registered afresh. The fresh listing, says the county’s Finance department, will allow for full automation of the revenue collection. However, the Matatu Owners Association has issues that need to be ironed out before the registration. “We received a letter from them. However, there are issues that we need to discuss before we can move forward,” MOA Coast coordinator Salim Mbarak said. He said they will table the matter at their National Governing Council meeting in Nairobi on Thursday next week before giving a definitive position. The county, in a statement on Wednesday, said the PSVs, including matatus and tuk tuks, have until October 31 to register their vehicles afresh, otherwise, they will not be allowed to operate. The registration aims to usher in mobile payment for monthly stickers, the Finance department said. “It will ensure we establish an accurate and secure database of the entire transport sector in Mombasa county,” the statement said.The listing will be done in all the six subcounties. On Wednesday, Mbarak said the issue of matatu stages and pick ups must be looked into as it disrupts their business. Matatu operators on Wednesday morning blocked the Jomo Kenyatta Avenue to protest against harassment by county askaris and traffic police officers. Mikindani MCA Renson Thoya, who had joined the matatu operators in the demonstration, was arrested by police, who said he led protests that turned chaotic, breaching peace. Coast regional traffic commandant Emmanuel Okanda said the protest was orderly at first but operators became rowdy and disturbed the peace. “We had to arrest the ring leaders,” he said. Thoya represents most of the operators who come from his Mikindani ward. He said he is tired of bailing out his people who get arrested by “rogue officers who are out to fill their stomachs”. The drivers and conductors said the officers harass them at the KFA Stage, where matatus on the Mikindani-Mwembe Tayari, Nyali Reef-Mwembe Tayari, and Mshomoroni-Mwembe Tayari routes have been operating for more than two decades. “They usually tell us not to park our matatus there or pick and drop passengers because apparently there is no stage there,” driver Salim Juma on the Mikindani-Mwembe Tayari route, said. The operators said police and county officers have turned the stage into a cash cow. “They come here whenever they are broke, harass us in the pretext of arresting us and forcing us to part with money. Sometimes they take the whole day’s collection, leaving us with nothing,” conductor Shamri Kosa, who plies the Nyali Reef-Mwembe Tayari route, said. Mbarak said it is not right for the county to wake up one morning and declare the stage illegal, yet it has been used for a long time. “If the county government wants to stop the matatus from picking and dropping people there, then they should provide an alternative stage for the matatus,” he said. Mbarak said they should engage stakeholders before taking any drastic action. He said a meeting will be called by the MOA officials to deliberate on the way forward in the course of the week.