Five solid Fridays later, I’m happy to
announce a new month... August is done but we shall not forget because this is
the month we have seen high-profile arrests each week by the DPP and his
counterpart from the DCI... Whether eventually we’ll see some honcho
going to jail or not, one thing is clear: somebody is rattling the big fish and
no one is safe... The latest arrest of the DCJ was the biggest high-profile
arrest in the history of Kenya. Nobody saw that coming. That’s why Kenyans
witnessed over 32 lawyers plus a former Vice President run to the High Court in
solidarity with the accused... The last time we had such a circus in
the corridors of power was during the Supreme Court hearing of the election
petition... Yaaani there are lawyers who just never show up to court unless
it’s a big one.... Meaning the moment you see them, just know shit has gotten
real... September is a new month, and as we wait
to see who will be next on the DPP’s chopping block in this new month, let me,
TheRaverend, have a conversation with my powerful women... Women who make
presidents not sleep at night or can change the world... TheRaverend’s letter to women in power
starts with advice to all the women who are role models to all the young girls
in Kenya and the world. The women who run the social media streets, the ladies
who post stuff on Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat or FB, and set trends. My advice to them is short and sweet, be
real and be true to your fans, the followers who religiously follow your pages
and each post without question or doubt... Don’t take their trust for granted
because they believe in you… En for the fans, don’t allow the
internet to give you depression. Ukidhani watu walimake it kumbe it’s a Google
affair... It’s all Koby Past Manenos... On this shosho media, don’t believe
everything you see… Ninety per cent of the time what you see is all for show…
Vitisho za filters na pictures za google... So take every amazing lifestyle
post on the social media with more than a pinch of salt... Still on my powerful women, I would like
to speak to the backpacker, backyard boogie, sitting allowance chairperson,
nominated senator who wants the taxpayer to pay extra for her big booty, aka
Sianda aka Nyash, en I don’t mean the singer we-Aminiya... As a life member of TeamMafisi, I would
like to tell the nominated senator we understand her huge problem but we are
with the taxpayers on this one, because if we agree to your demands to upgrade
all your tickets to business or first class, next thing we shall be forced to
give you underwear allowance. So our solution to your current tumour
is simple: Why don’t you just upgrade your economy tickets that you get for
free and avoid all this body-shaming vibe coming from depressed tax payers? ...
Take the economy, ongeza personal money, enjoy business class and life in
general without people discussing the size of your DSQ... Or for the cheaper
and the practical option of booking an aisle seat, where your diab can overflow
into that free space... Case closed... The other real women of power
#TheRaverend needs to address are the two First Ladies who stole the headlines
this week, our very own Mrs Kenyatta and Mrs Trump. You all looked amazing in
your respective outfits. Only question I have for Mrs Trump is on her high
heels. How do you walk in that, en how tall are you again? Our First Lady is
barely five feet. Did you have to wear KICC to remind us how short our First
Lady is??? Still in fashion, Sabina Chege, the
outfit you wore to Parliament, TeamMafisi loved it. They want to see more of that.
In fact, we want another one just like the other one. If the geezers in Parliament
have an issue, they can go hang themselves... As for the white headgear to push for
the two-thirds rule, hapo that’s an epic fail. Can all the women in Parliament
go and see Sabina Chege’s tailor and get an outfit made quickly that will be
the fastest way to get the attention of Parliament? With all that said and done, TheRaverend
would like to wish all Kenyans a super fantastic September, en let’s keep on
enjoying all the toxic and poisonous foodstuff because it is official: We have
been on bad sugar, oil and fertilisers. We are also now asking the GOK to
legalise weed and changaa.  