Kilifi South has been hit by early pregnancies and deteriorating education standards, MP Ken Chonga has said. The lawmaker said 17 girls from the constituency have dropped out of school two months. The MP blamed poverty for the pregnancies and early marriages. Chonga spoke on Thursday in Kilifi. He said tourism, once the town’s economic backbone, has dwindled. “Girls have turned to men for survival.” Kilifi has the highest number of teenage pregnancies and child abuse at the Coast. In 2016, there were 77 reported cases of teenage pregnancy and 44 of child marriage. Some 153 cases of defilement and 14 sodomy cases were also reported. The then county director for children’s services George Migosi said teenage pregnancy constituted six per cent of the 288 sexual offence cases. Kilifi County Family Planning Implementation plan ( 2017-21 ) shows 22 per cent of girls aged between 15-19 are pregnant. Family planning intake is cited to be low. The implementation plan showed the high ratio of early pregnancies and unmet need of family planning contributes to the increased population. The county has an estimated population of 1.4 million, up from 1.1 million in 2009. On Friday, Kilifi Education executive Gabriel Katana said “homes and school pillars have failed”, resulting in early pregnancies and other social vices. He said the concept of “early pregnancy” is making the girl look like a victim. “It makes the girl look vulnerable yet some mature earlier,” he said. “We don’t have programmes that target sexual health training. At homes, there is no one to advice them. The pregnancy defines biological maturity. The question is who advises the child.” Katana said the modern parent is busy, forcing children to seek peer-to peer experiment learning, which most of the times is misleading. Katana added that family structures have broken down. “Unless the family and school pillars are addressed, we will continue to witness these things,” he said. Chonga said he will support women and youth empowerment projects and create awareness on women enterprise development fund, youth enterprise development fund and Uwezo fund, to end poverty. He said this will improve their economic well-being. “Through these revolving funds the vulnerable and marginalised groups in society can access affordable finances and business development support for economic development,” he said. Chonga said if women and youth are empowered, social vices bewildering the community will end.