While I was most impressed (and learned
from) her discussion of the process of value-formation at the individual level
(based on a number of factors that inform the process of political socialization),
I feel it necessary to question her several quite negative insinuations about
such research. One was a question she posed: “Can public
opinion on political matters be trusted as a bankable research finding?”  The first problem here is the lack of clarity
in the term “bankable”.  Combined with
her use of “trusted”, it has two possible interpretations.  The first, though (hopefully!) of no
relevance here, is that those conducting the research/releasing the results
might be dishonest (for whatever reasons), and release figures they know to be
false.  The second is that
notwithstanding the integrity of those involved in the research, the “political
opinion” results are somehow incorrect, in that they do not represent what the
survey respondents actually believe, either because they failed to properly
understand the question(s), or because they successfully and deliberately
mislead the researchers/interviewers. Of course, the latter sometimes occurs.  It has been shown, for example, that some
people who voted for Donald Trump had been reluctant to ‘confess’ their
intentions in pre-election survey interviews, due in some cases to their
uneasiness with his (private, but widely publicised) uncouth language (if not
actual behaviour).  Likewise, at least
among some people, a small but significant proportion of UK voters told
pollsters prior to the 2016 Brexit vote either that they would vote to remain
in the EU, or that they were undecided, when in fact they had decided to vote
“leave”.   Altogether, such concealment
left most pollsters with considerable ‘egg’ on their faces when their final
survey results did not materialise at the ballot box. But if the subject matter has no
‘politically correct’ (and thus personally embarrassing) connotations, there is
no obvious reason why people would deliberately lie in answering a political
question, any more than they would do so in responding to one about crime,
religious beliefs and practices, recreational pleasures, or shopping habits. But for the subject matter at hand — the
perceived involvement in corruption of certain public figures — Mugwe is
absolutely correct that the recent Ipsos survey captured perceptions, not
facts, and that such perceptions were largely a function of media
coverage.  As she says: “There is no random
Kenyan who has the full knowledge to make an informed decision on who are the
most corrupt leaders in Kenya.” But given the responses released were
clearly identified as perceptions, and that not a single name was read out to respondents
to suggest/encourage such a connection with corruption (and thus, was a completely
“unprompted” question, leaving it up to the respondents to offer up to two
names, if they so desired), it is unclear why, in Mugwe’s view, the Ipsos
pollsters were “mischievous and malevolent to parade this information as
newsworthy.”  Indeed, the simple fact
that Ipsos has no media outlet negates such a claim, since it was the various
media houses, not Ipsos, who deemed these results “newsworthy”. In simple
terms, without such assumed public interest, those findings would never have
been published/broadcast (at least until Ipsos eventually posts them on its
website).  Moreover, “malevolence”
implies evil or at least naughty intent, and demonstrating that would require
much more than simply observing that those mentioned feel aggrieved. Now, how the media determine what is
suitable to pass on to information-consumers is sometimes a complex moral and
professional matter, especially where alleged criminality or even non-criminal
potential reputational damage is concerned. 
Yet the media usually pay close attention when public figures are arrested
and charged, thus tarnishing their reputation, even if eventually no
convictions ensue.  And Kenya has quite
clear guidelines about such issues, with institutions such as the Media Council
obliged to handle any complaints received. Surely, therefore, Mugwe appreciates those
who enter public life — and especially after they achieve some significant
level of success — often invite a considerable amount of scrutiny, and opinion,
some of which – especially in an environment that encourages the freedom of
expression – will be unfavourable.  She
should, therefore, avoid attributions of ill-intent to organisations that
merely seek to measure such perceptions. 
After all, she says as much, when she ends by saying (using other words)
that in the public sphere, at least, such perceptions may ‘trump’ reality,
however great may be the disconnect between the two.  Tom Wolf Research Analyst, Ipsos-Kenya  (Dr. Wolf offers these views in his
personal capacity.) 