A showdown is looming at the Nairobi county assembly as MCAs resume sessions after a month-long recess. The defiant ward representatives have vowed to block speaker Beatrice Elachi from accessing her office and presiding over sessions. They said Elachi stands impeached and they would not allow her to set foot in the assembly precincts or “impose herself” on them. Elachi was impeached on September 6 for alleged gross misconduct and abuse of power. But she dismissed the allegations as a political witch-hunt and obtained obtained a court orders stopping the impeachment. On September 10, the MCAs caused chaos in Elachi’s office after they stormed in and ejected her. This was despite the order temporarily reinstating her. “We don’t have a substantive speaker. Elachi stands impeached. She might be the speaker, but not the one for Nairobi county assembly,” minority chief whip Peter Imwatok said. When the Star visited City Hall yesterday, Elachi’s office was locked and her name tag on the door stripped off. Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto said Elachi should not impose herself on the members and should “honourably” leave the office. No need to fight Elachi said she will stay away from City Hall - at least for now - to avoid a confrontation with the MCAs who she claimed have also locked out her secretaries. “What I didn’t want is to make it confrontational. I don’t think I need that. If we say we are walking in in roughness, we will find others hurt, and I don’t think we want that leadership anymore,” she said. “If my secretary is already in the building and she is denied entry, it means if I am there, we are just going to fight. I am not going to allow anyone to spill blood because I want to enter the office.” Yesterday, the sergeant-at-arms intimated to the Star they have been instructed not ot allow Elachi’s secretaries or personal assistant to access the office. The ward representatives are planning to start recruiting a speaker to replace Elachi. But majority leader Abdi Guyo said the former nominated senator has not been denied access to her office. “We have not blocked her. The office is open,” he said. On September 17, Justice Maureen Onyango threatened to deny the MCAs an audience for blocking the speaker from accessing the office. The threat followed complaints by Elachi’s lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui that the ward representatives had blocked her client from accessing the officer despite the court order. Meanwhile, the MCAs are resuming sessions with a full in-tray and unfinished business. They will be have to approve the county’s 2018-19 Finance Bill by September 30. They will also review the 2018-19 budget after the government cut down the counties’ allocation. “We are aware that there might be a reduction in the national transfer. As the assembly we had already agreed we shall review the Nairobi County Budget as per the performance of each sector,” Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia said. Guyo said House business will not be disrupted, adding there are at least 42 pending statements and four bills which that members will deal with immediately they resume. Governor Mike Sonko’s impeachment is also expected to come up.