Title: Lady Lady Artiste: Masego Genre: R&B/ Soul Release: September 7  It’s amazing how fast we get to the heart of Micah Davis’ debut album, ‘Lady Lady’. Just two minutes into the project, on the one-minute-long melody “Silk”, which seamlessly builds up into the next tune, “I Had A Vision,” the multi-talented artiste offers sincerity in its finest form. He delivers a soulful beginning that exhibits honesty and pure adoration for a lady. Known by his stage name Masego, he has been in the music scene for five years. The Jamaican-American artiste has delivered proper projects in the past that express great diversity in his influences. He is the creator of a mid-tempo style of music he refers to as  “trap house jazz”,  fusing R&B-Soul, smooth jazz and hip hop. His performances are out of this world. He has mastered the art of making music. His sets appear randomised and always have an instrument, especially the saxophone. “Lavish Lullaby” addresses how his fame has earned him the kind of girls he associates with. SiR joins him on “Old Age,” a track that highlights the artiste’s need to be with a lady older than him. Before we experience the beatboxing and inaudible lyrics on “Sugar Walls”, he is then joined by a choir on the fifth track, “Prone.”  On “Queen Tings”, which features Tiffany Gouche, Masego compares his girl to actresses Lupita, Danai Gurira, Regina Hall, Rashida Jones, among others. De’ Wayne Jackson is also recruited on “Just A Little,”  a track that express zero affection for a particular lady in the artiste’s life. “Shawty Fishin’ (Blame The Net),” probably the most uptempo the album ever gets, is a tune that shows how easy it is for the Masego to have women in his life. He then goes ahead to show his appreciation for his lady on the Jazz-inflected title track “Lady Lady”. “24 Hr. Relationship,” is an interlude that brings out the thought of a man and woman after a one-night stand. Masego’s name is prominent these days given the amazing collaborative effort, “Tadow,” which he did with French Kiwi Juice (FKJ). This track closes out the 13 - track project. “Lady Lady” is powerful art, not only for people who appreciate women but for everyone who enjoys experimental music. It’s a beautiful reminder that, no matter how long it takes, your debut can be a masterpiece worth Grammy consideration.  Star Rating: 4/5