National Land Commission acting chairperson Abigail Mbagaya is now herself under investigation. One file was sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions on Thursday. Mbagaya was listed as a witness against NLC chairman Mohammed Swazuri, CEO Tom Chavangi and other managers in a court case last month over the fraudulent purchase of land for the Standard Gauge Railway. The investigation is being run by a multi-agency team including the DCI, EACC, Bank Fraud Unit, and Asset Recovery Unit. She has refuted all the allegations.  Uhuru housing plan demolished as MPs reject taxes for project MPs have dealt a blow to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ambitious housing plan contained in the Big Four agenda. On Wednesday, MPs unanimously rejected government’s proposal to raid taxpayers’ pocket to finance the 500,000 housing units by the government. The units were to be realised in five years had lawmakers approved the proposal. The housing project was to be fully financed by Kenyans with every employee contributing 0.5 per cent of his or her gross salary. Employers – according to the budget proposal – were to match by a similar contribution up to a maximum of Sh5,000.  Short-lived relief as CS effects 16% VAT on fuel The 16 per cent VAT on petroleum products will take effect on Saturday, Treasury CS Henry Rotich has said. This will see pump prices for petrol and diesel go up by 10 per cent while Kerosene will increase by 12 per cent, Rotich said. In effect, a litre of petrol will retail at Sh125.21, Sh112.90 for diesel and Sh95.19 for a litre of kerosene. Rotich’s directive goes against Parliament’s decision on Wednesday to suspend the implementation of the levy until September 1, 2020. The amendment to the Finance Bill, 2018, moved in the National Assembly by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed was meant to cushion Kenyans from high cost of living.  Why Uhuru cannot trust Trump This week Uhuru Kenyatta became only the second African leader to meet Donald Trump. This is coming after he used a most unintelligible invective to describe Africa and many Africans have not forgotten. But Uhuru chose to ignore all that presumably because Kenya is bigger than Trump’s rants. President Kenyatta arrived in Washington, DC, to find two things dominating discussion in the Trump White House. There was a newly signed trade pact to replace North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) that became effective in 1994 under President Bill Clinton, and the controversy over Trump’s treatment of the late Senator John McCain.  The Agony of stillbirth and how to prevent it Mia Atieno* (not her real name), 35, was seated outside her grass-thatched house in Homa Bay county, sieving maize, when suddenly a sharp pain gripped her lower abdomen. With only three weeks left before delivery, Mia quickly called her 40-year-old husband, who had been closely watching her as he packaged charcoal for sale. The couple were looking forward to the birth of their baby and had already made the necessary arrangements in case Mia went into labour. Immediately they arrived at the hospital, Mia was admitted and rushed to the theatre. The doctors who examined her were troubled when they could not feel a heartbeat. With her history of losing past pregnancies just before delivery, the doctors were determined to ensure that this time round, the pregnancy came to fruition.