A Kenyan citizen Zein Waleed Ahemed has been sanctioned by the U.S after being linked to financing a terrorist group ISIS. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets
Control (OFAC) on Saturday said Zein, has been identified as a
terrorist in East Africa who established an intricate worldwide
financial network to facilitate funds transfers for the Islamic State of
Iraq and Syria (ISIS). The department in a statement said the Momabasa born resident has been named a Specially Designated
Global Terrorist (SDGT) pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13224 for
assisting in, sponsoring, or providing financial, material, or
technological support for, or financial or other services to or in
support of, ISIS. “Zein is a dangerous terrorist who established an intricate global
network of financial facilitators for ISIS, using hawalas and
intermediaries to evade police detection and fund their deadly
ambitions,” said Sigal Mandelker, Treasury Under Secretary for Terrorism
and Financial Intelligence. He added, “This administration is committed to
targeting ISIS facilitators and their underground networks wherever they
operate, in an effort to deny resources they need to carry out
attacks.” The department claimed Zein has served as an important ISIS financial facilitator in East
Africa in recent years. It is said he established an intricate ISIS financial
facilitation network spanning Europe, the Middle East, the Americas and
Eastern Africa.  Between 2017 and early 2018. He then moved over $150,000
through his complex network. The department said Zein deposited large sums of money into a
personal account, claiming that the money came from a vehicle and spare
auto parts company owned by a family member. "Zein also used an associate to conduct similar transactions including
receiving money from around the world, primarily via hawala systems. 
Funds were then sent to ISIS fighters in Syria, Libya, and Central
Africa. Zein and his associates received instructions, money, and
account information from an intermediary in an attempt to evade police
surveillance," Mandelker said. Zein was arrested by Kenyan security services
in July 2018. Read: Two linked to ISIS terror group arrested in Mombasa As a result of the sanction, the department said all property and interests in property
of Zein that are in the United States or in the possession or control
of U.S. persons must be blocked and reported to OFAC. "OFAC’s
regulations generally prohibit all dealings by U.S. persons or within
(or transiting) the United States that involve any property or interests
in property of blocked or designated persons," read the statement. It further read, "Today’s designation is part of a concerted effort to expose and
disrupt ISIS-related financing activity around the globe, and follows
numerous other U.S. government actions this year to target ISIS branches
and networks in Somalia, West Africa, Tunisia, Egypt, Bangladesh, and
the Philippines. The department said the action furthers the Administration’s
continued campaign to ensure that battlefield successes against ISIS are
sustained. Also Read: Kenyan father agonises after losing daughter to ISIS in Syria Click here for the latest political news