Dream big is a common talk. We’re encouraged by achievers to think big, talk and do big things. The talk inspires, and we feel charged to take on big goals. But, big goals can be overwhelming. And normally when people feel overwhelmed by their goal, they let it go. It’s one reason many great ideas don’t happen. To take on big goals, you must understand how goals work. First, big goals have small steps; big goals happen step by step. This thinking adjusts your view point to see the goal as manageable. Often, we want to take on a goal all at once and that is normally a challenge. Enjoy the nostalgia of your big dream, but remember that, every big dream has small parts that make the whole. If your big goal has small parts, then what are they? Break it down. Get pen and paper, list the steps you must take to accomplish your goal. What tasks must be done? What sequence do the action steps take? Know the next move to make. Have a clear list of tasks to be done. In listing the tasks, identify the most difficult tasks. What are the top three or five most difficult tasks? It’s important to know them because they can be goal stoppers. Big tasks can get you overwhelmed and stop you in your tracks. These are the tasks you do first. When you tackle the tough tasks first, momentum begins to build, and you’re encouraged to push through simpler tasks. One way to achieve big goals is the effective use of 24hours; a day. You must learn to master your day. How do you spend your day? With each passing day, are you going towards or away from your goals? Do you maximize or waste your 24hours? Every goal is achieved in the context of a day and if you don’t understand how a day works, your goal may not happen. It’s wise to plan your day in advance (or, at least a night before). What tasks will you complete in 24hours? What will you do today? Be clear on the activities of each day. As you accomplish daily tasks, you’re encouraged because you know you’re daily moving closer to your goal. No big goal is achieved without discipline. No goal is achieved without commitment and follow through. You must be willing to do whatever it takes to make your dream happen. Big goals are achieved by dedication. That’s how it works. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com