The proposed eight per cent VAT increase and proposed supplementary budget cuts will impact public service users and households, and Parliament should reject them. Counties are already distressed because the national government has fallen behind on its remittances to the devolved units. The proposal to reduce the allocation to county governments will further hurt services. Cutting the Equalisation fund will hurt development in marginalised areas, particularly access to water, which is a main focus of the fund. A failure to address access to water in turn increases the disease burden, undermining health. The proposal to slash budgets on road repairs is irresponsible and equally counterproductive. Bad roads push up the cost of operating vehicles to all drivers, negatively affecting households, businesses and the economy. Poor roads also contribute to road accidents and deaths. It is unfortunate that the President’s flagship projects — Last Mile and digital learner platform — are facing the axe. In particular, electrification is a key development indicator with knock-on effects for economic growth. Similarly, the plan to slash capacity building at a time when the country needs to develop its human resource capacity is ill-advised. This will be the third supplementary budget of the year, a clear indication that the government is broke and the economy is in distress. It is also of concern that funds are being removed from development to debt servicing. The tax measures come against the backdrop of stringent conditions set by IMF that would negatively affect the economy further. So, what should be done? First, the President should declare the debt situation a national crisis and institute sustainable recovery measures that will target government waste, size and corruption and not hurt Mwananchi. These include releasing idle funds held by ministries and state corporations and redistributing equitably to debt repayment and basic service delivery at county level. The President should also redeploy CDF funds towards debt servicing whilst making sure ongoing projects are not affected. However, the fund should be restructured to conform to the Constitution as per the High Court’s ruling in Petition 71 of 2013. Further, the government should implement the parastatals restructuring report to eliminate duplication and overlap. This should be accompanied by rationalisation of staffing and structures of the presidency and national government administration to reduce the wage bill. Other measures should include reduced overpricing and waste; intensifying the fight against corruption, civil service effectiveness and fiscal compliance. The Institute for Social 
Accountability spoke to the Star. Click here for the latest political news