The government has raised concern over the number of people living with HIV/Aids but are not on ARVs. Health CS Sicily Kariuki said this is a setback in winning the war on HIV. She spoke during a ceremony in Nairobi to mark the 10th anniversary of the Aids Healthcare Foundation Kenya at the weekend. The CS said there is a need to provide antiretroviral therapy for 90 per cent of those diagnosed to achieve viral suppression for 90 per cent of those treated by 2020. “To boast of universal health coverage demands that we adequately offer requisite HIV services. A HIV/Aids-free society is achievable and attainable,” she said. Read:Indifferent staff cause 85,000 people to abandon ARVs Kariuki said the government has been dedicated to the prevention of new infections, care and treatment in the 90:90:90 international targets. The CS added that Kenya plays a vital role in the sector through participating in research, quickly adopting better medicine and technologies and development of policies that are informed by the latest medical advancement. “Kenya has made deliberate efforts towards HIV prevention over the past decade, from embracing biomedical approaches such as test and start strategies, condom programing and high impact interventions towards the elimination of mother-to-child HIV and syphilis transmission,” she said. These efforts are well demonstrated by initiatives such as the Linda Mama and the First Lady’s Beyond Zero Campaign, the CS said. Kariuki said there is a need to have critical interventions in areas where new infections and stigma levels are still high. She also called for a review of financing models for a sustained resource base. Aids Healthcare Foundation Kenya chairman Stephen Karau said the NGO is currently treating more than 51,000 Kenyans, has tested more than three million and distributed 18 million condoms for free. “This is remarkable progress we have achieved in 10 years. We will continue working with our partners and all stakeholders to ensure we achieve the country HIV/Aids goals,” Karau said. More: People on HIV medication cannot transmit the virus to sexual partners Click here for
the latest political news