Some think the
disease is a plot to kill off opposition voters. Others believe
it is a money-making scheme by foreign groups. These are among the rumours that have caused people to
refuse Ebola vaccines and throw stones at health workers in
eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, where an Ebola outbreak
has killed almost 100 people since July, the Red Cross said. By analysing hundreds of household surveys, the aid agency
found three main theories about Ebola: that it is a political
strategy, that it is a business, and that it is a curse. Humanitarian workers hope a better understanding of these
beliefs will help them gain trust, after Congo's health minister
said that "community resistance is the first challenge to the
response." "People sometimes hide symptoms, refuse vaccination, perform
unsafe burials," said Berengere Guais, emergency coordinator for
medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres. "Ebola is a terrifying disease, which creates fear and
mistrust." The outbreak is believed to have killed 97 people so far and
infected another 45, according to the health ministry. It is in an active conflict zone, where rebellion and ethnic
killing have persisted since two civil wars in the late 1990s in
which millions died, mostly from hunger and disease. Many people do not understand why scores of foreigners flew
in for Ebola, while other problems got little attention, said
Ombretta Baggio, senior advisor for community engagement at the
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
(IFRC). "It's very important that we move away from the same old
messages," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "The
population is very smart. They have specific questions." Some have noted that the symptoms of Ebola resemble the
effects of poison, she said. Others think it is suspicious that
when most people go to the treatment centre, they die. This outbreak differs from the one in West Africa in 2014-16
in that political theories are more common than supernatural
ones, the Red Cross analysis showed. Congo is in a tense period leading up to a December election
to replace President Joseph Kabila, who has outstayed his
mandate since 2016, and Ebola struck in an opposition zone. Red Cross volunteers try to convey two key messages - that
they care about their patients and are gaining nothing, Baggio
said. They also try to find the source of the rumours - sometimes
local leaders or politicians - and work backwards from there. "People need to find an explanation in their belief system,"
said Baggio. "It's not their fault." Click here for the latest political news 