Until the government recently announced the
evictions of illegal settlers in the Mau Forest, there was peace and tranquil
among the two ethnic groups now fighting in Narok County. But busybodies, among them politicians with
serpentine tongues, soon moved to Mau and parts of the county and took sides in
a matter that was purely a government-driven policy intended to save the
catchment area from destruction. Some of the leaders drawn from the Maasai
and the Kalenjin communities were divided on whether the settlers should be
moved or not. Of course, Kalenjin leaders, empathizing with their people,
wanted the evictions put on hold until alternative land on which to resettle
the encroachers is found.  Their Maasai
counterparts could hear none of that and pushed for the evictions to continue
irrespective of the inhumane manner in which it was being done. Some leaders from Narok County had sworn to
do everything within their power to ensure the Kipsigis are kicked out of the
forest. They did not push for the eviction out of their unparalleled passion
for the environment: Theirs was a concerted effort to drive out one community
from the county for political expedience. Houses and crops in the farms went up in
smoke for days, culminating in decimation of social and economic fabric of the
settlers who witnessed all their lives pulverized. Consequently, 10 schools have been closed. What
is the fate of the affected learners? And will the exams continue without them? It was not enough to evict the Kispsigis
from the Mau.  Definitely, there was more
than meets the eye in the manner in which politicians continued unabated to
call for more evictions albeit behind the curtains. As the evictees headed into
a bleak, more and more houses were burnt and lives lost, as politicians who
fanned the embers of hate between the communities that have lived together in
peace for years. So far, more than 10 people have been
killed in the clashes. To the chagrin of the victims, the National Cohesion and
Integration Commission has been mum, just as has been its tradition to look the
other way when Kenyans fight. The Mau evictions awakened a monster called
ethnic cleansing that like an active volcano was waiting for the slightest
excuse to erupt.  Things morphed from
genuine efforts to safeguard an endangered catchment area to deadly clashes. Politicians who have been vocal in calling
for the eviction of the Kipsigis are Senator 
Ledama ole Kina and  Narok North
MP Moitalel ole Kenta. Kina was quoted in sections of the media calling for the
Maasai warriors to mobilize themselves and deal with the Kipsigis. Heeding his words, the warriors came out
armed with arrows, bows and spears ready to drive out the “foreigners’ in their
midst. The Kipsigis are the minority, having moved
decades ago to Narok and settled among the Maasai. Calls to evict them from the
county calls for the immediate arrest of the warmongers. The Kipsigis occupy
Emurua Dikirr constituency, which is represented in Parliament by Johanna
Ng’eno. To some of politicians such as Kina and Kenta,
the Kipsigis increase in population poses a political threat in 2022. If they
are chased, areas such as Emuarua Dikirr will revert back to the grip of Maasai
politicians. The deadly clashes are, therefore, a concerted effort to drive
away one community in order to give the other an upper hand in the political
platforms in the county. There is no excuse whatsoever to kill
another person because he comes from another community. I support calls to put Kina and Kenta behind
bars because left to their own devices, they will continue inciting these two
communities against each other. More and more deaths and destruction to
property will be reported.   