Treasury CS Henry Rotich on Saturday confirmed that the government had disbursed Sh1.4 billion to NCPB to pay farmers from Monday. He said 95 per cent of those who supplied maize to the board were confirmed to be genuine farmers after vetting and deserved to be paid. "I can assure you that the farmers will be paid and if the money won't be enough I will work to ensure NCPB gets extra funding", Rotich said. He was speaking at Kaptagat in Uasin Gishu during the burial of Lt Gen (Rtd) Major John Sawe. Those present included Senator Margaret Kamar, Governor Jackson Mandago, Moiben MP Sila Tiren and Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kiprono Kittony. On Friday, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said 514 small scale farmers out of the 900 who have been vetted will be given priority during payment. Read: State makes fresh promise to pay maize farmers next week He said the small scale farmers are owed less than Sh2 million. Wamalwa said 1,154 farmers collected claim forms but only 1,140 returned them for verification. The CS said 226 farmers will be investigated further. On Saturday, Rotich said he was aware that Senators and MPs were pushing for reforms in the agricultural sector but that this must involve all stakeholders. He said while agriculture had been devolved, the government still played a role in formulating the necessary policies for the sector. On the issue of taxation, Rotich said Kenyans should be ready to help the country grow economically. He said although the cost of living had gone up, the government was working to ensure that inflation remains under control. Rotich urged traders not take advantage of the 8 per cent taxation on fuel by unnecessarily hiking the prices of commodities and services. "We know some people have already taken advantage to hike prices but that is not being patriotic at all," he said. Kittony asked the CS to ensure that suppliers and contractors are also paid for services or work done at all levels in the country. He said this will help the economy grow faster. "If (that is) not (the case), life will be difficult for so many people and crime will increase," Kittony said. Rotich said suppliers will be paid with priority to youth, women and people living with disabilities. He said counties should also pay suppliers because treasury had released their money by last June. The leaders eulogized the deceased as a great military officer who served the country with dedication and was patriotic. More: You are liars and part of cartels, maize farmers lecture senators See also: State yet to pay maize farmers Sh3.5bn as harvest season nears Click here for the latest political news