Kenyans should embrace the 16 per cent tax on petroleum products if they aspire to be globally competitive in the near future. Equity Bank chief executive James Mwangi says the postponement of the levy as is being advocated by a section of politicians will only serve to widen Kenya’s revenue deficit by an extra Sh79 billion and inflate its public debt. “Essentially what we are seeing is the cost of transformation. We can’t wish and enjoy a ride on the standard gauge railway line but we are not willing to tighten our belts,” Mwangi said on Monday. He said Kenyans need to put emotions aside and look at the long-term benefits of the tax. He said for a better economy tomorrow, the sacrifices must be made now as postponing won’t solve the economic problems the country faces. “As a generation, we may need to pay a bigger price for our children. We can’t keep on postponing. Two years is just like a flick of time, it will be here with us [and] we will still push it like we pushed it two years ago,” Mwangi said. On Thursday last week, MPs voted overwhelmingly to suspend the implementation of the VAT Act 2013 for a further two years until September 1, 2020. Read: Hard times ahead as Rotich effects 16% VAT on fuel See: Matatu saccos increase fares by Sh20 on Nairobi routes The amendments to the Finance Bill 2018 were moved by Suna East MP Junet Mohammed to cushion poor Kenyans against the high cost of living. The Act had been postponed on two previous occasions – in 2013 for three years and in 2016 for two years. On Friday last week, Treasury CS Henry Rotich gave a directive that the 16 per cent VAT on all petroleum products would finally become operational effective September 1. The ERC went ahead to immediately revise fuel prices sparking an uproar from Kenyans and a section of politicians. A section of politicians have come out to openly criticize Rotich saying he disobeyed Parliament by overruling its decision. Deputy President William Ruto has on two occasions assured Kenyans that the government will have a sitting with Parliament to strike an amicable balance on how to raise revenue without hurting Kenyans. President Uhuru Kenyatta can, however, put an end to the debate by assenting to the amendments to the Finance Bill 2018. Read: We'll resolve fuel crisis, Ruto assures as pump prices spark outrage More: Stop shedding crocodile tears, Moses Kuria tells MPs opposed to 16% VAT on fuel Click here for the latest political news