Radio presenter Massawe Japanni is super excited to be back on radio after taking a break for a while. The radio queen told Word Is her decision to take a break was very important for her career, and now she will be back a new person with different content for her fans. “Radio is still my first love. Radio is real because the same way I talk to my friends face to face is the same way radio does,” she said. “I love it and I am always happy doing what I love, unlike TV, where you have to be conscious of what you are saying. When I took my career break, I was very happy because I felt I needed a break, but after six months, I actually missed radio for some reasons. “I feel so excited that I will be back on air, but at some point I am very anxious about it, which is very normal for every radio presenter. The excitement is also overwhelming me.” Massawe says her fans have been dragging her back to radio, and she is ready to connect with them again. “People have been asking me about when I am going back to radio, but I was not sure until now. My fans should expect more than what I was giving them when I was on air before. I am a different person now, who has grown more and I am better. I know the mistakes I ever made in my career and I have rectified that to be a better person.” When she was at Radio Jambo before her break, Massawe interviewed big personalities, which is why most people remember her. Will she bring them to her show? “Like I said, I am better and my content will be bigger and more researched than it was then. I am going to give my audience quality content, and I will be introducing new segments as well that will be more entertaining and educative to them,” she said. “I will request all my fans to tune in to Radio Jambo on Monday from 10am, and I will be highlighting some of the segments I will be having for them.” During her career break, Massawe was a judge in the Ultimate Comedy Show, which was aired on a local TV station. “I learnt that comedy is not only about jokes. I respect young people who try these things to better their life,” she said.