Safaricom is optimistic about its performance at the Nairobi Securities Exchange, even after the imposition of tax on internet and mobile money transfers. The giant telco lost more than Sh70 billion during Friday’s closing bell at the NSE with its share price closing at a 10-month low of Sh24.00. This was after the President signed into law the Finance Bill 2018. In a document presented by the firm after a study by Citi Research, Safaricom said the proposed budget measures were not entirely unexpected but were not as bad as the headlines suggest. The firm projects its share price will jump back to Sh27.20 with expected share price return at 9.9 per cent and dividend yield is projected at 4.4 per cent. “While we think some conservative estimates about how the approved taxes could impact Safaricom growth seem to be in the price, the risk of any further measures to address the budget deficit, which could have implications on the sector/company, as well as regulatory risks remain relevant,” the study revealed. The new law will see an increase in mobile phone transaction excise duty from 10 to 20 per cent. This will be coupled with an increase in excise tax on bank transactions from 12 to 20 per cent while tax on telephone services and internet has been hiked to 15 per cent. The study revealed the eight per cent VAT will have little to no effect on the telco’s profitability adding that regulation driven price cuts are likely to have more impact on the firm’s growth “Revenue based taxes (crisis telecom tax in Hungary, treasury tax in Turkey, Pilon tax in Belgium), which increase costs, tend to have more severe implications on sector profitability. We will review our estimates once we have more clarity on the announced tax changes,” the report stated. Safaricom has pegged the projected rise in market value on accelerated growth in M-pesa and data use, reversal of the tax on betting and gaming which will drive up transactions and heightened expansion of its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. The firm also believes smaller industry players will either resort to consolidation or exiting the market. The report also cited telecom regulation, which may favour smaller players, financial regulation, including agent interoperability, which may undermine competitive advantage of M-Pesa and accelerated pressure on voice revenue as data use picks up and smart phone penetration rises as key factors that may undermine its market value. Others include macro risks such as inflation and government actions to address fiscal and current account deficits as well as risks tied to mergers and acquisitions with deployment of resources to the projects that are potentially value dilutive.