The Premier League threw up plenty of the usual talking points and drama over the weekend. West Ham lost once again, Manchester United got back to winning ways while Watford stunned Tottenham to maintain their 100 per cent record. Here, AMITAI WINEHOUSE assesses 10 things we learned from the fourth weekend of the Premier League season. 1. Romelu Lukaku is often accused of being a flat track bully, performing against easier opposition while struggling in the big games. As far as Jose Mourinho was concerned, there were probably fewer bigger than Sunday's game against Burnley. And Lukaku deserves credit for stepping up when his team needed him. He was one of few players to perform when Brighton beat Manchester United, dragging them back — at least temporarily — into the tie just seven minutes after the Seagulls went two ahead. At Turf Moor, he again showed steel to strike twice. It was his first Premier League brace for United since his debut. His manager will have appreciated the first in under 30 minutes, which turned a potentially tricky tie into one that was much easier to navigate. 2. James Milner is now so consistently flagged up as underrated that he is anything but. Even so, the lack of glamour in his game means he will never go down in the pantheon of Premier League midfield greats. He should be increasingly recognised as one. After the win against Leicester, Milner has now registered 80 Premier League assists, the same number as David Beckham. Even better, at 33 Milner does not look like he is slowing down one bit. The only issue where Liverpool are concerned is that Milner's contract expires at the end of the season. He did the same at Manchester City, running down his deal. Liverpool offered him a new contract last season but he is yet to sign. 3. Tammy Abraham and Dominic Solanke have one each. Danny Welbeck could easily pick up more this coming month. But Troy Deeney does not. The Watford striker must be wondering what, exactly, he has to do to get an England cap. Abraham has just five Premier League goals. Solanke one. Welbeck has spent time under Emery playing at left back. Deeney, on the other hand, hit his 30th Premier League goal as Watford came back to beat Spurs on Sunday. Solanke and Abraham should have fine careers ahead of them. Welbeck is a good player who has been unfortunate with injuries. Yet it is hard not to ask whether the Three Lions have missed out on a good striker over the last few years in Deeney. At 30, he needs to be given a chance soon. 4. So much will be made of Alexandre Lacazette and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang starting together for Arsenal at Cardiff, so indulge a little bit more of that, please. These two are best friends and clearly have chemistry on the pitch too. Lacazette was unselfish with his hold up play and absolutely deserved his winning goal. Aubameyang was not asked to lead the line and that allowed him to get into dangerous positions, peeling off the left to be set up by Lacazette for Arsenal's second. The Gabonese striker spent his Wednesday night cheering away as he watched WWE at the O2 Arena. Could Aubameyang and Lacazette be Unai Emery's front-line tag team? 5. Danny Ings' career was fading away at Anfield. A horror injury after just two months at the club stunted an initially impressive impact. Knocks continued to rear their ugly head over 2017-18. He was well-liked but underused and never likely to break in ahead of Liverpool's front three. So a loan move to boyhood club Southampton was well-timed. As has been his impact there. He has struck two in his four league appearances, just one less than he hit in 14 Premier League games at Liverpool. And, given Southampton's struggles on the road under Mark Hughes, his record of three in his last three away games after his strike against Crystal Palace will only come as a boost. If he can stay fit - or at least fitter than Charlie Austin - he may make his £18million future fee look undervalued. 6. 'I like to have the ball. Not in my own half, but in the last 30 metres. 'I like this type of game. It's completely different than Antonio Conte or (Jose) Mourinho before. We have more ball so for me it's not bad.' Maurizio Sarri clearly has the best chance of convincing Eden Hazard to stay at Chelsea of any manager he has worked with. While Sarri-ball is still a work in progress for the Blues, the style is noticeably attack-minded. There is substance behind it too. He has led Chelsea to their first four-game winning run at the start of a season since 2014-15 - when they won the title. 7. This is another hammering of West Ham after their terrible start. The recruitment of Carlos Sanchez was baffling at the time. He did not impress at Aston Villa. The less said about his World Cup, the better. Given they needed a specialist defensive midfielder to complement Jack Wilshere in their 4-4-2, surely they should have gone for better than the error-prone Sanchez. And boy is he error-prone. The blunder that led to the last minute defeat against Wolves means that, at 506.86 minutes per error leading to a shot, no outfield player has given away more chances through his mistakes than Sanchez since his Premier League debut. Some recruitment strategy. 8. Against teams like Huddersfield, who clearly prioritise defence over attack, having your key playmaker unpick the back line is imperative. Gylfi Sigurdsson did not do that on Saturday, continuing a recent trend. He has never quite looked a £45m player at Everton. An issue currently befalling him is he is just not on the ball enough. Marco Silva has pushed him up as more of a second striker than a No 10, but still - he needs to play more passes and help cut teams apart. Against Huddersfield he played just 15 passes. He is averaging under 20 per 90 minutes. By way of comparison, Christian Eriksen manages over 50. 9. Marcus Bettinelli was mentioned as a possible England goalkeeper before surprisingly being dropped by Slavisa Jokanovic in favour of summer signing Fabri for the first two games of the campaign. The west London side have not stopped giving away goals - they have conceded twice in each of their last two games - but the return of Bettinelli to the side has seen them start to collect points. They look more threatening going forward. Jokanovic's style relies on players throughout the side understanding what is demanded of them. Communication issues with the defence are a problem for Sergio Rico, while Fabri did not impress. Do not be surprised to see Bettinelli keep his place. 10. A little note on Raheem Sterling. Criticised for his lack of strikes at the World Cup - which was fair enough - and praised for his all-round displays, it is good to see him among the goals. People have often written Sterling off for his supposed lack of quality in front of net. But, barring a difficult 24 months spanning the end of his time at Liverpool and the start of his run at City aside, he regularly bags. Only Mohamed Salah and Harry Kane have had a role to play in more Premier League goals than Sterling since the start of last season - and no one would accuse them of being slouches in the final third.