People who drink their own urine claim it gives them better skin, helps them lose weight and keeps them feeling young. Those committed to the bizarre lifestyle have lifted the lid on why they drink their urine instead of flushing it, and say it is a natural way to boost your health. Drinking urine, rubbing it into the skin and even washing your eyes with it is apparently a centuries-old practice, and is believed by some to cure diseases, boost energy and even reverse ageing. And thanks to health bloggers promoting the seemingly grotesque idea online, more people are turning to the toilet for their health benefits. Christo Dabraccio, a meteorologist from Idaho, says drinking his urine helped him lose 30lbs (13.6kg) and leaves him feeling 'like Superman'. And after he recommended it to painter Julia Sillaman, from Maryland, she claims it has worked wonders for her acne and she's shed 25lbs (11.3kg) in the process. But scientists say there is no evidence the practice has any benefits and one said people drinking their urine 'do nothing more than make a mockery of themselves'. The fringe following of people drinking their own urine has picked up steam recently in the US, thanks to people recommending it on the internet. The logic is that urine contains compounds which can be reabsorbed to improve the body's ability to fight disease and provide other detoxifying effects. But the claims have left a bitter taste in the mouth of experts, who argue there is no scientific evidence to support drinking urine and that it may in fact be harmful. Christo Dabraccio, 49, claims what is called 'urine therapy' left him feeling like Superman and saw him lose 30lbs – after he got over initially being 'grossed out'. He said: 'I heard about it online and to be honest I was immediately grossed out. But the more I researched and read testimonials, the more trust I gained. 'Your pee is just a highly filtered derivative of your blood, and blood is your lifeforce, so it makes sense. 'As soon as I tried it, I started feeling like Superman. 'I was loaded with energy, my head was clearer, I felt younger and my skin was glowing. It's like a fountain of youth.' Mr Dabraccio bottles his urine and drinks approximately three cups every day, as well as using it to wipe his face and wash his eyes. He claims similar practices have been quietly adopted by high-profile figures in Hollywood – but would not name names. Mr Dabraccio admitted many have turned their nose up at the online community, but said it is worth it to raise awareness for people who want the health benefits. He has lost 30lbs since starting the treatment alongside dry fasting, in which people avoid consuming water for short periods of time. He said: 'I understand why people can be skeptical, I felt the same way when I first saw it. 'But at the end of the day, I'm not trying to sell anything. We can't sell you your own pee – I'm just promoting freedom. 'I like to open people's eyes to something that can help them.' Julia Sillaman, 26, claims to have improved her acne after Christo recommended she start massaging urine onto her face. As well as curing her complexion, she says she has lost 25lbs and improved her digestion since taking up urine therapy. Painter Ms Sillaman, from Maryland, said: 'I was breaking out badly in acne, but I was hesitant to see a dermatologist. 'That's when I met Christo – I remember seeing how healthy he looked and how clear his eyes were. He told me to try urine therapy for my skin. 'It didn't gross me out, I was intrigued. The day after I started massaging it into my skin, the inflammation went down and my skin smoothed out. 'After I started fasting, the pee stopped smelling and started tasting like coconut water. 'I have more energy and feel more in touch with nature. This has changed my life – I feel like a different person. 'I think I will do it for the rest of my life, but maybe not as strictly as I am now. 'I expected my family to be weirded out, but after seeing my results some of them are trying it for themselves. 'I get why people might think it's weird, because it's not accepted. Most people's pee smells bad, so we think it's' gross. 'But with more success stories I think it could change.' Some followers of urine therapy believe it dates back to Biblical times. However, no independent research has been done on the practice, and kidney specialists have warned consuming too much can lead to a build-up of toxic waste similar to the effects of kidney failure. Professor Henry Woo, a urological surgeon at the University of Sydney, said: 'There is absolutely no scientific evidence to suggest that urine therapy has any therapeutic value. 'Those who drink their own urine do nothing more than make a mockery of themselves.' Click here for the latest political news