In my community, we do not hate women because of turning down advances, Kimilili MP Didmus Baraza has said over being offered a bribe by Wajir woman representative Fatuma Gedi. Baraza spoke when he appeared as a witness before a committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi that is probing alleged bribery in Parliament. Laisamis MP Malimo Arbele asked Baraza if the reason to why he is accusing Gedi is because she refused his advances. "You are trying to tarnish the image of an MP because you have differences with her on the grounds that we do not know," Arbele MP said. "You mentioned about love letters that can open a small window that you may have been making advances on her." Baraza said he has no interest in Gedi and has nothing against her. "I have no interest in shifting my political base from Bungoma to Wajir. In my community, we don't hate women because they refused to accept advances," he said. On August 9, MPs shot down the contraband sugar probe report for the second time amid claims that they had been bribed. The report recommended that Treasury CS Henry Rotich by investigated alongside former Trade CS Aden Mohamed and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett for the role they played in the alleged importation of contraband sugar. Details: MPs shoot down sugar probe report for second time, defend CSs The Kimilili MP maintained that Gedi handed him an envelope which had Sh10,000 to reject the report. "When you are being given something you must ask..., is it a love letter or what is the content of the letter? Gedi told me it was Sh10,000 and she said hii kitu tuangushe," he said. Baraza said he did not know the leader of the people dishing out money. The MP said he refused to take the bribe because the matter before the Parliament was very important to people in his constituency. "She tried to bribe me and I refused. I do not know who the leader of that group was. The person who came to me wanted us to shoot the amendment by Homa Bay woman rep Gladys Wanga," he said. Muturi asked Didmus what he understood from Gedi's words, "Hii kitu tuangushe"(This thing we must reject). "The matter under discussion was Wanga taking to the floor of the House to move her amendments," he said. Baraza said Sirisia MP John Waluke witnessed when the cash was brought to him. "We protested together. We were seated in the plenary which has CCTV camera that can be reviewed. That is why I am not the only MP complaining about money exchanging hands," he said. Baraza said there is no law that restricts him from informing the public adding. It's good manners, he said. "I'm here to talk about the bribe not why I did not bring the matter to Muturi's attention. I went to the media because I am a whistleblower," he said. Gedi, who was on the spot over bribery allegations, has admitted lobbying MPs to defeat the sugar report. However, she denies dishing out bribes. There are allegations that money was dished out to have the report by the joint National Assembly joint committee on Agriculture and Trade defeated. Barasa linked Gedi, a first-time MP to the bribery, saying she unsuccessfully tried to give him Sh10,000 within the chambers. But in a presser at Parliament Buildings on Monday, the Wajir lawmaker said she was unapologetic in leading a campaign against the report. She maintained that the report was shoddy and substandard and demanded that Barasa substantiates his claims. Details: Gedi admits lobbying MPs to reject sugar report, wants Barasa punished Click here for the latest political news