  I do not write for
self-gratification or to attack someone. I write to solve problems, although
those I write for don’t seem to read, care or listen. Nevertheless I will not
give up. I must continue to address problems whether leaders pay attention or
not. As Kenyans address the budget, well
after Parliament passed it, three things emerge. First, people like Kimani
Ichungwa, CS Treasury Henry Rotich and the political point man at the Treasury
Nelson Gaichuhie are terribly inefficient, hence the problematic budget. Second, the budget was drawn on very
unsound advice to the President, addressing not people’s problems but his
legacy, which cannot be attained if poverty and the people’s problems are not
resolved. To solve these problems, the
President must pay attention to the story of King Rehoboam in the Bible, who
ruined the country by choosing the wrong advice to oppress the people rather
than lighten their burden of taxes and oppression. Equally, Uhuru must also
listen to unflattering prophets like Micaiah, who didn’t fear to tell King Ahab
the truth not to go to war or would perish. They didn’t flatter him with lies
that if he went to war, he would return victorious. For refusing to hear the truthful
advice, the King was first to return home dead. Third, today’s truthful advice is that
Kenya needs progressive taxation that will tax the rich more than the poor and the
taxes will be used not to make the rich richer but to alleviate poverty. Forth, if we had progressive
taxation, Treasury and Parliamentary Budget Committee would have made a budget
for the people and country and not a fuel tax of eight per cent to apply
equally to the poor and rich. This taxation is unacceptable because it will
kill our people as war killed King Ahab. The king must listen to prophet
Micaiah. Strangely there are Kenyans who
believe the primary purpose of the budget is to raise taxes and money for
government and the rich and can only raise taxes for the benefit of the rich, not
the poor.  Indeed, there are many who believe budget is made for the President
and not people, the common Wanjiku — just like they think constitutions are
made for heads of state. Notwithstanding these wrongful
beliefs, whatever money government needs for development projects, tax burden
should be born by the rich who can afford. The poor need tax relief. To deserve taxes and aid, the government
must recover all the money it has lost to corruption, perpetrated by its own
employees. For its failure to stop corruption or recover stolen cash the
government could, like the government of Zambia, lose money from donors. To remove the need of VAT,  the government must never give any local or
foreign company tax vacation when it will be exempted. Big lands that are not utilized
should be taxed to encourage use. Super rich individuals like Deputy
President, who use tens of millions weekly, should be taxed more. Fabulously rich companies such as banks,
insurance companies, telephone companies like Safaricom, Airtel, Telcom should
also be taxed. International and local cyber
companies such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Skype should also be
taxed. All monies that are banked in offshore accounts must be brought back
home. Military budget and that of security
agencies that are not audited must be reduced to save money for other services such
as education, health and infrastructure.  The size of our National Assembly, County
Assemblies, governors and woman reps must be reduced. Lastly, as in Malawi, where
government ministers were reduced from 45 to eight, government ministries must
also be halved. By passing eight per cent VAT, party leaders Uhuru, Raila,
Kalonzo and MPs have all betrayed the Kenyan people and especially the poor. 