The
high-level meeting was indeed a culmination of decades’ long efforts by China
to court African countries. Guided by mutual interest and executed within the
win-win paradigm; the two entities have broadened and deepened their engagement
on a number of fronts. For
nearly a decade now, China has been Africa’s largest trade partner. It is as
well Africa’s top infrastructure financier, and top donor with impressive
foreign direct investment portfolio. UN
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization pegs
the number of African students in China at 50, 0000, up from 2,000 in 2003;
making China the second most popular destination after France. In addition,
over one million Chinese are estimated to live and work in Africa. Diplomatically,
Beijing maintains healthy ties with all members of the African Union; except
eSwatini (formerly Swaziland), which still recognizes Taiwan as an independent
country. Besides
opening its first overseas military base in Djibouti, China has actively
contributed peacekeepers to Africa’s trouble spots while also giving a hand in
the fight against terrorism and piracy in the continent. Yet,
despite such immense progress in relations, there are a number of pitfalls that
could easily derail China-Africa partnership and potentially roll back gains
made. The
first concerns fears of unsustainable debt levels as a result of China’s
strategic financial generosity towards African countries; some of which exhibit
legendary appetite for loans. Chinese money has, for instance, been very
visible in Africa’s infrastructure, for a good reason. The African Development
Bank estimates the continent runs an annual deficit of $170 billion in
infrastructure funding. African
countries have therefore been forced to source funds from development partners
including China. However, the flexibility and responsiveness of China in
advancing loans, has made it easy for many countries to drench their economies
with debts whose repayments could prove a tall order. The
second pitfall touches on corruption and political expediency. Flashy
infrastructure projects in Africa have been avenues of siphoning public
resources to pad the pockets of state officials. According
to a recent McKinsey report, 87 per cent of Chinese enterprises in Africa
reported to have bribed state officials to secure contracts. The continent has
subsequently seen mushrooming of ‘vanity projects’, aimed at scoring political
agenda; rather than meaningful and sustainable socioeconomic transformation. The
third flashpoint relates to the growing pushback by African and Chinese
nationals, who want respective governments to demonstrate utility of arising
projects. Although on its way to eliminating extreme poverty by 2020, China’s
citizens are questioning the veracity of the country’s unrivalled generosity
towards Africa yet development challenges remain plenty at home. In Africa,
there is widespread fear that indebtedness to China could lead to seizure of
public assets, erosion of sovereignty and crippling repayment periods. What then? Despite
these pitfalls, China and Africa still have room to re-examine the engagement
metrics towards a truly win-win cooperation. China can offer Africa the much
needed finances, technology and best practices for inclusive and sustainable
development. On the other hand, Africa is home to huge deposits of natural
resources, markets and human capital that could further Chinese industrial
revolution. For
China, the old philosophy of cat’s colour and the mice may no longer suffice.
Indebting African economies will only create volatilities that run counter to
the very interest it is pursuing in Africa. That also holds true when fueling
corruption and disregard to rule of law in the continent. Over
and above the aggressive governmental diplomacy that Beijing has perfected in
Africa, there is need for a more robust public diplomacy that should bring on
board the over 90 per cent private Chinese enterprises in Africa. Africa
should also work towards strong leadership and institutions capable of
leveraging internal dynamics to negotiate sustainable and beneficial deals with
external entities, including China. Getting
such institutions and leaders is largely a function of governance — how
ordinary citizens organise themselves, socially, economically and politically. Finally,
wishing away China’s presence in Africa is simply futile. However, for a more
utilitarian and sustainable cooperation, the two entities must assess the
progress made; diagnose arising challenges and use learned lessons to chalk a
new path.  The writer is a scholar on China-Africa relations. Twitter:
@Cavinceworld  