Legendary singer Freshly Mwamburi is not for the idea of musicians wading into politics. The Stella hitmaker told Word Is: "What I would advise my fellow artistes is if you're talented, please stick to music." Adding, "If you want to be a politician, then go ahead. But don't mix the two together because the two don't go hand in hand. It degrades your social standing as an artiste." Artistes Atomy Sifa, Sauti Sol, Ben Githae among others have released political songs. Mwamburi says, "I don't like politics and that's why you haven't seen me rush to produce one. Such songs have consequences and you might easily lose a fanbase because of your stand." Adding, "As an artiste, you're supposed to be loved and not hated. Your life may be put in danger in case you release a song that's supporting your candidate and others are not for him. "If I were to release a political song, I would have done it in back in the day, when retired President Moi was still ruling, but I'm just not into politics." Mwamburi is currently working on his seventh album, which has 12 songs. "I have done all the songs alone and in three weeks out, it will be out," he said. The veteran, who shared a stage last month with Fally Ipupa, told Word Is he has something cooking with the Congolese maestro. "God willing next year in February, I'm going to do a collabo with Fally Ipupa. It was great performing at the same show with him. The event's organisers did a good job and I hope they will invite me to more of their events." Mwamburi praises Diamond Platnumz for his good work and urges Kenyan artistes to "borrow a leaf from your Tanzanian, Ugandan and Nigerian musicians. They have content. Their songs convey great messages, unlike our own back home, which lack content. Give us sensible music. you're the mirror of the society!" The singer pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to support the music industry. "Invest in music. It will grow the GDP of the country. Come up with tough rules for those who pirate our music and ensure artistes are paid their dues fairly."