Large-scale chicken meat farmers lose over Sh153,000 per chicken due to poor animal welfare practices on
the farm and during transportation, a report by a global animal welfare lobby
has said. The report by World Animal Protection indicates that poor chicken welfare reduces potential earnings of farmers by almost 20 per cent. It was launched on September 20 in Nairobi. “Six per cent of the birds die due to poor
ventilation of the poultry houses, having inadequate and often wet litter
compounded by poor hygiene,” the report said in part. WAP Animals in Farming campaign manager Victor Yamo said infections arise from the poor environment chicken are kept in. This makes farmers spend more on birds’ health, increasing
their overhead costs. “Unhygienic and poorly ventilated shelters expose the birds to
respiratory diseases, bruises and injury of the breast and thigh muscles, while
brooding in such poorly ventilated houses using charcoal burners leads to
further losses from water belly disease,” Dr Yamo said. It is a common practice in the country
for farmers to stuff pick-up trucks with chicken even atop the carriers when
transporting them to the market. But the report now says poor handling of
the birds reduces their quality, making the farmer lose even more. “Poor handling when the birds are being
caught and loaded to the crates to take them to the processing plants leads to
bruises on the breasts, thighs and wings of the birds. In some instances, the
birds even end up with broken legs and wings. This downgrades them,
lowering their value in their market,” it says. This means the birds do not
fetch the premium price from the processors. Most affected are chicken farmers paying
less attention to the birds’ welfare in rural areas, where roads are “uneven and
the drivers don’t drive carefully”. The rough roads bruises and fractures
the birds if stuffed during transportation, it said. This year alone up to August, the study
estimates that on average, 0.77 per cent of farmers’ production per chicken was downgraded, causing each farmer a loss of Sh48,415. “When birds are cramped together in a poorly ventilated
vehicle, they do not only end up with bruises and fractures but in some instances
several birds suffocate, leading to deaths,” Dr Yamo said. “Birds with bruises and injuries
tend to be rejected by the processing plant, leading to the farmer losing a
further Sh80,934 per crop,” the report said. “If
poultry farmers ensured that the welfare of the chickens was adequately catered
for on their farms and during transportation, they would minimise such losses, leading to the chickens having a life worth living and ensuring better returns
to the farmer,” Dr Yamo concludes.