The fact that Baringo senator Gideon Moi met hundreds of Njuri Ncheke elders on the eve of his father’s 94th birthday, was significant. Gideon, the apple of his father’s eye, skirted around the issue of his 2022 intentions. He is not known for speaking for himself when it comes to the 2022 presidential contest but prefers to let someone else beat his drums as he grins and smiles. These gestures are important signals that the politician is ready to plunge into national politics. For the doubting Thomases, why would a semi-arid county senator keep inviting elders and top-notch politicians to his farms and home? He is not doing it as a hobby. What more signs do those who still hold the notion that Gideon is a non-starter for 2022 need to believe that he is actually vigorously training to take the baton and run towards the House on the Hill in 2022? The well-fed octogenarians and septuagenarians sitting before him under acacia trees had no qualms about telling the world why they were visiting the soft-spoken politician. The meeting held in Ngata Farm was replete with soundbites targeting 2022; parables and figurative language were not in short supply either. “The road is now open, we will back you,” their voices reverberated across the savannah in assurance to retired President Moi’s lastborn. The elders from Imenti South emphasised that their meeting was significant as they nudged him to “come meet your people.” The ‘significance’ in their words meant the start of a partnership between the Meru people and Gideon as the journey towards 2022 gains momentum, albeit four years early. Gideon is not one to jump up and down shouting about how he can’t wait to be in the presidential race in 2022. In fact, when asked whether he was eyeing the presidency, he quipped, “For now I am supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda” But with a wintry smile, the Kanu boss walks around in a manner to suggest that he is waiting for a steeplechase race he is sure of winning. That could be true, keeping in mind that the three Kenyan dynasties signal they are ready to give Gideon their support as they turn against others who think the 2022 presidential race is their birthright. Kanu is slowly but surely engaging various players to act as cogs in his 2022 dream. Gideon has roped in the Coast through Mombasa governor Hassan Joho. In the recent past some Central politicians announced that he was their man as far as 2022 is concerned. With opposition doyen Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta behind him, it is no wonder some Rift Valley leaders are scratching their heads over what to do to stop the increasing visits to Kabarak. The usual suspects who suffer stomach upsets whenever Gideon receives visitors have not hidden their distaste. Freedom of speech is protected by the Constitution, but some of these politicians are overdoing their criticism. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has taken it upon himself to always harangue those supporting Gideon. Putting down Gideon’s friends will not change the fact that he will be an integral player in the next general election. I have nothing against youthful Sudi getting rankled by Joho’s visit to Gideon, or any other person for that matter. It is his inalienable right to support whomever he wants. My beef is that he engages his mouth 24-7 , sullying Joho and Gideon’s reputations. Getting under Joho’s skin will never change the stubborn facts on the ground concerning 2022. With Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen lying low nowadays, Sudi has to work overtime to reach the crescendo his masters demand. Decorum demands that sometimes you keep your mouth shut as you engage your brain, otherwise you risk spewing trash instead of wisdom. I don’t hold a brief for the Sultan but it is wrong to accuse him of engaging in illegal businesses when you have no evidence. People who live in glass houses should not throw stones. Loud mouths, watch out.