Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission outgoing chairman Festus Mogae, on Wednesday appealed to the South Sudan parties not to squander the opportunity to bring lasting peace in South Sudan. Speaking at the 33rd Extra Ordinary Assembly of the IGAD Heads of State and Government in Addis Ababa, the former President of Botswana: “It is my earnest hope that the signing of the Revitalized Peace Agreement will herald a new chapter for the Republic of South Sudan.” The main agenda of the meeting was the signing of the Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan by all Parties. Government spokesman Ateny Wek Ateny told the Associated Press news agency that the agreement was a “final final” deal. In his last speech to the Heads of State as the Chairperson of JMEC, President Mogae said,“It is important to underline that the HLRF process has afforded all the parties and stakeholders every opportunity, to make their case and reach compromises.” “The outcome we are witnessing today is therefore a reflection of a thorough and inclusive process”. Mogae also noted the immense contribution and involvement from various players, who had made the Revitalization Forum a success. In particular, he applauded the South Sudanese parties and stakeholders, the IGAD Council of Ministers, the IGAD Special Envoy for South Sudan, the High-Level Facilitators, the Mediators of the Khartoum phase of the HLRF as well as the International Partners. “I want to also acknowledge the contribution of my staff, the JMEC members of the HLRF task force, without whom this progress may not have been achieved as timeously as has been the case”, he stated. Speaking prior to the agreement’s signing, David Shearer, head of the UN Mission in South Sudan, warned: “With the signing of this revitalised agreement, we should publicly acknowledge it is but one step on the road to peace, but one which lays the foundation for all that follows”. “We remain concerned about the parties’ level of commitment to this agreement,” he said, citing continued fighting in the northwestern city of Wau and the deaths of 13 aid workers this year alone Mogae thanked IGAD Heads of State for the opportunity to serve as JMEC chairman since 2015 and the support extended to him during his tenure. “I am also proud, that through my leadership, we recommended the revitalization of the ARCSS 2015 and today we conclude with a more inclusive peace agreement. This revitalized agreement, if fully implemented, promises sustainable peace and prosperity in the Republic of South Sudan,” he said. President Mogae steps down as the JMEC chairperson at the end of September.