Members of peace committees in Mombasa have asked for more security following the killing of one of their members in Barsheba, Kisauni constituency, on Friday. Mohamed Mwatsahu, alias Jirongo, was attacked by eight youths, who slashed him more than four times in the head, neck and abdomen while he walked home from Isha prayers. Chairman of the Mombasa peace committees Feisal Bahero yesterday said Mwatsahu’s killing could jeopardise the important role the peace committees play in the villages. “We appeal to police, particularly county commander Johnston Ipara, to pursue the attackers of Mwatsahu and ensure they are arrested and charged in court,” he said. Read: Masked men hack Nyumba Kumi official to death in Kisauni Bahero spoke at the Haki Africa offices yesterday during a press conference attended by Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid, Mombasa senator Mohamed Faki and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. Faki said Mwatsahu’s killing is a big blow to the fight against crime in Mombasa. He accused the police of not protecting peace ambassadors enough. “We cannot accept the killing of a peace crusader. Mwatsahu had been attacked previously and his security should have been increased,” said Faki. Nassir said police must up their game in ensuring security for all residents, but warned against extrajudicial killings. “This will only serve to make matters worse,” the MP noted. Khalid said the killings of police officers and innocent people by criminal gangs and the police should be condemned. “The killers of Mwatsahu must be brought to book as soon as possible. We cannot allow machete-wielding youth to be on a killing spree,” said Khalid. Security in parts of Mombasa county is deteriorating fast. Areas like Kisauni, Barsheba, Matingasi, Vikwatani and Mlaleo are experiencing an unexplained sudden rise in insecurity. The recent spate of insecurity, which has seen at least 20 people killed or severely injured in the hands of police or criminals in the last two weeks alone, comes after a seven-month period of relative peace. Bahero said the peace committees are now organising peace meetings in the affected areas. “We will be having public barazas in partnership with the police in the next six weeks starting with Kisauni, where the highest number of killings has been recorded,” he said. More: Mombasa cops gun down two thugs linked to murder of Nyumba Kumi official Click here for the latest political news  