Plans to impeach Nairobi governor Mike Sonko are on course unless he meets the demands of the county assembly. MCAs have accused the county chief of using the Pumwani Hospital infant deaths to divert public attention from the 14 days he was given to fix county problems. They expressed concerns about frequent reshuffling and suspension of senior officials. They also accused Sonko of being reluctant to have another deputy after Polycarp Igathe resigned in January. The county leaders said Sonko’s leadership style hurts services and directed him to shift his operations from his Mua Hills residence, Machakos, to City Hall. Sonko has defended his stay in Machakos and said he will not relocate to Nairobi. He said where he works from is a non-issue. On Friday, Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok and deputy whip Moses Ogeto said the governor must comply. They said the assembly will not allow him to distract MCAs. The legislators are on recess and are expected back next Tuesday. “We agreed as the assembly that we’ll not back off from championing the rights of Nairobians. We’ll impeach him if he fails to honour what we asked him to do,” Imwatok said. In a special sitting on September 6, Ogeto moved a motion on the state of the county. They demanded that Sonko restores order. MCAs say Sonko is taking the county in the wrong direction, is on a sacking spree and threatens staff with official recourse even when there is no wrongdoing. This week, Sonko suspended four top officers. He accused them of insubordination after they defended the Pumwani Hospital management, coontradicting their boss who denounced and suspended some  medics. The county officers suspended were county secretary Peter Kariuki, acting Health executive Vesca Kangogo, county legal adviser Lydia Kwamboka and Health chief officer Jimale Mahat. Kangogo took over the docket after Sonko fired Majevda Hitan whom he blamed for the poor state of medical facilities across the city. MCAs say the county chief’s actions are becoming ever more chaotic with his impulsive actions and he must be stopped. “Whenever anything goes wrong, an officer is suspended. The governor has become a prosecutor and a DCI officer. It’s uncalled-for. Let everyone stick to his job,” Imwatok said. Ogeto said they will not allow the governor to run roughshod over staff and leave the city in ruins. “Before we draft the impeachment motion, we must form an ad hoc committee to give subsequent evidence on impeachment,” he said. The Kilimani ward representative said the committee will carry out investigations and report to the House. “We’ll ask for a list of people who have been sacked by the governor. We’ll then summon victims,” he said. “It’s a process and one must have a lot of material evidence before the matter goes to the Senate.” The ssembly Standing Order 67( 7 ) says that when the motion has been passed by two-thirds of all members, the assembly speaker informs the Senate speaker within two days.