Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria has told Water CS Simon Chelugui to stop meddling in Central region water affairs. The governor said Chelugui is hurting residents by closing water intakes in Mt Kenya. All water intakes in the forest had been disconnected following orders from Chelugui. Wa Iria said residents rely on the water for survival, adding he does not understand why the CS is jeopardising the well-being of the region. This, Wa Iria said, is despite the fact that Chelugui is sinking boreholes worth Sh4 billion in Baringo. The county chief spoke in his office on Friday after eight people, including two residents and six plumbers, were arrested by police over illegal connections. The arrests came a day after county commissioner John Elungata warned that those allowing illegal reconnection of their disconnected water would be arrested. On Friday the governor said the region needs to relentlessly fight for its water independence. Wa Iria said he is ready to start the fight for water independence in the region and lead the movement. “We must defend our resources as a region but when we do, they use police to intimidate and suppress us,” he said. “But even if other counties and leaders keep mum over the issue, I will not stop fighting for accessible water to all.” He said he has organised a major water stakeholders meeting at Ihura Stadium on Friday this week and asked all parties to attend. The meeting, he said, will discuss among others the wrangles facing the water sector in Murang’a and the entire Central. “I’m asking Chelugui to attend the meeting to explain to residents what he is doing with their water,” Wa Iria said. The governor said the county will continue fighting for revenue sharing over the water drawn from the county. He said about five million litres of water are drawn from Murang’a to Nairobi everyday. With completion of the Sh6 billion World Bank-funded Northern Collector Water Tunnel next year, the amount will increase to about one billion litres. Wa Iria criticised Chelugui for saying that the World Bank had withdrawn Sh130 million meant for water projects in the county due to the feuding. He said it was a loan repayable in 30 years. He said the national government is ready to sit down and agree with Turkana county over oil but continues to adamantly draw water for free from the county. “They take our water for free and sell it to Nairobi people. We are demanding our share and will not relent,” Wa Iria said. Chelugui had also written to the governor telling him that his interferences in the water sector constituted criminal offences. But Wa Iria dared the security agents to arrest the entire county population starting with him, saying the water wars are far from over and that he will not be intimidated into backing off. Early this month, people in five counties who depend on rivers from Mount Kenya and the Aberdares were forced to go without water following the suspension of all abstractions. They were suspended on August 24 to allow for an audit and eliminate illegal abstractions lowering river levels. Chelugui conducted a rapid field investigation on the upper reaches of River Sagana and Thegu River, whose source is Mt Kenya Water Tower on August 21. In Sagana River, Chelugui found here were about 75 intakes, while on Thegu River there are 45 intakes. The numbers are disproportionate to these short segments of rivers. A number are illegal. Click here for the latest political news