Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago has urged Parliament to remove tax on cancer drugs. He said cancer should be declared a national disaster because it has become a leading killer and has impoverished many families. Mandago said efforts to fight poverty will not succeed as many families are selling property to pay for cancer treatment. “We have reached a point where almost all families have cancer patients and the government should move to declare the disease a national disaster so that necessary measures are enforced to deal with the disease,” he said. Mandago spoke at Kapseret, Eldoret, on Wednesday. He said the cost of cancer drugs and equipment is out of the reach of many Kenyans. “MPs should pass legislation that exempts cancer drugs and other medical equipment from taxation. We need to tackle this problem with the muscle it deserves if we are to make headway,” Mandago said. He said hospitals are forced to waive bills incurred by patients. Meanwhile, Nandi county has launched an initiative to create cancer awareness following an increase in the number of new cases. On average 30 new cases are diagnosed per month. The county is in the process of setting up a cancer registry to collect data on the most prevalent types of cancer. County director of health Kibet Kangor said they have facilities to screen for cervical cancer through the Beyond Zero programme as well as prostate cancer. The most prevalent type is cancer of the oesophagus, which has been reported in tea-growing areas of Tinderet and Nandi Hills. Health and Sanitation executive Ruth Koech on Friday said they have stepped up efforts to raise cancer awareness in line with the National Cancer Control Strategy (NCCS) 2017-22. “Cancer is a major healthcare challenge for the county and the country at large and we are working to enforce strategies so that we educate the public on early testing and all the necessary information,” she said in her office. Koech said they will establish the Nandi Cancer Centre with the help of partners.