Both the Kenyatta and Moi dictatorships notoriously
featured political assassinations, detention without trial of dissidents,
prolonged jail terms on trumped-up charges, forced exile, disappearances,
widespread brutality and systematic torture by security agents, intimidation,
muzzling of the media and generalised state terror that kept the people either
silent or busy singing praises of the regime. Since the return of multipartyism, Kenya has held six
elections (1992, 1997, 2002, 2007, 2013 and 2017). But only the 2002 election
was undisputed. Mwai Kibaki, a former vice president under Moi, was elected the
Third President of Kenya with a landslide of 67.6 per cent of the vote. All the
other elections before and after were characterised by credibility questions.
It is widely believed that Moi brazenly stole the 1992 and 1997 elections. The
opposition claimed — and there was credible evidence — that the 2007 poll was
rigged by Kibaki, leading to the outbreak of atrocious violence that brought
the country to the brink of a civil war. The 2013 election, a tight contest between Uhuru Kenyatta
and Raila Odinga — both prominent politicians under the Moi and Kibaki regimes —
was held against the backdrop of the 2007-08 chaos. A new constitution had been
enacted in 2010, leading to the creation of a new electoral agency, passage of
new electoral laws and the establishment of the Supreme Court with exclusive
jurisdiction over presidential election petitions. Despite all that, serious
irregularities were witnessed in the presidential election. Petitions filed at the Supreme Court to challenge Uhuru’s
controversial win were dismissed — primarily on technicalities, not on the
substantive claims. Kenyans were urged to “accept and moved on”. They did. But
these events left behind a deep sense of loss of faith in the country’s
electoral process. Last year’s presidential election was nullified by the
Supreme Court over irregularities. The opposition boycotted the repeat poll on
October 26, demanding reforms in the IEBC first. Uhuru went ahead to “win” the
election. A national paralysis ensued, which ended on March 9 after Uhuru’s
opponent, Raila, compromised under western pressure in the famous handshake. The perception that it is impossible to hold free and fair
elections in Kenya is widespread, not only because of diminished credibility of
the relevant public institutions but also because of high levels of corruption.
Everyone has a price. Despite accusations of graft against high-profile
individuals, convictions are rare. Since the second advent of multipartyism, all the leading
candidates in the five elections and their top allies have been political
elites and beneficiaries of the old system who merely turned around to parrot
new slogans. The parties and coalitions under which they vied never proposed
any radical ideological vision. Kibaki, who succeeded Moi in 2002 after defeating Uhuru of
Kanu, had been a long-serving vice president before falling out with his boss.
Raila, detained by Moi for eight years, served as a Cabinet minister under Moi
and was secretary general of the much-maligned independence party, Kanu. The
political actors in all the elections have remained the same, only that they
don new garbs to hoodwink the people with the rhetoric of change. The numerous parties and coalitions that have mushroomed
since the repeal of Section 2A are differentiated by the personalities they
front and their ethnic bases, never by ideology. They easily enter into
marriage with the party in power whenever it suits them — usually after money
has changed hands or on the promise of appointment of party bigwigs into
government. The parties are never heard from between elections. They don’t bother
to build their own constituencies, educate their members or take principled
positions on national issues. So, it does not really matter who comes to power.
Politicians pursue power, not a national vision. Political parties lack
ideological clarity and are mere vehicles of convenience to achieve personal
ambition for public office. This elite capture of Kenya’s politics ensures
anyone with a far-reaching transformational agenda cannot flourish in the
public arena. Whatever side of the political divide the elites belong,
they all loathe popular mobilisation that could radically alter the status quo
and jeopardize the interests of the minority that owns Kenya. In the ethnic
strongholds of top political honchos, dissent is ruthlessly crushed. Critical
alternative thought is detested and suppressed, whether one is in Nyanza where Raila
rules the roost or in the Central, the backyard of Uhuru. Kenya is effectively
divided into ethnic enclaves headed by wealthy barons who determine the nature
of politics in each region. Elections cannot bring about popular change in Kenya
because, being an elite circus, they are heavily commercialised and
transactional. Unregulated campaign spending means whoever has the fatter
wallet carries the day through bribery and vote buying. Monies from all sorts
of sources find their way into the campaigns: Drug money, proceeds of human
trafficking, lucre from poaching, donations (actually advance bribes by local
and foreign businesspeople expecting government contracts), funds from diverted
public projects, money looted from public coffers ahead of the election, etc. Moreover, mass poverty, miseducation, civic ignorance,
youth unemployment and general hopelessness mean the average Kenyan voter has
neither ability nor interest to read and rigorously critique manifestos or
demand party ideology. A voter is unlikely to think twice if they are offered a
little money to vote for a particular candidate, spend sleepless nights
campaigning for him or to join a gang to disrupt the campaigns of their
candidate’s opponent. Add to this depressing state the problem of coloniality.
Kenya is 55 years old as an independent nation, but has never fully broken away
from its colonial past. Ultimately, independence came to mean the departure of
the British colonialists and their replacement with local bosses. Independence
never transformed into genuine self-determination of the Kenyan people. Elections have become increasingly delinked from the quest
to meet the genuine aspirations of the people. They are almost entirely an
elite affair providing the self-absorbed, politically impotent mission-schooled
urban middle classes with something to tweet about — or to pontificate on from
the comfort of the bar stool — and the peasants perhaps a few coins or a
branded T-shirt and free entertainment every five years. Election outcomes are really never determined by the
snaking queues of enthusiastic voters who rise up at dawn to vote. There is the
“deep state”, a network of elite individuals or groups, who, working behind the
scenes, subvert the popular will through the control they exert over formal
state institutions and processes. The military and intelligence agencies are
essential elements of the deep state, which also includes some senior or
longstanding non-elected officials within government, for example top civil
servants, select individuals with effective control of key commercial, military
or criminal groups, the financial sector, corporate media, as well as
individuals who broker agreements between other members of the deep state. It
is usually impossible for an “outsider” to win a presidential election or for
an opposition candidate to dislodge the incumbent. So, if elections cannot bring about the radical changes the
people want, what is to be done? After six so-called competitive elections,
there is little evidence of meaningful change. Poverty, unemployment, hunger,
landlessness, ignorance and disease still bedevil the people. Moreover,
assuming last year’s elections were a true expression of the will of the people,
can the current tyrannical, violent, corrupt, profligate and neo-liberal
capitalist rule of Uhuru be said to be a reflection of the popular will? Is
this the Kenya citizens want? A false consciousness is promoted that we are a maturing democracy
and your vote counts. This lie must be destroyed so that the people can see for
themselves the concrete reality of their own situation and organise to liberate
themselves from the oppression of the ruling classes and their enablers. The
people must take the initiative to organise, embrace a new revolutionary
consciousness based on their concrete realities and build popular power. The
one word for that is: Struggle. Citizens must organise themselves at every level as
collectives, determine their own objectives and strategies to bring down the
current anti-people system. That is democracy from below. Change will never
come from the top. Those who enjoy the benefits of the status quo will not
freely initiate change or relinquish their privileges without a fight. A
unifying ideology that will tie together all the collectives in citizen-driven
solidarity will culminate in a solid national bloc of people power that will
demolish the present elitist system and put in its place a truly democratic
order.