Shujaa will face Morocco and Botswana in Pool ‘A’ of the Africa Cup Sevens slated for Tunisia on October 13-14. Shujaa will be seeking to reclaim the trophy they lost to Uganda in the semifinal of the tournament in 2016 on home soil as part of the Safari Sevens. Defending champions Uganda headline Pool ‘B’ which also features Senegal and Ghana while Zimbabwe, hosts Tunisia and Mauritius make up Pool ‘C’. Pool ‘D’ comprises Madagascar, Namibia and Zambia. A 41-man provisional Shujaa squad was named last week to start training for the upcoming season. The players assembled at the RFUEA ground over the weekend where they are expected to be whittled down to 20-25 players come the start of next week when the new head coach takes over from Innocent Simiyu. Shujaa will be using the tournament to prepare for the start of the World Seven Series in December in Dubai and in Cape Town a week later. Sources at the union said they will try and integrate the younger players for the tournament with senior players given a breather from the Tunisian tournament as they prepare for the start of the world series. Competition is expected to come from Zimbabwe and Uganda in the two-day tournament. Elsewhere, Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) has announced ticket prices slated for November 9-11. Advance regular tickets will sell at Kshs 500 on Friday (flat rate for all sections) and Sh1,200 for Saturday and Sunday (each day). Advance VIP tickets will retail at Sh2,500 for each of the two days. Regular and VIP tickets at the gates will cost a little more at Sh1,500 and Sh2,000, respectively. Season tickets are also available and will cost Sh2,000 across all days (regular) and Sh4,500 for VIP. It does not apply for children who will be charged Sh500 each day.  Tickets can be purchased from the portal tickets.diatec.co.ke. The tournament returns to the RFUEA for the first time in eight years. After 2010 the tournament was held at the Nyayo Stadium for two years — 2011 and 2012 before moving on to the bigger Kasarani Stadium from 2013 to 2016. Click here for the latest political news