Kenya Ferry Services will compensate 13 families who lost their relatives in the 1994 Mtongwe tragedy. The families will jointly receive Sh7.9 million, with each taking at least Sh600,000. KFS legal officer Elijah Kitur said the beneficiaries were families who adhered to the company’s calls for victims to present the required papers such as death certificates and hospital documents for the survivors to facilitate compensation. Last year, KFS called on families of the deceased and victims of the tragedy to present their original documents for verification and compensation. Only 13 families responded to the notice. “These relatives have already been cleared as genuine beneficiaries of the deceased. They will, therefore, receive their awards before the end of this year,” Kitur said. Although 280 families, whose relatives died in the tragedy, had been compensated, the company said there were more families who deserved to be compensated. Most of those who were left out in the previous award were the survivors who escaped with injuries. Kitur said the company is still open to the other survivors to bring  their documents for verification. The legal officer further noted  they are assisting families whose documents disappeared with a lawyer who relocated from Mombasa The lawyer left the country without surrendering the documents back to the families. “Most of those who got injured only have old wounds, but for accountability purposes, we need documentation to accompany your claims,”Kitur said. KFS boss Bakari Gowa said most of the fatal cases have already been compensated. He, however, said most of the survivors were yet to be awarded and called on them to come forward with hospital documents “If someone was left out, they should come forward since we are still reviewing documents with other legal advisers,” Gowa said. Last week during the closure of the Mombasa court’s service week, Justice George Odunga dismissed 29 cases filed by some families for failing to appear before court for almost 24 years. The relatives were demanding for compensation and accused KFS and Mwinyi Mwakinyezi, who was the coxswain at the time, of negligence