In total disregard of the environment
and preservation of the Mau Forest water tower, the Kanu government settled
people there merely driven by a desire to harvest votes from those now
resisting eviction from the complex. They are completely unworried of the harm
their continued settlement will cause the water tower and hundreds of millions
it provides with water. Unfortunately people were not just
settled in Mau Forest politically but also ethnically, giving rise to the toxic
mix of politics and negative ethnicity in the ongoing government attempt to
save the water tower. The greed of a few politicians who fear loss of land they
grabbed from the Mau and the votes they will lose when the settlers leave must
not stop this process. Despite this toxic mix, neither
those who seek continued settlement in the forest nor the government and those
who are advocating eviction of the people need negative ethnicity and ethnic
violence to achieve their goal. Those who grabbed forestland in the Mau and
other forests in Kenya must vacate. And those leaders who misled poor people
into these settlements must not be allowed to politically benefit from this. As ethnic fire rages, Kenyans must
not play the sad role of disinterested onlookers, thinking the ethnic war
between the Kipsigis and the Maasai is not their problem and none of their
business because it is precisely just that. This is every Kenyan’s business and
problem because as it grows, it spreads to other areas that seem unaffected
today. As Vladimir Lenin said, a spark of fire can burn a whole prairie, a
conflict of few hundreds can end up involving and consuming millions. The assassination
Prince Franz Ferdinand sparked the First World War, while the conflict between the
Tutsis and the Hutus would blossom into a full-fledged genocide that consumed more
than a million people. Negative ethnicity and ethnic
violence is like a grass-thatched hut in a village of grass-thatched huts. I
did not understand why we always rushed to put out the fire when one caught
fire until my father explained to me that if we did not put out the fire even
in the hut of our enemy, the wind could blow a spark of it to ours. So the
safety of our hut lay in the safety of the others irrespective of whom they
belonged to. Ethnic violence must never be
encouraged or ignored. From a small fire it can grow into a big war that would
spread to the whole country. We must always seek to put it out, not with fire
of negative ethnicity but with the love of humanity and brotherhood. The silence of the leaders seems to
encourage or appears as a quiet support of this violence. Given how vocal they
are, they should have condemned these clashes by now. Unfortunately, politicians are
more likely to support violence than condemn it because since Independence,
their ideology has been negative ethnicity, and will more likely resort to the
same violence were they to find themselves in similar circumstances. While British colonialists used
negative ethnicity to divide and rule, African leaders did not give up negative
ethnicity after independence. When Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi used negative
ethnicity to divide and rule their masses, opposed but also used ethnic
ideology to win elections. Leaders support ethnic violence
because they have weaponized negative ethnicity. As ethnic violence, negative
ethnicity is also used to politically mobilize parties while leaders
ideologically arm themselves with it. It is very sad that government will
allow people to carry arrows with which they kill other Kenyans, something we
must never permit if we learnt anything from genocide in Rwanda and our own
ethnic violence in 2007/8.  