Bosom buddies Ismael Changawa and Ibrahim Kibet will re-ignite their rivalry in the Britam Kenya Open men’s championships final today at Nairobi Club. The duo braved tough opposition and humid conditions during their respective semi final matches attended briefly by the country’s First Lady Margaret Kenyatta to drum support to the Kenyan players. Changawa survived a first set scare from Albert Njogu to eventually overpower him 6-3,6-0 to sail to the final,  a slot he missed last year after bowing to Sheil Kotecha in the semis. On the other hand, a resilient Njogu showed no signs of blinking in the first six games of the opening set, where he staged a spirited fight to pull back each game which his opponent won but could not maintain the tempo in the remaining games which he lost. Things were not rosy either in the second set as he struggled to match Changawa’s might and later admitted to have been impatient in his returns which he scattered all over and consequently bowed out of the race. He, however, expressed satisfaction in surpassing last year’s quarter final mark. He said: “It was a tough match which would have ended in my favour had I kept calm in capitalising on his mistakes. I was impatient when a chance to score a point came my way and I ended up scattering returns while in a hurry to grab a score. Although I have lost, I am happy I have made it to the last four which is better than last year where I lost in the quarters. It shows I have made progress.” Changawa was elated with the win “Its good I have reached in the finals after a disappointing semi fin exit in the last edition. I have already put last year’s miseries behind and I am ready to take anyone in the finals.” In the other semi final match, Kibet recovered from a set down to toss out Burundian Abdoul Shakur 2-6, 6-2, 6-3 in a match which lasted for almost two hours. The Nairobi-based Shakur broke Kibet’s serves twice in the opening set to proceed to a comfortable first set win.  However, the second seeded Kibet overturned fortunes in his favour in the second set and made good use of his endurance to qualify for the final at the expense of the hard fighting 17-year-old after a 6-3 win in the final set. Following the win, Kibet will face off with Changawa in the final. The two are the country’s most dreaded doubles pair and their combination proved reliable in the Davis Cup, where they aided Kenya to qualify to the lucrative Euro Africa Group II.  Changawa, however, boasts of a unblemished record over Kibet after slapping the latter with a 6-3, 6-2 semi final win during their last meeting in Karen Open Championships last year. In the girls’ category, Shufaa Changawa humiliated Narindra Ranaivo of Madagascar 6-0, 6-2 to qualify for the final, where she will play compatriot Angela Okutoyi who humbled Alicia Owegi with a similar sets margin of 6-3.