Opener Abdul Najmi missed his maiden ton of the season by only three runs as Nairobi Gymkhana overcame hosts Ruaraka Sports Club by nine wickets in the NPCA Super Elite league at the Ruaraka Sports Club yesterday. Najmi and Veer Dave shared a breathtaking 106-run stand in 16 overs as Nairobi Gymkhana romped into their second win of the season which left the home team still winless from five matches. The hosts put on a good bowling show to bowl out the home team for 115 in 43 overs but Najmi (97 not out off 70 balls ensured Nairobi Gymkhana chased down the target with over 200 balls to spare. The 28-year-old Najmi showed great restraint during an unbeaten second wicket partnership with Dave. The opening batsman hit 15 fours and three sixes as he displayed one of his best inning in years. Making a comeback after months of absence due to a wrist injury, opener Karan Kaul could only score three runs in the three overs he was in the middle before he was caught off Satyajit Gohil. This brought up the match winning stand where Dave was more of a spectator as Najmi did all the damage to the Ruaraka bowlers. Anything that pitched up or bowled outside off stump was dealt with ease and it wasn’t as a surprise when five bowlers were used in the 18 overs bowled. Dipen Vekaria (0 for 32) and Harshit Vekaria (0 for 34) were the most expensive bowlers conceding 58 runs to Najmi in their seven overs. Gohil received less of Najmi’s brutal approach as he conceded only 18 runs from seven overs Earlier Amish Amin, Lucas Oluoch, Raj Savala and Siddharaj Virajput all claimed two wickets each as the home struggled with the bat. Gohil was the top scorer for the home side with 29 runs. In the Super plate encounter, Obuya Academy won the battle between the tiers’ top teams when they beat Ngara by eight wickets at Lenana School. Chasing 186 runs, Obuya Academy lost only two wickets on their way to cement their top place in the plate event. Sandeep Adole (89 off 75 balls ) and Tom Ochieng (57 from 93 balls) both scored half centuries as Obuya Academy rode to 192 for 2 in 36.3 overs.