The outcry over the high cost of fuel hurting Kenyans took a new twist yesterday. Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi called for quick investigations into alleged energy mega scandals. Mudavadi told Director of Criminal Investigation George Kinoti to speed up the probe into the Kenya Pipeline Corporation and “nab the culprits.” “The new petroleum levy would be completely unnecessary if only those given the responsibility to manage our key institutions that regulate energy performed their work with integrity,” he said. Read: There was fraud in Sh660 million KPC procurement - EACC Mudavadi was with ANC legislators at a press conference at the party’s headquarters in Nairobi. They were Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Ernest Kivai (Vihiga) and the ANC secretary general Barack Muluka. He said Kenyans want to know the beneficiaries of the huge sums of money lost at the KPC through dubious transactions. “The petroleum industry ... is rotten. That is why you are now being asked to pay an extra 16 per cent levy for a product that is already heavily burdened with taxation,” Mudavadi said. Some of the suspicious KPC transactions include the construction of 10 pump station tanks worth Sh4.9 billion, the KPC Line Five project contract worth Sh48.4 billion and the inflated cost of valve automation project to Sh5.1 billion from Sh1.2 billion. “What is the relationship between KPC managers and the recipient companies? Who were the beneficiaries of kickbacks worth the Sh3.9 billion in the valve automation project?” he said. Other KPC transactions Mudavadi cited are the tendering of a fiber optic project worth Sh800 million, instead of Sh600 million, and the the purchase of two acres at an “exaggerated” cost of Sh653 million, instead of Sh320 million. Another alleged suspicious transaction the ANC leader said detectives should unearth is the hiking of the Kisumu Oil Jetty project to Sh1.7 billion from Sh900 million. “The common denominator in these rip-offs is interference, involvement, intervention and control of tender processes by politicians, foreign bidders and their surrogates, KPC managers and the board,” Mudavadi said. More: KPC replaces boss after massive spill Click here for the latest political news