Opposition leader Raila Odinga has reiterated the need to find a solution to the 16 per cent VAT on petroleum products. Raila yesterday said the government should balance between protecting vulnerable Kenyans and raising revenue. He spoke after a meeting with former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth at his Capitol Hill office, sparking speculation on whether they reached a 2022 election deal. “The challenge now is to find ways of balancing between the two... A way out has to be found,” he said. Noting that the increase will hurt employers, Raila said the government should find other means to raise funds. “We discussed the legitimate concern that the rising cost of fuel will touch all other areas and could cause food prices inflation and demands for higher pay by workers,” he said. Read: Relax, Uhuru will reverse 16% VAT on fuel, Raila tells Kenyans Drawing from his Treasury background, Kenneth shared insights on what can be done to balance the need to raise money without raising the cost of fuel. Raila earlier urged Kenyans not to panic over the hiked fuel prices, saying it will soon be reversed. The ODM leader said he has faith President Uhuru Kenyatta will shelve the increment. Raila also briefed Kenneth on the progress with the Building Bridges Initiative and the ongoing war on corruption, a key component of the Building Bridges Initiative deal with Uhuru. Kenneth supported the war on corruption and the bid to unite Kenyans. Earlier, Raila held talks with former Kuresoi MP Zakayo Cheruiyot and discussed similar issues. Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the levy will supplement tax revenue sources given the enormous consumption of the petroleum products in the economy. The implementation of the VAT on petroleum products has been suspended on three occasions since 2013 when it was first supposed to come into effect. The suspension lasted for three years after which petroleum products were to be subjected to VAT from September 1, 2016. In June 2016, before the expiry of the transition period, the grace period was extended for a further two years. This was to avoid the escalation of pump prices of the petroleum products in the market. Read also: We'll resolve fuel crisis, Ruto assures as pump prices spark outrage Click here for the latest political news