For the first time since Independence 55 years ago, a House of Parliament will hold its sitting outside Nairobi. The Senate will this week relocate the entire infrastructure of its operations to County 027, Uasin Gishu, as part of efforts to demystify and enhance public understanding of its functioning. For the whole week starting today, the Senate will sit in Eldoret in the chambers of the county assembly of Uasin Gishu in what is undoubtedly a memorable moment in the history of Parliament. We have a packed programme spread all through the week. Besides discharging our core mandate of legislation, representation and oversight, we have lined up a series of meetings with the leadership of county 027, the county assembly and some time to unwind with some sports. The Eldoret sitting is an opportunity for the Senate to move closer to the public. While we acknowledge the challenges, it is evident devolution has had an impact in the last six years. Each of the 47 counties has a unique success story to tell. Which is why the Senate started this outreach programme: To feel. To touch. To smell. To hear. And, most importantly, to witness how devolution has transformed our society. We go to County 027 not as the know-it-all big men of the Senate but as humble servants of the people. The mission is to listen to the people, hear out the counties and their governments and engage them in the best way possible. The Senate is the guardian angel of devolution, by law. Devolution, in turn, is the magic bullet of the 2010 Constitution through which the hopes of 40 million Kenyans have been rekindled. Walking out of the comfort of the capital and taking our operations to the grassroots is the least we can do. It shows that the Senate cares and that we are really serious about seeing devolution succeed. There is no better way of showing our determination in ensuring the success of devolution than getting right into the hearts of the people. Our committees will, in the next week, conduct their oversight role in Eldoret. Having our committees conduct their oversight at the lowest unit of representation is a dream come true, and a revolution of sorts. It is something any entity aspires to. For the Senate, this is the real deal and when the opportunity presented itself, we couldn’t let it pass for any reason because all devolved functions, which we oversight, are core services that concern the ordinary people. That is why, besides conducting its business at the grassroots, we have put in place a robust outreach programme to ensure that the senators get out of the official circles and visit villages and inner sanctums of counties to observe the status of implementation of this very important concept that is making Kenya another wonder in the world. This outreach is not for academic reasons. It is a serious attempt to understand our clients, the counties, and their governments and the people so that when we legislate, represent or oversight, we know exactly what we are doing. In other words, we as senators, are placing ourselves in a situation where we are the wearers of the shoes. We want to know where it pinches so that when we are making the materials for making the shoes, we recommend the right size for each of our 47 clients. This foray will not be restricted to Eldoret or Uasin Gishu. We envisage a situation where our presence will have an impact in the entire region so that all outlying counties take advantage and join us in this historical voyage. Senators will move far beyond the boundaries of County 027 to feel experiences, in the same way we hope devolution stakeholders in the neighbouring counties of Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Trans Nzoia, West Pokot, Kakamega and Bungoma will take advantage of the presence of the Senate to help entrench devolution. We hope the MCAs, governors and technical teams from these counties will fill Eldoret to have a feel of the experience the Senate’s presence in the town brings. It is our aspiration that this outreach should be taken to all the other 46 counties. And much as this is our vision, we also recognise the constraints brought about by inadequate resources and the laborious task of moving the Senate infrastructure outside Nairobi. We have started with County 027. My vision is to have at least two such sittings every year until we get the resources and capabilities to sit in all the other counties. The writer is the Senate speaker