Makueni's Prof Kibwana has been the shining star among his peers on matters devolution and development. Disturbing, however, are reports from the sidelines of an inter- county communications workshop in Mombasa indicating that the mangoes displayed to the Governors who had recently gone for peer to peer benchmarking at the Kalamba Fruit processing plant had been bought from West Pokot a week before at the expense of local farmers. ** Several City Hall officers want the DCI George Kinoti and the EACC to act first and arrest a senior female officer in the procurement department. It’s rumored that the officer has been doing big business in Nairobi County and ensuring that her payments go through as first as possible. Those in the know say the woman recently received a Sh 8 million payments for supply of electrical to one of the hospitals run by the county. However, the woman seems untouchable and the source said she has been using her husband who is also a senior officer working with the DCI to cover up her corrupt deeds. It’s said the husband has helped ensure no investigations on financial impropriety are carried out against her. ** Word has it that several aircrafts doing self-handling of their cargo at JKIA and other airports and airstrips within Kenya are not paying the required concession fee which is set at US $ 2500 per year for each flight. Several stakeholders in the aviation sector say that some KAA officers have been colluding with these aircrafts who do self-handling to pocket the money. A source privy to the information said that despite the concession fee being introduced in 1996 and revised in subsequent years, KAA does not formally charge these aircrafts thus the government is losing millions as some KAA officials get rich. ** A former legislator in Migori County shocked his supporters recently when he joined the campaign trail of ODM candidate in senator by-election Ochillo Ayacko slotted for October 8. The former legislator fell out with the orange party after last elections and was among leaders who were close to Governor Okoth Obado and former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno who dropped his senator bid on National Liberal Party to join SRC. The leader who was supported by the governor in last polls said while his friend will retire in 2022 he will seek mandate and wants to be in good books with the party. Click here for the latest political news