Cab hailing app Uber has unveiled a strategy to reinforce safeguards for passengers and their personal information. CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, in a statement on Thursday, said they have strengthened their background checks and introduced new screening technology. "We’ve taken steps to reduce the risk of drowsy driving. And we’re working to deter misconduct by making Uber a place where the lights are always on, adding new safety features," he said. Khosrowshahi said the features will be like an in-app emergency button and Trusted Contacts to allow multiple sets of eyes on each ride. "I’m proud of this progress, but we aren’t stopping there. Today, we’re raising the bar on safety by unveiling new features that will help protect all our customers and the information they entrust to us," he said. Features to be added to the app include 'Ride Check' which uses location tracking already built into the service to detect when cars have stopped unexpectedly. "The feature will  make sure you are okay in the event of a possible crash, and give you tools to get help quickly," he said. "When a Ride Check is initiated, riders and drivers will be prompted to use our Safety Toolkit, which includes the option for 911 assistance." "Our safety team can also follow up by phone to make sure everyone is safe," Khosrowshahi said. He said the technology will flag trip irregularities beyond crashes that might, in some rare cases, indicate an increased safety risk. If there is a long, unexpected stop during a trip, both the rider and the driver will receive a Ride Check notification to ask if everything is okay. Driver Safety He said a key part of staying safe is a seamless pickup adding that the Uber company will start testing voice-activated commands. This feature offers drivers and delivery partners a hands-free way to interact with the Uber app, so they can accept trips and communicate with customers using just their voice. Uber, which operates in 65 countries, has disrupted transport in many locations despite regulatory hurdles and resistance from taxi operators. The company has been touting a safety-first message amid plans for an initial public offering of shares late next year. In July, uber introduced an Incident Response Team callback line in a bid to improve safety and security in the industry. The support feature will provide riders across the region with 24/7 access to discuss safety-related matters with Uber’s IRT team. With the IRT callback line, riders can submit a ticket for a critical safety incident or accident through the app, including their contact number and short description of the event. More on this: Uber introduces callback line for riders' safety Also read: Uber introduces anonymous numbers to increase safety, privacy Click here for the latest political news