Kisumu MCAs have protested delays by the assembly’s Public Accounts Committee to table a report on Sh11.5 million house furniture. The report was to be presented on Tuesday but PAC chairperson Maureen Otieno asked for more time to complete the document. The delays caused concern and MCAs questioned the transparency of the procurement process. The assembly leadership has been on the spot over the Sh11.5 million budgeted for 48 seats after pictures of samples went viral on social media. The seats will each cost the public Sh240,000, causing a public uproar. They will be installed in the debating chambers. The contract was awarded to Kodiaga prison. The furniture includes seats for the members, the speaker and governor and tables. Residents and some MCAs have said the quality of the sample seats presented to the assembly does not justify the high cost quoted. Kisumu Residents Association chairman Audi Ogada said the quality was poor and the price inflated. Kisumu North MCA Elisha Oraro asked the house leadership to give the public accurate information. Oraro said the integrity of the house must be upheld through proper information on expenditure of public money to purchase the furniture. “The procurement issue is not a light matter. It requires complete transparency to ensure public money is well-utilised,” he said. With many questions but no substantive response, the members raised concerns on the operations of the assembly which they claim was not properly constituted. Assembly Speaker Onyango Oloo has defended the Sh11.5 million allocation for the furniture. He said the furniture was procured by the previous administration after a contract was awarded to Kodiaga main prison. Majority leader Kenneth Onyango said that the house has the mandate to play the oversight role without any limitation. “Anything that impedes the oversight role of the house must be comprehensively discussed,” Onyango said. East Seme MCA Seth Okumu questioned the motive of the house leadership that he said was trying to gag members and blatantly interfere with house matters. Kolwa East MCA Steve Owiti called on the house officials to take responsibility and put the assembly in order. He said bills are passed by the assembly but never implemented by concerned quarters. “It demeans the importance of the house when there is zero implementation after thorough debate and approval,” Owiti said. He was supported by Railway MCA David Arao. In June, seven former Bungoma county officials accused of inflating the cost of wheelbarrows were fined Sh4.2 million or spend 22 years in jail.Th e accused were found guilty of inflating the prices of wheelbarrows and purchasing 10 units at Sh933,880. The tender was awarded to Jagla Enterprises, which sold each wheelbarrow at Sh109,320. Their conviction is one of the biggest achievements by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission in Western region in recent times. The magistrate said they ignored recommendations to do fresh tendering.