A powerful typhoon killed 10
people in western Japan and an airport company started to
transfer some 3,000 stranded passengers by boats from a flooded
airport, the government said on Wednesday, as more than a
million homes were without power. Jebi, or "swallow" in Korean, was briefly a super typhoon
and is the most powerful storm to hit Japan in 25 years. It
follows heavy rains, landslides, floods and record-breaking heat
that killed hundreds of people this summer. About 3,000 tourists stayed overnight at Kansai Airport in
western Japan, an important hub for Japanese companies to export
semiconductors. Television footage showing people lining up to
buy food and drinks at a convenience store in the airport. Airport officials began transferring the stranded passengers
to nearby Kobe airport by high-speed boats and buses on
Wednesday morning, the government said. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said about 300 people
were injured. It was uncertain when the airport would reopen and
some roads and train lines in the affected areas were still
closed, he said. About 1.2 million homes were without power. "The government will continue to do everything possible to
tackle these issues with utmost urgency," Suga told a news
conference. Japan's JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Corp shut at least
one of the refining units at its 135,000 barrels-per-day Sakai
refinery in Osaka in western Japan due to typhoon damage to part
of the cooling tower, the trade ministry said. Many chip plants operate in the Kansai region. Toshiba
Memory, the world's second-largest maker of flash memory chips,
was monitoring developments closely and may need to ship
products from other airports if Kansai remains closed, a
spokeswoman said. She said the company was not expecting a major impact
because its plant in Yokkaichi in central Japan had not been
affected by the typhoon. It could take several days to a week to reopen Kansai
airport depending on the damage, the Yomiuri newspaper quoted an
unidentified person in the airline industry as saying. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, criticised for an initially slow
response to devastating floods in July, posted repeated updates
on the rescue efforts at Kansai. Jebi's course brought it close to parts of western Japan hit
by rains and flooding that killed more than 200 people in July
but most of the damage this time appeared to be from the wind. Click here for the latest political news