The second edition of the Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom youth football tournament has been boosted by a partnership between Spanish top flight league La Liga and Football Kenya Federation. The partnership was launched on Saturday at the Woodley grounds, Kibera with two friendly matches taking center stage. The deal will see an all-Star team get an opportunity to train and play in Spain, with La liga junior sides. Scouts from Spain and certified La Liga coaches will travel to Kenya to search for talented boys and girls who will make up an all-star team. “We are excited that La Liga have come on board to add to the already existing partnership with FKF for this second edition of Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom. A ten 10-day training camp in Spain will be up for grabs for the the selected stars who will also play a few friendly games against the world’s best Spanish La Liga academies,” said Charles Kare, Acting Director, Consumer Business Unit, Safaricom. In the friendly matches played during the partnership, Beijing Riders beat last season’s girl’s National winners Plateau Queens 2-0, before boys' champions Kapenguria Heroes beat Gor Mahia youth 1-0 in a repeat of last edition's national finals where the West Pokot side beat Kogallo juniors through penalties. Last edition's winners got a chance to train with brand ambassador Victor Wanyama at Tottenham Hotspurs. They also watched a Premier League game between Spurs and Leicester City FC during their one week trip to London. This year's tournament will kick off on October 13 and will target talented boys and girls aged between 16 and 20 with an aim of developing grassroots football. FKF president Nick Mwendwa who graced the occasion said he was pleased with the partnership that has already borne fruits in terms of improving football in Kenya. “Over 1,500 teams were involved in the first edition, with 13 players from season one getting the chance to join under-20 national team. Several players have also been signed up by the local top leagues for both men and women,” Mwendwa said. Head of Global Partnerships and Marketing, LaLiga, Gregory Bolle, said: “We are pleased with the talent we have in Kenya. I know with Spanish coaches and scouts on board we will definitely get the next Michael Olunga who will flourish in the La liga.” "Kenyan international striker Michael Olunga had a short stint with Girona last season, and we know with the partnership we can get raw talent that can be nurtured to future champions," added Bolle. Registration for the second edition of the tournament is ongoing and will close on September 30. Registration forms are available in all Safaricom shops and website, local FKF offices and the official FKF website. Click here for the latest political news