Former US presidents Barack
Obama and George W. Bush will lead mourners on Saturday in a
service for the late John McCain, the long-time Arizona senator
and Vietnam war hero whose bids for the White House were dashed
by the two men. On the way to Washington's National Cathedral, the cortege
of one of America's most famous prisoners of war will stop at
the Vietnam Veterans Memorial where his wife, Cindy McCain, will
lay a wreath to honor those who died in the war. Obama and Bush, a Democrat and a Republican, will be joined
by a collection of former US presidents, senators, Vietnam-era
officials and others paying tribute to the statesman who died
August 25 of brain cancer, days shy of his 82nd birthday. Conspicuously absent will be President Donald Trump, who
over the past three years engaged in a public feud with McCain,
a fellow Republican. McCain's family had made clear that Trump was not welcome at
memorial services in Arizona and Washington or at Sunday's
private burial service in Annapolis, Maryland, at the US Naval
Academy. McCain was a member of the Academy's Class of 1958. In Congress, where he laid in state on Friday, McCain was a
leading voice for revamping the country's immigration, campaign
finance and environmental laws. But it was his military service,
punctuated by years as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam, that
molded McCain's political life. McCain, who rose to the rank of captain in the U.S. Navy,
was shot down over Hanoi while on a bombing mission in 1967. Held as a prisoner until 1973, McCain was tortured by his
North Vietnamese captors in a jail that Americans dubbed the
"Hanoi Hilton." KISSINGER, BEATTY, BLOOMBERG Lying in state in the US Capitol since Friday morning,
McCain was commemorated by politicians of all stripes and
mourners who filed past his flag-draped coffin into the night. On Saturday, a motorcade will take McCain's casket past the
capital's stately monuments en route to the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial, where Cindy McCain will place a wreath at the black,
v-shaped granite wall inscribed with the names of more than
58,000 US soldiers killed in combat. At the time of his death, McCain was chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, where he was known as a tough overseer
of the country's military. This summer, with McCain too ill to travel to Washington,
Congress hurried to pass the "John S. McCain National Defense
Authorisation Act" that will carry out a huge military build-up
by allowing $716 billion to be spent in the coming year alone. Inside the cathedral, which took 83 years to build and is
the sixth largest in the world, the congregants will hear from a
central figure of the Vietnam War: 95-year-old Henry Kissinger. Kissinger was an adviser to then-president Richard Nixon and
played a role in planning the controversial US bombing of
Cambodia and negotiating an end to US military action in
Vietnam. Pallbearers for Saturday's service reflect the eclectic
political company McCain kept, which helped him earn the
reputation of a maverick willing to work with the other side of
the aisle. They include Hollywood actor and liberal political activist
Warren Beatty, former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, an
independent, liberal former Senator Russ Feingold who crafted
landmark campaign finance legislation with McCain, and former
Senator Gary Hart, a Democrat who like McCain ran unsuccessfully
for president. Also read: Honouring Annan, McCain and others: Why eulogies have blind spots Click here for the latest political news