Warring communities living in Laikipia county have resorted to sports to promote peace and unity. On Saturday, they organised activities at the Laikipia Nature and Conservancy Ranch. Ten foreign envoys also attended. The residents pledged to live in harmony, end banditry and promote development. They included members of the Pokot, Samburu, Kalenjin, Kikuyu and Turkana ethnic groups. In the past, the communities have engaged in conflict in competition for water and pasture for their livestock. Hundreds of people have been killed and thousands of livestock stolen from Baringo, Laikipia and Samburu. During the Saturday event, ranch owner Kuki Gallmann returned after spending one year in hospital in Nairobi. She was shot and wounded by bandits who raided the ranch when attacks escalated between Baringo and Laikipia pastoralists. The envoys included Robert Godec (the US), Ralf Hackner (Swizerland), Vincent O’Nell (Ireland), Brona O’Nell (Ireland), Allson Charles (Australia), Robert Sirotka (Australia), Franciscus Makken (Netherlands), Nicolas Nihon (Belgium) and Oria Douglas (Elephant Watch). Gallmann said the event was meant to promote interactions among communities. “It has brought all communities that have been fighting for water and pasture. We wanted them to come together and participate in sporting activities so they also share their problems together and have a solution,” she said. Gallmann expressed optimism that peace will prevail. The events will be annual. “It is through sports that the communities will come together and interact. We want peace to remain in this region so it can develop. We have invited community leaders who will also spearhead this programme,” she said. The rancher thanked the national government for deploying more police officers to the region to contain insecurity and banditry attacks. Godec praised the initiative, saying it was a step forward to building peace. “We want to see this place develop and thank the Kuki Gallmann Foundation for steering this noble cause. As the international community, we’ll promote these efforts so residents work together as one community,” he said on behalf of the envoys and commissioners.