The National Assembly rightly amended the Finance Bill to remove application of VAT on petroleum products. Other than the adverse effects on the poor and economy in general, the imposition of 16 per cent VAT on petroleum products is a lazy recourse to a law that has been suspended twice; in 2013 for three years and 2016 for two years. First, Treasury relied on the rollover of the 2013 law rather than a reasoned and justified imposition of VAT based on the current economic status of the country. Treasury, therefore, has no justifiable economic reason for the increase other than playing hoax after being bullied by the World Bank. Second, MPs crying wolf have themselves to blame for dillydallying with the Finance Bill then hurriedly amending it by removing the offending VAT taxation at the last minute. MPs must have known that a Bill only comes into operation after the President has assented to it and then gazetted. Now the buck stops with President Uhuru Kenyatta when he returns from China. Uhuru should urgently save the country from turmoil by signing into law the amended Finance Bill and fast-tracking its gazetting.petite to fleece Kenyans through unnecessary taxes. The application of 16% VAT on all petroleum products depicts a government that has gone rogue. Despite warnings against reckless borrowing since 2013, the government played deaf and sunk the country into a Sh5.1 trillion debt whose use is shrouded in secrecy and impact is glamorous projects with no immediate comfort to Kenyans. The President ought to be forewarned that no government anywhere has survived by taxing its poor to pay debt. He needs to know that imposition of this arbitrary VAT coming on the heels of increase in electricity bills spells doom for achieving his Big 4 dream. The cost of living has skyrocketed. Many are living at the mercy of viscous shylocks, including banks. Mr President, burdensome taxes translate into intransigence and impunity of government. And your unqualified fiscal (monetary) policies are killing the goose that lay the golden egg. The writer is the ANC Leader and NASA Founder  