Lack of access roads and damage tofire hydrants during road construction are some of the challenges the Nairobi Disaster Management Unit faces during fires outbreaks. Most areas, especially in the slums, have poor road networks, making it difficult for firefighters to arrive in time. In an interview with the Star, Disaster Management chief officer Anne Muenda said in some instances, firefighters are forced to connect the pipes and carry them to the scene because of poor access roads. “This consumes time and might cause delays in putting out the fire. But we have managed in most cases,” she said. It has been previously reported that only 103 out of the 4,044 hydrants in Nairobi are operational, raising questions about the county’s disaster preparedness. Muenda said most of the hydrants were interfered with during road constructions. She said the fire and disaster department is not involved when road agencies are handed the sites. There are two fire hydrants at Safari Park, Koja, Globe roundabout, Runda, Kijabe street, three at Industrial Area and at James Gichuru. “The existing hydrants are functional and are wet throughout. The major problem we have is during water rationing and when the water pressure is down,” Muenda said. County director in charge of the fire department Brian Kisali said fires in developed areas of the city have declined, but there are more cases in the slums. “Earlier, we could get three cases daily but now we get around four calls,” he said. Kisali said the number of casualties during fires has decreased, save for the Gikomba fire where 15 lives were lost. Muenda said a fire engine is usually accompanied by a water bowser regardless of whether the area has a functional fire hydrant or not. She pointed out that the county has written to the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company to allocate hydrants in fire-prone areas. In the meantime,the Nairobi Water provides the water bowsers. Muenda said introduction of the 24-hour fire hotline has helped the disaster management department arrive on time. She said the department plans an awareness programme, which will be launched in the subcounties. “Through the programme, residents will be taught basic firefighting skills, how to avoid fires and how to keep up with outbreaks. My plan is for a quarterly awareness programme,” Muenda said. Good coordination between the department, MCAs and stakeholders is said to have played a major role in improving services. The Disaster Management Department was given Sh80 million this financial year and has received Sh90 million from the national government. The department will meet stakeholders this week to discuss ways of enhancing services.