Britain's Anthony Joshua
delivered a devastating technical knockout in the seventh round
to defeat Russian Alexander Povetkin at Wembley Stadium on
Saturday and retain his WBA, IBF, WBO and IBO world heavyweight
championship belts. In front of about 80,000 fans, Joshua moved on to 22 fights
unbeaten in his professional career by handing the 39-year-old
Povetkin only his second defeat but his first by TKO. Joshua, returning to the arena where he knocked out
Ukrainian Wladimir Klitschko in April, 2017 to become a unified
heavyweight world champion, was given a hero's reception by the
almost capacity crowd. However, early on it was the smaller challenger who appeared
the more inspired by the occasion, despite the constant boos and
jeers from the partisan crowd, and he caught the Briton late in
the first round with an uppercut on the nose. Both men had won Olympic gold medals, but it was the
youthful energy of the 28-year-old Joshua which proved decisive
as Povetkin visibly tired halfway through the contest. Joshua began dictating with his movement from the fourth
round and started to find his range with his right hook. That was what did for Povetkin, the WBA mandatory
challenger, in the seventh when a fearsome right-hander from
Joshua landed square on his jaw and sent the Russian to the
canvas. He got back to his feet but not for long as an onslaught of
punches from the champion led referee Steve Gray to intervene
one minute and 59 seconds into the round and give Joshua his
21st win by knockout. "Povetkin is a very tough challenger, he proved that tonight
with good left hooks and counter punches," Joshua said from
inside in the ring. "I came in here to have fun, and give it my best, I knew he
was strong to the head but weak to the body. I was just mixing
it up. "It could have been seven, maybe nine, maybe 12 rounds to
get him out of there. But the ultimate aim was to be victorious. "I got my knockout streak back," he added, having been taken
to 12 rounds for the first time in his previous fight against
New Zealand's Joseph Parker in Cardiff in April. The fight is the first of a two-match deal Joshua has agreed
to stage at Wembley Stadium, with the second due to take place
in April next year. However, his plan to become the undisputed world heavyweight
champion may have to wait a little longer as WBC title holder
Deontay Wilder announced earlier on Saturday a showdown with
Joshua's compatriot and former world champion Tyson Fury on December
1 in the United States. Click here for the latest political news