ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi yesterday dismissed reports that his plot title was revoked by the National Lands Commission. He accused the commission of maligning him after he was listed among senior politicians said to have benefited from irregular allocation. “It’s a matter of public interest for the NLC to come clean on this matter, rather than engage in a smear campaign against me,” Mudavadi said. In a statement issued yesterday, he said he was not the allotee of Kakamega Municipality Block III/85. He said the reports were “erroneous” and amounted to “a political concoction”. Read: NLC revokes title of land linked to Mudavadi in war on landgrabbing Mudavadi said the erroneous NLC Gazette notice does not have the name Wycliffe Musalia Mudavadi, but that of his late father Moses Mudavadi. “I read mischief in both NLC and media publication. Let me state for the umpteenth time that I’ve never seen the said land,” he said. The former deputy prime minister said he does not know the plot, has never claimed it and does not intend to. “I’ve never seen the letter of allocation or a lease title,” he said. Mudavadi said the NLC couldn’t revoke what does not exist and has not been staked. He said the claim was “a treacherous hoax”. In a Gazette notice, the NLC cancelled the title granted in his favour and returned the parcel to Kakamega Golf Course and Club. The commission has revoked hundreds of public land titles that had been issued irregularly and upheld others after verification. Yesterday, the Star reported that Mudavadi [Musalia] was among senior politicians whose land ownership documents were revoked by the commission. “A while back, I was made aware of this same malicious claim. Upon request for clarity, the Kakamega Sports Club officially wrote to deny that they had such a claim against me, neither were they aware of the said allocation to my late father,” he said. Mudavadi read mischief that the NLC notice does not specify who interceded to necessitate the alleged revocation. He said no member of his family was invited by the NLC in its purported hearings to set the record straight. Read: NLC revokes 100 titles, returns land to county “Out of curiosity, we would have been interested to know the claimant and the physical location of this alleged land that belonged to us but have been unaware of. NLC now vests the alleged property in an amorphous Golf Course/Club, which, to the best of my knowledge, does not exist,” the politician said. He said that NLC notice suggests a scheme by some grabbers to illegally acquire the property through commission’s assistance. Mudavadi said the NLC’s intention appears to deliberately make the property nebulous for ease of transfer to its shadowy clients. In the Gazette notice, the NLC directed the chief land registrar to effect the changes. According to the property listed, more than 100 titles belonging to the prisons department were nullified. Ownership documents for parcels in Kisumu, Kisii, Kilifi and Mombasa were also cancelled. Karura Forest was listed as one of the biggest gainers after 150 title deeds were revoked. The parcels that had been illegally registered under several companies will be returned to the Kenya Forest Service. Click here for the latest political news