Kericho governor Paul Chepkwony on Monday suffered a setback after the High Court in Narok dismissed an application seeking to stop evictions in the Maasai Mau forest. Narok Environment and Land Court judge Mohammed Kullow said the application had been overtaken by events as the eviction had taken place and completed. Kullow, however, told the court that due to the complexity of the Mau case, he shall forward the file to Chief Justice David Maraga to constitute a bench of judges to hear the case. Reacting to the ruling, the petitioner through his lawyer Humprey Manyange expressed dissatisfaction, saying he shall be filing a new petition for compensation for destruction of property and displacement. “We wish to seek leave from the court to amend our petition to specific orders for the purpose of setting the record straight,” Manyange said. Lawyer Oscar Eredi for the Attorney General did not oppose Manyange’s decision to amend the petition if only it could be done formally. Judge Kullow gave him the go-ahead to file a formal application and he will hear the new amendment on priority.  Chepkwony wanted the court to issue a permanent injunction against further evictions. He says private landowners were being evicted from their parcels despite having title deeds. In his suit filed by lawyer Peter Wanyama, the governor said the government was evicting people who were not residing within the forest land. He named the Lands and Interior Cabinet secretaries as the first and second respondents. Narok county commissioner, the National Land Commission, the Kenya Wildlife Service, the Kenya Forest Service, the Attorney General and the Nyayo Tea Zones were also named respondents. He claimed the evictions were politically motivated and instigated. He said it appeared that senior government officials and politicians were out to steal the land, which belonged to former group ranches. All the respondents opposed the petition, saying while the other blocs of Mau forest were gazzetted and managed by the Kenya Forest Service, the Maasai Mau Forest was managed by the Narok government. In his response, Narok county commissioner George Natembeya said the Mau Forest had suffered illegal settlement and logging.  