Direct cargo transportation to the US will begin in December 1, as the airline awaits further approvals from customs, agriculture and medical authorities. “There is need to test on the aircraft’s temperature-controlled environment during flight and storage as we can’t take risks, for example, in transportation of livestock products,” CEO Sebastian Mikosz said on Thursday. The first direct flight to John F Kennedy international airport in New York is set for October 28 after KQ received the Last Mile Point of Departure (LPD) letter that affirmed Jomo Kenyatta International Airport meets the Transport Security Administration (TSA) security standards. According to Transport CS James Macharia, the direct flights will be beneficial to the horticulture sector in creation of value addition of commodities. “When flights have to connect to other continents to get to the US, flowers and other horticultural produce reduce value which also increases the rejects rate,” Macharia said. Kenya’s exports to US as at July 2018 were valued at Sh7.07 billion ($69.9 million) with those for the first six months of the year estimated at Sh32.9 billion ($325.9 million). The value of exports totalled Sh57.8 billion ($572.2 million) in 2017 up by 3.6 per cent from Sh38.3 billion ($379.5 million) in 2016 and up by 75.8 per cent from 2007. The top export commodities included woven apparel, knit apparel, coffee, tea and spice, edible fruit & and nuts, ores, slag, and ash, nursery products and vegetable oils. US foreign direct investment to Kenya was Sh40.9 billion ($405 million) last year, a 7.5 per cent decrease from 2016. “We have made many accomplishments. The meeting between President Uhuru and President Donald Trump fostered more collaboration, and this is our next step to strengthen then relationship and connect our people,” US Ambassador Robert Godec said. The journey to grant JKIA the green light has been fraught with security regulatory checks that have seen the international airport undergo assessments and audits since 2008, when the two countries signed open-skies agreement to allow direct flights. In February last year, it attained category one status from Federal Aviation Administration to grant it direct flights to the US, but further underwent a security audit last October to determine security preparedness.Another audit in May showed the airport attained 78.5 per cent status rating above the global average of 62 per cent International Civil Aviation level.