Muslims for Human Rights has called for mass action to force the government to reduce taxation, saying the high cost of living will lead to increased crime. The lobby said on Friday there cannot be peace and security when the people and hungry. “Peace and hunger do not go together,” Muhuri chairman Khelef Khalifa said. He spoke after a procession from Uhuru Garden to Makadara Grounds in Mombasa to mark the International Day of Peace. Muhuri executive director Hassan Abdille said youth, who form the majority of the population, must be engaged in productive activities for peace to prevail. “But bad things have been happening to our youth. They are killed, maimed and forced to disappear. This is not an ideal situation if we want to achieve peace,” Abdille said. The activists said youths often find themselves on the wrong side of the law because they struggle to cope with the high cost of living. “It forces them to resort to crime,” Abdille said. He said stemming corruption would help solve the taxation burden. “The government is forced to increase taxes because of corruption. If we do not sort out corruption, we will be in a vicious cycle of poverty,” Khalifa said. The lobby said increasing tax on petroleum products will lead to an increase in the cost of living because it has a domino effect on all basic goods and services. The group’s call came just a day after MPs lost a fight to block the implementation of an eight per cent VAT on petroleum products. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday signed the bill into law. Muhuru said prices of basic commodities like sugar and maize flour will increase. The Word Bank, in its latest data on poverty rates, shows that 17.4 million Kenyans live on less than Sh92.4 a day. The figure is far below the International Poverty Line set at Sh191.33 per person per day. “Someone must tell the government to stop overburdening taxpayers because the funds often end up being wasted or stolen by civil servants,” Khalifa said. He said the government will not listen to the cries of Kenyans unless they take to the streets in protest. “If 20,000 of us block the roads and ensures nothing moves for one week, then government will listen,” he said.