Good Morning. Most parts of Kenya are expected to continue receiving showers, especially in the morning with areas around Lake Victoria and the Indian Ocean registering strong winds and thunderstorms. The weatherman has indicated that most parts of the country will likely experience above average rainfall as the short rains season kicks off. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star this Thursday. Former Nairobi Governor Evan Kidero has for the first time revealed how he came to acquire his multi-billion empire. The revelations are contained in court papers that he has filed in an intriguing court battle with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Describing himself as a “man of decent means”, Kidero has rubbished claims by the EACC that his net worth is disproportionate to his income. In the suit challenging EACC's orders to search his properties, Kidero lifts the lid on his confidential investment. He also gives a blow-by-blow account of how he accumulated his wealth gradually since 1983 when he worked as a production pharmacist. Without including any earnings during his five-year tenure as Governor, Kidero says between 1985 and 2012, he had earned a cool Sh1.3 billion. Who was Monica Kimani? Sorrow and grief gripped the family and friend of the slain businesswoman Monica Nyawira Kimani during her requiem mass held at Happy Valley grounds in Thika on Thursday. Close family members eulogized the 29-year-old Nyawira as an active, kind and obedient person since she was a little child. Her lifeless body was discovered in a bathtub last Friday at her apartment along Dennis Pritt Rd with her neck slit open and her legs and hands tied at the back. But what caught the attention of many was her father's revelation of what appears to be a multi-million wealth bank owned by his daughter. "You even told me that you’ll never get married without your own house and a car and true to your words you got yourself a car and a house. You always strived for the better," Ngarama said in his tribute. The bishop noted that her daughter had promised to buy him a new V8 Toyota Land Cruiser as a gift while celebrating her birthday on October 10. Senators given Sh100,000 daily allowance for Tokyo trip Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka has approved a 14-day trip for five senators to fly to Tokyo Japan to watch the World Volleyball championship which starts tomorrow. The five will each pocket not less than Sh1.2 million each as per diem for the two weeks they will be in Japan. Tokyo like Washington is considered one of the most expensive cities in the world and according to Parliamentary Service Commission rates, MPs are given Sh100,000 per day for their food and accommodation. Parliament pays for their air tickets. On the other hand, Kenyan players who are participating in the championship were each paid Sh80,0000 only for the three weeks they will be there. This means that each player will get Sh 3,800 per day. CA warns shoppers on increased online retail fraud Shoppers have been cautioned against online purchases following an increase in fake digital retail sites. The regulator said in the last one week there has been a spike in online shopping frauds. The Communications Authority says various websites and mobile applications being launched are fake and operated by crooks out to rip off unsuspecting shoppers. The fraudsters entice unsuspecting buyers through deals via email, SMS, social media pages or telephone. They also request for a registration fee for the goods or services. Help us or we uproot coffee trees: Farmers bemoan dwindling returns Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri recalls growing up on the slopes of Mount Kenya, at a time when coffee was the pride of every village. But today, what used to be the leading foreign exchange earner in the country in the late 1960s and 70s is suffering decreased fortunes. “Coffee farmers are miserable. Just when did the rain start beating us?” he told the Star. “It is unfortunate that while some farmers earn Sh100 per kilo from coffee bonus, others are earning Sh10.” Farmers doing well include members of Thirikwa Coffee Society in Kirinyaga county. Society chairman Ngari Gitari said they fared well in the 2017-18 crop year. The society produced 10,000kg in the 2017-18 production period, earning about Sh1 million at Sh103 per kg of cherry. But this is just a drop in the ocean as narrated by farmers from other areas in the Mt Kenya region. For more on these stories and others, keep browsing the Star website for the latest news making headlines across Kenya and around the world. To get the Breakfast Briefing right into your inbox every morning, click here for a free subscription. Click here for the latest political news