Sudan will form a new
government within two days, President Omar al-Bashir said on
Monday, a day after he dissolved the cash-strapped
administration and slashed the number of ministries by a third
to tackle a deepening economic crisis. Sudan has been looking to cut down spending as it grapples
with a crisis-ridden economy battered in recent months by
shortages of hard currency and staples like fuel and bread. After an emergency ruling party meeting to discuss the
economy on Sunday, Bashir named a new prime minister, Motazz
Moussa, and asked him to form a tighter government of 21
ministers instead of 31 as part of efforts to cut costs. More on this: Sudanese President Bashir dissolves government, appoints new PM Speaking on state television on Monday, Bashir said the new
government would look to slash government spending "to a
minimum" but did not specify the nature of the cuts. "Within the next two days a national reconciliation
government will be formed to implement a program to reduce
government spending, reform the civil service, eradicate all
forms of corruption, and provide an attractive environment for
investment," the longtime president said. The ministries to be shelved have not yet been announced,
but a ruling party official said on Sunday that the ministers of
foreign affairs, defence and presidential affairs would remain
in their posts. Sudan's decision to reduce bread subsidies earlier this year
triggered rare nationwide protests after bread prices doubled. A severe shortage of hard currency in the formal banking
system has led to a booming black market for dollars where the
hard currency currently trades for a roughly 40 percent premium. This premium has hiked the cost of imports and helped push
inflation to about 64 percent in July. In recent months liquidity of local currency at commercial
banks has also dried up, with long queues outside of banks and
daily withdrawal limits falling to as low as 500 Sudanese pounds
($17.06) in some places. Sudan's economy has been struggling since the south of the
sprawling northeast African country seceded in 2011, taking with
it three-quarters of oil output and depriving Khartoum of a
crucial source of foreign currency. Bashir, who has ruled since a 1989 Islamist and
military-backed coup, has said he will not stand in elections
expected in 2020 and appointed a prime minister last year for
the first time. Click here for the latest political news  