Glitzy Nairobi governor Mike Sonko’s chaotic leadership and haphazard dismissal of staff has severely exposed his soft underbelly and brought into sharp focus his roughshod management style.While Sonko’s story doesn’t lie in his impulsive and radical decisions, his apparent self-injurious character lays bare a deep-seated personality disorder. Borrowing heavily from his topsy-turvy past, when he served as Makadara MP and Nairobi senator, Sonko’s perpetuation of a bullish culture, blended with intimidation and harassment, appears to have snowballed into large scale levels as governor.The governor’s 13-month reign at City Hall has been described by some as an “occupational terror and sheer hostage”, with little options for staff working at his mercy. Nothing exemplifies the governor’s crisis management personality than the unfortunate Pumwani Maternity Hospital saga, which was triggered by his discovery of 12 dead babies. The 43-year-old county boss’ management was seen to have hit the crescendo with the Pumwani incident, exposing a deep-seated decision making crunch that many opine will hurt his disposition and personal legacy.The governor’s decision to send home senior medical officers at the region’s largest maternity facility coupled with dozens of other ‘roadside’ suspensions of county staff have lifted the lid on the fragile personality of the man at the helm of the country’s capital city. Since he assumed office, the governor has suspended and put on half-salary dozens of staff in various departments.Most of the suspensions have been done in well-choreographed drama and political theatrics. The flamboyant politician beat the odds to comfortably win the Nairobi gubernatorial seat. He floored former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth in the Jubilee Party primaries, and went ahead to beat ODM’s Evana Kidero, who was the incumbent. Faced with pregnant hopes and expectations among Nairobians, Sonko kicked off his first term by suspending a number of levies that had been imposed by the hitherto Kidero administration, buttressing his confidence levels. However, the governor’s latest leadership crisis, as attested by his rough approach to matters affecting the county, has attracted an avalanche of harsh criticism, even from his fanatics.From leaking screenshots to spying on his officers, Sonko might have dismantled entrenched cartels at City Hall but it is also emerging to be a personality challenge for him. The governor has conducted sting operations in the auditing, inspectorate, accounting departments in what are said to be intelligence-led swoops to curb corruption,  but dramatized in rather choreographed publicity stunts.Sonko has defended his on-the-spot actions, saying he is always guided by evidence based on intelligence reports.“As governor, I act based on concrete evidence. I care for Nairobians a lot and would not want to engage in PR stunts and political games,” Sonko told the Star in an interview. Regarding the Pumwani incident, the governor said his leadership style is the best approach to tackle cartels in the city.“That’s my style of leadership and that is me. [Evans] Kidero tried with his corporate style and failed. I will be ruthless until all cartels are pushed out of town. Let Nairobians understand this is my style and I am not about to change,” Sonko said.Sonko said he made a major breakthrough in Pumwani, in what he described as an intricate baby-trafficking racket.Interviews gleaned from county politicians among them MCAs and staff depict Sonko as a governor thriving in intimidation, and running a one-man show in managing county affairs. Minority chief whip and Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok said Sonko was intimidating staff and anyone who questions his style leadership. He warned that Sonko had subdued his staff into submission by the random sackings and threats of being branded a ‘cartel.’ “Governor Sonko should stop killing people’s professionalism for his own interest. Sonko should stop painting everybody bad for him to remain clean,” he said.“We are not going to allow a situation where the county government has no procurement department, which controls over Sh20 billion as per the budget we passed. Who is going to check the legality of the contracts being performed in the county because the entire legal department is closed?” he posedBut Majority leader Abdi Guyo defended Sonko, arguing that he is within his powers to suspend officers, and that the move does not hamper service delivery. “You know they are there at the pleasure of the governor, and the moment you contradict your boss, it automatically becomes insubordination. This cannot hinder services to Nairobians. Other officers are still there and are working,” he said.Other Jubilee MCAs and Sonko’s close associates were disgusted by the governor’s leadership style but were unwilling to go on record for fear of reprisal from the governor.Those who spoke to the Star on the condition of anonymity said Sonko was running the county “as if it was his personal property”. They say the city boss rarely takes advice and makes far-reaching decisions unilaterally.“He is user unfriendly and wants to run the county alone. He hates contrary or professional opinion, so most of us only watch,” one of his advisers told the Star in confidence. A Jubilee MCA said, “We thank God the President came up with the Nairobi Regeneration Committee, and, now, some work is being done in our wards. We have a governor who you cannot tell the priorities of your people. He does things his way.”With an unknown number of county staff on suspension, the county assembly plans to summon the chairman of the county Public service board to state the number of employees that are on suspension and the reasons.Interviews gleaned from people who have either worked or interacted with him, paint an image of a county boss thriving in bullying and intimidation both in his political and official environment.From secretly eavesdropping on private conversations through undercover recording gadgets, recording phone calls and releasing personal conversations through screenshots, Sonko is quite unpredictable.SUSPENSIONSMatters seemed to have gotten out of hand two months after coming into office, when he suspended 15 officials from various departments, with about 200 other workers locked out of their offices. Sonko then said the move was aimed at  paving way for investigations on matters that linked the City Hall to land grabbing. The staff came from the lands, rates, legal, debt collection and urban planning departments.Sonko accused the above departments of intentionally tampering with records on properties belonging to certain individuals. Among those who were sent on compulsory leave were senior lawyers Nyagara Nyamweya, Violet Onyangi, Evans Mogire, John Ombogi, Principal Counsel Newton Mungai and Legal Service director Karisa Iha. Some 30 county procurement staff were sent on compulsory leave in April over claims of issuing inflated Local Purchase Order without the governor’s approval. Danvas Makori who served as Finance executive was fired the same month he was suspended in April for allegedly spying for the former administration at City Hall. In July, Sonko sent home Chief of Staff Brian Mugo, acting head of County Treasury Stephen Mutua and acting Finance chief officer Ekaya Alumasi over corruption allegations. Ekaya had been earlier suspended in March over similar allegations, where he was accused of working with former Governor Evans Kidero. Less than 72 hours later, Sonko verbally suspended Health executive Hitan Majevdia and director of medical services Thomas Ogaro over laxity in health services provision when he stormed Kangemi Health centre. The health docket has been on the spot due to lack of medicine in hospitals and clinics for close to two years due to a Sh285 million debt owed to the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority.However, City Hall paid Sh58 million to KEMSA and later the two came to a paying agreement.John Ojwang, an employee of City Hall’s urban planning department, was suspended last month for the approval of buildings on riparian land. Acting Health executive Vesca Kagongo was suspended on September 18 over remarks they made at Pumwani.  But this was not the first time she was forced to take leave. She was first appointed to the Finance docket when Sonko came into office last year after serving as the vice chairperson of the County Public Service Board during Kidero’s administration.In February, after a cabinet reshuffle, she was moved to the Devolution docket and later suspended in June for insubordination. She reportedly travelled to the United States after having received instructions from the governor not to proceed on the trip. Earlier this month, MCAs gave Sonko 14 days to open with immediate effect the finance, legal and land offices and stop intimidating county government staff.Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto, who moved the motion on the status of the county government, said they were concerned with the state of the administration following the reshuffle and the suspensions, which have hampered service delivery. CABINET RESHUFFLEWithin one year, Sonko has had four Finance executive members.Is it that the docket lacked a qualified member or is it that it has a lot of interests being one of the most crucial office in the county?In his first reshuffle in February, Sonko replaced Kangogo in Finance with Makori, who previously served in Kidero’s government. In April, Sonko nominated Newton Munene for vetting to replace Makori.Lands executive Charles Kerich served in acting capacity from April to July, when Allan Igambi took over the Finance docket as Munene was named Trade executive. Allan Igambi was appointed Finance boss. Glitzy Nairobi governor Mike Sonko’s chaotic leadership and haphazard dismissal of staff has severely exposed his soft underbelly and brought into sharp focus his roughshod management style. While Sonko’s story doesn’t lie in his impulsive and radical decisions, his apparent self-injurious character lays bare a deep-seated personality disorder. Borrowing heavily from his topsy-turvy past, when he served as Makadara MP and Nairobi senator, Sonko’s perpetuation of a bullish culture, blended with intimidation and harassment, appears to have snowballed into large scale levels as governor. The governor’s 13-month reign at City Hall has been described by some as an “occupational terror and sheer hostage”, with little options for staff working at his mercy. Nothing exemplifies the governor’s crisis management personality than the unfortunate Pumwani Maternity Hospital saga, which was triggered by his discovery of 12 dead babies. The 43-year-old county boss’ management was seen to have hit the crescendo with the Pumwani incident, exposing a deep-seated decision making crunch that many opine will hurt his disposition and personal legacy. The governor’s decision to send home senior medical officers at the region’s largest maternity facility coupled with dozens of other ‘roadside’ suspensions of county staff have lifted the lid on the fragile personality of the man at the helm of the country’s capital city. Since he assumed office, the governor has suspended and put on half-salary dozens of staff in various departments. Most of the suspensions have been done in well-choreographed drama and political theatrics. The flamboyant politician beat the odds to comfortably win the Nairobi gubernatorial seat. He floored former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth in the Jubilee Party primaries, and went ahead to beat ODM’s Evana Kidero, who was the incumbent. Faced with pregnant hopes and expectations among Nairobians, Sonko kicked off his first term by suspending a number of levies that had been imposed by the hitherto Kidero administration, buttressing his confidence levels. However, the governor’s latest leadership crisis, as attested by his rough approach to matters affecting the county, has attracted an avalanche of harsh criticism, even from his fanatics. From leaking screenshots to spying on his officers, Sonko might have dismantled entrenched cartels at City Hall but it is also emerging to be a personality challenge for him. The governor has conducted sting operations in the auditing, inspectorate, accounting departments in what are said to be intelligence-led swoops to curb corruption, but dramatized in rather choreographed publicity stunts. Sonko has defended his on-the-spot actions, saying he is always guided by evidence based on intelligence reports. “As governor, I act based on concrete evidence. I care for Nairobians a lot and would not want to engage in PR stunts and political games,” Sonko told the Star in an interview. Regarding the Pumwani incident, the governor said his leadership style is the best approach to tackle cartels in the city. “That’s my style of leadership and that is me. [Evans] Kidero tried with his corporate style and failed. I will be ruthless until all cartels are pushed out of town. Let Nairobians understand this is my style and I am not about to change,” Sonko said. Sonko said he made a major breakthrough in Pumwani, in what he described as an intricate baby-trafficking racket. Interviews gleaned from county politicians among them MCAs and staff depict Sonko as a governor thriving in intimidation, and running a one-man show in managing county affairs. Minority chief whip and Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok said Sonko was intimidating staff and anyone who questions his style leadership. He warned that Sonko had subdued his staff into submission by the random sackings and threats of being branded a ‘cartel.’ “Governor Sonko should stop killing people’s professionalism for his own interest. Sonko should stop painting everybody bad for him to remain clean,” he said. “We are not going to allow a situation where the county government has no procurement department, which controls over Sh20 billion as per the budget we passed. Who is going to check the legality of the contracts being performed in the county because the entire legal department is closed?” he posed But Majority leader Abdi Guyo defended Sonko, arguing that he is within his powers to suspend officers, and that the move does not hamper service delivery. “You know they are there at the pleasure of the governor, and the moment you contradict your boss, it automatically becomes insubordination. This cannot hinder services to Nairobians. Other officers are still there and are working,” he said. Other Jubilee MCAs and Sonko’s close associates were disgusted by the governor’s leadership style but were unwilling to go on record for fear of reprisal from the governor. Those who spoke to the Star on the condition of anonymity said Sonko was running the county “as if it was his personal property”. They say the city boss rarely takes advice and makes far-reaching decisions unilaterally. “He is user unfriendly and wants to run the county alone. He hates contrary or professional opinion, so most of us only watch,” one of his advisers told the Star in confidence. A Jubilee MCA said, “We thank God the President came up with the Nairobi Regeneration Committee, and, now, some work is being done in our wards. We have a governor who you cannot tell the priorities of your people. He does things his way.” With an unknown number of county staff on suspension, the county assembly plans to summon the chairman of the county Public service board to state the number of employees that are on suspension and the reasons. Interviews gleaned from people who have either worked or interacted with him, paint an image of a county boss thriving in bullying and intimidation both in his political and official environment. From secretly eavesdropping on private conversations through undercover recording gadgets, recording phone calls and releasing personal conversations through screenshots, Sonko is quite unpredictable.  SUSPENSIONS Matters seemed to have gotten out of hand two months after coming into office, when he suspended 15 officials from various departments, with about 200 other workers locked out of their offices. Sonko then said the move was aimed at paving way for investigations on matters that linked the City Hall to land grabbing. The staff came from the lands, rates, legal, debt collection and urban planning departments. Sonko accused the above departments of intentionally tampering with records on properties belonging to certain individuals. Among those who were sent on compulsory leave were senior lawyers Nyagara Nyamweya, Violet Onyangi, Evans Mogire, John Ombogi, Principal Counsel Newton Mungai and Legal Service director Karisa Iha. Some 30 county procurement staff were sent on compulsory leave in April over claims of issuing inflated Local Purchase Order without the governor’s approval. Danvas Makori who served as Finance executive was fired the same month he was suspended in April for allegedly spying for the former administration at City Hall. In July, Sonko sent home Chief of Staff Brian Mugo, acting head of County Treasury Stephen Mutua and acting Finance chief officer Ekaya Alumasi over corruption allegations. Ekaya had been earlier suspended in March over similar allegations, where he was accused of working with former Governor Evans Kidero. Less than 72 hours later, Sonko verbally suspended Health executive Hitan Majevdia and director of medical services Thomas Ogaro over laxity in health services provision when he stormed Kangemi Health centre. The health docket has been on the spot due to lack of medicine in hospitals and clinics for close to two years due to a Sh285 million debt owed to the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. However, City Hall paid Sh58 million to KEMSA and later the two came to a paying agreement. John Ojwang, an employee of City Hall’s urban planning department, was suspended last month for the approval of buildings on riparian land. Acting Health executive Vesca Kagongo was suspended on September 18 over remarks they made at Pumwani. But this was not the first time she was forced to take leave. She was first appointed to the Finance docket when Sonko came into office last year after serving as the vice chairperson of the County Public Service Board during Kidero’s administration. In February, after a cabinet reshuffle, she was moved to the Devolution docket and later suspended in June for insubordination. She reportedly travelled to the United States after having received instructions from the governor not to proceed on the trip. Earlier this month, MCAs gave Sonko 14 days to open with immediate effect the finance, legal and land offices and stop intimidating county government staff. Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto, who moved the motion on the status of the county government, said they were concerned with the state of the administration following the reshuffle and the suspensions, which have hampered service delivery.  CABINET RESHUFFLE Within one year, Sonko has had four Finance executive members. Is it that the docket lacked a qualified member or is it that it has a lot of interests being one of the most crucial office in the county? In his first reshuffle in February, Sonko replaced Kangogo in Finance with Makori, who previously served in Kidero’s government. In April, Sonko nominated Newton Munene for vetting to replace Makori. Lands executive Charles Kerich served in acting capacity from April to July, when Allan Igambi took over the Finance docket as Munene was named Trade executive. Allan Igambi was appointed Finance boss.