About a decade ago, the government of Rwanda unleashed a
multi-pronged strategy to bring to heel its pesky newspapers. They weren’t
many. And they weren’t even half as professional or vocal as, say, the Kenyan
press. But all the same, the government didn't like those headlines. Sometimes,
the papers carried exposés from deep within the military, which
is the bedrock of President Paul Kagame’s dictatorship. Journalists began disappearing
without trace. Some were found murdered in mysterious circumstances. Others
were hit with long jail terms under politically motivated charges. The lucky
ones were tipped off about planned elimination and fled into exile. They
weren’t safe even there. They were often trailed by shadowy figures. There was another tactic. Rwanda
is a small donor-fed economy dominated by public investment and a tiny private
sector owned by tycoons with strong connections to the rulers. To survive,
private media houses have no option but to rely on government, the biggest
advertiser. The government decided to starve the troublesome papers of
advertising. It was a deadly blow. Within a
short time, many of the papers folded. Today, you can’t talk of a free media in
Rwanda. In July 2015, the government of
Kenya announced creation of a new agency to centralize state advertising. Treasury CS Henry
Rotich said the Government Advertising Agency would manage public sector
advertising. Creation of the GAA was greeted
with suspicion within the media industry. President Uhuru Kenyatta talks about
democracy all the time, but he has never hidden his disdain for a free media.
He is on record dismissing newspapers as “meat wrappers”. Under his rule, the
media has suffered some of the worst repression in the country’s history. The state’s claim that it was
spending way too much on advertising and wanted to cut costs sounded less like prudence
than a strategy to hit back at a vibrant media that sometimes gives the
government a bloody nose. Three years after formation of the
GAA, these fears linger. The agency owes the media Sh2.5 billion in advertising
debts. This is a huge sum. Media houses are struggling to stay alive. Hiring
and expansion have all but come to a halt. Journalists are staring at job
losses while fresh graduates from the 
growing number of media schools have no realistic chance of getting a
job. The government sings about job
creation at every opportunity. It is well aware of the unemployment crisis in the
country. Bureaucrats never tire talking about the private sector as one of the
key engines of Kenya’s development. One often hears high-sounding rhetoric
about making Kenya an attractive investment destination, etcetera. Yet the same government is
frustrating the media industry by refusal to honour advertising contracts.
Media houses have spoken out openly about this frustration. Principal secretary for
Broadcasting and Telecommunications Fatuma Hirsi announced the government would
start clearing its advertising debts. That is certainly good news - although
she gave no details. Hirsi stated that since creation
of the GAA, government ad spend has dropped from a high of Sh7 billion to about
Sh2 billion. But the GAA is far from clean. The DCI is investigating suspected
loss of funds at the agency. Critics have questioned the manner
in which the GAA was put together and how it has performed in the three years
of its existence. If, indeed, the GAA was set up to improve efficiency in government
expenditure on advertising, how come the agency owes media houses so much
money? Where is the efficiency? If government has saved money by centralizing
advertising, why has it been unable to pay what it owes? The government must pay its
media debts as soon as possible, not just because that is the decent thing to
do but also as a show of its commitment to supporting private investment. Or
what is the point of globetrotting in search of foreign investors while
frustrating those who are already in business here? Moreover, the state must
demonstrate its obligation to uphold media freedom — or else it would be
difficult to avoid the conclusion that the government wants to weaponise
advertising to destroy the media, as in the Rwandan case.