 In a statement to newsrooms, Chebukati seemed to distance IEBC from the blame by advocate Charles Kanjama that a second fraudulent file on the governor's nominations documents has been sneaked into IEBC after the commencement of investigations. Kanjama is representing former Garissa Finance Executive Idriss Mukhtar who was planning to challenge the authenticity of the academic papers of the Governor that were presented before he was cleared to vie. According to Chebukati Korane was cleared to vie on the basis of the nomination documents he presented before the IEBC County returning officer which included a self-declaration form that was shared with EACC in February 2018. "We caution against unfounded statements that are not justifiable and prejudicial to the investigations. The commission calls upon Kanjama and any other persons with any information that may implicate fraud or alteration of documents by IEBC staff to report the same and help with investigations," Chebakuti said in the statement. "The commissions invites the ODPP, EACC, DCI and any relevant government agencies to comprehensively interrogate this matter and to ensure that anyone found culpable is duly punished as prescribed by the law," he added. The governor, who is under investigations following the attempted murder of former Finance executive - Mukhtar, told journalists on Sunday that he does not hold a master’s degree and has at no time declared it to any state agency. Read: Death threats on Charles Kanjama in Mukhtar case alarms LSK Korane has also denied any involvement in the planning or execution of Mukhtar’s shooting on August 23 He was arrested on August 25 and questioned before being released the same day. However, documents at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, seen by the Star, show that Korane declared in 2017 that he holds an MA in Business Administration. The disclosure was made in the IEBC’s Form S13 – candidates self-declaration form – and in an EACC declaration form that was submitted to Jubilee Party ahead of the April 2017 nominations. A copy of the form was stamped on May 20, 2017. In the documents, the governor stated that he graduated with a master’s degree at the University of Nairobi in 2011. But on Sunday, he denied having any master’s degree from any university. In one of the interviews published by the Star on September 6, 2016, the governor said he graduated with a Master of Arts degree in Diplomacy at George Washington University, Washington, USA, in 1985. Also read.Garissa governor Ali Korane arrested over finance executive's shooting