Kisumu East MP Shakeel Shabbir will have to wait longer to gain custody of his two-and a-half –year-old child. The court yesterday postponed the date of the ruling for another week. Resident magistrate Pauline Mbulika said she didn’t have enough time to write the judgment because she was on sick leave. “Due to the seriousness of the case, I ask to be given another one week to come up with a ruling that best suits the interests of the child,” she said. The MP’s lawyer Mitchel Menezes said it was sad the child’s right to see his father would have to be abused for another week pending the ruling.Shabbir had gone to court seeking orders granting him custody and parental responsibility of the child. He filed the suit earlier this month. In a quick rejoinder, the woman wanted the court to award her Sh240,000 for the child’s monthly upkeep and accused Shabbir of being inconsistent with upkeep payments. The lawmaker had also asked the court to grant him access to the child during weekends and public holidays pending the hearing and determination of the case. Menezes argued the MP had the minor’s best interests at heart and it was important for the child to receive love from both parents. The court heard that the two parties had disagreed on access to the child and Mbulika was expected to give a ruling today. In an affidavit filed by Shabbir, the MP argued he was providing upkeep for the child and denying him access to the child was causing the minor psychological harm and emotional distress. The woman fired back claiming that she allowed the lawmaker access to his child, but the lawmaker rarely visited and only sent Sh35,000 monthly which she said was insufficient. The woman wants the court to award her Sh240,000 - Sh50,000 for rent, Sh18,000 for recreational activities, Sh30,000 monthly food supplies, Sh40,000 school fees and Sh10,000 each for house help’s salary, security, school lunch, school transport and other transport per month. A ruling will be made on October 4.   