Title: Kamikaze Artiste: Eminem Genre: Hip hop/ Rap Release: August 31  Eminem had been holed away for a troubling amount of time before he decided to deliver 2017's 'Revival'. This album was truly a conversation starter, with music journalists and critics dismissing Em's claim for greatest rapper ever, while his adamant, nescient fans insisted he is the GOAT. The truth is, 'Revival' was a complete fail, with at least two significant tracks and a plethora of weak tunes. Listening to Slim Shady's work gives you the impression, like MGK's spits on his latest diss track to Eminem, that the rapper is expressing his anger by yelling to the mic. Truly, his lyricism and rap agility is top-tier and enough reason to rank among the top heavy spitters to ever do it. However, the problem comes in when he is unable to deliver a masterpiece that exhibits consistency. 'Kamikaze' is better than most of his previous records, but it brings him out as a bitter person out to get back at the world because of his frustrations. For a talented technical rapper of Em's caliber, who has managed to extend his popularity for over two decades, it is somewhat sad to kick off his 13-track LP with "Ringer," a track that sees him attack his critics and music journalists in reference to his performance on 'Revival'. He goes ahead to hit hard at mumble rappers who are quite younger than him, and at the same time express his appreciation for top rappers Kendrick Lamar, Joyner Lucas, J Cole and Big Sean. Joyner actually joins Em on "Lucky You", where both rappers showcase the contrast that exists between the success levels in their music careers. "Normal" expresses the rapper's will to be in a regular relationship. Em revisits his past on "Stepping Stone", which actually sees his sounds go back to how he did it back in the day as he references his old rap group D12. He then goes back to the main theme of dissing mumble rappers on "Not Alike", which recruits Royce da 5'9". The track first interpolates Drake and Blocboy JB's "Look Alike", before Em aptly mocks Migos' "Bad and Boujee". He also disses MGK for subliminally referring to him on Tech N9ne's "No Reason". The album title track, "Kamikaze", is probably the track that greatly addresses his unsuccessful 2017 album, "Revival," subliminally dissing Drake's popularity. On "Fall", he continues dissing the current rap scene, calling out Tyler, the Creator, Lord Jamar and Joe Budden. Jessie Reyez is the only other lucky artist to feature on Em's LP, offering vocals on both "Nice Guy" and "Good Guy". Eminem has moved from dissing President Donald Trump to attacking his fellow music comrades, and all those who hated on his previous project. To a great extent, there is great zeal expressed by Em trying to prove to the world that he can rise from a fall. Judging from the delivery exhibited, this is revenge at its best.  Star rating: 3 out of 5