Kenyans handed the
commission political and social and economic currency and the public goodwill, which could have been an impetus to ensure the wrongs
of the past are resolved. However, we in the
land sector are deeply disturbed by the present state of affairs at
the commission. The accusation of
commissioners engaging in corrupt activities, with some arraigned in
court, coupled with unfulfilled constitutional and statutory
promises, are all ingredients of a shockingly embarrassing episode. But it is not the
institution of NLC that has failed or has the problem. It is the
individuals appointed to steer the commission and provide leadership — the commissioners. It is clear the
commissioners haven't lived to ideals of the Constitution and the
objectives for which the commission was established in the first
place. They had vowed to do everything in their power to eradicate corruption and to keep clear of graft by making an effort and making a desperately needed hand in fighting and
eradicating corruption, but instead they have exacerbated it by
entrenching the vices Kenyans hoped would be annihilated. When they took
office to serve the country, somewhere along the way they turned the
corner and condoned or failed to resist the millions that would be dangled at them by the notorious land cartels. Many put the self ahead of the country. With
this, the public has become and remains very disillusioned. Confused.
Distraught. They have unabashedly devalued the virtuous currency Kenyans handed them. The commission is
now in a crisis, and it's made worse by the internal wrangles. The
widespread perception that their actions
have produced damaging legacy, including undermining trust and
confidence in the commission as an institution,  is beyond salvage. All the
commissioners must immediately tender their resignation, even if it
will cause some practical difficulties. It is a more appropriate way,
especially now that it is within their capability to end this
deplorable state of affairs by their total and permanent
disengagement from the commission. We will be meeting
them on Tuesday next week in their boardroom and for those who will not
resign, we will forward all the documents against each to relevant
authorities, as well petition Parliament to start the process of their
removal.  Lumumba is the
chairperson, Land Sector Non-State Actors. He spoke to the Star. Click here for the latest
political news