When it comes to matters of survival, how people make ends meet on a day to day basis, don't always waste your time looking for an economist to educate you. A housewife will do very well telling you how she manages to feed her kids and send them to school when the profligate husband is nowhere to give help. A taxi driver will also tell you how his days were before Uber came into town and "messed up" the market. In other words, everyone has a need that must be met either through subsistence living or through the purchase of goods and services "out there" in the market. Governments exist to establish "rules of the game" on how markets work. Forget about the ideology of a "free market", or the old adage that there is a hidden hand that controls how goods and services exchange in the so-called free market. This mythology continues to tell us that individuals are expected to work to earn a living either through subsistence or through selling their labour, services, knowledge or goods in the "open market." Individuals are not expected to "live off" the labour of others, the ingenuity of others or the sacrifices that others make. But in the real world, we have people who do not do a single minute of work, yet they live like kings. We have people who, just by being "Jamaican sweet talkers", as a friend of mine used to call them, will make others pay for their upkeep at no cost to themselves. Just think of lawyers, street preachers, PR firms, etc. Capitalist society is interesting. In this society, there are armies of people working in factories, farms, railway lines, bus stations, schools....everywhere! Sweating from morning till night. Yet these are the people who only get just enough to make it in life. Not all them get paid according to the amount of work that they do. Yet there are others who, when they spend two hours working, they must get a "tea break". Another two hours is then followed by a two-hour lunch break. In the afternoon, they are probably off somewhere playing golf. These people earn every month "an arm and a leg" in terms of salaries, benefits, pensions, dividends, compensations, etc. So, there is nothing called a free market out there. All these commercial transactions and exchange of goods and services are well orchestrated by a system of powerful people and entrenched business interests, which must always have their way even when the ordinary mwananchi is suffering so much. Let us now come back to this creature called government or the state: That awful system of power that wields authority over society deciding who does what, when and how and telling us what we must take off our salaries every month to run government so that it shall, in turn, give us some services and ensure the market works, or collapse it by its bad policies. Some of these services we demand and need. Sometimes we get them sometimes we don't. But it is very difficult to get your money back from government when you feel you have not gotten the services you expected. Let me speak, especially, of those "poor people" who work so hard and get so little for their labour, those who, at the same time, in proportion to their income, pay enormously in terms of "the costs of running government," through the so-called taxes. I put this in inverted commas because sometimes that money goes simply to line the pockets of bureaucrats. We face a classic crisis in Kenya today. Having gotten power and authority over us, as usual, the Kenyan government assumed it had the right to make international commitments on our behalf to incur loans to pay for the services it was to provide us with. Let us take a few examples. The standard gauge railway, at a cost of $3.2 billion. But there is something interesting here. The Chinese who have built our SGR also built a similar one in Ethiopia, 250km longer than ours, at a cost of $3.4 billion. To add insult to injury, the Ethiopian one is electrified, which should have made it more expensive. Ours is diesel-powered with engines and wagons currently going out of fashion in China. Part of our huge foreign debt comes from this very lousy business deal that smells of corruption and gigantic kickbacks that form the menu of Treasury mandarins. Let me tell you yet another story. We were supposed to build a new modern terminal at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to be ready by end of this year. This terminal was supposed to have cost anywhere between Sh40 billion to Sh56 billion. But the financing was supposed to come from outside on what the "much knows" at the Treasury call sovereign guarantee. A Chinese firm apparently won the contract and moved to sight, being paid a total of over Sh4 billion (who knows, it could have been more!) before the deal went sour and the project aborted. But you, the taxpayer, had already paid some good sum of money out from your hard earned incomes! As the Swahili people would say, "isitoshe", there are many more such stories littering our history since Independence. The Ken Ren fertilizer project in Mombasa, which was initiated in the 1960s through an enormous foreign loan, was never completed. We are still servicing the loan to this very day. There are many dam projects started and abandoned here and there because they were ill conceived. And now we come to the last five years when all he'll was let lose in contracting expensive and poorly negotiated debts to implement projects beyond their real costs. You and I must now pay more tax so that the folly of government and the greed of the people who run it are both redeemed at our expense. And our expense is suffering! It is suffering because, with the same salary, you will now be expected to buy goods and services in the so-called free market at twice or three times the price you have been used to. Who has messed up this market? The peddlers of foreign contracts, tenders and businesses to the government, plus the "ruling class" itself. Are these people going to suffer? No they won’t. Some of the big businesses may already have initiated the process of moving elsewhere where the business atmosphere is better. The consequences, under such circumstances, are even worse for us ordinary people. We would rather continue to provide expensive goods and services rather than none at all! It is indeed a strange world, this capitalist system. I have seen it with my very eyes, people coming to your office and telling you they have an investment proposal, "complete with financing". It sounds very altruistic, but there is a catch to it in the end. This "financing" is actually a loan, which must be guaranteed by the government at a certain interest rate that is never brought out prominently at the beginning. But should some people go roaming around African countries "selling projects" they believe are in our interests? There must be a catch somewhere. And now we are discovering this catch in our current economic crisis with foreign debts we can no longer afford, unbearable interests and high taxes we must pay so that the government can service these foreign loans. We could have been prudent in our past policies to avoid this mess. It was simple. Just get more and more people paying lower taxes more efficiently while using their savings to invest in development. Growing productivity in our economy could have put more people to work, with these people paying more taxes and the cycle would have continued, creating a culture of development devoid of these "peddled" and external debt ridden projects.