Kenya 15s are set to play Namibia in a friendly match as part of their preparations for the 2019 Rugby World Cup repecharge qualifiers. The match has been organized by World Rugby and will be played on October 28 at the RFUEA grounds. The two sides faced off last month in a World Cup qualifier in Windhoek, where the hosts won 53-28 to book a place in next year’s World Cup. Namibia are expected to field the same team that played the Simbas in the qualifier.  After the match, Kenya will immediately head to France for the repecharge. Kenya Rugby Union plans to have Kenya play two warm up matches ahead of the repecharge with Portugal also interested in playing Kenya in France. The two sides last met in 2015, a match Kenya won. KRU is in need of Sh30m to facilitate all these and have been in touch with the government about the same. KRU plans to contract the 15s players as well as the technical bench for the next three months and they remain hopeful the government through the ministry of sports will release the funds as soon as possible. Meanwhile, Nelson Oyoo, Andrew Amonde, Dennis Ombachi and Sammy Oliech are expected to link up with the team after Dala Sevens. The rest of the 36-man squad reports to training today while, Joshua Chisanga, who was not named in the squad remains under close watch by the technical bench and could be included in the final squad. Elsewhere, VIVO Energy has announced a Sh1m sponsorship for this weekend’s Dala Sevens in Kisumu. Head of Lubricant sales Stephen Gikonyo said: “It’s a good moment for us to partner with organisers of Dala Sevens. We are happy to support a sport we can relate to. The partnership is important to us and it’s also part of us saying thank you to Kisumu people for supporting us.” KRU secretary, Odour Gagla said the sponsorship creates an exciting platform for players who will be taking part in the tournament. Odour added they look forward to long term partnerships with Vivo as the Union prepares to spread Test Matches to different counties with the plan already approved. “Sevens is an exciting game. We have a strong national Sevens team and for us to have this team, we must have a strong national Sevens circuit,” he concluded. Dala Sevens will be the 5th leg of the Sevens circuit and promises to be a cracker with Homeboys targeting their fourth title this season. Homeboyz are in Pool ‘B’ alongside Mwamba, Impala and Blak Blad. Click here for the latest political news