Nandi County is to unveil a unique development strategy that will integrate President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda and mobilize resources to boost social economic growth in the region. Governor Stephen Sang says he believes the President's vision on affordable health care, manufacturing, food security and affordable housing will transform the country. “We have already aligned our budget to the Big Four Agenda whose key pillars like healthcare were also part of my campaign manifesto and plans. Now we will move a step further to integrate the President’s agenda in our County Integrated Development Plan,” Sang said. The strategy will be launched at a major ceremony to be held in Kapsabet town on September 24 led by Deputy President William Ruto. Sang has already initiated his Big Four development plan popularly known as Tuga Tai Big Four Agenda. “We will also mobilize external resources from donors, development partners and residents of Nandi in the Diaspora so that they support us in terms of resources and expertise as we seek to implement the plans we have,” said Sang. Locally the county boss is negotiating with banks and other firms to support the plan. Several firms have already pledged more than Sh100 million to support the plan. Some of the international groups partnering with Nandi under the plan include USAID, UKAID and Nutrition International among others. “Our focus is to be a model county in the plan to work with the national government and other partners for the success of the Big Four Agenda,” said Sang. Read; Nandi to build new satellite town, says Governor Sang Sang says his administration is focused on key areas including healthcare, agriculture, youth and women empowerment. “Through massive investment in health services, with my government ensuring a steady supply of drugs and non-pharmaceuticals procured for all the 149 health facilities across the county, we are achieving quality health care for our people,” Sang says in a report on his administration. The county has opened 10 new dispensaries and two new maternity units. Another 28 dispensaries and six maternity units are nearing completion and will be opened this financial year, according to the county boss. Kapsabet Level 5 Hospital has started offering dialysis and MRI at subsidised rates. “We have purchased of a 385KVA generator and equipped Ward Six at Kapsabet County Referral Hospital. This is just a continuation of the work done in upgrading the hospital to the status of a referral facility,” he says. The county launched a menstrual hygiene programme spearheaded by the First Lady, which has distributed 5,000 disposable sanitary towels to girls in schools. Sang’s government has rehabilitated 60 cattle dips. Click here for the latest political news 