Greek mythology warns that the gods fatten those they wish to destroy. The potential victims get inebriated with power, and naivety that passes for foxiness. They then get blinded to the consequences of their foibles. The power drunks gamble, fumble, and tumble, believing they are immune from accountability. Public perception is nothing; their quest for grandeur is everything. But the ground is shifting for those intoxicated with delegated power. One such victim is crashing as you watch this action-packed but incompetent conspiracy that leaves smoking guns at every turn. A real-time drama for those who can learn from the arrogance and extravagance of power. Until recently impunity was a licence to easy wealth, acquired at a huge cost to the public. Public office, until recently, was a ticket to the ranks of dollar millionaires. The mysterious, bubble billionaires lead lavish lives in a struggling ‘third world’ economy swimming in debt and mass desperation. One that continues to dig furiously, knowing it is inside a bottomless pit, that spits sleaze on the sides, from top to bottom. Every rank represents a coalition of pilferers and saboteurs of the public interest. The season of plunder could end if the anti-corruption and anti-impunity wave is sustained. The people who give abusive orders from above, and those who execute such criminal edicts, should learn from this sensationalised lakeside drama. Seven public servants from Migori county are in court for breaching the Public Procurement Act. The seven suspects allowed a non-prequalified firm to ‘win’ a Sh8 million tender. The victims joined the mess after a technical committee cleared the preferred bidder. The favoured, connected, successful bidder was supposed to supply furniture for the official residence of a county executive. Some members of the committee, the faction in the majority, had ‘orders’ to award the furniture supply tender to a particular firm. Now, all the members of the team are charged with abuse of office. All of them have stepped aside until the issue is resolved in court. The suspects are victims of orders from above — a notoriously abused phrase during the Nyayo Era. The victims are today cleverer than they were: They were used to rubber stamp plunder of public funds. The orders came from the executive whose official residence was to be furnished. The owner of the company that ‘won’ this tender, like many others, is a daughter of the executive. Princesses of the counties have rights to tenders, you know. ‘Orders from above’ are undermining governance in some counties, as they did under President Moi. President Kibaki may not have given such orders, but the mafiaso around him raided public coffers using his name. The order givers and executors are caught in a time warp. The throwback is at the core of corruption in some counties, where mini-presidents are feathering nests for their children, relatives, allies and gang leaders. The chosen ones are the owners of briefcase companies that win tenders — small and big ones. The tender winners are paid, but the work is rarely done. The money is paid in full even before the work starts. The loot is then shared out, with the tender winner getting a fraction. Owners of the counties bank the bulk of the loot. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, known for dancing around serious graft cases, just landed on this rot in Migori. The same decadence runs unchallenged in neighbouring counties. There is nothing new in this, though: Concerned citizens have reported these cases to Integrity Centre. Whether these reports are used by EACC officers for extortion is a matter of public debate. If the EACC has not acted on these cases, it is not for lack of information. This indifference, this stupidity of public officers giving their girlfriends a leg-up in the counties, is undermining devolution. The people must move from cheering to jeering. Merriam-Webster defines stupidity as “given to unintelligent decisions of acts; acting in an unintelligent or careless manner”. A practical definition is knowing what is wrong, seeing what is wrong, hearing what is wrong, feeling what is wrong, but continuing to defer to the perpetrators of these wrongs.