This proclamation was intended to be commentary
on the hypocrisy of governments that proclaim absolute equality of their
citizens but give power and privileges to a small elite group of insiders and
those with proximity to powers that be. This
unimpeachable indictment of governments was not only dead on in describing the
government of the day in Russia back in 1917 — and the subject of the novel,
the commentary remains as valid and so true of nearly all modern-day
governments, some worse than others. An application
of this altruism that’s not given enough attention, is the reality that even
among the elite and those with power or access to it, some are more equal than
others. It is not
uncommon, for example, to have two or more competing camps or individuals all
seeking the President’s ear and approval of whatever they seek. In the end,
there are winners and losers. Winners,
meaning those who get what they want, are therefore more equal, and losers,
meaning those who don’t get what they seek. Of interest, it
doesn’t mean these classes are permanent; a winner today, can and would be the
loser tomorrow. That only holds true in the context of winners and losers among
the elite. Once an
underclass, or poor, chances are you’ll die poor or barely surviving. In other words,
those charged with the responsibility to provide for the welfare of the people do
none of that. Instead, they keep busy in either trying to survive themselves or
if the opportunity presents, to loot and take every penny intended for the very
poor they’re supposed to uplift their living standards. So much so such
that looting is considered a mission for those in politics or government. And there are
better looters than others. The vice has become such a science that the better
looters have so mastered the science they’re now looting in previously
unimaginable and unfathomable scales. The question those
of us with good hearts and care for others ask is; why? Why loot so viciously
and so wantonly while your fellow Kenyans are starving and going to bed hungry,
while others are dying or living in a state of permanent misery and desperation?
Why? This is
obviously a rhetorical question but one every good-hearted person and one who
cares about our country and people must demand of our leaders be they the
culprits themselves or otherwise. The timid media
should take the lead in not only demanding but shaming these heartless, cold-blooded
thieves, who are sucking our beloved country dry. While at it, be
wary of those who would use the seemingly afoot new war on corruption keeping
in mind George Orwell’s altruism that some animals are more equal than others. We don’t know
much about the allegations that formed the purported basis for DCJ Philomena
Mwilu’s arrest. We have no idea whether she’s guilty of the criminal charges.
Indeed, not even clear whether what’s alleged she did, even if proven to be
true, constitute a criminal offense. What we do know
is in this Animal Kingdom, someone is trying to show DCJ Mwilu they’re more
equal than her and, therefore, can do at will for whatever malice that which
will not be the case were she equal to all others among her class of the elite. That’s not to
say DCJ should not face the music if she has done something criminally wrong. Rather,
it is to say, let not the more equal in the powers that be use the power to score
against someone, every indication is, who has not done anything criminally
wrong. Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States   