An election observation report by civil society groups concluded that year’s election was not free, fair and credible.The groups, at a press conference yesterday, said the August 8 poll nullified by the Supreme Court and the October 26 rerun had serious anomalies. They said politicians interfered with the work of the IEBC, which they also faulted. The groups promised to pressure the political class and the state to demand electoral justice to ensure credible polls in future.“Politicians interfered with IEBC’s institutional independence,” Uraia Trust civic education manager Abubakar Said said.Former IEBC commissioner and Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims chairperson Yusuf Nzibo and acting registrar of political parties Ann Nderitu defended the state and the electoral body.NASA leader Raila Odinga pulled out of the rerun claiming President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto had manipulated the electoral process. Read: ELOG wants polls audit, says they were not free“The state and politicians manipulate the electoral process towards the election time to achieve individual goals. We have to stop this,” Institute for Education and Democracy chairperson Joyce Majiwa said.The observers also faulted the IEBC for failing to register 5.7 eligible voters. “We want civic education set up at the county level to reach the masses so these people and many more can vote in the future,” Election Observer Group chairperson Regina Opondo said.They urged the electoral process be respected and all players comply with the election laws.“We will have to engage individual stakeholders, invest in civic education and, if possible, execute protests so the electoral process is respected and followed,” Kenya Human Rights Commission programme adviser Carol Werunga said.“It’s not by default that we always have an acting Registrar of Political Parties for years and laws changed a few days to elections.”They spoke at a Nairobi hotel during the launch of the 2017 election report. It was sponsored by the Law Society of Kenya, the Kenya National Human Rights Commission, the National Council of Churches, Kituo Cha Sheria, Youth Agenda, Uraia and Elog.The organisations questioned the IEBC’s failure to disclose important information on voter registration and transmission of results. It said the details should be made available to the public.“They said late appointments of IEBC commissioners and constitutional amendments a year to election compromised the whole process of voting. We want a clean procedure that involves all stakeholders. The counties should set out a civic education department so it becomes a continuous process,” Opondo said.The group said only 4,393 of 2.5 million people living in the diaspora registered to vote.“There is a lack of accurate information on the diaspora vote. It’s also difficult to monitor elections abroad,” Said said.They said more than one million people in the voter’s register are dead and the process of removing their names from the roll is ineffective.They said political parties used outdated voter registers compiled by the IEBC to conduct nominations, thus denying Kenyans the right to choose their preferred leaders. “Despite having more eligible women [501,301] than men, more males [ 50.61%] were registered compared to 49.39% female,” Said said.They want more youths issued ID cards. They said party primaries were bungled and certificates given to preferred candidates.“We want a body established to deal with party nomination chaos,” Opondo said. Read: [STATEMENT] IEBC can't deliver credible poll, Roselyn Akombe says as she throws in towel Click here for
the latest political news