Opposition leader Raila Odinga wants the islands, which were grabbed by former Ugandan President Idi Amin, to be reclaimed by the Kenyan government. He said Amin took Remba, Lolwe, Sigulu and Hama islands, which belonged to Kenya, in 1971. He said those living in those islands are Luos, Manyala and Samia. "The islands were in Kenya and were taken by Amin. We want them back," Raila said yesterday. He spoke in Kondele, Kisumu, where he launched the micro loans lender Unaitas’ branch. The former prime minister said the boundary of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania on Lake Victoria must be reviewed and well demarcated to prevent economic conflicts. "Every country should be able to know her boundary on the lake. We enjoy working closely with our neighbours and therefore boundaries should be reviewed,” Raila said. Read:Tension in Migingo as Ugandan police evicts 200 Tanzanian fishers He said Migingo Island is in Kenya and Kenyans should not be harassed and intimidated. Kenya and Uganda have been at loggerheads over the ownership of Migingo. Several reports of harassment have been made. Raila said they are keenly working on the Migingo Island issue and others that belonged to Kenya. "We recently talked with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and we are going to have a meeting with him soon. We have to agree on our boundaries in Lake Victoria," he said. PEACE AGREEMENT Early this month, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said Kenyan fishermen will no longer be harassed by Ugandan authorities. This followed a security meeting between Kenyan and Ugandan officials on August 22. At an earlier meeting on June 26, a peace agreement was signed. Raila further said Museveni, while in China, agreed to support the standard gauge railway as well as boundary review on the lake to improve water transport. The former PM said lake transport must be fully exploited and construction of the SGR will boost economic development in East Africa. "The construction of the SGR will start soon in Kisumu. Upon completion, it will open up the lake transport system. Therefore we want issues of the islands to be effectively addressed to boost regional trade and avoid conflicts," he said. Raila said the SGR will allow a special economic zone to be put in place in Kisumu the business hub in the region owing to its strategic location in East Africa. This, he said, will allow ships to ferry goods from Kisumu to Mwanza, Bukoba and Port Belt. Read: What Migingo island tells us about international law Click here for the latest political news