David Mwai, the assassin hired to kill the former Garissa finance boss, confessed to police that the initial plan was to kidnap and poison Idriss Mukhtar but he took too long and instead was ordered to shoot to kill. Plans changed after Mwai hadn't been able to abduct and inject him with hydrogen peroxide for three weeks, police said they were told. The chemical induces a heart attack or stroke. Mwai, 27, died last Friday at the Parklands police station cells where he is said to have committed suicide. A postmortem revealed he died of strangulation. Obado wanted Sharon to abort, family says as it cries for justice The family of slain university student Sharon Beryne Otieno has demanded swift justice for her killers after police arrested the personal assistant to Migori governor Okoth Obado. The family accused Governor Obado and his Personal Assistant, Michael Oyamo, of masterminding Sharon’s murder after she refused to abort a pregnancy. But Obado’s communications director Nicholas Anyuor dismissed the claim, saying the family could not prove it. The body of the 26-year old second year Rongo University student was found at Wire forest in Kasipul constituency on Tuesday evening. 12 million advanced to DCJ was not a loan as alleged - IBL The collapsed Imperial Bank has said Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu improperly borrowed Sh12 million in October 2013. In a statement recorded at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, bank's credit manager Peter Nzuki says the Sh12 million was given to her in inappropriate circumstances contrary to bank-customer relations. No appraisal of her creditworthiness was undertaken, and Mwilu did not apply for the loan as required. Nor did the bank make her an offer specifying the terms. Untold story of Bukusu circumcision Every even year in August and December holidays after schools have closed, as you approach Bungoma county, you hear songs and ringing bells known as “chinyimba”. It’s time for traditional circumcision, locally referred to as “Embalu”, the rite of passage in which boys become men. The bells are won on both hands and rang by the initiates as they sing circumcision songs. Semi-naked boys aged 10-15 years crisscross the county, ringing bells to inform their relatives that they are ready for the cut in a process known as “Khuminya”, usually an overnight vigil. The Star takes you inside the Bukusu circumcision. MCAs call Kamukunji to discuss matters bedeviling City Hall Nairobi MCAs will hold a special sitting today to discuss "salient matters bedevilling the county government". They say the endless internal wrangles and leadership problems in the county assembly and the executive are threatening to hamper services. The MCAs, who are currently on recess, have been holding kamukunjis since Monday. Jubilee MCAs were the first to hold a meeting on Monday, while their NASA counterparts met the following day. They held a joint meeting yesterday and agreed to hold a special session today. Key in the agenda is Governor Mike Sonko's "deliberate and apparent reluctance" to appoint a deputy governor—nine months since the office fell vacant. Your Weather NAIROBI: Morning clouds followed by afternoon sun; Showers late at night. Low 12ºC. High 22ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Light morning rain; Showers late at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60%. KISUMU: Generally clear; Partly cloudy at night. Low 18ºC.High 29ºC. Winds S and variable.