Stormy Daniels, the adult film star who
claims US President Donald Trump paid her off to keep their
tryst a secret, goes into uncomplimentary detail about their
alleged sexual encounter in a new memoir, according to the
Guardian newspaper. Daniels, 39, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, also
told friends that Trump "doesn't even want to be president"
during the 2016 campaign, according to the British newspaper,
which said it had obtained a copy of the book "Full Disclosure"
ahead of its October 2 release date. Reuters was unable to review the book. Calls to the
publisher, St. Martin's Press, were not immediately returned on
Tuesday. The White House did not immediately respond to a
request for comment. The tell-all book will come out a little over a month before
the crucial November 6 congressional elections. Democrats are
seeking to take back control of one or both houses of Congress
from Trump's Republican Party, a move that would imperil the
president's legislative agenda and launch new oversight of his
administration. Daniels' memoir comes on the heels of several other books
that portray Trump in an unflattering light, including an
investigative work by famed journalist Bob Woodward and a memoir
from former White House aide Omarosa Manigault Newman. In addition, the New York Times recently published an
anonymous opinion article written by an administration official
questioning Trump's fitness for office and saying there were a
number of US officials who were part of a "quiet resistance"
inside the administration. Trump and the White House have dismissed those reports as
fiction. Daniels has said she slept with Trump during a celebrity
golf tournament in Lake Tahoe, California, in 2006. "It may have been the least impressive sex I've ever had,
but clearly, he didn't share that opinion," she wrote in her
memoir, according to the Guardian. Trump has denied he had sex with Daniels. His former
personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, has pleaded guilty to making
payments to her that violated campaign finance law. Daniels wrote in her book that she did not take Trump's
chances of becoming president seriously until late in the 2016
campaign, according to the newspaper. "It will never happen, I would say," Daniels told friends,
according to the book. "He doesn't even want to be president." As Trump's election grew more likely, however, Daniels said
she decided to go public with her story in an effort to protect
herself. She cited a 2011 incident in which she claims a man
threatened her in a parking lot not to talk about Trump. Trump has called that claim "a total con job." Click here for the latest political news 