Stalking is best
understood through a multi-dimensional model, involving the relationship of the
stalker to the victim, the motivation of the stalker, and the severity of the
stalking behaviour. Such an approach provides a basis for risk assessment. Well, victims of
stalkers may consult general practitioners. Doctors need to be aware of the
psychological reasons of being stalked and the legal protections available for
victims. They should be able to direct them to local support groups, which can
provide useful information to professionals as well as victims. Clinical psychologist
Riziki Ahmed says the victims mostly do not know the stalkers’ intentions and
even probably who they are. "As the
victim, you start feeling very worried and you may end up developing very high
anxiety levels. And once you have anxiety, you may develop depression later,
which now becomes a major problem to handle," she said. Why do people stalk
others? "Most people who stalk others are likely to be mentally unstable. They
have a certain perception about you and think maybe they you are their saviour.
Others could be people who are your admirer but do not know how to approach you
in the right way. “A stalker can also
have a mind of their own, and that is why it is important to always have an
idea that someone somewhere is after you, and even understand if they know more
about you or even follow you on your social media sites. “Another thing to
understand is what type of stalking is happening. Tell yourself, 'This person
could be dangerous,’ because you do not know what kind of person they are and
what intentions they have. “As the victim,
always move with fear and at least make sure the police or someone is aware of
your whereabouts every time. Be in a place where she is not feeling very
nervous, and make sure you do not stay out till very late." Riziki says most
people who are stalked always have an idea of who is stalking them, and this
makes it easy to be helped when they seek counselling. "In most cases,
it is either a husband or wife they’ve left. The problem is that you don't know
their intentions. As psychologists, we try and work on your safely first and
even get the police, then we get to deal with the whole anxiety and how anxious
you are, and maybe teach you some relaxation techniques.” Her advice to those
stalked is: "The most important thing to do is to avoid giving the stalker
power to dictate your life. Once you get very fearful you are very anxious. Thus,
you will not be living your life normally; you will have given them power over
you. Their intention is they work on how to create fear in you. “Also, stand up and
continue with life; only you avoid getting in the situations that are scary for
you but don't give them power. Let people know where you are at every given
time, like know that at this time someone will check on me so that you feel
secure. To avoid depression, don't be emotionally drained. If you feel
overwhelmed, then you need to go for help.” To what extent can
a stalker get? "The problem is we don't know what their intention is and
even their mental state. If we know they are normal, we can predict what they
are capable of. But now if we are in the dark, we don't know what they can
do." Celebrities that
have been stalked include Jennifer Lopez. In 2013, a stalker was found living
in her pool house for almost a week. When he was arrested, he told police he
was the singer's ex-husband. In 2011, Beyonce
successfully got a court order against a man who was sending her threatening
letters, in which he claimed she was an impostor. And in 2013, two stalkers
were arrested after it was revealed that they were plotting to kill and
castrate Justin Bieber.