Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi has claimed MCAs were pressured to sign a petition for her impeachment. She alleges representatives were threatened that they would miss trips, be de-whipped or removed from committees. The speaker dismissed the impeachment threat as a non-issue. Elachi, who spoke on Thursday in Malindi, said she had allowed the assembly leadership to sign travel permits for MCAs out of respect. However, she said this is being used for tokenism. On Wednesday, 101 out of 122 MCAs signed a petition to impeach Elachi on claims of abuse of office. The speaker she said she is aware of the allegations and some of the issues are in court. Elachi denied blocking members of the assembly with valid reasons from travelling. She asked Treasury to investigate the claims. Read: Elachi tells MCAs to go slow on her She also denied allegations that she has an interest in tenders at City Hall. "I sit on the County Assembly Public Service Board with both the leaders of majority and minority leader. If I was doing those deals, then I was doing with them. Who will be foolish to do so?" Elachi asked. She dismissed claims that she wrote to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate 19 members of the Labour Committee over alleged corruption. Elachi regrets losing the support of the MCAs who signed the impeachment petition but thanked the few who stood by her. She urged representatives to iron out issues amicably. "We were not elected to bring drama in Nairobi every day. Let us adopt dialogue. If you feel Beatrice is not doing her work well them write to her," Elachi said. “Some people are running around the whole night discussing a small person like Beatrice Elachi. It is not fair for Nairobians,” she said MCAs are scheduled to hold a special sitting on Thursday afternoon to discuss Governor Mike Sonko's conduct and the speaker's impeachment. Read: Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi facing impeachment over abuse of office Click here for the latest political news     