The Energy Regulatory Commission has demolished 24 filling stations for selling adulterated fuel in the local market between July and September. During the period, 4,456 tests were conducted at 675 petroleum sites. In a statement on Friday, the commission said from the tests, 637 sites were compliant but tests from 38 sites turned out to be non-compliant. Out of the non-compliant stations, 24 Sites were demolished and suspects prosecuted in court, six stations were closed. The commission said three sites were reopened after the owners paid fines. Four trucks were also impounded and one truck released. Texas Energy Service Station (Migori) was found selling diesel contaminated with kerosene. The station was later reopened after upgrading the product and paying penalties amounting to Sh500,000. Mwito fillings station (Meru) was also found selling diesel contaminated with kerosene. The station is still closed. Petroplus Magharibi filling stations (Busia) was found offering super petrol contaminated with kerosene. The station was later reopened after upgrading the product and paying penalties amounting to Sh130,000. Kyang'ombe filling station (Nairobi) was found selling diesel contaminated with kerosene. The site was demolished and suspects prosecuted in court. Denholm (Nairobi) was found selling diesel contaminated with kerosene. The site was demolished and suspects prosecuted in court. A list of all sites found with adulterated products is available on the commissions website. In July, ERC said the level of fuel adulteration declined from 25 to three per cent. ERC asked the public to report suspected cases to authorities. Motorists were asked to turn to the commission should they experience jerking, excessive smoke from the exhaust, loss of engine power and engine stalls after fueling. They were also advised to obtain receipts or retain SMSs for mobile payment as evidence of purchase. Read: Drastic drop in fuel adulteration after ERC tightens grip on culprits Also read: ERC closes six filling stations for selling adulterated fuel