Prince William arrived in
Namibia on Monday on the first leg of a tour to learn more about
wildlife conservation in Africa ahead of a London-based wildlife
conference next month. Namibia is home to the largest black rhino population, at
more than 2,000, whose horn is sought after by smugglers. The Duke of Cambridge, visiting as president of United for
Wildlife, which fights illegal trade in wildlife, and patron of
Tusk, which promotes conservation, aims to better understand
conservation in Namibia, said British High Commissioner to
Namibia Kate Airey. "The prince has been very keen ahead of that conference to
talk to government and also to see that experience in the
field," said Airey. The tour, which will see the prince visit Tanzania and
Kenya, precedes the 2018 Illegal Wildlife Trade Conference in
London next month. Namibia passed legislation in 1996 giving local communities
the power to create their own conservancies and benefit from
wildlife on communal land, allowing them to work with private
companies to create their own tourism products. "Our model is very simple but very effective because we
involve communities. There is nothing you can do to succeed in
conservation of wildlife without involving communities," said
Namibia’s Environment and Tourism Minister Pohamba Shifeta. Communal conservancies have grown to 82 from four in 1998,
according to the Namibia Tourism Board. William will visit
Kenya on Sunday, September 30 in what he called "a renewal of his love for Africa". Kensington Palace said he will visit the 1st
Battalion the Irish Guards Battlegroup, who will be training in the country
under the British Army Training Unit Kenya (BATUK), in his role as Colonel of the
Regiment. The Irish Guards Battlegroup will include an
Infantry Company from the Kenyan Army. "His Royal Highness will see how British and
Kenyan troops are training together to improve
performance on operations, for the benefit of both countries." More on this: Britain's Prince William to visit Kenya on September 30 'in renewed love for Africa' Also read: UK, Kenya to sign deal for recovery of graft proceeds Click here for the latest political news  