Rob is a damn ghost. “I never knew this side to you,” he said. “You really genuinely care about other people.” That was the last conversation I had with him. More than two months ago. Ghosting is the practice of ending a personal relationship with someone by suddenly and without explanation withdrawing from all communication. It’s the absolute worst thing someone can do and yet, more and more people wake up every single day and decide to ghost your ass. It was going well with Rob. It really was. You can tell when a guy is really into you and he was and then one day, that was it. He was gone. Those last words he said to me… Does that mean he didn’t want me to care about other people? Is he the demon seed? I go home early, trying to get Rob off my mind. I want to binge-watch ‘Insecure’ today. It’s a comedy series that’s the female answer to ‘Atlanta’. Try and stream it if you can, it’s really good. Unfortunately for me, the episode I see brings the whole Rob issue back to my doorstep. Issa, the main character, starts seeing this guy called Nathan. It’s chilled, it’s easy. They are just having fun, right? Nope. He brings up the serious conversation. “When do you know something is real?” It’s pillow talk and he’s getting deep with a girl who was keeping it casual. Once she’s in, then he pulls a Houdini and is gone. This episode has me feeling some type of way for obvious reasons and I want to scream: “Me, too!” at the screen. Instead, I hit up Twitter and see what other women have to say about this episode. #InsecureHBO brings them all up. Just as I thought. I’m not alone. @aly_saysitall What’s sad is most women have had at least one Nathan in their life. One day he telling you how much he cares and the next you sitting there looking crazy trying to figure out where he is. @_Orchid Issa getting ghosted by Nathan after he encouraged her & made her feel on top of the world is my life af last year. Men. Ain’t. shit. @sharonbmills Nathan is why women can’t speak highly of a man until y’all basically married. @JennE_Penny NIGGA YOU STARTED THIS!! Niggas will pursue you DOWN and interfere your whole ass life and then ghost you after. Like for what? @Yxclusive Men like Nathan annoy me. Issa already had sex with you. Why did you need to still rope her in emotionally talking bout “I really like you. It’s unfair. @BriaaaChizomaaa The seconddddd you tell your girlfriends about him, it just goes to flames lol. I’m sick. @_selinalg As soon as you start bragging on a nigga, they disappoint and disappear! @gawwwjas I legit thought Nathan was a good dude and then, BOOM. He ghosted Issa. I can’t even pick a good guy in a fictional TV Show. Lol @ my life. The tweets go on and on. Yup, I’m definitely not alone. If there’s a ghost party going down somewhere that Rob is attending, it’s house full!