The police are the public and the public are the police; the police being only members of the public who are paid to give full-time attention to the duties which are incumbent on every citizen in the interests of community welfare and existence. These were the words of two-time UK Prime Minister Robert Peel. He is also known as the Father of Modern Policing and he provided nine principles to guide the London police in their mission to protect and serve the public. The Peelian Principles are a critical look at police, their role and how their relations with the public can be enhanced. Since coming into office, President Uhuru Kenyatta has been committed to ensuring Kenyans get the right kind of police service. Security has been a key agenda item of his government and the reforms announced last week enhance this commitment. Uhuru announced sweeping changes to the Police Service, which will affect its structure, command and even uniforms. The main aim is to change the Kenya Police into a service and erase the negativity associated with it. All these changes are geared towards improving the face and effectiveness of the police service as well as improve officers’ welfare. On the face of it, the reforms look like an uphill task but a necessary one if we are to improve policing. As the President noted in the opening of his address during the unveiling, security underpins any nation’s ability to achieve sustained social and economic development. Kenyans, as well as visitors, will comfortably go about their business when they know that there is a dedicated police service ready to cater for their needs. When Jubilee took office in 2013, the National Police Service budget was just over Sh50 billion. Today, this has been doubled to ensure that all the necessary reforms have been put in place. Before Uhuru took over, getting police to a crime scene was difficult, with some even asking you to fuel their vehicles. Today, police have access to at least 5,000 vehicles — more than half of which are operated and serviced through a leasing model — increasing the response. Police have also received modern equipment. Nairobi and Mombasa have 24-hour communication and command centres allowing the police to advance investigations, catch criminals, and, sometimes, even prevent crimes. The welfare of the police continues to be improved over the years with better salaries and a life insurance medical scheme for officers and their families. Police housing has been a pain but the changes announced last week would make this a thing of the past. We have had cases of officers’ families sharing houses in police quarters but with a housing allowance they will now be able to decide where to live. But even more important are the operational reforms that were announced by the President, which will most definitely improve policing. Eliminating duplication of roles is critical for any organisation. Another critical move is the enhancement of the Border Police Unit, whose officers have been doubled to 6,000. This is a very welcome move, especially as we fight the smuggling of counterfeit goods through our porous borders in the north. Integrating the anti-stock theft units and enhancing their number to 5,000 is very welcome and necessary to fight rustling across the country. Refresher courses and, of course, the new uniforms are also a great addition that will help to motivate the officers. In conclusion, as the President noted, it is important for police officers to understand that Kenyans are funding and supporting these changes so that they can get better services from them.  The writer is a
political and communications consultant 