MPs have been asked to close ranks for an effective oversight to hold the executive to account for budgeted funds. Former minister Amukowa Anangwe on Saturday said the controversial passage of the Finance Bill symbolises a nation in a budgetary crisis. The bill sailed through the National Assembly on Thursday in a chaotic special session. Scores of members expressed their opposition to the eight per cent tax on petroleum products and demanded the government slashes its budget for ministries to plug any gaps. Members from both sides had ganged up to defeat the bill but failed to muster the required two-thirds majority to veto a presidential memorandum. Anangwe said the executive must address widespread public perception that taxpayers' money is being stolen by "high priest of corruption in the government". “President Uhuru Kenyatta must ruthlessly fight corruption and reign in known public officials flaunting their ill-gotten wealth,” Anangwe said in a statement. Anangwe said the MPs were right to express themselves on the matter adding that it was unfortunate that the lawmakers were outwitted and outmaneuvered by a determined executive through their proxies in Parliament. He told Uhuru to remember that the buck stops at his doorstep for the failures by the Jubilee regime. He said history will judge the President harshly if he does not redeem himself as the chief executive of the government. “Kenyans have always paid taxes in good faith, but it is extremely annoying when public funds are stolen and wasted with impunity,” Anangwe said. He said Kenyans had good reasons for their reluctance to bear the tax burden despite government move to raise adequate revenue to meet public expenditure. Last week, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi asked Uhuru to reconstitute government to gain public confidence. “Given the escalating stalemate over the budget and taxation, the President ought to think out of the box. In situations of paralysis like this, governments resign or get dissolved,” Mudavadi said in statement on Wednesday. He said the government had resorted to over taxation because with due payments have come calling. "The state is unable to service debts," he said. Mudavadi said the government is to blame for the crisis because a large chunk of its burdensome loans are often stolen within its own bureaucracy. Click here for the latest political news 