Jubilee MPs met President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House yesterday and listened to him but left vowing to defeat his memorandum. It was the same case at Orange House where his new bosom buddy Raila Odinga chaired a meeting of his ODM and Wiper MPs and tried to persuade them to accept Uhuru's tax proposals. They too left vowing to defy their party leader's plea. Although about 10 MPs were given a chance to speak during the Jubilee Parliamentary Group Meeting unlike the past, the legislators felt that they were not given enough time to raise their issues and that no compromise was struck. Millers to hike the price of unga by Sh8 More than 94 smallscale millers met last week and agreed to increase the price. But if President Uhuru Kenyatta gets his way with MPs and his proposal for the eight per cent VAT increase stands, millers will increase the price by only Sh4. United Grain Millers Association chairman Peter Kuguru said millers who met in Nairobi on Wednesday agreed to increase the price of a two-kilo packet of maize flour from Sh90 to Sh98. Prosecution closes case in Westgate Mall terrorist massacre More than 145 witnesses have testified in the Westgate trial in which four men are accused of conspiracy to commit terrorist acts. At least 67 people were killed and hundreds more injured in the attack on September 21, 2013. The case was pending for our and half years. On Tuesday, the prosecution closed its case after lead investigator Charles Ogeto, attached to the anti-terrorism unit, finished lengthy testimony. Suicide dam where tormented souls plunge to their deaths Tara Singh dam in a secluded scenic spot in Nyandarua West does not draw people to admire the landscape and the sunlight or moonlight on the water. It was built in 1986 by an Asian contractor, Tara Singh Dogra, to provide residents with clean water for domestic use, farming and livestock. In the past five years, however, the dam is the spot where eight people came to end their suffering and plunge to their deaths from the dam wall. Court dismisses Mau Petition Kericho governor Paul Chepkwony has suffered a major setback after the High Court in Narok on Monday dismissed an application seeking to stop evictions in the Maasai Mau forest. Narok Environment and Land Court judge Mohammed Kullow said the application had been overtaken by events as the eviction had taken place and completed. Kullow, however, told the court that due to the complexity of the Mau case, he shall forward the file to Chief Justice David Maraga to constitute a bench of judges to hear the case.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Partly cloudy - Day and Night. Low 11ºC. High 25ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers; showers at night. Low 22ºC High 30ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Low 18ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60%. Click here for latest political news