Angry and frustrated Kenyans were on Thursday questioning President Uhuru Kenyatta's silence on the new 16 per cent fuel levy. But they got a temporary reprieve when its implementation was suspended by the High Court in Bungoma temporarily to allow time for the President to assent to or reject the Bill. The judge further ordered that the matter be mentioned on September 12, 2018, at the High Court in Kisumu. The President who travelled to Beijing last week for the China-Africa summit that ended on Tuesday has not returned to the country. Reports indicated he had stopped over in Dubai but his itinerary was not announced by his communication team as is the tradition.  Detectives consider DNA test in probe into Sharon’s murder A team of homicide police investigating the murder of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno last night were contemplating taking DNA samples of her unborn baby when the postmortem is done. Sharon had a seven months pregnancy when she was killed. Migori governor Okoth Obado has denied any involvement, but the investigators plan to take his blood samples as well, as they seek to confirm reports by Sharon’s family that he had a sexual relationship with their daughter.  Nairobi MCAs defy all to impeach Elachi Not even NASA leader Raila Odinga’s phone call could save Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi from the wrath of MCAs. So determined were the ward representatives to impeach Elachi that they amended several sections of the county assembly standing orders to push through the motion. The Jubilee and NASA ward unanimously teamed and voted- 103 in favour of the motion - to impeach Elachi who was barely one year in office. Only two members voted in her defence. Two others abstained. They gave a bunch of reasons why she was no longer suitable for the office even as it emerged that she had obtained a court order stopping the impeachment motion.  Mathenge weed can cure ailments, be used to make cake — researchers Innovators and researchers from Garissa say prosopis juliflora, known as mathenge weed, can treat 27 diseases. Fast-spreading mathenge is considered invasive and harmful. It forms impenetrable thickets that choke other plants and grass, leaving the ground bare and prone to erosion. It erodes teeth of livestock that eat it. Research into the weed and its benefits was carried out at the Kenya Forestry Research Institute and Garissa University with help from the African Development Solutions. The bush was introduced in Kenya in the late 1960s to stop desertification. But it soon became a nightmare for residents of drylands, who said it was poisonous and hazardous to their livestock.  Dairy farming turning fortunes as youth shun formal jobs for milking During this year’s celebration of the International Youth Day last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked the private sector and county governments to support the youth and give them an opportunity to utilise their creativity and innovations. The head of state assured that implementation of the Big Four Agenda will create more than 800,000 jobs for the youth by 2022. “Textile and apparel making, assembly of electricals and electronics, motor vehicle assembly, agro-processing and fish processing are emergent opportunities that our youth can now exploit,” he said in Kisii county on August 12. One area young people are warming up to is agribusiness, particularly the dairy sector.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Partly cloudy during the day; Mostly cloudy at night. Low 13ºC. High 24ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers; Showers at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. KISUMU: Generally clear during the day; Partly cloudy at night. Low 18ºC. High 30ºC. Winds S and variable.   