Police are holding a suspect found with $523,000, several passports and a firearm at his Muthaiga home.Senior resident magistrate Caroline Nzimbe granted Omar Arafat a Sh300,000 bond with one surety of similar amount and alternative cash bail of Sh200, 000.She also directed the suspect to be present himself to police on Tuesdays and Thursdays for investigations.DCI officers ,however, arrested him outside the courtroom as his lawyers raced to pay the bail.  Fearing that he could disappear, the detectives locked Arafat into a car but failed to activate the child-locks. He attempted to flee but was rearrested within the court premises.The officers had yesterday asked the court to hold him for 21 days at Muthaiga police station to continue with their investigations. But the application was opposed by lawyers Cliff Ombeta, Edwin Sifuna and Sam Nyamberi. State counsel Duncan Ondimu, who filed the application on behalf of the police, said the detectives needed to take the firearm, money and passports recovered from Arafat’s home to different agencies for verification. See: [VIDEO] Cops look for mastermind of fake currency syndicateOnly the firearm and ammunition, and the firearm holding licenses will be verified by units of the National Police Service. The passports will be verified by the Department of Immigration.  Ondimu said the evidence needs forensic investigations, which takes time. He said Arafat is a flight risk due to his financial muscle. But Ombeta said police are coming to court with “dirty hands” because they first detained Arafat for more than 48 hours, despite having arrested him in the morning of September 2 and seeking to detain him further is adding salt to an injury. Ombeta also argued the police failed to compel the court the respondent should remain in custody for them to investigate because they did not demonstrate how his incarceration will help them. “Reasons that necessitate the detention of the respondent are nowhere. For such affidavits, material should be availed to court to satisfy that they are a flight risk,” Ombeta said.   “The question is, what have they placed before the court to prove the attempt to abscond or flee before the trial. To argue that the respondent might interfere with witnesses there should be material to prove that he attempted to call the witnesses bu his phones are in the custody of police.”  Senior resident magistrate Caroline Nzimbe granted Arafat a Sh300,000 bond with one surety of similar amount and alternative cash bail of Sh200, 000. More: Detectives unravel fake money racket Click
here for the latest political news