Athletics mad North Rift Counties of Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet were yesterday turned into celebration grounds as fans thronged the streets to watch and celebrate as Eliud Kipchoge was crowned after breaking the world marathon record at the Berlin Marathon yesterday. In Uasin Gishu, athletics fans, friends and family flooded the streets to watch the race on the big screen located within the central business district. With the screen located between Iten road joining Oginga Odinga street, the Kenya-Uganda highway was impassable as fans blocked the two busy roads. The fans were joined by Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago to cheer the athletes. Social joints within Eldoret town were also full, making a kill from the much-hyped race and the athletes did not disappoint. Collins Nyongesa one of the fan said he was never a fan of Athletics but after he relocated to Eldoret from Nairobi. “I never used to watch athletics since am a football fan but my working mate introduced me to athletics in 2016 during Olympic Games trials at Kipchoge keino stadium and I became a fan immediately,” said Nyongesa. In Iten at Keelu Resort, owned by former marathon record holder Wilson Kipsang, it was the same mood despite Kipsang fans initially getting disappointed as their hero fell off the pace, but kipchoge’s win consoled them. Kipsang sister Monica Kiprotich said that despite her brother losing the title, it’s better than last year. “I thank God for Kipsang finishing third in a very competitive race. He did very well compared to last year. As a family member I expected him to win the race but all is well and we have to accept the results,” said Monica. Patrick Maiyo said his purpose was to see Kipsang win the title. “Apart from Kipsang being my friend he is my neighbour and I traveled all the way to come and watch this race here,” said Maiyo. The script was the same in Kapsabet as hundreds of athletics fans followed the proceedings from a screen erected by the Nandi County Government. As soon as Kipchoge crossed the finish line in Berlin, shattering previous record of Dennis Kimeto from 2014 of 2.02.57 to set his own of 2.01.39, the fans lost it and celebrations rocked the air led by Nandi CEC for sports Elly Kurgat, Athletics Kenya Nairobi region chairman Barnaba Korir, AK North Rift chairman Abraham Mutai and Sports C.O Ken Tanui.