Kenyans will have to pay more for mobile money transfers if MPs back President Uhuru Kenyatta's memorandum on the Finance Bill, 2018. The president, in his proposed amendments, seeks Parliament's approval for a 12 per cent in excise duty on fees charged for money transfer by mobile phone service providers. The amendments, which are due for a plenary discussion at the National Assembly on Thursday, have also seen the introduction of a 15 per cent excise duty on telephone and internet data services. See: Muturi thwarts MPs' attempt to debate on VAT, sets vote for Thursday Uhuru's proposal also factors a 12 per cent duty on fees charged for money transfer services by banks, money transfer agencies and other financial service providers. "Excise duty on fees charged by financial institutions shall be 20% of their excisable value," the memorandum communicated by Speaker Justin Muturi on Tuesday states in part. The president has also proposed a 20 per cent excise duty on motor vehicles. This is excluding locally assembled vehicles, public school buses, and motor vehicles within tariffs that are exempt from such duty. A 30 per cent duty will be charged on motor vehicles of tariff number 8703.24.90 and 8703.33.90. Uhuru has also proposed an amendment to the Bill by introducing a 20 per cent tax on sugar confectionery, including select white chocolate, chocolate blocks, slabs or bars. The president has also proposed the introduction of an adulteration levy to harmonise the price of kerosene with that of diesel. The levy shall be paid by the importer at the rate of Sh18 per litre of all illuminating kerosene imported into the country for home use. Also see: Uhuru wins as NASA, Jubilee resolve to support VAT cut More on this: NASA's year-long conditions to back Uhuru on proposed 8% fuel VAT Betting firms are the gainers in the proposed measures following the president's proposal to reduce the tax on winnings from 35 per cent to 15 per cent. Employers have been tipped to deduct a 1.5 per cent of the employees' monthly basic salary towards the National Housing Development Fund. The charge, which has been capped at Sh5,000, according to the president, shall be spent on the Housing pillar of Uhuru's Big Four. "The objective of the proposed scheme is to enable Kenyans to access affordable housing upon maturity of their individual schemes," the president proposes. "Given that many Kenyans do not own a house, removal of this proposal from Employment Act adversely affects their dream of being house owners," he adds. The proposal is among those that MPs shot down in August, a decision Uhuru said was a major drawback to the government's housing plan. "For employees who qualify for affordable housing, the contributions accrue to the employee and shall be used to finance the purchase of a house under the scheme," Uhuru proposes. Further, those who are not eligible for affordable housing, upon expiry of 15 years from the date of commencement of the contributions, or at retirement, shall have their monies transferred to a pension scheme registered by the Retirement Benefits Authority. There is an alternative proposal that the monies would be transferred to any person registered and eligible for affordable housing under the National Housing Development Fund. The president has also proposed that the benefits from the housing scheme can be transferred to the contributors' spouse or dependent children or receive their contributions in cash upon maturity. "A penalty of 5% of the contributions shall be payable by the employer for each month or part thereof during the contributions remain unpaid," Uhuru suggests in the proposals which will be effective should MPs approve the measures. The president said the scheme will be effective the date of publication of the regulations guiding the scheme. Uhuru has backed the proposed amendments to the Appropriations Act which he says would cut national government spending by at least Sh55 billion. Also read: Raila Junior, two ODM MPs defy NASA on calls to back fuel tax Click here for the latest political news 