A standoff between the government and lawyer Miguna Miguna is in the offing over valuation of his property in Runda, which police raided and damaged in February. Miguna says he used more than Sh250,000 to repair his house and wants the state to compensate him. However, the state through the Attorney General says it wants to do its own valuation to verify Miguna’s claims.But Miguna, through his lawyer Waikwa Wanyoike, says he will not open his house for them. “My client has no intention of opening his home for anyone since it’s his private property and he has the right to do so unless authorised by a court,” Waikwa said. The AG told the court it is important to carry out the state’s  own valuation to obtain their own independent findings. Watch: [VIDEO] Miguna arrested for swearing-in Raila Arrested Miguna, who was forcibly deported to Canada in April, wants the government to pay him Sh274,000 for repairs to his house. Miguna said the money was spent by his designer to renovate the house damaged when security officers raided the property on February 2 this year and arrested him. In an affidavit filed in court by his designer Edgar Monsey Oriedo, he says the total cost used for repairs was Sh274,000. “I was contacted on February 2, 2018, by Maurice Mulinge, who is a PA of Miguna Miguna, and I was informed there had been destruction at his house located in 486 Runda,” Oriedo said. He said he was directed by Miguna’s PA to undertake temporary securing of the house, which he did by cutting pieces of a metal ladder, welding them and fabricating the door in such a manner that it could be secured by padlock. He lists several things that he repaired, including welded square bars, a steel door with glass panes, bedroom doors, toilet repairs, kitchen window panes, toilet window panes, verandah lamps, door locks, padlocks, painting and labour. Oriedo says he was also requested to make a valuation of the cost of repairing the damage to the property. According to him, when he entered the house, he saw glass pieces scattered all over the place and the window panes of the main door were shattered. He says the bedroom door and lock were irreparably damaged and staircase windows were completely shattered. In the case, Miguna wants the court to order the state to issue him with a new passport that he will use to enter the country. The state maintains the lawyer has to follow due process and regularise his papers before he is given a passport. The hearing continues today. See also: Why Miguna Miguna was deported a second time Click here for
the latest political news