The leaders of Ethiopia and
Eritrea re-opened crossing points on their shared border for the
first time in 20 years on Tuesday, cementing a stunning
reconciliation and giving Addis Ababa a direct route to its
former foe's Red Sea ports. Ethiopian and Eritrean forces stationed along the border
will be moved back to camps to ease tensions further, Ethiopian
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed said. "We heralded the new year by demolishing the trenches along
our border," Abiy told reporters, referring to the fact that
Ethiopian New Year was celebrated on Tuesday. "As of today, Ethiopia's defence forces (along the border
with Eritrea) will be gathered to camps and ease tension that
was often extreme. The same will be done from the Eritrean
side." The war that broke out in 1998 over the border and other
issues killed an estimated 80,000 people before fighting ended
in 2000 in a contested peace deal. Tensions burned on over the position of the frontier - until
Abiy offered to end the military standoff this year as part of a
package of reforms that have reshaped the political landscape in
the Horn of Africa and beyond. Thousands of people from both countries watched one border
opening ceremony in Zalambessa, an Ethiopian border town that
was reduced to rubble soon after hostilities between the
neighbours started in 1998. Soldiers and civilians waving Ethiopian and Eritrean flags
lined the road as Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and
Eritrean President Isaias Afwerki opened the frontier in a
ceremony broadcast live on Ethiopian state TV. "This is the happiest day of my life," Ruta Haddis, an
Eritrean from the town of Senafe just across the frontier, told
reporters. "I never thought this would take place in my
lifetime." The two leaders opened another frontier crossing at Bure,
Eritrea's Information Minister Yemane Meskel said in a tweet. The Debay Sima - Bure crossing leads to the port of Assab in
Eritrea's east, while its Massawa port is directly north of the
Serha - Zalambessa connection. Ethiopia, a rising economic power with 100 million people,
had been almost entirely dependent on tiny neighbour Djibouti
for access to the Red Sea since 1998. ETHIOPIAN NEW YEAR Pictures posted online by Abiy's chief of staff showed the
leaders talking and walking side by side in Bure - Abiy in
camouflaged military fatigues and Isaias wearing sandals and a
safari suit. Some of the fiercest fighting during the 1998-2000 war took
place in the Bure region. The Eritrean and Ethiopian leaders have moved swiftly to end
two decades of hostility since signing a breakthrough agreement
in Asmara on July 9 to restore ties. Eritrea reopened its embassy in Ethiopia in July, Ethiopia
reciprocated last week and the two countries have resumed
flights. The two leaders also celebrated Ethiopian New Year together
at the border with their troops on Tuesday, Abiy's Chief of
Staff, Fitsum Arega, said. Ethiopia follows a calendar similar to the ancient Julian
one - which started disappearing from the West in the 16th
century - meaning the country entered its year 2011 on Tuesday. Click here for the latest political news