Senators will summon Nairobi governor Mike Sonko and senior health officers over the discovery of 11 infant corpses at Pumwani Maternity. The Health and Security committees of the Senate yesterday visited the facility after Sonko’s impromptu visit on Monday. He discovered the bodies wrapped in polythene bags and staffed in boxes. The legislators were shocked at the condition of infrastructure. They explained the situation as one with “glaring management problems” at the country’s oldest referral facility. “We have noticed serious challenges managerial in nature. There is no way we can be losing five per cent of children born,” Health committee chairman Michael Mbito said. Mbito said the shortage of medical personnel, low staff morale and lack of basic equipment are some of the management lapses at the hospital. “We want governors to pull up their socks. We don’t want them to politicise health matters. We want them to help our people,” he said. Read: Pumwani saga: Sonko suspends Health executive, three officers for insubordination Watch: [VIDEO] Sonko suspends Pumwani boss after 12 babies die in machine glitch Sonko on Tuesday suspended County Secretary Peter Kariuki, Health executive Vesca Kangogo, Health chief officer Mahat Jimale and county attorney Lydia Kwamboka for alleged insubordination. The county officials told journalists the facility lacked a mortuary and that keeping bodies in boxes has been the practice. Sonko also fired medical superintendent Catherine Mutinda and the management board. Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja, who is also the vice-chairman of the Security committee, said they will summon the governor, Health executive, chief officers and medical superintendent of the facility to unearth problems at the hospital. “We have heard mothers are suffering. There are many challenges, for example, the last time the waste incinerator was working was more than three months ago. The person who deals with the garage has told us he recently found a dead baby,” he said. But as senators move to uncover problems at Pumwani, medical staff yesterday continued to lament about huge workload and poor working conditions. The reasons cited were linked to the rise in the number of infant and maternal deaths at the facility. “We don’t have enough staff and we receive patients in critical condition. We only have five consultants ... a nurse can attend up to 30 patients,” nurse Abdi Nassir said. More: Nairobi health officers differ with Sonko on Pumwani crisis, cite systemic flaws Click here for
the latest political news