Suba South MP John Mbadi has dared his colleagues to dislodge him from the Minority leader seat following his stance on Finance Bill, 2018. The lawmaker argued that he backed the 8 per cent VAT on fuel products in order to help the country settle its foreign debt. The Majority leader, Minority, and Whip positions are filled by political parties who send choice candidates' names to the Speaker for approval or ratification. However, MPs can amend the Standing Orders to give themselves powers to elect representatives to the said seats. The ODM chairman was among lawmakers who walked out of the chamber to deny their colleagues the requisite 233 votes to throw out the Bill. Those against the legislation called Mbadi a traitor making demands that he should quit the Minority leadership position. The agitated MPs called for an overhaul of the assembly leadership, a change they said should also affect Majority leader Aden Duale and Speaker Justin Muturi. Also read: Zero! Zero! MPs shout in opposition to amended Bill staging 8% fuel tax "I don’t fear to get punishment from any quarters but Kenya had to restructure its ways of getting funds for local expenditure and pay debts," Mbadi said. He said the new tax measures remain important as it would enable the Executive to raise revenue to meet development expenditure. The MP said the country's Sh1.9 trillion revenue is inadequate to settle the foreign debt, which is running into trillions. He argued that the new fuel tax will not occasion an increase in the price of basic commodities. "The government will remain with Sh100 billion for development expenditure after repaying loans and recurrent expenses." Also read: Uproar over new tax healthy, says DP Ruto But during a fundraiser at Nyandiwa Catholic Church on Sunday, the Suba South MP dared his colleagues to vote him out. He said legislators who supported the Bill acted for the best interest of the country and its citizens adding that procrastinating payment of foreign debts is not best solution. Mbadi claimed that most MPs who are now accusing him had agreed to support the Bill when they met their party leaders, "only to change the tune". President Uhuru Kenyatta's memorandum was passed after MPs failed to raise the required number of 233 to reject it in the assembly. Mbadi said some members wanted to use the opportunity to undermine the Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga's handshake. "I did not just act in the interest of my party boss Raila Odinga but I saw it wise that we should sacrifice to reduce the debts," he added. Mbadi was accompanied by more than 15 Homa Bay MCAs. He urged them to ensure they perform their roles effectively. He said many Kenyans have not benefited from county governments due to mismanagement of funds. "Let Kenyan MCAs carry out their roles prudently to ensure county governments deliver development to people. Otherwise Kenyans at the grass-root will not enjoy the fruits of devolution." Also read: Keter warns of 'silent revolution' amid Kenya's debt woes Click here for the latest political news  