Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria is not relenting in his efforts to have the county take charge of water supply. He has taken his battle with Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) a notch higher by employing 150 plumbers to reconnect pipes. The firm had stopped flow to consumers. Iria said he will not allow the company to mistreat residents. He accused it of going on “a disconnection spree for several days after slapping customers with inflated bills”, causing wrangles and resisting reforms. Other water companies have agreed to work together to restructure the sector, he said. Iria said the company has been compromising security agents to have his supporters arrested and some charged with robbery with violence. He told Muwasco chairman Peter Munga to stop intimidating the county government. “Let him know it doesn’t matter what he does. These wars will continue until water is accessible to all,” he said. Muwasco has told its consumers to clear their bills on time to avoid disconnection. It warned that only its employees are allowed to reconnect pipes. “We would like to inform you that there are people moving around reconnecting water illegally. Contact us or the police if you see someone suspicious near your meter,” a text message sent to consumers read. Last week, the governor used community health workers to register residents who don’t have access to piped water and those whose supply was disconnected. He urged residents not to pay their bills until the county government announces a new account number through which the payments will be made. Iria waived the cash owed to the company by consumers. The county will start billing afresh. The plumbers were issued with pipe wrenches to reconnect water for hundreds of people who had provided their details. “Before payments start, we have to sit down and agree on the appropriate water charges,” he said. An emergency response centre has been opened in Ihura Stadium where residents submit their details for reconnection. The county will install automated meters and establish public water points. Consumers will be issued with digital cards. Iria said this will ease access. “We’ll replace all meters with digital ones to shield consumers from extortion,” he said. He accused the firm officials of manipulating the old meters to inflate bills. The county also plans to provide free water through an initiative called Maji Kwa Wote. Residents will get 50-60 litres of free water every month and pay for the extra consumption.