Rhythm and Praise is the latest show to provide a platform to shine a light on Kenyan gospel stars. It is set to be hosted at the Nairobi Chapel, Ngong Road, on September 30 from 2pm to 6pm. Speaking to Word Is about the long-awaited concert, Ekko Dydda said: “I am asking all local artistes to come experience the goodness of the Lord. Just like you go and watch international teams playing soccer, also take your time on that Sunday and join other local artistes at Nairobi Chapel Ngong Road. “Let us always support everyone as artistes in whatever they do. Itakua ni kujibamba and a lot of praises on that day.” Songa Music general manager Chinasa Udeala told Word Is the Kenyan music industry does not need change. “What it needs is the right sort of platform to bring to light the talent already here,” he said. “With promotion and recognition comes finance, and with finance comes improvement. All we need is to fine-tune our sound and the world will hear us.” He said Rhythm and Praise provides a platform whose main objective is to empower and support the music talent already in abundance in Kenya. “We hope this will compel other entities with the finance and muscle to do the same, creating an avalanche of emboldened artistes who can delve into their musical journeys with the confidence of knowledge that they are well supported by entities in their environment,” Chinasa said. “Our aim is to have this event every quarter, eventually leading up to a final event that we envisage will be a big stadium affair, with at least an international gospel act supported by a wide variety of Kenyan gospel artists.” Other artistes headlining the event are, Evelyn Wanjiru, Moji Short Baba, Masterpiece and Weezdom. “By giving them a credible platform to showcase their works, both in the Songa by Safaricom App and through Songa-supported events like Rhythm and Praise, the artiste is sure to get the maximum press and media coverage, as we push by utilising all our available media assets,” Chinasa added.