Kenya’s ban on plastic carrier bags will set it amongst the few countries in the world to implement this revolutionary policy, affording it a high table seat among global icons of environmental protection. Before August 28 last year, when the government effected a ban on the use, manufacture or importation of plastic bags most of the effort to control the use of plastics was voluntary, pushed mainly by the private sector. But, valuable as they are, voluntary efforts cannot achieve what systemic reform can. It is everyone’s responsibility to ensure that the Environmental Management and Coordination Act, the overarching law that enables anti-pollution rules to be issued, is implemented in letter and spirit. While the issue of plastic pollution needs to be addressed at the policy level, it is clear that we can all start by changing the way we use and discard plastic. The private sector is crucial in this regard in spearheading sustainable solutions. The first step for individual businesses should be to reduce the use of single-use plastic and switch to alternatives. At Unilever Kenya, we are doing our part through the adoption of a circular economy, which is restorative and regenerative by design. This means that materials constantly flow around a ‘closed loop’ system, rather than being used once and then discarded. As a result the value of materials, including plastics is not lost by being thrown away. We are among a small but growing number of brands, retailers and packaging companies to make plastic packaging commitments. As already reported, Unilever wants to help lead the way towards a circular economy for all our packaging materials, especially plastic. In January 2017, we committed to ensuring that 100 per cent of our plastic packaging will be designed to be fully reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. This initiative is also key priority in achieving several UN Sustainable Development Goals; on Sustainable Consumption and Production (SDG12 ), Climate Action (SDG13 ), Life Below Water (ADG14 ) and Partnerships for the Goals (SDG17 ). According to the World Economic Forum, plastic packaging waste represents an $80–120 billion loss to the global economy every year. The circular approach is needed because it does not only push for the use of less packaging, but ensures that the design of the packaging we do use can be reused, recycled or composted. The heaps of growing plastic waste across Kenya’s major towns — Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu — are a wake-up call for industries, conglomerates and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to eliminate the use of avoidable plastic waste. This means working with employees, partners, suppliers, clients and stakeholders to promote greener options to make greener decisions. Leadership is crucial in driving this change from consumer goods manufacturers, packaging firms, waste management companies and governments. We must implant in consumers a recycling habit. In Kenya, Unilever is already partnering with Mr Green Africa initiative to actualise and scale solutions that will turn plastic waste into value by institutionalising the recycling programme from the current model of household dumping to a fully cyclic one that encourages user sorting, collection and processing that then feeds into our packaging needs. The anti-plastic movement can be developed and spread throughout the country. It will be our tangible contribution in support of the government’s efforts to adopt more sustainable ways of disposing waste. Like Kenya, many other countries have introduced environmental policies and series of initiatives to raise awareness at community level, but the journey to environmental awareness and responsibility is a long one. By controlling the use of plastic packaging, companies can supplement the efforts towards achieving sustainable environmental practices and make a change in the way they are impacting the environment, and in the course change their green footprint for the better. The government, Kenyans and companies that operate in the country should support the plastic bag ban to help move the continent towards a greener future. CEO, Unilever East Africa Justin.Apsey@unilever.com