It’s a Friday night. You are single, you are out at a bar or a club. At some point, you meet with another person who you click with. And eventually, having ensured you are both consenting adults and enthusiastically consent, you end up in bed at your place. The other person spends the night, and when you finally part, you are in good terms and have exchanged contact details, etc. There is a possibility that you might meet up again, or a mutual agreement that this was a one-off hook-up and as far as you are concerned, you both go on your merry way to continue with your lives. On Monday, while at work, you get a call or an SMS from your Friday night person, in which they are threatening to tell your employer, your colleagues, your family and perhaps even your landlord or your neighbours about your hook-up, unless you pay them money. If you are heterosexual, you may suffer slight embarrassment if they go ahead with their threat, but that will possibly be the worst of it if you don’t give in to their blackmail. If, on the other hand you are gay, lesbian or bisexual, in a country like Kenya — where gay sex is illegal courtesy of Section 162 of the Penal Code, which criminalizes homosexuality — then it is a whole different scenario. What goes through many Kenyan gay people’s minds in the ensuing panic is that if they don’t pay up and the person goes through with their threat, you could lose your job and your home. You could end up being cut off by your family and worst of all, you could end up being dragged through the courts, facing a maximum 14 years behind bars. All this drama because you had sex with a fellow consenting adult. Of course because of panic, people don’t even stop to consider that if the law is followed to the letter then both you and your accuser should face the same fate if it becomes a police matter. So you end up giving in to blackmail and extortion. That is the reality for many gay people not just in Kenya but around the world, in countries where homosexuality is against the law. Not to put too fine a point on it, having sex while gay is a criminal offence. At this point all the homophobes reading this are probably cheering and seeing no problem with this situation. But put your hatred and fear of homosexuality aside for a moment and imagine how awful your life would be if it was you who had to live with the mental agony of this persecution and criminality hanging over your head every time you had what some people refer to as a “chips funga”. It was this sort of injustice that I saw happening to many in my circle of friends that inspired me to become a gay rights activist in Nairobi back in the 1990s, and this is why I hope that, just like India recently repealed their anti-gay colonial-era law, Section 377, the courts in Kenya will also get rid of Section 162 of our Penal Code.