Classical capitalism
creates a small number of very wealthy people, while democracy historically
empowered a poor majority resentful of illegally earned wealth. In our
transitioning fragile nomadic setting, there is ever contemporaneous tension.
That scorching tension constantly sets in motion intensely destructive clan
politics. In transitioning pastoral socioeconomic development, one circumstance
in particular has invariably had this effect: The presence of sprouting market
— dominant tenderprenuer — a minority
group, perceived by the rest of the population as avaricious, greedy,
acquisitive, covetous and egocentric focused on primitive accumulation mission
by any means control vastly disproportionate amounts of the county’s wealth.
The budding primitive accumulation is based on clannish cronyism, subornation, inducement,
corruption and thievery. In
2014 the national government has admitted there were government ghost workers.  That was admission of larceny, thieving and
pilfering of public money. At the time, the government reported blatant
thievery and nothing was done. The government as an employer didn’t know its
employees? Is that so, really, truly and why? I disagree as that is baloney,
hogwash, bunkum and nonsense in my humble and considered opinion. Here is why? But
first, let is peal the onion metaphorically speaking and consider who a ghost
worker is. Suffice to say, this was a scandal of monumental scale in government
corruption as the thieves were not arrested. It dwarfed all previous and
current scandals in terms of scale and amount of money involved.  So to begin with, who is ghost worker? Ghost
as a noun is a nonexistence person – that means an entity that seems to exist
on paper, but does not in reality, i.e. a name on the payroll, a fictitious
employee on government payroll. Ghosts also mean a supposed spirit remaining
after ones death. It is supposed spirit of somebody who has died, believed to
appear as a mysterious or shadowy form. As a verb it means write something
under another’s name, for example literature transitive verb to be the
ghostwriter. Worker
is a noun meaning employee, member of staff, an employee of a person, company,
or organisation such as bank, factory, farm, hotel, county, national government,
et cetera. An
employer such as a public or private enterprise or government normally has
policy in place concerning employment. 
The employment policy contains in an employee handbook (EH), which is an
important communication tool between employer and employees referred to as human
resource (HR) policy. HR policies and manuals can be effectively used by the employer’s
human resources professionals. The background of employment policy
states the employer is of the opinion that (i) the employee has the necessary
qualifications, experience, skills and abilities to assist and benefit the
employer and (ii) the employer desires to employ or hire the employee and the
employee agrees to accept and enter such employment upon the terms and
conditions set out in the employment agreement. An
employee handbook is a compilation of employer policies, procedures and behavioural
expectations that is provided by an employer to its employees. EH includes
information about the payroll, employee benefits and additional terms and
conditions of employment. An employee handbook gets everyone on the same page
with the same set of rules and makes sure all employees know what they're
accountable for and what employer expects from them. Moreover,
an EH helps protect an employer from potential lawsuits that can occur in the
form of harassment, wrongful termination and discrimination claims, and so on. It
covers all categories of employees be they permanent full-time, part-time or of
a fixed period. This handbook contains things such
as a job title, employment commencement date and terms of employment, job description,
employee compensation, place of work and employee benefits, among others. It also
covers vacation, personal and
sick time usage; workplace safety; payroll processing; employment terms;
arbitration procedures; work hours; probationary periods etc. An employee has a
supervisor, in other words there is reporting relationship. At the job
performance level an annual performance review takes place. Annual
performance appraisals are one of the most important times of the year in any
employer-employee relationship. It allows employees to understand how they have
been doing and how they can enhance their job performance. An appraisal also
helps in encouraging employees and motivates them. Employee evaluation process
is handled by the supervisor or HR personnel in consultation with the line supervisor.
Annual performance review is carried out by employer to evaluate the job
performance of its employees. There are certain preset parameters on which the employee is evaluated
— known as key performance indicators (KPIs). A good performance review can
mean a healthy raise; bonuses and lots of other career opportunities as a
result of assessment of the employee's functional expertise, or how an employee
performs job duties based on her/his qualifications and skill level. It rates
the employee's core competencies and how employee blends them with functional
expertise and ensures recognition and reward. Let us share that in the contexts
of Wajir county. Since 2013, what has happened
and is happening in Wajir is looting with the intention of getting rich quickly
and buying clan loyalty. This naked clannism is
a disease, a delusion, a toxic mentality. It’s encouraged and manipulated by
promoting “us vs them” hoopla. Its characteristics are numerous and to various
degrees widespread and long-lasting if not confronted now. At what point does
looting, robbing, thieving county resources based in the context of clannism
rise to the level of fascism? Clannism like
fascism is Orwellianism, to some degree. That is, it markets corruption as
anti-corruption, irrationality as reason, and suppression as freedom of speech.
Its version of anti-corruption is total trust in the most corrupt figures
around. Its idea of reason is barbaric bigotry announced as arrived at by
reason and evidence and inevitable obvious natural laws. It’s a conception of protecting
our clan interest and buying clan loyalty that gives birth to arm clan militia. These behaviours are extreme versions of new political practices,
but here it’s easier I think to figure out where the fascist line is crossed. That is why the clan
based militia hibernates among them and is not reported. It’s unfortunate that
the clan, particularly those in terror hotspots, see no evil and report no evil
regarding their thugs in the name of police reserves, their spies,
reconnaissance parties, sympathizers, financiers and or resupply networks. Clannism is
anti-intellectualism, anti-education, anti-progress and anti-peace. It
substitutes unreality for intelligent observation and deliberation. Clannism
favours hierarchy, tribalism, nepotism and neighbour busting — because in safe
neighbourhood people join together across tribe- or clan-line or other
considerations, as well as because they interdepend and intermarry. That is why
clannist minded politicians create continuous conflicts for political survival. As an example, in
the United States to survive President Donald Trump deviates from contemporary
political norm. He doesn’t give a damn about geostrategic issues. He doesn’t
care or understand the destruction he’s doing. If he smashes up the
international economy, fine. If he undermines NATO, who cares? The only thing
Trump cares about is himself, literally, and everything he’s doing follows from
just the recognition that he’s a narcissistic megalomaniac who wants to make
sure that, you know, he’s on top. In his twisted mind he “wins” everything. And
he has to keep his fascist base happy and under control. And he excels in doing
that. He knows exactly
what buttons to push to keep angry illiterate racist people — angry for good
reasons, for the most part — to keep them sort of following him. Just take a look
at American wages. Since Trump became President, real wages have declined. They
were actually starting to rise under President Barack Obama, and they started
to decline under Trump. But he’s keeping his fascist base in line against their
own interest. And the way he does it, by just undertaking one crazy idea after
another, which looks as though he’s defending his deplorable racist base. And
they’re passionate and revere him. Enough about Trumpisim! So let us go back to
mismanaged Wajir county economy — cry the beloved county! So how do  you eliminate negative clannism and corruption
from Wajir? Clannism is not easily eliminated and not best eliminated by simply
any random opposition to it. Eliminating despotism and how best to do it is a
reasonable topic of discussion, which necessarily involves opposing some
tactics as less effective than others. This means that it is possible to oppose
clan based despotic act without being a clannist - although not without getting
been called a clannist. As reported, Wajir County government pays ghost workers and ghost promotion
takes place. People are employed based on family and clan relations without
qualification and other false, made-up, imagined, and fictitious consideration.
They are on the county payroll, but nobody knows them. Who has hired these non-existent
or ghost workers? Who placed them on the county payroll? Who is supervising them
in each line department? Who is doing ghost promotion? Was there an annual
performance review? How was the annual performance review conducted with an
imagined worker? What happened to checks and balances to our fledgling county? Let
us find lasting solutions and cure clannism disease and pursue shared
objectives of tackling clan antagonism and negative competition, lack of ethos
and exclusivity. Let us work towards inclusivity, peaceful coexistence, safety and
security for all. Let us dialogue and fight corruption, bribery, and tribe and
clan egocentrism in order to develop successful devolution as a shining star
among 47 counties. We can turn crying county to modern progressive, prosperous
and smiling one. Yes, we can together as reer Wajir as this is possible and
doable!   Prof Osman Warfa is
researcher, consultant, and author of the book “Somali Diaspora Organization
Development: Implications for HRD”. 