STARRING: Rowan Atkinson, Ben Miller, Olga Kurylenko, Jake Lacy, Emma Thompson GENRE: Spy/comedy DIRECTED BY: Susanna Fogel RELEASE DATE: September 14  Retired Johnny English is not satisfied with his new life as a Geography teacher in a boarding school. Instead of teaching his students the capitals of the world, he turns them into an army of mini-me’s! He trains his young students in the skilful art of espionage, including night time adventures and seductive ‘Bond-like’ charisma. Johnny is excited when he gets called back into MI7 for an important mission only he can solve. As it turns out, the MI7 was hacked and all the identities of the current spies have been exposed. So, the only person who can go undercover is a retired old-school spy with no digital trace. English travels to the south of France with his loyal assistant Angus Bough, where he meets Hungarian spy, Ophelia. Together, the three manage to track down where the attacks on British security are coming from. Meanwhile, in Britain, the country’s security system keeps getting hacked, and the British Prime Minister relies on the technology expertise of Volton, a businessman with an innovative technology company, for solutions. Johnny English strikes again is the third franchise in Rowan Atkinson’s Johnny English series, following Johnny English ( 2003 ) and Johnny English Reborn ( 2011 ). I’m not sure if fans watch the films because of their love for the Johnny English character or nostalgia for Mr Bean. This week, I found myself watching Mr Bean quite a few times, not because I wanted to, but because my five-year-old nephew wanted to. Atkinson has managed to achieve what very few TV legends have: comedy that transcends time. And although Johnny English is remotely different from Mr Bean, the two characters are pretty much the same. Atkinson’s ingenuity lies in his comedic simplicity. Who doesn’t love spy films or comedy? Mix the two together, starring a klutzily patriotic Englishman, and the result is 80 minutes of pure comedy magic!  Star Rating: 4/5