My first battle with the President Daniel Moi dictatorship in Parliament
was in April 1980, over a directive Charles Njonjo, the former Attorney General
and minister for Constitutional Affairs, had given on March 25, 1980,
for the police to shoot to kill all suspects of robbery with violence. Of course I did not condone robbery with violence or any other capital
offence, but I thought this directive was too dangerous for innocent suspects. The
directive was and is still unconstitutional. Directives, decrees and silent
sanctions to kill, whether presidential, ministerial or otherwise, are not
provided for in the Constitution and always run counter to the rule of law. This particular directive gave police illegal powers to arrest,
prosecute, judge and execute without taking suspects to court, slightly worse
than indefinite detention without charge or trial. In addition, in a country
where the President ruled with decrees, the security of Kenyans was in double
jeopardy, if ministers started giving decrees as well. So I decide to challenge
this directive in Parliament through my first private member’s motion. To forestall defeat, the government postponed debate over this issue,
while it exerted enormous pressure upon me through its ministers. “Please drop
this motion,” I remember Paul Ngei telling me. “You will only annoy the
President with it”. “The President protected you against rigging of your election,” others
reminded me. “You do not repay him with a motion like this.” I was even accused
of being in league with the armed robbers, who would have been the first
victims of this directive. “Why do you seek justice for robbers if you are not
one of them?”, some asked. When none of these accusations could intimidate me, I was threatened
with detention. I did not budge. I judged that this was my most important test
as an MP. If I knuckled under now, I would lose all my freedom as a
representative of the people. If I retreated, my political backbone would be
broken for good and I would be in Parliament only as a puppet of the
government. And this, I was determined, not to be. When I refused to withdraw my motion, a Kanu Parliamentary Group meeting
was called to exert maximum pressure by the President himself against those of
us who had motions that Moi did not like. Would I survive? When we got into the meeting, the President was on the offensive and
fumed against all of us who had brought such motions. These motions, he said,
are brought to give a bad name and undermine my government. “I hear one of you
has called for the formation of a parliamentary implementation committee to
ensure my government implements all the motions that are passed in Parliament.
Who is this MP to accuse my government of refusing to implement motions? I want
this motion withdrawn immediately,” he said. Though the need for the implementation committee was felt by all MPs — those
who saw the government refuse to implement countless motions — Martin Shikuku
stood up and told the President he had already withdrawn his demand for an
implementation committee. Clearly, Moi, like Kenyatta before him, did not
intend to implement private members’ motions. After Shikuku, Moi talked of
another MP who he said was mischievously calling for a five-day working week.
How will this country develop if an MP who should be asking people to work
harder is asking people to work less? Is this not sabotage? George Mwicigi, immediately jumped and said, “Your Excellency, I have
withdrawn the motion”. Looking quite pleased with himself, Moi smiled and looked down at a
paper he had to see who was next on the hit list. He then looked up and said, “Then
there is this other motion…” My heart beat faster; drops of sweat ran down my sides and my stomach
tightened up. He waited but I did not jump up to withdraw my motion. If Moi
attacked my motion, I was prepared to argue my case. Now the most unexpected
thing happened! “This is about the shoot to kill directive to the police. It is illegal
and unconstitutional. Not even I can give an order like this to the police,” he
said. While he did not blame Njonjo, who had given the edict, he said he had
already ordered the AG to withdraw it. We could not believe our ears, not until
Attorney General James Karugu withdrew the order in Parliament that afternoon.
I also withdrew my motion. At a rally in May 1980, however, Moi reissued the shoot to kill
directive to the police. It remains in practice to this day. 