Samurai bounced back from Day One defeat to successfully defend their Kenya International 14 Goal Polo tournament title at the Nairobi Polo Club yesterday. The match between Samurai and Four Of A Kind automatically became the title decider after White Cap and Space & Style lost two and one match respectively. Samurai, featuring handicap five Lance Watson, George McCorkell 3.5, Mbugua Ngugi 2.5 and Raphael Nzomo ( 2.5 ), who had a fraction’s (f) advantage beat ‘Four Of A Kind’ ( 4-8f) comprising Gareth Evans 5, Craig Millar 3.5, Tarquin Gross 3 and Tiva Gross 2.5, to claim the much sought after trophy in Kenya. In the true nature of the game, the two sides displayed a fast and furious show from the start and at the end of the opening chukka, Samurai had a 2 and a half/ fraction (f) lead- 0-2f over their opponents. Watson accounted for the double. Midway through the first period, Evans tumbled off his pony and picked an injury hence was replaced by Kenya’s seed one five-goaler James Murray. He immediately canceled Samurai’s goals with a brace with Millar giving Four Of A Kind a fraction’s advantage for 3-2f. McCorkell hit one in to increase the level of competition as Nzomo performed his defensive role too well, cutting out Murray from the game and creating chances as Ngugi successfully drove the ball through the goalposts with scores at 3-5f. Each side scored one goal apiece through 40-yard penalties by top handicapped players— Murray and Watson— in the penultimate chukka for 5-6f. Two field goals from team patron Nzomo and Ngugi were all that Samurai needed to seal the win and grab the title altogether. With two wins each, the champion was determined by goal difference where Samurai carried the day with a fraction goal advantage. On their way to the title, Samurai hammered White Cap and Four Of A Kind on Saturday and Sunday. “Though he (Murray) is a top goaler, his inclusion in Four Of A Kind did not help much because attaining coordination in the team with a new player was hard, and that worked to our advantage,” said Watson, a south African international, as Nzomo hailed his teammates for the back-to-back title win. Ngugi was awarded the Most Valuable Player award while Jessica from Nzomo’s sting and played by Watson, was voted the Best Played Pony. This was for the second time in seven days.