Kilifi governor Amason Kingi has started uniting the Mijikenda communities to form a voting bloc ahead of the 2022 General Election. He also wants to reach out to the other communities in the region and set up a political base that will back his quest to join national politics after his two terms as governor expire. The governor spoke during the Chenda Chenda Festival organised by Mijikenda Kaya elders on Sunday at Karisa Maitha Grounds to celebrate their rich culture. Kingi received backing from Coast Parliamentary Group chairman and Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori and seven MPs from Kilifi. Among the MPs present were Parliamentary Service Commissioner and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, Magarini’s Michael Kingi, Kilifi North’s Owen Baya and Kaloleni’s Paul Katana. Kilifi South MP Ken Chonga, Ganze’s Teddy Mwambire and Jubilee nominated senator Christine Zawadi were present. A number of MCAs and local leaders attended. The Mijikenda have a history of being divided on political grounds during the electioneering period. If the governor succeeds, he would be among the celebrated kingpins in the region. Normally, big political parties from the region take advantage of the disunity of the Mijikenda who are the natives to divide them. Kingi said the Chenda Chenda Festival is meant to celebrate and bring the Mijikendas together for a united purpose. He said unity of the Mijikenda is paramount as it will help to win hearts of the other communities in the region. The ODM governor, who is a strong ally of Raila Odinga and Mombasa governor Hassan Joho, said his vision is to ensure the region has a political and governance voice at the national government. His plan is to reach out to the communities in Tana River, Lamu and Taita Taveta counties. The MPs allied to him say its time leaders at the Coast had their own vehicle to push the 2022 agenda, which could be achieved only if the region is united. Jumwa, who is supporting the unity of the Mijikenda, said Coast has not benefitted from Nasa after voting overwhelmingly for the alliance in August last year’s election because they have no party. In the Jubilee government, she said, there is no one from Mijikenda in the Cabinet. “In Coast, we command 80 per cent of the votes, time will come and we will tell you who will be our flagbearer,” Jumwa said. Dori said their aim is to unite the region to champion for political agenda. Magarini MP Kingi and Baya of Kilifi North said their aim is to be in the presidential race or deputy presidency in 2022.