The music world was rocked when it learned Mac Miller passed away at the age of 26 following an alleged drug overdose. And the So It Goes rapper appeared to have predicted his own demise in his most recent music video, for the track Self Care. In the video, released in July this year, the ex-boyfriend of Ariana Grande raps while lying in a coffin. In the clip's most chilling moment, Miller -whose real name is Malcolm McCormick- carves the words 'Memento mori' into the lid of the casket - which is Latin for 'Remember that you have to die'. The clip depicts Mac trying to break out of his cramped tomb using only a flashlight, a knife and his fist. While rapping, he lights a cigarette before carving the Latin phrase into the wood above him. The Donald Trump artist then begins punching a hole through the wood, before digging his way out of a pile of dirt. However his escape is short-lived, as a massive explosion apparently claims the singer's life anyway. The rapper's body was found in a bedroom at his home in the San Fernando Valley outside Los Angeles around noon on Friday. He was pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics, according to a report by TMZ. It is believed Miller died from a drug overdose but dispatch audio from when a male friend alerted authorities describes him as having suffered a cardiac arrest. Just after 2pm local time Friday a coroner arrived at Miller's Studio City home, and the body was seen being carted out just before 4pm. The artist was notably linked to the singer Ariana Grande, who ended their two year relationship back in May and got engaged to comedian Pete Davidson just one month later. A statement from Miller's family said: 'Malcolm McCormick, known and adored by fans as Mac Miller, has tragically passed away at the age of 26. He was a bright light in this world for his family, friends and fans. Thank you for your prayers. Please respect our privacy. There are no further details as to the cause of his death at this time.' In the wake of Miller's death many have pointed to his recent split from Grande as what led to his overdose. However, he had been fighting a battle with substance abuse long before he even met the songstress - which has been documented extensively in the media as well as in his own music. In fact, the lyrics of Self Care seem to directly reference Malcolm's struggles with addiction. At one point he sings, 'We spend our nights all liquored up, our mornings high. Can you feel it now?' In multiple interviews Miller spoke about how he'd started using drugs including cocaine and opiates when he was just 15 years old. During his 2012 Macadelic Tour, the artist became addicted to 'purple drank' or 'lean' - a drug concoction of promethazine and codeine - but managed to quit after noticing how it had taken over his life. 'I love lean; it’s great. I was not happy and I was on lean very heavy. I was so f**ked up all the time it was bad. My friends couldn’t even look at me the same. I was lost,' he told Complex in 2013. It wasn't until earlier this summer that his addiction problems made headlines again, when Miller was arrested for driving drunk and crashing his SUV in Los Angeles just one week after his break up with Grande. He was convicted in that incident last month.