Inspector General Joseph Boinnet has told senior police officers that they will not lose their jobs because of reforms being undertaken in the service. It was reported that at least 300 senior officers will be sacked as part of the reforms unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta two weeks go. Boinnet who met senior police officers from the North Rift region for more than six hours on Friday said none will lose their jobs. He also dismissed as rumours reports that the regular and administration police units will be merged under the reforms. Boinnet said the Constitution does not provide for such a merger. He changes will mostly affect the command structure and welfare of officers, he said. “We are only doing re-organisation of our command structure and officers will be assigned different and distinct roles for better service,” Boinnet said. The police boss said the changes will energise the police for better services. He spoke in Eldoret where he met senior officers from Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Turkana counties. He said distinct roles have been created for his deputies in charge of regular and administration police as part of changes to ensure a proper command chain. There will be no scrapping of some of the positions in the service because officers such as those in charge of divisions would be given different roles, Bonnet said. Read: Top cops won't be fired in restructuring process - Owino The IG defended the decision to let officers live among the public, saying there would be nothing new. "Senior officers already live outside police lines," he said. He asked investors to build housing units near police stations for officers who want to be housed near their workstations. “We are giving them a good house allowance to be able to pay rent,” Boinnet said. He said all officers will be informed about the changes. He also defended the choice of blue colour for the new police uniforms, saying it was selected because it is universal and more ‘friendly’ to the public. He said on Friday that the colour is recognized the world over as the police colour and its choice in Kenya would enable the police to easily integrate with the public. “We wanted a colour that would be quite different from what is commonly used by security services in the country,” he said. Also Read: NPSC educating officers on police reforms 