The wife and young son of a British scientist are fighting for their lives in hospital after being viciously attacked by a giraffe at a wildlife reserve in South Africa. Terrified Katy Williams, 35, and son Finn, 3, were left close to death near their home on the Blyde Wildlife Estate near Hoedspruit after the terrifying encounter. Husband Sam Williams was returning home from work and saw his US born wife and son under attack and was able to chase off the giraffe and save their lives. The giraffe, which had a two-month-old calf with it, is believed to have attacked the young mum and her son because it felt under threat when they surprised her. It is believed Mr and Mrs Williams are both scientists who work at the game reserve. The attack happened on Monday at 6pm and UK born Sam called for emergency help and the Hoedspruit Medical Rescue team raced to the scene to try and help. But they were both so badly hurt in such a life threatening condition they were transferred to a local airfield to await two helicopter air ambulances from Johannesburg. Finn was the first to be airlifted by the ER24 to chopper to Busamed Modderfontein Hospital in Johannesburg and the mother then followed shortly in the second helicopter. An operation was performed on Finn during the early hours of Tuesday morning to release pressure on his brain due to injuries sustained in the near deadly attack. His mother was then operated on and both are said to be in a stable but critical condition. The manager of Blyde Wildlife Estate Riaan Cilliers confirmed the incident and said: "We are all in shock about this very sad incident and we ensure the family that they are in our prayers." Cilliers confirmed that the giraffe in question has a two-month-old calf, which may have had an influence on her behaviour and may have been surprised by the mother and son. Both husband and wife are scientists with post PhD experience in animal-related fields. Williams said in a press statement that he regarded the incident as an 'unfortunate act of nature' where the giraffe saw his wife and son as a threat to her young one. He said the family has asked the public and media to kindly respect their privacy during 'this very difficult time' that they are going through and released two family photographs. Any further queries will be handled by their family lawyer Marina Botha from Botha & Lovegrove Attorneys situated in Hoedspruit. Earlier this year at cameraman on British TV show Wild at Heart was killed by a giraffe as he filmed at the Glen Africa game reserve in Broederstroom in North West Province. South African film maker Carlos Carvalho, 47, was knocked 16 feet through the air when the giraffe slammed into him with his neck and died of his injuries later in hospital. The TV series featuring a British family running an animal hospital in the African bush was filmed at Glen Africa for many years and Mr Carvalho had worked on most episodes. The giraffe that killed him called Gerald is said to have attacked others in the past. Giraffes grow up to 119 feet tall and can weigh over a ton and are the world's tallest mammal and males become aggressive in mating season and females when protecting their young. Click here for the latest political news 