Courts have in the recent past imposed the death penalty on convicts as a deterrent
against committing murder. Two months ago, Justice Jessie Lesiit
sentenced Ruth Kamande to death for killing her boyfriend, Farid
Mohammed, in 2015. The judge said that although the mandatory punishment
had been lifted by the Supreme Court on December 14, 2017, it was within her
discretion to mete it out to deter people from killing. “I want young people to know that it is
not cool to kill your boyfriend or girlfriend even where you feel disappointed
or frustrated —  don’t do it. Instead, it
is cool to walk away and thereafter to forgive,” said Lesiit. Read: Prison beauty queen Ruth Kamande sentenced to death for killing boyfriend Kamande stabbed
Mohammed 22 times in a domestic dispute sparked by a revelation that he had
been taking HIV-suppressing drugs without her knowledge. She said he threatened
her when she confronted him. Erastus Ngura Odhiambo, a Nairobi businessman who murdered his
girlfriend in December 2014 in Buru Buru Phase 5, estate was in July jailed for
20 years after he was found guilty. Odhiambo was said to have pulled his girlfriend, Linda Wanjiku Irungu, out
of her car and shot her dead at Waihura Court. The two are said to have been living together for more than two years but on
the fateful day the deceased was staying with her sister. In her ruling, Justice
Stella Mutuku said that the accused did not plead provocation or drunkenness in
his defence. The judge said the gun recovered from Odhiambo was the same that
was used to kill Wanjiku after a quarrel. In another case, Kalungasha Sena was sentenced to life imprisonment for
killing a young man who was allegedly chatting with his ex-girlfriend. More: Who will hang prison beauty queen Ruth Kamande? Sena was found guilty of murder by a
magistrate in Narok county and sentenced to death. His sentence was
however commuted to life imprisonment by the High Court after appealing. According to court records, Sena stabbed the young man whom he found having
a chat with his former girlfriend. He told the court that he was 60 years old,
married to one wife and two others whom he inherited from his late brothers. In another incident, a teacher who
stabbed his estranged wife to death after finding her with another man in their
matrimonial bed was found guilty of manslaughter. High Court judge Charles Kariuki found Benjamin Musyoka guilty of killing
his wife, Cecilia Mueni, on December 7, 2009. He found her in bed with Daniel
Maluki at Slaughter estate in Makueni. The judge convicted Musyoka on his own admission that he killed his wife
accidentally under extreme provocation. “The accused found his wife in bed with another man. She could not be
reached on the phone,” the judge ruled, adding “Musyoka was enraged when he
found a man in his house, and yet he was providing for the family since he was
working in Kibwezi.” “He employed extreme and unproportionate force, thus committed an offence of
manslaughter in the circumstances,” the judge said. More: Teacher who killed wife over lover guilty of manslaughter Click here for the latest political news