It can only be described as daylight robbery, perpetrated by non other than the peoples’ representatives against the citizens they purport to represent. Despite the President’s best efforts at building a legacy through the proposed Big Four agenda, the fight against corruption and Nairobi regeneration programmes — his Achilles heel remains extravagant borrowing and a lack of fiscal discipline in his government. Like the proverbial bogeyman, the effects of mismanaging the budget deficit have become a living nightmare for the President, and taking very unsound advice, he has decided to punish the poor for the excesses of his government. Although we await to ascertain the final cuts that Parliament is likely to approve, it is not lost on Kenyans that both the Jubilee and opposition parliamentary groups quickly acceded to plunder the public with the punitive eight per cent tax on VAT. Whist steering carefully within the law, the proposed cuts are nonetheless unethical and immoral because they transfer the burden of financial mismanagement to the poor. The proposed cuts to county budgets will have the greatest impact on the lower income groups who rely solely on government for basic services. It will also undermine the ability of counties to deliver on the Big Four agenda. The proposed cuts to the Equalisation Fund will directly impact marginalised areas, particularly access to water which is a main focus of the fund. A failure to address access to water will increase the disease burden, undermining health and development outcomes. It is counterproductive and inhumane. The proposal to slash budgets for road repairs is irresponsible and equally counterproductive. Bad roads push up the cost of operating vehicles to all drivers, negatively affecting households, businesses and the economy. Poor roads also contribute towards road accidents and resultant deaths. The Last Mile and digital learner platform — it is unfortunate that the president’s flagship projects are facing the axe. In particular, electrification is a key development indicator with knock-on effects for economic growth. The proposed budget cuts and VAT increase can only be considered as an extremely desperate and misadvised attempt to buy time in the race against the IMF deadlines. If implemented, they will push the county further into stagflation and fuel the vicious cycle of borrowing. Where is the opposition? For its part, Nasa issued a list of conditions upon which their support for the VAT increase is based. It is not clear to what extent these are binding, but it is noteworthy they did not oppose the proposed cuts to devolution and the Equalisation grant. Could Nasa have dropped the devolution agenda that was their flagship? Whereas the Nasa statement highlighted the need to rationalise national government spending and tame corruption, they did not touch the sacred cow called CDF and the need to align it with the High Court ruling of Petition No 71 of 2013, which declared CDF unconstitutional. Nasa also did not address the need to revise the loans and debts management framework to include county governments, and strengthen checks on the Executive as a means to sustainable debt management. It is also high time the President addresses the high cost of administrating multiple funds and grants by rationalising them. The President and opposition need to shun quick- fix solutions that merely postpone the effects of the administration’s poor economic decisions, and take advantage of the crisis to institute some meaningful and sustainable changes. For our part as citizens, until we decide to push back and resist the callous manner in which our government handles our public finances, we will continue as hostages to the excesses of the political elite — consigned to armchair and bar room rants as the cost of daily living escalates.  National coordinator, The Institute for Social Accountability (TISA) wanjiru.gikonyo@tisa.or.ke   