The opposition has given the government one year to redeem itself with the eight per cent VAT on fuel “or we will make it zero per cent,”Nasa leader Raila Odinga has said. He said the tax does not aim to make Kenyans suffer, but build the country’s economy. Addressing residents in Ukwala, Siaya, on Saturday during the funeral service of Joseph Apopa, Raila said the Finace Bill 2018 was passed with conditions. “We have told the government to cut all unnecessary spending like using big cars, and travelling business class instead of economy class,” Raila said. The Nasa leader added that all government officers should use small cars such as Passat as recommended by President Uhuru Kenyatta when he was Finance minister. He said MPs should not hold committee meetings in Mombasa, instead of Nairobi. Raila said the MPs are used to flying to Mombasa on business class, which is a waste of public funds. “We cannot allow the eight per cent levy and entertain extravagant spending by the executive and legislators,” he said. Raila said before supporting the eight per cent levy, Nasa looked at the country’s budget. “As someone who has been the Prime Minister of this country, I know what budget-making entails and how it should be balanced with expenditure,” he added. The former PM said if the country has a big gap in the budget, one cannot steer the economy in the right direction unless the expenditure is reduced or taxes are increased. “If we are to reduce the taxes, then the expenditure must be reduced and that will mean we cut the budget of crucial ministries, such as Health,” he said. Raila said Uhuru settled on the percentage to balance the expenditure and the income. He said the new levy calls for sacrifice but he will ensure the government reduces wastage. “There is a lot of money going into individuals’ pockets with the runaway corruption,” Raila said. The Nasa leader said that with the British and Swiss governments agreeing to cooperate with Kenya to return stolen money, progress will be made. “This money should be repatriated back to support the economy as quickly as possible,” he said. Click here for the latest political news