Detectives have flagged out Sh320 million in suspicious transactions through various bank accounts operated by Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. Just days after the High Court temporarily slammed brakes on her criminal charges, sleuths analysing Mwilu's accounts have flagged out what are alleged to be suspicious transactions. A report by the detectives seen by the Star indicates that Mwilu owns at least seven houses in upmarket Kilimani estate, one along Argwings Kodhek Road, two off Ndemi road and another property in Athi River. It is based on the movement of huge sums and transactions that the investigators concluded that the top judge could be involved in money laundering. Mwilu was facing 13 counts of abuse of office, tax evasion and fraudulent recovery of loan securities before her prosecution was temporarily halted last week. Uhuru begged to scrap fuel tax Kenyans yesterday continue to pile pressure on President Uhuru Kenyatta to issue an Executive Order suspending the implementation of 16 percent VAT on petroleum products. Governors, MPs and ordinary Kenyans on the street s all appealed to President Uhuru to who is away in China to direct Treasury CS Henry Rotich to shelve the implementation until he (Uhuru) either signs the Finance  Bill, 2018, into law or return it to Parliament for further changes. Six governors from Central Kenya Economic bloc asked Treasury cabinet secretary Henry Rotich to adopt "creative ways" of raising revenue from taxation without hurting the struggling citizens. Did Korane lie to EACC, IEBC about his MBA? Embattled Garissa Governor Ali Korane may have lied that he holds a masters degree from the University of Nairobi. The governor, who is facing a probe following the attempted murder of former Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar, told journalists on Sunday that he does not hold a masters degree and has at no time declared the same to any state agency. Korane has also denied any involvement in the planning or execution of Mukhtar's shooting on August 23 at a Mosque in Kileleshwa. He was arrested on August 25 and questioned before being released the same day. Tenants vacate Taj Mall but owner Gorasia won’t let go without a fight The owner of Airgate Centre, formerly Taj Mall, will not vacate as ordered by the team in charge of demolitions of illegal buildings. Tenants have been racing against time to remove their assets and avoid losses. All but proprietor Ramesh Gorasia have left. Bata was the latest to leave last Friday, a day after the deadline issued by the government. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority says part of the building is on a road reserve and is to be brought down on Wednesday. Gorasia's Rams Supermarket is the only business still operating inside the mall in Embakasi. Farmers’ stores full of last year’s maize as harvest season begins The harvesting season has started, yet some farmers still have last season’s maize stock in their stores. They were unable to sell all their crop to the government due to cartels who flooded the National Cereals and Produce Board depots with stock from Uganda. To avert a maize glut, an officer from the ministry said they are planning to seek new markets, including the UN World Food Programme, to buy the produce from farmers. Your Weather NAIROBI: Afternoon showers; Showers at night. Low 13ºC. going into the night. High 22ºC. Winds ESE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. MOMBASA: Morning showers; Showers late at night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60%. KISUMU: Partly cloudy during the day; Thunderstorms early at night. Low 19ºC. High 27ºC. Winds S and variable.