The discovery of dead infants stashed in white paper bags by Nairobi governor Mike Sonko opened another can of worms at the country’s largest and oldest maternity hospital. For a while, the facility had tried its best to stay out of the limelight after a series of scandals ranging from baby theft to poor services and blatant negligence on the part of its medical staff. In spite of its important role in midwifing generations of Nairobi women and those from adjoining areas, Pumwani has had its fair share of problems, chiefly because of poor governance. Eighty per cent of the problems bedevilling this health facility are manmade. They are deliberate actions by those responsible for the smooth running of the hospital who are either corrupt or clueless about issues touching on a facility such as this. Even in the poorest of countries on this continent, it is unheard of to lose six infants in two days. Hospital records indicate that between September 14 and 16 six lives were lost just like that. That is not all; between September 12 and 17, the hospital lost 11 infants. How can we allow this to happen 54 years after Independence? While it is understandable for Sonko and the rest of us to get rankled over the grim state of affairs at Pumwani, it is imperative for the county and national governments to put in place sustainable measures to bring the hospital back on its feet. There is no excuse under the sun and above the skies for Pumwani not to have a morgue. Let me be the devil’s advocate: Sacking or suspending staff is not enough. We must be bold enough and look at the bigger picture of improving services at this important facility. These punitive measures are knee-jerk reactions our leaders pull out of the hat hoping they will, like a magic wand, instantly improve wanting services. There is nothing much hospital administrator Zadock Angahya could have done about the bodies. There are no body bags at the hospital and there is no morgue. Instead of leaving the bodies strewn all over, the staff did their best by improvising a way to preserve the corpses as they waited for City Mortuary to send a vehicle to collect them, as has been the norm since the hospital was opened many years ago. Allegations that staff charge mothers for Jik and other items should not come as a surprise. The staff operate on a shoestring budget while City Hall has extra cash for first-class flights. Desperate times call for desperate measures. If the stores have neither Jik nor detergent, what does Sonko expect the staff to do? Go buy the stuff with their own money? The last I checked, there was only one Mother Theresa...and she is with the angels now. While the state of affairs at the hospital should be condemned, Sonko and Health CS Sicily Kariuki should take the blame. They should stop the charade and call a spade a spade not a big spoon. The Linda Mama Initiative launched by the NHIF in 2016 to cushion families from the financial burden associated with maternity services seems to be facing hurdles. The initiative, which is government-funded, targets impoverished families to ensure they receive quality healthcare. If this initiative is alive and working 24-7 in Pumwani, then why all the persistent problems? My take is that the initiative is either starved of funds or it never left the station. Maybe First Lady Margaret Kenyatta should take her transformative Beyond Zero campaign to the doors of Pumwani, if only to save one life. Numbers four and five of the much-touted UN Millennium Development Goals 2015 target the reduction of maternal and infant mortality rates, but the situation is getting murkier. There is no way Kenya can be on track to achieving the MDGs targets with the sobering statistics emerging from Pumwani. If the situation is like this in a city based facility, imagine what is happening in rural health centres. Click here for the latest political news