The Kenyan director of a movie
banned in her home country for telling the love story of two
women has filed a lawsuit seeking to lift the bar so it can be
considered for the country's Oscars entry, court documents show. "Rafiki", which means friend in the Swahili language,
premiered at the Cannes film festival, the first Kenyan film to
do so. It is adapted from an award-winning short story "Jambula
Tree" by Ugandan writer Monica Arac de Nyeko. To be eligible as Kenya's entry under the Best Foreign
Language Film category at the 2019 Academy Awards, it must have
been released in Kenya. However, Kenya banned
it in April on the grounds that it promotes lesbianism. The deadline for a release in Kenya is September 30. Wanuri Kahiu, who directed Rafiki, lodged the suit against
Kenya Film Classification Board chief Ezekiel Mutua and the
country's attorney general, the documents, seen by Reuters,
show. The board, which has to check scripts before filming begins,
imposed the ban, saying on Twitter: "Anyone found in its
possession will be in breach of law." This referred to a
colonial-era law under which gay sex is punishable by 14 years
in jail. The ban represented a reversal by the board as Mutua had
earlier praised the film as "a story about the realities of our
time". In 2015, the board also banned the erotic film "Fifty
Shades of Grey". Homosexuality is taboo across much of Africa and people who
are gay face discrimination or persecution. In recent years,
however, campaigners for lesbian, bisexual, gay and transgender
rights have become increasingly vocal. Earlier this year, Kenyan film makers had urged authorities
to revamp a 1960s law that imposes restrictions they say are
stifling their resurgent industry. The law, which dates from just before Kenya gained
independence from Britain in 1963, allows the government to
"control the making and exhibition" of audio visual material
including films. Kenya's film industry was worth $2 billion in 2016, up from
$600 million in 2007, according to a study by the Kenya Film
Commission. Click here for the latest political news 