Regular police, AP to ‘merge’ in changes Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi and senior police chiefs have put together radical changes that will harmonise regular and Administration Police operations. Although dissolution of the Administration Police would require a constitutional amendment, those crafting the new changes have decided to implement administrative actions that will effectively see the AP “swallowed”. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to announce the changes on Wednesday this week when he addresses the President's Summit that brings together all county police chiefs and county commissioners. MPs dispel reports of looming budget cuts The National Assembly Committee on Budget and Appropriation Committee has dispelled reports of looming budget cutsin the wake of increased taxes on fuel products. On Monday, while on two-day retreat in Mombasa’s Tamarind Hotel, the Members of Parliaments said the issue of whether to cut down the budget or not is the mandate of the National Treasury. “Whether there would be budget cuts or not that is a decision that will be made by relevant people, it is not Parliament nor the Budget Committee that make budget cuts, it would be the National Treasury if they found it necessary to do that,” said Kimani Ichung’wa, the committee chair. Travel agents in losses as technology eats into market share Traditional travel and hospitality industry agents have estimated losing upto 60 per cent of market share to self-booking portals and shared economies. They lost five to 10 per cent of their business travel market over the last 10 years at least according to the Kenya Associations of Travel Agents, amounting to about 65 per cent or Sh39 billion annually going by 2017 ticket sales which the association estimated at Sh60 billion. Speaking to the Star on phone, KATA chief executive Nicanor Sabula further attributed the losses to a fast-growing digital savvy population. Latest Statistics by the communication Authority shows that internet subscriptions currently stand at 36.09 million. Dishing out money will not make you serious leader - Mudavadi to Ruto ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has criticised Deputy President William Ruto over his generosity during harambees across the country. He said “no Kenyan wants to be poor for government officials to come and give them money through harambees”. “People must know that you do not become a serious leader by walking around with huge sums of money to dish out to poor people,” Mudavadi said. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to be careful not to leave a legacy of a “begging country”. Sengwer women: we have lost our dignity, rights violated in evictions Margaret Chesir was born in Embobut forest and for over 50 years has known no other home. She is a member of the indigenous Sengwer community, often evicted by the government in a bid to conserve the forest. An agonised Chesir was evicted in 2014, and since then, she has been in and out of the forest, struggling to get back to the hunter-gatherer life that defines her community. “Life outside the forest is unbearable and we often return to the forest as soon as security agencies burn down our structures,” Chesir told the Star, holding back tears. Chesir and other women grew up in an environment where colobus monkeys chattered, jackals howled and crickets chirped. They are fond of natural fruits and vegetables found in Embobut and nearby forests.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Generally clear – Day and Night. Low 11ºC. High 25ºC. Winds E at 15 to 30 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers; Night showers. Low 21ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SSE at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Low 18ºC. High 29ºC. Winds NNW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60%. Click here for the latest politicl news   