This
is a scene in the Gladiator movie, where Proximo, a gladiator trainer, advises
Maximus, a general turned slave, who fears he will be unfairly killed in the
colosseum following the orders of the King. The King is Commodus whose father
the Emperor, had earlier confided in Maximus that his son is unfit to rule and
therefore wished Maximus to succeed him. On
hearing this, Commodus murders his father, installs himself as the new Emperor
and demands loyalty from Maximus. When the latter declines, Commodus murders
his family and arrests him. But Maximus escapes, buries his family and then
collapses. He is later found by slaves, who sell him to Proximo. As the electorate, we have been
captivated by the wrangles in our political gladiator arenas by those we
complacently put into office. We cheer them on as they protest on the streets
and threaten to impeach their governor for lack of development in their wards;
as they forcibly eject county assembly speakers from office for fraud and
corruption; as they put their governors on notice for cancelling bonding
retreats at the Coast; and when undisclosed medical conditions necessitate only
business class travel. We the body politic, are
fickle things. We are ignorant that just like in the gladiator arena, politics
is about winning the crowd. And the louder the crowd, the more people it
attracts and the bigger it grows. Before we know it, it becomes a mob.  And hence to sanitise their unflattering
conduct, politicians hold press conferences and rallies to implore the crowds
to support them in their guise of fighting for the public good. But all this is
simply white noise. White
noise is the constant background noise that drowns out all other sounds. It is
a meaningless distracting commotion or chatter. And it is intentionally created
through propaganda, political analysis and innuendos to camouflage the
imaginary boundary between private and public actions. White noise is generated
to conceal the fact that those who exchange our votes for policy positions are
ordinary people. By virtue of being public officers, they do not become disinterested
angels, working tirelessly to bring happiness to all of their constituents.
They have the same motivations as we do to improve their lives. And they do
this by pandering to those whose support they need, and by fleecing those whose
passivity they reinforce. In
economic-speak, politics is an exchange. It is a political market where
politicians sell promises and policies that align with the interests of the
majority of their voters; and where the electorate uses votes as the currency
to have their interests met. Politicians engage in the political market with
their own beliefs and values, seeking to make bargains that advance their
individual goals, just as they would in a commodity market. It
is, therefore, not surprising that it has emerged the real reason Nairobi
speaker Beatrice Elachi was being ejected was because she allegedly denied the MCAs
opportunities for foreign trips. In the case of Kitui county, the MCAs were
upset with the governor, not because she cancelled the bonding retreat, but
because she declined to approve Mombasa as its venue and with it the per diem
they would have received. And in the case of Bungoma, the MCAs wanted to
impeach the governor because he was ‘setting them up’ against the public by not
disbursing funds for ward development. In other instances, we have seen
in-group preferences of gender and tribe come out in support of one of their
own, who has been implicated in corruption. Beneath this veneer of protecting
the interests of the public, the real motivating driver of these tantrums is
individual gain and self-interest. Franz
Oppenheimer opined there are two fundamental ways that one can obtain the
necessary means to satisfy his ends. They are work or economic, and aggression
or political. In economic, one applies their own labour, while in political,
one forcibly appropriates the labour of others. The net effect of making wealth
through political means is a zero-sum game, where a public officer’s gain is a
private citizen’s loss. On the other hand, making wealth using economic means
is a positive-sum game, where two people successfully exchange goods for goods
or goods for money. The net value that is created makes each person wealthier
and allows everyone to enjoy whatever they prefer and avoid whatever they
don’t. Our
politicians have mastered the gladiators’ game. They know that when you win the
crowd, nothing can stop you. They have learnt the appropriate theatrics that
generates white noise, which excites the crowds and gets them into office. But
once in office, their actions run contrary to our expectations. And we feel
betrayed because we don’t get the value of services and goods promised in
exchange for our votes in this political market. So we impotently lament for
five years and repeat the same farce in the subsequent elections. We
were persuaded that to expand the economy and development to the grassroots, we
needed to expand political power through devolution. If this theory holds true,
is the individual public officer’s affluence a reflection of the county’s
aggregate wealth? Did devolution merely create the middleman in the name of MCA,
as opposed to transferring wealth and advancement to the people? I
submit that we should unashamedly concede that public officers are typical
human beings with self-interests. That they should be expected to look out for
themselves rather than to act as saintly public stewards. And the more of them
that we have, the more zero-sum games we should expect. Isn’t
it time, therefore, that we had this uncomfortable conversation on the size of
our government? Finally,
my unsolicited advice to the electorate is; if men were angels, there would be
no need for government; and if angels could run government, there would be no
need for restraint.  Today’s complacency is tomorrow’s captivity. We
are what we tolerate - Rev Sam Rodriguez 