A committee of the National Assembly has made a far-reaching recommendations that could see London Distillers shut down in six months. The Environment and Natural Resources Committee, in a 34 page report set to be tabled before the National Assembly, has given the company six months to invest in state-of –art technologies to contain air pollution. The Kareke Mbiuki-led committee instituted the inquiry to establish the extent of environmental pollution by the company following complaints. Erdemann Property Limited, a representative of the residents and workers in Great Wall Gardens Estate located on Shanghai Road, Athi River, Machakos county, complained of pollution. It complained that the company was emitting toxic fumes and effluent affecting lives of the residents within Athi river area. Residents had requested the National Environmental Management Authority to investigate the company and firmly ask them to adhere to all measures regarding to air quality and effluent discharge as stipulated in the Air and Water Quality Regulations. The Committee conducted an inspection at the company May 3. It found out that molasses tanks and the biogas Plant were located next to the wall separating the plant from the Great Wall Gardens Estate, a probable source of the odour. "There was a strong stench emanating from the Biogas Plant and the Effluent Treatment Plant which needed urgent measures to curb," the committee said. The committee now recommends stringent measures to ensure environmental protection, conservation and mitigation for the benefit of Kenyans. London Distillers Kenya Limited started its operations in the year 1986 in Athi River, Kenya in an area designated as an industrial zone. The committee now wants the NEMA to expand the investigation and monitoring of the industrial pollution. It also wants the company to strictly comply with the provisions of the Environmental Management and Coordination Act (No. 8 of 1999), the Environmental Management and Coordination (Water Quality) Regulations, 2006, the Environment Management and Co-Ordination (Air Quality) Regulations, 2014 and any other relevant legislation. This is including the obligation to keep all necessary environmental records. The committee has tasked the company to design, construct, operate and maintain structures of the highest standards that ensure safe and healthy disposal of waste. It also wants Erdemann Property Limited to exercise a certain degree of tolerance and co-existence as the company puts in place state of the art technology in environmental protection and mitigation. The county government of Machakos has also been tasked with creation of a master plan for land use in the Athi River area to avoid the mixed user status of land which in the first place generated the environmental pollution conflict. It wants the Environment ministry to ensure an Environmental Audit is undertaken by a NEMA certified independent Lead Expert to confirm and recommend mitigation measures regarding complaints raised by the residents in Athi River. The audit reports has to be submitted to National Assembly in 60 days. The ministry has also been tasked to cause closure and/or relocation of the company at their own cost in case they fail to put in place the required technology. Click here for the latest political news