I think our society has degenerated into a society that no longer value the sanctity of life, we don't value life anymore. The rate at which innocent lives are lost in the most painful and brutal manner is worrying and a direct indication that something is really wrong with our society. We have lost touch with reality of life and people have become more corrupt and evil and nothing matters to them including life. What matters is what people can get in terms of money or how they can avenge on their enemies. The fabric of the nation has been affected and broken, we no longer promote values that we used to promote before, vices like killing innocent people and rape have unfortunately become the new norm. Today many people openly ridicule religious leaders and the fear of God is no longer with us. When a society loses its conscious then what follows is corruption, murder like the ones we are currently witnessing and things like abortions because people do not value anything. When morals go down, the society become disorderly and everything and anything is possible. Kenyans don't respect the law. We break the law at will and this begins from our elected leaders to law enforces. Even these fires you see in schools evidence a broken morality because even the younger generations are learning fast from our rot. As the scripture says, we are living in the last days and we must make a bold move to restore what has gone wrong by embracing the old values. To get out of this mess, leaders and those in authority must live by example, they should not preach water and drink wine. The political and religious leaders should guard their actions and utterances, some of which make young people think that doing wrong is right. We celebrate evil in today's society and the time has come for us to start celebrating good. Let us look at those heroes, those people who are doing good and celebrate them. All religious leaders should start preaching values to the young people across the county and act as good models. In social places let us observe good morals and Kenya will become the most beautiful society and this brutal murders will automatically take a decline. Chairman Kenyan Evangelical Alliance of Kenya, Nairobi chapter, spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news