MPs have threatened a return of countrywide street protests if the government does not rescind the new fuel tax in 72 hours. MPs Antony Oluoch (Mathare), Caleb Amisi (Saboti) and Mark Nyamita (Uriri) have demanded that Treasury CS Henry Rotich drop the 16 per cent levy on petrol products, failure to which they will rally Kenyans to peaceful demonstrations. The lawmakers say Rotich is engaging in an illegality, citing last week’s unanimous decision by Parliament to postpone the tax to September 1, 2020. Read: ODM MPs threaten mass protests over 16% VAT on fuel Belgut MP Nelson Koech has written to Majority leader Aden Duale to reconvene the House to discuss the conduct of Rotich. The National Assembly adjourned on Thursday last week for a month-long recess. The lawmakers also threatened to sponsor a censure motion against the Treasury CS for ignoring Parliament’s decision and implementing the ‘illegal’ tax. “When you tax fuel you are directly hurting the majority poor who live below the poverty line,” added Nyamita. Amisi said any move to raise revenue through taxation should exempt the poor. “If you want to raise money by tax, then tax the rich. We are going to impoverish the poor,” he said. Oluoch said he will write to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi today to lay grounds for Rotich’s ouster and kick-start collection of signatures. The Nasa MPs spoke yesterday after a Sunday service at Daniel Camboni Catholic Church in Nairobi’s Huruma estate. The Belgut MP wants Duale to recall the House for a special sitting over the matter that has seen Kenyans threatening civil unrest should the action not be reversed. “It is, therefore, important that the House reconvenes to once again express itself on the matter and censure institutions and persons who have failed to appreciate the unaffordability and the consequences of the new prices on the economy of the country,” Koech said in his letter. Read: Kenyans' fate on fuel VAT in Uhuru's hands, says Duale But Duale told Kenyans they have no choice but to pay the tax that took effect on Saturday. “There was a reprieve by the National Treasury in 2016 when it suspended it for two more years. This law can only be reversed when the President assents to the Finance Bill, 2018,” Duale said. On Wednesday, MPs unanimously voted to pass the amendments by minority whip Junet Mohammed to have the petroleum tax postponed by two years. The feeling across the political divide is that Kenyan taxpayers are overburdened and should not be subjected to another levy that will see the cost of living hit the rooftop. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa — who sponsored a censure motion against Rotich over the Sh 1.5 billion Ruaraka land payment — on Saturday demanded that Rotich rescind the tax decision. The Jubilee lawmaker said Rotich is courting trouble. Former ruling party Kanu has warned Rotich’s move to impose the fuel tax will make life unbearable. “Though the government needs the money to fund development projects, the ripple effect of the implementation of the tax has far and wide ramifications, which include high cost of living, rising inflation, loss of jobs and slow economic growth,” party chairman Gideon Moi said yesterday. More: Relax, Uhuru will reverse 16% VAT on fuel, Raila tells Kenyans Click here for the latest political news