The delocalisation policy imposed by the TSC is destroying marriages, families and teachers’ sex lives, a Knut official has said. On Saturday, Kyuso branch executive secretary Agnes Kambua caused laughter when she said the regulation “had put married teachers asunder” and “servers could not be operated”. She spoke during a Knut branch AGM in Kyuso town, Mwingi North, Kitui. The long-standing — but recently implemented — policy requires that no senior teacher or principal serves in his or her area more than nine years. The Teachers Service Commission last year transferred more than 1,065 head teachers. This prompted an uproar among teachers and in some schools. The aim is to promote diversity, new ideas and keep teachers from getting ‘stale’ or too cozy with community suppliers. The Kenya National Union of Teachers says the policy is “draconian” and wants MPs to abolish it. It accuses the TSC of imposing regulations that hurt its members and threaten their careers. Last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the TSC to review the policy so it “does not break up families”. He said he had received complaints that many families had been hurt by school head transfers. Knut welcomed the directive as good progress. It has remained defiant and wants the programme eliminated. On Saturday during the Kyuso event, first national woman representative Dorothy Muthoni said lawmakers must do away with the oppressive practice. She said teachers deserve better treatment. Muthoni said the delocalisation policy is “punitive, unfriendly, separates families and targets the old”. It has to be fought in Parliament and MPs should support Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion, a nominated MP, she said. Muthoni reminded legislators teachers form a significant part of the electorate. The unionist warned that teachers are getting demoralised and the policy has obstructed quality learning needed to spur economic growth. She said Sossion had moved motions to promote the welfare of teachers and action must be taken swiftly before things get out of hand. “This must be supported by all MPs,” Muthoni said. “I urge the TSC, in the spirit of what the President said, to seriously relook at the policy.” She told the employer to consider the teachers when making decisions. Knut executive secretaries Michael Ngui (Yatta-Masinga) and Simon Nding’o (Kitui Central) lashed out at the Aon Minet for not ensuring effective medical insurance cover for teachers. They said hospitals do not honour the deal and teachers are denied treatment. Click here for the latest political news