National Super League outfit, Kenya Commercial Bank have fired head coach John Kamau. Club’s assistant coach Elvis Ayany will now steer the team during the remaining fixtures of the NSL as the bankers angle for a return to top flight football. While announcing Kamau’s exit, the club thanked the tactician for his service. “We thank the coach for his contribution towards the club. We are keen to continually build a strong squad and tap it to its full potential. We wish him well in his next endavours,” said Paul Russo, the club’s patron, who is also the KCB Group’s  Human Resource director. KCB are currently position four on the NSL standings. With seven games to go before the end of the season, KCB have amassed 57 points—seven points off the league leaders. Kamau was appointed as the KCB Head Coach in January  this year. Elsewhere, NSL side Kibera Black Stars’ head coach Godfrey Oduor believes his side’s quest for promotion to the SportPesa Premier League was punctured by scarcity of funds. Kibera were among the promotion favourites for the better part of the first leg but have since plummeted to 12th after 29 rounds with 37 points, leaving Oduor pointing fingers at lack of sufficient funds to cater for the players’ salaries and winning bonuses. Kibera have won 10 matches, drawn seven and lost 12. Oduor, the national U-17 assistant coach noted that the players at his disposal are talented enough to make it to the top flight but their dreams were shattered by the unceremonious exit of the then shirt sponsor, Tuzo, with financial gap left denting their promotion course. Oduor, who watched his side bow 3-2 to Talanta in a midweek clash at Camp Toyoyo was at pains to express the players’ adversities and called upon well-wishers and sponsors to come to their rescue. He said: “we were ripe for promotion when the season began but lack of funds halted our journey. The boys lack motivation and play out of love of the game unlike in the first leg where they gave their all when their salaries and allowances were trickling in on time. The players I have meet the demands of top flight football and a few are almost ready for European football.” Despite enduring the financial setbacks, Oduor is upbeat his side will finish in the top ten. “We will have to finish in the top 10 and analyse the season’s performance and see where we can improve. Last season we were number ten and I hope we can make it to the top eight. If we can get sponsors, then we will resuscitate our top flight dream come next season,” he added.