The Executive will work with Parliament to resolve the rising fuel cost in the country, Deputy President William Ruto has said. He said a balance would be created so as not to burden Kenyans but also not put a brake to the government’s development plans. Ruto said an amicable solution will be found to cushion the public against any price increases. "The Executive will be meeting Parliament so as to address the concerns raised by Kenyans. As a matter of fact, a solution would be reached," he said. He spoke on Sunday during a prayer service at the Good Shepherd Catholic Church in North Horr in Marsabit constituency. Marsabit Governor Mohamud Mohamed, Senator Godana Hargura, and nominated Senator Naomi Wako were present. Aslo at the service were MPs Chachu Ganya (North Horr), Musa Arbelle (Laisamis), Ali Rasso (Saku), Ali Wario (Garsen), Rehema Jaldesa (Isiolo Woman Rep), and Safia Sheikh (Marsabit Woman Rep). Also read: Kenyans' fate on fuel VAT in Uhuru's hands, says Duale The Deputy President urged pastoral communities to stop engaging in cattle rustling, terming it primitive. He said it was unfortunate the vice was still being practiced in some parts of Northern Kenya "when other Kenyans are competing in productive activities". "You must shun the theft of animals. While you are engaging in stock theft, other Kenyans are putting their money on the stock exchange. There is a big difference and no relationship between the two at all. Stock theft is stupid act," the DP said. Ruto further called on leaders to shun tribal politics and support unity and development. He said the government would install equipment worth Sh50 million, and deploy instructors and lecturers at the North Horr Technical Training College for new students expected in January next year. "We are giving out bursary to the tune of Sh30,000 annually to each student enrolling in technical colleges. The Higher Education Loans’ Board would also be offering Sh40,000 each year per learner." Ruto added that those who graduate from the technical college would help the country as it prepares for a major economic take-off. For his part, Governor Ali said they would rally behind  Ruto in his 2022 presidential bid, observing that he had championed development in even the remotest areas of Kenya. The Governor further lauded the move by the government to modernise the Isiolo-Moyale road, saying that it had improved cross-border trade with Ethiopia. "I urge you the people of Marsabit and Isiolo Counties to make use of this road so that they can empower themselves economically," he said. He asked the government to consider working on some feeder roads in the region such as the Laisamis-Loiyangalani and Marsabit-North Horr roads. On his part,  Rasso urged the people of Northern Kenya to shun divisions and follow the footsteps of their leaders by working together. Also read: Join TVETs in numbers to bridge skills gap, Ruto tells Marsabit youths Click here for the latest political news