Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago  was yesterday put to task by the Senate Public Accounts Committee to explain how the county unprocedurally borrowed a Sh484 million loan from the Kenya
Commercial Bank to buy roads machinery. The borrowing was questioned by the
Auditor General in the 2014-15 financial year. Governor Mandago admitted the county did
not comply with all the requirements of getting approval from the Treasury
before borrowing the money. Senators also queried failure to bank the loan in the County Revenue Fund as required by law,
and failure to involve the Controller of Budget. Mandago and his team were also
directed to provide a signed authorisation from the county assembly on the
borrowing. The Senate PAC committee chaired by
Senator Moses Kajwang also questioned Mandago on why the county used Sh130 million collected in 2014-15 without banking as should be the case. The committee met at the Uasin Gishu county assembly, where the Senate is holding its first ever sittings outside
Nairobi. Mandago is the first governor to be grilled by the Senate PAC in his
own county. Kajwang said the committee will
recommend action on officers involved in the illegal borrowing and failure to
bank the collected revenue. “Its true you had good intentions to
buy the machinery but the provided procurement procedures had to be followed as per the law
existing,” Kajwang said. He rejected an unsigned letter from the county
assembly, allegedly approving the borrowing of the loan. The Auditor General had indicated that
the loan was unprocedurally procured. Mandago said the county urgently
needed the money to buy the machinery and that due to delayed funding from
the Treasury, his government went for bridging asset finance from the bank. “An approval for the laon was got
from the county assembly and the bank paid the money directly to the supplier
of the machinery,” Mandago said. Senators, however, faulted the move saying the money should
have first been banked in the County Revenue Account. Senators Mithika Linturi (Meru), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu), Ladama ole Kina (Narok) and Sam Ongeri (Kisii) said the county should have complied
with the law. Mandago was questioned on 25 financial issues raised by the Auditor General. At the start,  Kajwang and members of the committee have
faulted Governor Mandago for presenting additional responses to the audit
queries one day before the hearing. The documents were to be presented a week before the hearing. “There is possible loss of
money because it was not banked as required,” Linturi said. County finance
officials who accompanied Mandago struggled to explain how the money was used
through internal borrowing. Committee members asked Mandago
to take action on some of his Finance department staff for "professional misconduct
and open breach of the law". Senators cautioned the governor over
three disclaimer opinions from the Auditor General, saying the county
should not take lightly the disclaimer opinions because of poor record keeping. Staff from the Auditor General’s
office who were present said the county had a “terrible" recording keeping
habit. "It's our belief that county assemblies must be empowered to do more oversight and help guide counties on some of these issues," Kajwang said. He said the
PAC in its report would be tough officers who fail in their duties. “Running a county is not like
running a Patel and Sons business. Some of the decisions the officers made
seem like the officers were making business decisions, yet they were
dealing with a public body," the committee chairman said. He said they will recommend
investigations to establish if some of the officers were involved in a
conspiracy to defraud the county.