Tottenham Vs Liverpool Saturday 2:30pm Tottenham started the season strong with wins over Newcastle, Fulham and then a convincing one over Manchester United. But they were stopped in their tracks just before the international break following a 2-1 loss to Watford. Even though Watford is one of just three teams with a 100% record so far this season, it was a shock for Spurs to lose to them. Tottenham I think are victims of their own success. Their players featured heavily at the Fifa World Cup in Russia but because they have a thin squad, they were rushed back into competitive league football and it will affect their performance. Unfortunately, they face a Liverpool side that is on fire! The Reds finished last season strong and it was only a matter of time before Jurgen Klopp’s side began to gel properly and get results. This will, however, be Liverpool’s first real test this season after playing what I perceive as weak opposition. But their confidence is high, they are top of the table and psychologically they are on top of the world! The manager says for once, the squad depth is so heavy that he can handle local league and European competition with confidence. My Prediction: Spurs 1-2 The Reds Newcastle Vs Arsenal Saturday 5pm Newcastle are yet to win a game this season but if you have watched any of their games, you won’t write them off so easily. They have lost narrowly to Spurs, Chelsea and Manchester City — three of the strongest teams in the league — so it’s no shame on them just yet. Rafael Benitez is no mid-level manager and I think he’ll come good for the team this term. Arsenal had better not underestimate the Magpies just because they sit in the relegation zone. The Gunners struggled to beat a hard-fighting Cardiff in Wales last time out — a team that Newcastle drew against — but little separated all three teams. The Gunners still need to fully adapt to new boss, Unai Emery’s style. The boys are playing well and the boss needs to continue to explore the partnership between Alexander Lacazette and Pierre Emerick Aubameyang, two highly-talented frontmen who clearly can play well together despite the fact that former boss Arsene Wenger never thought so. I think the worst is over for Arsenal and going forward, we will start winning our games more convincingly. My Prediction: The Magpies 1-3 The Gunners Chelsea Vs Cardiff Saturday 5pm Cardiff are not the new boys you might think they are. They have had several stints in the Premier League and I admire that they are always fighting to perform better. They certainly gave Arsenal a tough outing two weeks ago in Wales but despite that praise, I don’t think they’ll give Chelsea much competition today. Maurizio Sarri has started the season well with the Blues and they are adapting quickly to his methods. Chelsea are looking extremely clinical and their 100% record backs that. They will be at home today and even though Cardiff won’t give them an easy game I think the Blues will manage a win. My Prediction: The Blues 3-1 Cardiff Watford Vs Manchester United Saturday 7:30pm Watford are not in the league to just participate. They want to make an impact this season and so far so good. After four rounds of matches, they have a 100% record which is more than I can say for their opponents today. Watford boss Javi Gracia is thinking big and creating more professionalism in his side. Firstly, he has likened his side to the Leicester City side that won the league in 2015/16 although I think that thought is a tad premature. He has also introduced a fine system for players who are late for training. Apparently, a late player is fined US$ 100 for every minute they are late for training and while he says it isn’t about the money, it’s about players taking their tasks more seriously. Manchester United, meanwhile, are struggling but I am confident that they will come good soon. They have two losses out of four games played and everyone will point out that loss to Brighton that shocked us all. But the Red Devils are known to recover from bad days at the office. Boss Jose Mourinho needs to bring calm to the squad because he has the talent. He just needs a little bit of order. This game will be tough though. My prediction: Watford 2-2 The Red Devils