Embattled Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi has said it is wrong to remove someone who is rightfully in office. "I cannot force myself on Nairobians, but also if I have done wrong, the County Government Act is clear on how to remove me," she said during an interview with NTV on Monday. "If there is evidence of abuse of office then I will give my resignation letter." MCAs impeached Elachi last week on Thursday but a court reinstated. Some 103 MCAs voted to remove her from office, two voted against while two others abstained. The MCAs removed her for causing 'great embarrassment' to the county assembly. More on this: Why Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi has been impeached Read: Court halts Elachi's impeachment as Nairobi County Speaker "They said they voted 103 members, and the standing orders say we can not shout by voting yes or no, we do it through the electronic system," Elachi said. She said the county voting system does not allow its members to vote while shouting in the assembly. "My worry is when you decide to change your standing orders. I want to plead with them that if standing orders are changed, you can only use it in the next session and right now we are in recess," she said. She noted that she has always made sure that there is no split in the county assembly. "I have tried to make it a house where we are unified.When they tell me I have this agenda to do I go beyond to even look for money from friends," she said. "It is unfortunate that we have to go through all this. I only have my name to save. I don't have the money to give." Noting that she only travels in first class because of a medical condition, Elachi said its not for pleasure as alleged by the MCAs. The MCAs claimed she travelled for plastic surgery and knee surgery. They supported their allegations with a Sh1,000,000 claim from CIC Insurance. "My doctors know that . I have a medical condition and that is why I don't travel a lot . My worry is just one,that emiratea does not charge a million for tickets like it is said by the MCAs," Elachi said. "I don't want to talk about anything that i don't know. I would wish the procurement team to tell me. My documents of health are there with reasons." Last week, Elachi claimed MCAs were pressured to sign a petition for her impeachment. She alleges representatives were threatened that they would miss trips, be de-whipped or removed from committees. More on this: MCAs coerced to sign petition to impeach me, Elachi claims Also read: Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi facing impeachment over abuse of office Click here for the latest political news