The epilogue on Thika United’s top flight story was a typically sad one in this kind of situations but nobody would argue they never saw it coming. Yesterday, the bottom of the table strugglers were beaten by two goals in front of their own fans by Tusker to leave them needing a fortune of miraculous proportion to stay in the Sportpesa Premier League. Timothy Otieno opened the scoring in the tenth minute before doubling the brewers’ lead midway through the half to cast the final die on Joseph Rutto’s beleaguered outfit. That defeat, with only four matches left to play, all but ended Thika’s decade and a half sojourn in the top flight league. A massive eight-point chasm between them and the two teams they can still mathematically catch Chemelil Sugar and Vihiga United is unlikely to be bridged and in all likelihood top flight football in the Aberdare region has been bid goodbye for now. Victory for either of the two sides coupled with a failure by Thika to beat Nzoia United this weekend will confirm their exit. The results have been there for all too see as Thika only avoided relegation via a playoff clash last season but even that now seems a remote fantasy. For the brewers, they remain determined to finish the season on a high after yet another season of under-achievement that could have been worse, but rescued by the experience of Robert Matano and his forward-thinking assistant Charles Okere. Even as champions, for a team that has set their sight on becoming a professional outfit on and off the pitch, the recent results Gor Mahia have endured over their last two outings does not sit well with many. Yesterday, they were beaten 2-0 by Ulinzi Stars with Elvis Nandwa grabbing a brace for the soldiers, who are still chasing second spot in the table. The win pushed them to fourth, just three points behind second-placed Bandari. It was the first time Gor were losing two back-to-back league matches since they won their 13th league title. At the Narok County Stadium, Umar Kasumba scored a hat-trick and Ezekiel Okare added another as Sofapaka beat Kakamega Homeboyz 4-1. Mata Masakadi scored Homeboyz’ consolation through a penalty strike after Yusuf Mohammed handled the ball in the danger zone.