DP William Ruto has cautioned ODM leader Raila Odinga against using the handshake to cause confusion in government. Ruto said the ODM leader had hatched a plot to spread falsehoods about him with a view of wrecking the Jubilee Party. The DP said the ODM wing of the NASA coalition is known for wrecking parties having already done so in KANU, CORD and now NASA. “I want to tell my friends that we know what the handshake is all about. They can’t export conmanship, confusion, gossip and propaganda into Jubilee,” Ruto said. Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta reached a pact on March 9 "for the sake of uniting the country". The deal has since seen Raila completely tone down his attacks on the government and turned into populirising its policies. Raila's co-principal in the National Super Alliance Kalonzo Musyoka has also declared support for the building bridges initiative "because it addresses issues affecting Kenyans". Read: Building Bridges team briefs Uhuru, Raila at State House Also see: Handshake committee gazetted, given a year to present report But Ruto and his allies think otherwise; they believe there is more than meets the eye. The DP said the duo's aim is to cause mistrust and suspicion within the Jubilee government with the ultimate end result of breaking the party. He, however, warned that such schemes and cheap propaganda will not shake Jubilee. “They expelled me in ODM but I want to assure them that they can't come to Jubilee and destroy our party. I want to categorically state that we have no space for gossip, rumor or propaganda. They better know it as early as possible so that they organize themselves,” he said. Ruto spoke on Sunday while addressing residents in Kisauni constituency, Mombasa County where he issued 3,000 title deeds to squatters in Majaoni settlement scheme. More than 20 ODM rebel MPs and Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya accompanied the Deputy President. The MPs were Jones Mlolwe (Voi), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Ali Wario (Bura) Hashaka Wario (Garsen) Owen Baya (Kilifi North) and Senator Juma Wario (Tana River). Others were Said Haribae (Golale), Senator Anuar Toitiptip (Lamu), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi) and Mohammed Ali (Nyali). Also present were Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Shariff Ali (Lamu East) Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Michel Kingi (Magarini) and Gertrude Mbeyu (Kilifi) and Lydia Haika (Taita Taveta). The MPs dismissed claims by Minority Whip Junet Mohammed that Ruto was behind the attempt to reject fuel tax on petrol in Parliament. Dori told off Mohamed saying it was clear the ODM party leader directed his troops to object to the bill then play games by blaming other people. “Several MPs allied to NASA and Jubilee both opposed the Finance Bill. We are now wondering why Junet Mohammed is claiming that some legislators caused chaos during the debate in Parliament as if Ruto is in charge of NASA,” Dori said. “From the look of things, it is now clear that the recent handshake has nothing to do with the unity of Kenyans but for some ODM leaders to achieve their personal gains,” said MP Dori. Mvurya said they would not accept ODM to cause mayhem in Jubilee through propaganda and falsehoods. Mbogo and Jumwa urged Coastal residents to chart their own political path, saying the region has been on the opposition side since 1997 with nothing to show for it in terms of development. “As Coast leaders we have decided to rally behind Ruto and Jubilee because for the sake of unity and development. We have been in the Opposition since 1997 supporting someone who has no interest for our people,” Mbogo said. He added: “Even if it means for me sacrificing my political career for Mr Ruto to become president in 2022, so be it.” Jumwa urged Coastal residents to support Ruto and Jubilee which was committed to addressing the problem of squatters among other challenges. “We have to differentiate between leaders and dealers and make informed decisions ahead of 2022,” Jumwa said. She said Opposition leader Raila Odinga misled his supporters and decided to unite with Jubilee for personal interests. “Now we are told that a building bridges initiative is there but we don’t know who will use the bridge to cross to Canaan and who will be left behind,” Jumwa. “My brother Dori and I are being punished by our party because we are working with Jubilee in solving problems facing our people. But we will not be intimidated or shaken by their threats by working with leaders committed to helping our people,” she added. The ODM disciplinary committee has summoned Jumwa and Dori to show cause why they are openly supporting Ruto. They duo has, however, said they will not honour the summons. Read: We'll not honour ODM summons, Jumwa, Dori vow Kingi said Raila has no interest of the Coastal people especially in solving the problem of squatters. “During the reign of the grand coalition government, the minister for Lands then was James Orengo who never issued a single title deed to us. It is now during Jubilee leadership that settlements like Majaoni now have titles,” he said. “Some leaders just want to use us as a ladder to achieve their selfish ends. This is why as Coastal people we should embrace Jubilee because as it is committed to solving problems facing us,” Kingi added. Earlier, the Deputy President attended a Church service at Nyali Catholic Church and launched a borehole to serve residents of Ziwa la Ngombe. Click here for the latest political news