To be clear, I don’t work at the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I have no intentions to thwart Kenya Foreign
Policy. (Of course I stole that from the now famous New York Time OpEd.) However, like-minded
Kenyans, especially those who work, studied or have an interest in
international affairs, I am concerned by recent reports touching on the
ministry, which is the driver of Kenya’s diplomatic engagements. Latest media reports indicate offices
of Kenyan missions in nine countries are “in pathetic and deplorable conditions”,
with some having leaking roofs, the ambassadors using outdated vehicles that do
not meet diplomatic standards, as others have moved from their houses and
instead seeking alternative shelter. And these are not allegations you would
say are made up by newspapers. A report tabled in Parliament by the chairman of
the National Assembly Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations, Katoo Ole
Metito painted a dull picture of broke foreign missions, which fall short of
the standards they should have. The derelict stations, the Star report
noted,  include New York (UN), Canada,
Washington, Russia, Australia, Geneva, Japan, China, South Korea and the Los
Angeles consulate. “The iron sheet roof and supporting
structure had deteriorated extensively and there was evidence of general
leakages. Gutters and down water pipes were extensively corroded,” the report
on the Kenya’s embassy in Washington, DC, said. I made a point to contact my friends in
the circles, or those residing in these countries and the narrative is not
different. A friend who was in Russia not too long
ago told me when he visited the embassy there, it was clear the staff
were not taken care of. “Although the staff received us with
energy, they said there is a lot of budget cuts, and their salaries are
credited late. They are very demotivated,” he said. “The building is clean but officers
have to do clerical work. They are understaffed and are not able to
maintain an up-to-date data on Kenyans living there.” “I have all this information because we
asked them all these questions,” he said. Kenyan’s ambassador to Russia position has
been vacant for nearly four years now. Nigeria, which coordinates 12 other
countries in West Africa, including Senegal and Ghana, has also been vacant. Another former colleague who works in
Dubai said the consulate is untidy, and the staff unmotivated and tired.
Two clerks, he said, resigned mid last year and senior officers have to do clerical
work. These are not mere allegations, if
National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi’s comments in Botswana, which could
have triggered the fact-finding mission by the committee, are anything to go
by. He said some stations have been
neglected while others have been given more attention. “The committee should visit these
stations to see for itself some of these challenges then sit with the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs to see how they can be addressed. Where budgetary
allocations are needed, the committee will make recommendations to the Budget
and Appropriations committee,” Muturi said. Muturi noted
the Botswana embassy is manned by only six officials and the mission requires
money to hold annual trade fairs. Former High Commissioner Jean Kamau and three
other senior officials, who served in the mission were recalled to Nairobi and
the embassy has never had a substantive commissioner. And this leads
to another problem: Stagnation of careers at the ministry. There is disquiet
over the inordinate delay in promotions that
spurns seven years, as Star’s senior reporter Felix Olick noted in his August 15 report. Worse
is the taking over of foreign missions by political appointees. While on the face of it Kenya seems to
do well in the international scene, all is not well at the Old Treasury
building and the new leadership needs to fix these issues. 