Uganda's government on Monday
accused the European Union Parliament of meddling in its
internal affairs after the legislator passed a resolution
deploring the alleged torture of opposition politicians in the
East African country. Robert Kyagulanyi, a Ugandan pop star and lawmaker, and MP
Francis Zaake were allegedly tortured after they were arrested
last month on suspicion of participating in stoning the
motorcade of President Yoweri Museveni. The government has denied that security staff tortured the
two men, saying the injuries visible on their bodies could have
been sustained in scuffles as they tried to resist arrest. "For EU parliament to pass a resolution asking the courts of
Uganda to drop charges is inconceivable...we see this as a
premeditated attempt to hijack and subvert our institutions,"
government spokesman Ofwono Opondo told a news conference on
Monday. The EU is a key source of budget support to Uganda and has
helped fund construction of major highways and other
infrastructure. Museveni's convoy was stoned as he left the northwestern
Ugandan town of Arua where he had travelled to campaign for a
ruling party candidate participating in a parliamentary
by-election. Kyagulanyi, Zaake and dozens of their supporters were
charged with treason for their roles in the incident. The two
MPs are now in the United States and India respectively seeking
treatment for their injuries. The detentions of the MPs and their supporters and reports
of their torture sparked days of protest in different parts of
Uganda. "Uganda takes objection to the tacit approval of
undisciplined behaviour by EU and some of its institutions of
some of the politicians in the country," Opondo said, adding
that the EU was hostile to Uganda because of "our emerging
relations with China". Critics of Museveni accuse him of using security forces to
suppress opposition to his rule but officials say Museveni, 74,
enjoys genuine mass support. Parliament, which is tightly controlled by his ruling party,
last year voted to remove an age cap on the presidency that
would have barred him from seeking re-election in 2021. Click here for the latest political news 