An internal audit by the Rural Electrification Board has exposed abuse of office and manipulation of tenders, putting former CEO Nganga Munyu in trouble. Munyu was kicked out by the board and is being pursued by the anti-graft agency. Detectives are expected to grill him on Friday over the discrepancies noted in the number of schools supplied with power between 2015-17. The audit showed that 22,063 public primary schools were supplied with electricity as at December 2016, contrary to the data presented to the ministry by the management showing 23,337 institutions. Read:Kajiado goons chase away MP over power The report accuses the former boss of manipulating tenders, misleading the board. He is also on the spot over frequent failure of transformers during his tenure. There was evidence of contractors being awarded tenders even though they had not been prequalified. There was also proof of companies that were added unilaterally by Munyu to a closed list of prequalified contractors and later awarded unduly large proportions of contracts. A case in point is a firm identified as GEBCO, which was awarded more than 20 per cent of tenders in one year. “Contract management has been very poor at the authority. The CEO’s office was found to have direct control over award of contracts, where data emanated from his office to corporate planning department for execution to awarding of contracts,” the audit report reads. Besides Munyu, the REA Board last year asked four senior officers to step aside, pending investigations. They are company secretary Rose Mkalama, audit manager Joan Riitho, procurement manager Wilfred Oduor and human resources manager Elizabeth Onoka. Sources told the Star that the four have also been summoned for questioning by EACC sleuths. The audit also unearthed possible multiple payments for same jobs on different contracts by the finance department. It raised the red flag on failure of transformers, which, it notes, was beyond REA’s average failure rate of five per cent. Read: REA’s Sh6.4 billion electricity project for rural areas to kick off this month “There was one instance where a contractor who had supplied transformers that had a disproportionately very high failure rate was subsequently awarded a supply contract before due diligence was conducted on them,” the report states. “This resulted in factory pre-manufacturing tests confirming that the supplier didn’t have the capacity to supply good quality transformers, and subsequent recommendation of termination of contract.” Statistics from the authority indicate that most of the tenders for transformers were awarded to firms from India. Between 2013-17, 24 companies from India benefitted, four from Tanzania, and two each from China and Sri Lanka. Between 2008-17, 1,960 transformers failed. Of these, 445 were from Schilchar Technolois Ltd of India. The purchase of defective transformers has already led to an unprecedented purge at Kenya Power, where the entire management was sweptaway in the renewed anti-graft war. Among those being prosecuted are former MDs Ken Tarus and Ben Chumo. The REA audit also uncovered numerous cases of contractors losing materials or performing dismally, yet their performance bonds or insurance covers were not cashed on time by the management. At the time of writing the audit report last year, materials worth Sh66 million had been documented as having been lost by contractors. Click here for the latest political news 