Is ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna digging his own grave or
has he abandoned his political ambition for an elective seat in western Kenya? The abrasive lawyer who lost in ODM primaries for Kanduyi
constituency in 2017 polls before switching to Nairobi and losing the senatorial seat
has been annoying quite a few people with his sharp tongue. Word
has it that his continued attacks to the region's elected leaders is offending some
residents who accuse him of being disrespectful. On Sunday in Busia, for
instance, he termed western leaders as disunited
individuals who only unite in funerals and residents should not bank on
the region's two kingpins — ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya
counterpart Moses Wetang'ula.  It did not go down well with many residents who vented their rage in
vernacular radio stations. ***** A senior official in a paratstal in the Ministry
of Tourism has become wealthy overnight. The man who was employed recently in the finance department has bought three plush homes within Nairobi
county. He has also captured the attention of many as he flashes money in night
clubs. Yet the man is said to have been employed in unclear circumstances according
to those in the know because the position requires a Masters’ degree in finance
and at least ten years’ experience. He only has a first degree in business
administration and CPA-K. Someone tell him before investigators catch up with
him! ***** Last week, a team of elders calling themselves members of
Meru's Njuri Ncheke paid a courtesy call on Kericho governor Paul Chepkwony.
The statement that came from the office of the governor was that they had
agreed "to solidly stand behind the Jubilee government and its development
agenda". But when the same team visited Baringo senator Gideon Moi, they
promised to support him. Since the elders toured the region, a debate has been raging
on social media platforms with speculators trying to connect what could be
going on behind the scenes between Gideon and Chepkwony. Gideon, the son of
former president Daniel Moi, has announced that he will run for President in
the 2022 election, for which Deputy President William Ruto is working round the
clock. Click here for
the latest political news