President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on Kenyans to commit themselves to promoting peace and embrace the diversity of those with different ideologies and beliefs. In his message to Kenyans on Friday to mark the International Day of Peace, Uhuru urged Kenyans to accept within their midst those who belong to different races and ethnicity or hold different religious beliefs. "Fellow Kenyans, let us today commit ourselves anew to promoting peace, embracing those who are different from us, whether by ethnicity, race, or religion," Uhuru said in a tweet. In an official statement, the head of state said Kenyans have over the past century forged a national culture founded on a powerful commitment to peace that has sustained the country in times of discord and conflict. Uhuru said Kenya's commitment to peace has enabled it to champion peaceful conflict resolution in countries affected by war in the region. "We are committed, as citizens and as a nation, to remain good neighbours and to continue to stand with all those threatened and victimised by violent conflict," Uhuru said. Ironically, the marking of the International Day of Peace came on a day Kenya was marking the fifth anniversary of the Westgate Mall attack that left 69 people dead. Read: Westgate attack: Survivors struggle to rise from ashes, five years on On the fateful Saturday morning of September 21, 2013, terrorists attacked the mall situated in Westlands and indiscriminately shot at shoppers and revellers who included visitors. The terrorists allied to the Al Shabaab terror group in Somalia then laid a weeklong siege at the mall, as terrified survivors waited for help to come. Uhuru said Kenya will never forget all those who lost their lives on that day. "We were hurt deeply by our losses but Kenya was unbowed," he said. The president said Kenya's resolve to pursue terrorists, their networks and facilitators in and outside its borders remains unrelenting. "It is a war that we shall not let up, until the day that extremists understand that attacking Kenya is futile for their cause shall never dent the shining destiny of a free and proud people," Uhuru said. In this resolve, the president asked Kenyans to fight with determination and ferocity against anyone who would dare attack the country's peace. "We have a precious legacy to strengthen and hand to our children: a peaceful, prosperous and just country, united in defence of all those who call her home," Uhuru said. Read: International Day of Peace 2018: All you need to know Click here for the latest political news