In the past, when judges were denied
security of tenure by the dictatorship, fighters for freedom and justice said
no at great cost to themselves. When Judges were subjected to the whims and
dictation of the one-man dictatorship, again, freedom fighters said no. When judges were transformed
into ugly tools of terrorising the people, lovers of justice said no. And recently, when an angry President
Uhuru Kenyatta threatened the Supreme Court judges, those who believe we cannot
live without an independent Judiciary said no. Equally, when Parliament slashed
judicial budget from Sh31 billion sought to Sh14 billion greatly to stymie
development of the court system, democrats said no. Judiciary has not been an orphan
without support in Kenya, nor has it been without reason to advocate democracy
and the rule of law.  Indeed, Judiciary
is integral to democratic rule of the three arms of government. When it is
threatened either by the Executive or Parliament, the people have stood for democracy
to defend the Judiciary. And when Parliament has been threatened by
dictatorship of one-party dictatorship, again, the people have done the same. Cardinal rules of democracy are that
the people are governed by law not man, they are equal before law and no
person, however high and mighty, is above the law.  And neither are judges above the law nor
exempt from prosecution when they commit crime. If the president and Cabinet
secretaries should be prosecuted when they commit crime, shouldn’t the judges
be charged when they transgress the law? When governors are subject to the rule
of law when they have sought impunity from prosecution, judges, too, should not
be above the law and must be prosecuted when they commit crimes. It beats logic
that judges are dispensers of justice but evade law when they are in the wrong. Just as ordinary people are prosecuted,
regardless of their profession and community, the judges must also be
prosecuted when they commit crimes, despite their profession, community, gender
or age. And nobody should subvert this principle, which is a condition for
justice. Because the principle of equality
before law is supreme and must be protected by the rule of law, when judicial
officers commit crimes, not even Judicial Service Commission or their high rank
should protect them against prosecution in pursuance of justice. These principles of law and democracy
should be well known to everybody but more so to those of legal profession –
judges and lawyers who seem to think justice can be sacrificed at the altar of
judicial profession, high rank and money. When Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu
— against whom I have no personal grudge — was arrested over corruption, a
crime that whole nation has agreed to fight, it was shocking to hear arguments
that judges cannot be prosecuted for crime while still in office. That they can
only be taken before Judicial Service Commission – where she is a member that
will be protected by her peers – and not to an ordinary court, where she is
deemed to suffer “humiliation and embarrassment unbefitting her rank and
profession”. Failure to prosecute in that case is
a clear violation of the rule of law that judges and lawyers should protect
rather than violate. Who then shall protect rule of law when they violate it? When lawyers flock to court to
protect one of their own, not because of his or her just cause – as in the
struggle for the Second Liberation but to defend graft – it is likely the
defense sought is for self, not judge. Indeed, corrupt judges and lawyers have
a reason to fear when their friends are arrested. They could be telling them: “If
they come for me in morning, they will come for you in the night” – Angela
Davis. 