Embattled Coast Parliamentary Group chairman Suleiman Dori put on a brave face on Sunday as pressure from supporters mounts for him to resign from ODM. The Orange party on September 19 summoned the Msambweni MP to appear before its disciplinary committee on October 10. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and 10 other MCAs from Nyamira, Nakuru and Homa Bay counties have also been summoned. On Sunday, Dori said he will not appear before the committee. "I will send my lawyer. I will not be intimidated," Dori said. He spoke during a fundraiser at Uwanja wa Jogoo in Gombato ward in his constituency. The second-term MP has fallen out with ODM officials over support for Deputy President William Ruto. He is among a host of MP from the region who have broken ranks with the opposition to openly support Ruto’s bid for State House in 2022. Others who have declared support for Ruto are MPs Jumwa, Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni) and Benjamin Tayari (Kinango). ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna has on several occasions warned Coast ODM leaders that they face expulsion from the party for declaring support for Ruto. On Sunday, Dori said he is in ODM to stay but will be working towards uniting the region’s leaders. "I’m loyal to ODM and I’m a life member. They will have to wait until 2022 to know whether I will vie for a third term through ODM or another ticket," he said. "For now, we have taken another approach. We want to speak in one voice to strengthen our bargaining power." The rebellion by Coast ODM legislators threatens to weaken the party in the region. Ruto has taken advantage of the situation and made numerous trips to the Coast, launching projects and winning over the MPs. Dori said he is merely following in the footsteps of his party leader Raila Odinga, who made a deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta to support the government. "Raila shook hands with Uhuru. If Raila says we should work with the government, what do we do? If Raila says we should go to the streets, what do we do? Why am I being crucified?" Dori asked. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib said the CPG chair is a man of integrity who has leadership skills and should not be left to fight his battles alone. "This is the time he needs you, his supporters, more than ever. I was surprised by the summons," Twalib said. Twalib has been working closely with Ruto. As a result, his constituency has benefitted from projects like the Jomvu-Rabai road. Click here for the latest political news  