From
Congo-Brazzaville is a story of orphans and street children in the book Black Moses by Alain Mabanckou. Moses is
a 13-year-old boy with an impossibly long Lingala name that means “Thanks be to
God, the black Moses is born on the earth of our ancestors”. He was abandoned
in an orphanage as a baby and named by a priest, Papa Moupelo, who entertains
the youngsters with stories and dances. Contrary to national
ideals of social equality and development, the poorhouse is rife with
deceitfulness under the reign of a corrupt director. When Marxist-Leninist
socialism sweeps across the country, the political upheavals
start affecting the orphanage. Papa Moupelo vanishes, as does Sabine Niangui,
the school nurse who was a mother-like figure. As orphanage life becomes unbearable, Moses decides to
run away, leaving behind his best friend, Bonaventure. In the seaside town of
Pointe Noire, he joins a gang of street urchins and encounters an even tougher life
of violence, drugs and petty theft. Yet
Moses can never shake off the desire to have a family. For a time, he finds a
home in a local brothel run by a Zairean woman, who gets him a job at the
seaport. Moses
tries to be brave like his hero, Robin Hood, by defending his friends, standing
up to bullies and finding the good in others. But his life seems to be a series
of unfortunate events. The death of the brothel-keeper sends him into severe
depression and years of wandering the streets like a madman. He ends up in an
asylum for
mentally unstable criminals situated, ironically, where the orphanage used to
stand. It is here that he proceeds to pen his life story. Taking
place from the 1970s to the 1990s, Black
Moses is translated from French and was originally called Little Pepper. It came about when French
citizen Mabanckou had the opportunity to interact with street children in his
home country of Congo and learn their stories. The
never-ending calamities makes the story sometimes frustrating as you are
constantly hoping that life will favour Moses. It is a reminder that not all
situations have a happy ending. At times the dialogue is too drawn-out, which slows
down the storyline. Yet Mabanckou balances tragedy with a unique style of
storytelling, plenty of comic scenes and an assembly of quirky characters
with curious names such as Crumbly Biscuit and Instant Decapsulation. This is an unflinching narrative of coming-of-age, loneliness,
friendship and the effect of tribal affiliations as told by a marginalised boy.
The first half of the book recalls Charles Dickens’ Oliver Twist. As historical review, we get an understanding of
central Africa’s dictatorship and political turmoil as experienced by the most
powerless in the society. Black Moses was long-listed for the
2017 Man Booker Prize and shortlisted for the Albertine Prize 2018 for Francophone
fiction translated into English.  Rating: 4/5