The government plans to review remittances by workers to the National Hospital Insurance Fund to match their earnings, Deputy President William Ruto has said. He said those receiving high salaries should pay more to NHIF to bridge the gap left by members of society who earn little. Ruto said the maximum monthly contribution to NHIF is Sh1,700 for high income earners, a figure he said “is too little”. "We intend to review the remittances to NIHF to match what we earn. Those who earn higher salaries can pay more compared to those who earn less," he said. Read: NHIF to pay a maximum of Sh500,000 for surgeries Ruto spoke yesterday when he presided over Kajiado’s largest livestock auction that netted Sh29 million to pay NHIF cover for 5,000 vulnerable families. He praised the initiative by the county government, saying it would go a long way in ensuring successful implementation of the universal healthcare plan, which is part of the Big Four agenda. The DP said the initiative – Mbuzi Moja, Afya Bora – will enable the vulnerable in the county to benefit from NHIF services. Ruto said Jubilee is keen on ensuring every Kenyan has access to health insurance. “It is through an initiative like this one that we will achieve our objective of universal healthcare,” he said. Ruto said an amicable solution would be found to cushion Kenyans against the increased fuel prices. “The government understands the problems Kenyans are facing. I’m sure an amicable solution on fuel prices will soon be reached,” Ruto said. Present were governors Joseph Lenku (Kajiado) and Samuel Tunai (Narok), MPs Katoo Metito (Kajiado South), Ken Aramat (Narok East), Korei Lemein (Narok South), George Sunkuiya (Kajiado West), Joseph Manje (Kajiado North), Philip Mpaayei (Senator of Kajiado) and Health PS Peter Tum. Tunai said leaders from the region would work together in exploring ways of improving the people’s lives. Read: NHIF cover for 1.7 million students under Uhuru plan Click here for the latest political news