President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday morning held insightful talks with top Canadian captains of industry in the US who assured him of their continued appetite to invest in Kenya. The over 25 business executives, including the most recent investor David Kay whose Tenor Capital company has invested US$ 300 million in the renewable energy, expressed their desire to partner with the government in achieving the President's Big Four agenda. Speaking on behalf of the Canadian investors, Fairfax Africa Holdings Corporation CEO, Michael Wilkerson, said they have already updated themselves of what entails the ‘Big 4’ agenda that informed their desire to partner in realizing the transformative vision. Already 150 Canadian companies are operating in Kenya and many more are lining up to take advantage of the potential offered under the Big 4 pillars of manufacturing, affordable housing, universal health care, food security and nutrition. "I know your Big 4 agenda and as I look at it, there are many opportunities beneficial to both Kenya and Canada. On the Canadian side we are very excited and as you know we are world leaders when it comes to renewable energy, engineering, technology, space industry, value addition to agricultural produce and the blue economy," Wilkerson said. Read: Uhuru quietly leaves for New York to attend UNGA Also read: Uhuru named UN Young People’s Agenda global champion Uhuru said the meeting offered an opportunity to deepen and enhance the already rich and solid partnership between the two countries which has been there since the early sixties. "We have sought to strengthen the relationship between our two countries. We are together founded on common set of values. We should now be asking ourselves how do we turn this partnership into a mutually beneficial relationship," said the President. Uhuru said time and again he has reminded traditional partners to take advantage of emerging opportunities in Africa by investing in various sectors for the benefit of all. He defended the new found relationship between Africa and China against accusations of exploitation by the West. He said China is only taking advantage of existing opportunities, which the West had ignored. He said although the West has been Africa’s traditional partners, it has ignored valuable opportunities that China is taking advantage of. "Africa is not just opening its doors to China. China has seen opportunities in Africa. They have seen returns from various sectors. This is what we have been telling our traditional friends," said the President. He assured the Canadian investors of his government’s transparency and openness in doing business, reiterating that he would not allow any public officer to cut self-aggrandizing deals with potential investors. "Governments are there to facilitate a conducive environment for business and prosperity, therefore public officers have no business cutting deals," he said. "Report to me directly if you face any hurdles as you seek to invest in various sectors available." Click here for the latest political news