Recovering national women’s volleyball team left attacker Leonida Kasaya started light training yesterday ahead of the FIVB women’s World Championship, which gets underway this weekend in Japan. The hard hitting Kenya Pipeline player had picked a minor shoulder injury during the training sessions here in Nairobi before the team departed for the host nation last week. It is therefore race against time for Kasaya, who is hoping to make her debut at the World Championship as she muscles for starting position against team captain Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi and fast-raising Sharon Chepchumba. Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) technical director, David Lung’aho, who accompanied the team said the player resumed light training but was quick to note that they are awaiting clearance from physiotherapist. "We arrived at Korube City from Hitachi and had a two-hour training session. We were warmly welcomed by our hosts here at Korube and we intend to stay here until Thursday. We are scheduled to play friendly match against Korube Aqua Fries on Wednesday but we might also play them tomorrow (today) during the training, before we depart to Hamamatsu where we will play our Pool ‘D’ matches," observed Lung’aho. The East Africans are drawn in pool ‘D’ alongside former champions Brazil, Serbia, Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic. Commenting on the training under the former Kenya national women’s coach Sadatoshi Sugawara ahead of the event, middle blocker Triza Atuka said she now understand why the Asians countries are good in back court defence. Atuka said their training is on another level and noted that the training prior to the event serve off, is doing them good. She said: "No wonder Asians are good in back court. The training is enjoyable but very tough but when you look at the bigger picture. It’s us the players who are befitting and therefore, we are giving it our all." "We are looking forward to the friendly match to see where we are as a team," said the Kenya Pipeline captain. She added: "The food is not as good but we are managing." The Kenyan team is currently camping in Japan to acclimatize ahead of the three-week competition. Click here for the latest political news