ON Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta lamented that running the government was rather expensive because the 2010 Constitution created a number of offices that are all run by the Exchequer. He cited the National Assembly, which has grown from 290 to 349 members and new Senate with 67 elected and nominated members. He also listed 47 governors, 47 deputy governors and 47 new county assemblies – in which sit more than a thousand MCAs to buttress his point. Many are, however, asking why he failed to mention his own creation of Chief Administrative Secretaries to accommodate election failures. ***** What happened to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s list of probable deputies? On August 22, he named Agnes Kagure, Bishop Margaret Wanjiru, Karen Nyamu and Jane Weru as those he had proposed to fill the void left by Polycarp Igathe who quit on January 31. City Hall insiders told Corridors the governor is not interested in having a deputy for fear of losing out on being the centre of attention. The insider said unleashing of the list is a mind game to keep residents busy and deflect attention. “He is stuck to unworkable solutions like that of Miguna so as he can shift blame. He doesn’t want a DG for his own fears. Mark these words - the man will never present a list in the assembly soon,” Corridors was told. ***** Still on Nairobi, it appears Nairobi CECs under Governor Mike Sonko are going through hell. Last week, the governor publicly put one of his ‘absentee’ CECs on the spot for ‘developing the bad habit” of skipping his events. Sonko’s rule is that CECs must attend ‘any and all’ his events wherever they are held. They must also be ready for his phone calls, even in the middle of the night. “We are now used to him. He can call you at midnight and order you to travel to his Mua Home for a meeting and we have to do just that,” one of them said. ***** Are some Jubilee MPs planning to override President Uhuru Kenyatta over the contentious VAT on petroleum products? Well, Corridors over the weekend overheard some legislators from Rift Valley expressing their frustration on the matter which they claimed risks putting them in the bad books of their voters who - according to the middle-aged legislators – want to hear none of the levy that directly impacts on the prices of essential commodities. The lawmakers left vowing to do what is popular with the constituents. Click here for the latest political news