Good Morning, It is a warm day around Kenya with a forecast of clear skies and sun across the day in most parts of the country ahead of the short rains season expected from next month. Here are the stories making headlines on a day when Migori Governor is expected in court where he is to be charged with the murder of university student Sharon Otieno. On Sunday, the embattled Governor spent his third night in police cells where there was no VIP treatment. For a man used to the trappings of power, the finer things in life and the best of food, Obado’s three nights behind bars have been humbling. He has been eating sukuma wiki and ugali since Friday evening when he was placed in a 20-man cell. The Governor was on Saturday also joined by 17 VIPs and two men arrested for being drunk and disorderly. Uproar over new tax healthy, says DP Ruto As Kenyans continue to express outrage over the new set of taxes, Deputy President William Ruto has said that the government will eliminate wastage of public funds to ensure Kenyans get value for money, said yesterday. The DP said the government will only invest in projects that will turnaround the economy. Speaking at the Consolata Shrine in Nairobi on Sunday, Ruto said roads, water, health, electricity connection and education will be given priority. Noting the current uproar on increased taxation, Ruto said Kenyans have the power and authority to determine the affairs of the country. Jubilee MPs face disciplinary action for opposing fuel levy During last Thursday's controversial special sitting of the National Assembly, a number of MPs decided to publicly declare defiance on their respective party positions. President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party appears not to be taking this lying down with talk of sanctions on those MPs that went against the party position. During the heated sitting, Jubilee Vice-Chair David Murathe and Secretary General Raphael Tuju were in Parliament monitoring the situation. On Sunday, Tuju told the Star that consultations were underway before a decision is made on the nature of discipline to be meted out to the rebels Urgent aid needed by 700,000 facing food insecurity — report At least 700,000 people are facing acute food insecurity and need humanitarian assistance, the Kenya Food Security Steering Group has said. The alert was issued despite the sufficient rainfall received during the April-July season. The number represents a big decline from the 2.5 million in need of food aid after the end of the short rains in February. The Long Rains Assessment Report released on Friday shows the counties worst affected are Turkana, Samburu, Marsabit, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Tana River and Mandera. Despite rising risks, home insurance uptake still low Imagine being invited to a fundraiser by a friend or family member to raise money to pay for a damaged car after their tree fell on it, causing damage worth Sh250,000. This is a case that happened two years ago, after a Honda CRV was accidentally damaged and the owner of the home in which the tree grew was asked to pay. Bismart Insurance CEO Eunice Maina says if the homeowner had home insurance cover, the damage would have been covered by an insurance company and the car owner compensated under owner or occupier’s liability policy. However, the uptake of home insurance, a product under general insurance, is still quite low in Kenya, as potential customers disregard it to their financial distress. For more on these stories and others, keep browsing the Star website for the latest news making headlines across Kenya and around the world.