Many Kenyans feel the government is
extorting and has turned the poor to cash cows by implementing the Finance (VAT) act 2013, which levies 16
per cent VAT on petroleum products and went into effect on September 1. The question we need to review
therefore is this: is the new VAT on petroleum products a competitive asset or
a liability? The National Assembly, media, union leaders,
business leaders, some Cabinet insiders, and think tanks  have joined forces to slam the brakes on the
National Treasury, the Kenya Revenue Authority and the Energy
Regulatory Commission. The truth is that these professionals
are trapped in a cave. They see the world through a narrow opening. There is a
much bigger world outside. What we are clamouring for is fuel subsidies, and
fuel subsidies are bad for everyone. Kenya’s struggling economy suffer from a
weak balance of trade-we import too much and export too little. Last year, our
exports grew by a mere 4.8 per cent from Sh506.5 billion in 2016 to Sh530.6
billion last year. However, our imports rose by 20.5 per cent from Sh1,431.8
billion in 2016 to Sh1, 725.6 billion last year. According to the Economic
Survey 2018, “The increase in imports of petroleum products partly contributed
to the increase in the total value of imports, with import value rising by 27.8
per cent to Sh234.9 billion in 2017.” This balance of trade is very negative
and is deteriorating quickly because of perennial traffic congestion. Higher fuel taxes can help here: They are
very effective in curbing oil imports, and stimulating a more efficient use of
oil. This is good for the entire planet, except oil exporters. Let us now ostracise two assiduous myths: The first one is that levying
16 per cent VAT on petroleum products make pump prices in
Kenya a
record high. A review of GlobalPetrolPrices.com as of
September 10 reveals our new pump prices are actually below global average. The
average price of gasoline around the world is US$ 1.17 and that of diesel is
US$ 1.06. The prices in Kenya are $1.15 and $1.04 respectively. The prices in
Rwanda and Burundi are, in fact, between $1.26 and $1.28. Even countries flooding Kenyan market with
manufactured goods are either as high as Kenya or way above Kenyan retail
prices. For the two products, Korea is at $1.45 and $ 1.27 respectively. Japan
is at $1.34 and $1.27, while India at $1.17 and $1.05; and China at $1.11 and $0.99
respectively. The top four most expensive countries range between $1.96 and $2.19
for petrol and $1.80 and $1.95 for diesel. The
second myth is that levying VAT on motor fuel is unfair because the poor pay a higher share of their income in
fuel taxes than the rich. This is not true. The poor don’t
have cars and the really poor don’t even board PSVs. My office is six
kilometres from my residence and because of perennial traffic jams, I walk to
the office every time I don’t have an urgent meeting in the morning, which takes
me 40 minutes, compared to two hours by driving. I mingle with thousands of
people walking because they cannot afford bus fare. If we really care about the poorest people, then we
should make sure our social safety net is in order and that everyone gets enough
to get by.
And this is what the “Big Four” plan is all about: Value addition and raising
manufacturing sector’s share of GDP; enhancing food and nutrition security;
providing universal healthcare; and provision of affordable and decent housing.
This is an agenda for the poor, and
raising
fuel taxes can actually deliver the cash to achieve these goals. If
Kenyans are concerned that the increased fuel tax will be used to finance
corruption, then they should seriously enforce the benefit principle of
taxation: What one pays to the government should be connected to the benefit
one receives. In
September 2001, Robert Bacon, a manager of the Oil and Gas Policy Division of
the World Bank, and an expert on energy sector reform and the links between
reform strategy and poverty alleviation, as well as oil product taxation and
subsidies confirmed that tax theory “suggests that where the government sole
aim is to raise revenue for public expenditure, goods for which demand is least
sensitive in price increases should tend to bear the highest tax rates.” Unless
the increase is very high, which in this case is not, petroleum products fit in
this category.  First Kenyan
Ambassador to the Republic of Korea (2009-2014) ngovikitau@yahoo.com   