Ugandan lawmaker Robert Kyagulanyi was arrested upon arrival in Kampala on Thursday, Ugandan media reports have showed. The reports are that the Kyadondo East MP, popularly known as Bobi Wine, was picked from a KQ plane and whisked away by security forces. An official denied that he was under arrest. Kyagulanyi, a prominent challenger to long-ruling President
Yoweri Museveni, had been in the United States to receive
treatment for injuries he said were sustained during torture by
security forces. His return has rattled the government headed by the
74-year-old president, who leads a nation where nearly 80
percent of the population is under the age of 30. Security forces had deployed around Entebbe International
Airport and the highway linking it to the capital Kampala ahead
of his arrival to prevent supporters from greeting him. Armoured
personnel carriers and police vehicles lined the highway. The Daily Monitor newspaper reported that police arrested
him on the tarmac after he disembarked. But a police official said he was being escorted to his home
and was not under arrest. The official, who was not authorized to speak on the record,
told Reuters that Kyagulanyi was "just being taken home".
Residents in his neighbourhood told Reuters that they had
attempted to wait for him on streets near his home but were
chased away by security forces. Kyagulanyi, a 36-year old pop star and reggae musician
turned legislator, is widely seen as posing a significant
challenge to Museveni, who has ruled since 1986. His message - that young Ugandans need a dynamic new head of
state to tackle the myriad problems they face - has electrified
citizens who say they are fed up with corruption, unemployment,
and state repression of dissent. The government denies allegations of corruption and of
stifling opposition. Kyagulanyi attracted a youth following through songs
critical of Museveni and his prominence rose due to an incident
in August in which his driver was shot dead and he was detained
and charged with treason over what authorities said was the
stoning of the president's convoy. The politician, who has pleaded not guilty to the treason
charges, said he was beaten with an iron bar in detention in
northern Uganda. The government denies that he was mistreated. Police had banned rallies to welcome Kyagulanyi home and
said on Wednesday that they would escort him to his home in the
capital. The legal basis for the escort was unclear, and
Kyagulanyi wrote on his Twitter feed before flying home that he
should be able to travel freely in his country. Witnesses said the road linking Kampala to Entebbe town
about 50 km (30 miles) to the south was cordoned off, with armed
police surrounding the airport. They also said that all vehicles leaving Kampala on the road
to Entebbe were checked at multiple roadblocks. Police prevented
journalists from travelling to the airport to cover the arrival. Click here for the latest political news