A former government pathologist has been cleared of allegations that he slapped an Embu county doctor. Dr Moses Njue was suspended as the Embu Level 5 Hospital CEO after health workers went on strike and accused him of slapping Dr Mary Njoroge for allegedly arriving late on August 3. Health executive Jamleck Muturi announced Njue’s suspension, pending conclusion of investigations. His statement followed his meeting with county secretary Johnson Nyagah and representatives of the medics. Dr Daniel Njeru, a neurosurgeon, was appointed as the acting CEO of the medical facility. In May, the pathologist was charged in a Nairobi court with stealing, removing and destroying body organs from corpses. He was accused of secretly taking away a man’s heart while carrying out a postmortem. The bizarre theft is alleged to have occurred at the Lee Funeral Home. He pleaded not guilty to the charge. The assault case was reported to the Embu police station officers and investigations launched. In the slapping case, the DCI yesterday cleared Njue of wrongdoing. Embu West DCI officer George Etyang found no incriminating evidence to warrant his prosecution. The DCI said the P3 form filled over the alleged assault confirmed the degree of injury, but he found it inconsistent with the chronology of events. He said even the CCTV cameras, which were working on that day, did not capture the footage of the alleged assault. “It is, therefore,  my considered opinion that to charge the accused person with the offence of assault would be a wild goose chase and an abuse of the court process. I recommend that this matter be closed,” Etyang said in a letter to the Director of public Prosecutions. A senior officer at the DPP’s office, Kaigai Karundu, also cleared Njue. He said witness statements and the medical evidence “fell short of the standard required to sustain a conviction based on the charge of assault”. Karundu directed that the case be dispensed with administratively by the hospital. Dr Njue yesterday said he was pleased with the decision. He said the allegation pained him and he had been praying that God would ensure justice.