Errant MPs who are not members of a parliamentary committee probing public officers but attend hearings for personal interests have been dealt a major blow. The National Assembly last week passed a rule for non-committee members, popularly referred to as “friends of the committee”. They will seek permission in writing, which could either be granted or denied. The rule contained in the amended House Standing Order 195 restricts non-committee members from the traditional practice of attending the meeting without permission from the panel chairperson. The rule seeks to end indiscipline among MPs. Read: Bribery claims rock House committees Majority leader Aden Duale yesterday said, “Members who are friends of the committee have been attending the meetings for selfish interests or to protect individuals being questioned because they come from their community or region.” The Standing Order 195 allows non-committee members to attend and participate in a House committee meeting but are not entitled to vote on any of its resolutions. Duale said MPs who want to be friends of any committee will be required to state their interests and their expertise on the matter under investigation. The lawmakers will be required to make the written request to the committee chairperson within 24 hours before the scheduled meeting. During the probe into contraband sugar last month, joint committees on Agriculture and Trade co-chaired by Adan Haji and Kanini Kega were on the spotlight. Friends of the committee allegedly engaged in acts of indiscipline to compromise the inquiry. Members were seen to freely associate with individuals linked to the importation of contraband and poisonous sugar after the probe, an act which agitated top House leaders. Some of them described the friendliness as “kissing.” The Lands committee chaired by Rachael Nyamae was also put on the spotlight over indiscipline and bribery claims during its probe into the compensation of Sh1.5 billion Ruaraka land. “It is clear that any member who is a friend to the committee should state in writing reasons for attending. The chairperson with the guidance of the Speaker may deny or allow the member to attend,” Duale said. Read: No hugs and kisses in sugar probe, proper report in 10 days, Muturi tells MPs Click here for
the latest political news