The National Transport and Safety Authority has suspended the licences of six matatu drivers who were on Sunday caught on camera driving recklessly and dangerously in the city centre. All but one have also been arrested and charged with various counts related to violation traffic laws. NTSA director general Francis Meja said only the driver of the Nawasuku Sacco matatu that hit a police car on Moi Avenue is still at large. The police however trailed the vehicle - KCM 261S - and found it in Kawaha Sukari. It is at police station. “The police are still looking for him through the sacco but from our end, we suspended all their licences as we wait for a detailed report from the police on exactly what transpired on that day,” Meja said. The drivers drove the vehicles recklessly endangering their lives, their passengers and other motorists. Rowdy youth hung on the vehicles with others literally sranding on top of matatus. They caused chaos and rendered Moi Avenue a no-go zone. Yesterday, Central police station boss Robinson Thuku said they had given the owner of the Nawasuku Sacco bus seven days to produce the driver or he be arrested and charged. “If you employ someone, you must have his details and be able to produce him. So if he fails to produce him he is the one who will carry the cross,” he said. Thuku said that if the driver is not produced, then the owner will be charged with overloading, escaping after causing an accident and other traffic offences. The other vehicles belong to Manchester Travellers, Ongata Line, Safeline Matatu, Eastern Bypass Travellers and Royal Swift Express Saccos. Meja said the drivers’ names have been entered in the ‘rogue drivers’ database and they will barred from the roads for life unless they prove otherwise. Meja said the authority could ban the vehicles from operating on Kenyan roads or extend the same punishment to Saccos for failing to contain their drivers. Police who went to clear the streets fell victim of the drivers’ reckless and careless acts. A police chase car was hit and the boot destroyed by the Nawasaku Sacco bus.