Four Kenyans beat the odds and scooped five awards at the 6th edition of the Africa Magic Viewers' Choice Awards held in Lagos, Nigeria, on Saturday. The Kenyans outboxed a competitive list of nominees that consisted notable actors from Nollywood to bring the trophies home. Mark Maina beat a stiff competition to win the Best Picture Editor award for the movie "18 Hours". It was a double for Phoebe Ruguru who scooped the Best Overall Movie award and the Best Movie award in East Africa for the same movie. “This is a clear indication that even with all our diversity we can all speak one language and we can understand that language to be film. "So congratulations to all the other nominees, may we continue telling our own stories and sharing them and using them as a way of honouring our history,” Ruguru said in her acceptance speech. In the Best Movie award in East Africa category, Ruguru was nominated alongside Hassan Mageye (Devil’s Chest ), Kizito Samuel Saviour (The Forbidden ), Mathew and Eleanor Nabwiso (Rain) and Math Bish (Bella). Kenya's fourth award came through Dennis Wanjohi Maina who emerged tops in the Best Documentary category for the documentary 'The Flesh Business'. This is a one-hour documentary that sheds light on the rampant underage prostitution in Mombasa and the Coast region. The documentary follows the story of three ladies who take the audience through the challenges of their profession. Nyce Wanjeri won the Best Actress in a comedy and TV series in the popular sitcom of Auntie Boss. Wanjeri, popularly known by her alter ego Shiro, moved the crowd with an emotional acceptance speech synonymous with "your dreams are valid" that was delivered by Oscar award winner Lupita Nyong'o when she emerged the Best Supporting Actress in the movie "12 years a slave" in 2014. "Oh my God! Fast of all God ni mso (God is big) and I want to thank everyone who voted. This is my first time to board a plane and I came to Nigeria and my first time to win an award," Wanjeri said to a wild applause. She acknowledged the producers of the sitcom, Eve de Souza and Lucy Mwangi, and thanked them for the role they played in bringing her the recognition. "Thank you my husband, my daughter and family for being my fans...and my fans this is for you. Kenya, we did it," she said. Nominees were competing across 27 categories, seven of which were open for viewers to vote and choose the winners while 20 winners were decided by the AMVCA panel of judges. The AMVCA has rewarded excellence in TV and film for five years since 2013. Click here for the latest political news