Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has promised to end insecurity along the shores of Lake Victoria by deploying more police. The promise comes a few days after the passage of the Coast Guard Bill that has allows the deployment of police on Lake Victoria. Addressing journalist in Siaya during the regional security meeting yesterday, Matiang’i said the ministry’s action will address security concerns by fishermen in the lake. Matiang’i said the move will provide long-term security measures that will allow fishermen from Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania to fish without fear of insecurity. “We have been having a very active engagement with the governments of Uganda and Tanzania for  stepped up patrols in the lake for a joint security solution,” Matiang’i said. He said there will be another joint meeting about on Lake Victoria security, to end fishermen’s suffering. The minister said there were many problems in cross-border business, especially smuggling. He said there was also movement of illicit liquors and marijuana along the borders. “We have a very high percentage of our young people smoking bang and we have traced its origin and found that they come from some of our neighboring countries,” Matiang’i said. He said the police must track the importation of marijuana to deal with the drugs problem. Matiang’i said a large amount of marijuana was srecently eized  in Migori county. The CS said the move to secure the borders will also help in cracking down on illegal immigrants. He said no countryopens for everyone without due process. Matiang’i attributed the prevalence of drugs, illegal businesses, and human traffickingto the high number of undocumented foreigners in the country. “I’m shocked at the number of people we have in the country who have no right documents to be here,” Matiang’i said. He said the crackdown on illegal immigrants will continue. Those targeted by the crackdown failed to register afresh during a 60- day initiative that lapsed late last month. The government has already started deporting more than 30 foreigners nabbed during the exercise.