The Water Services Regulatory Board has opposed Murang’a governor Mwangi Wairia’s hiring of plumbers to reconnect water to residents, saying it was illegal. The water was disconnected by Murang’a Water and Sanitation Services officers. The board said only employees of water companies should handle its assets. Wasreb’s CEO Robert Gakuha has written to Wairia about the matter. He said the water sector was undergoing a transition and that counties should wait until a transfer of the management is finalised by the Cabinet Secretary. Until then, the water companies will remain in lawful possession of their assets. Gakuha said the Water Act 2002 requires that consumers pay for water based on a billing. The charges pay for operation and maintenance costs of the companies. He said the county government is only required to provide funds to expand coverage through the firms, and monitor and oversight them. “Your communication of non-payment of water bills to citizens does not address the issue of sustainability of these services which is a binding value to your office,” the letter reads. Wairia has asked residents not to pay for water until it announces a new account number to be used for payments. He accused the companies of misappropriating funds. Gakuha said the county has failed to return billing systems, tools and equipment taken from Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company. He accused the governor of overseeing illegal connections and reconnections which he said contributed to theft and tampering of public infrastructure. The told the county to follow the law if it wants to change the structures of water firms which are public companies. Gakuha also asked Wairia to raise the issue of revenue sharing on water drawn from Ndakaini Dam with the ministry. “The national government has mandate the companies to determine the use of water resources and establish a durable and sustainable system of water management in counties,” Gakuha said. Gakuha said he had copied the letter to ethics and law enforcement authorities to deal with the matter. Wairia recently said he wants 25 per cent of the revenue generated from the water drawn by the national government from Murang’a. He said the precious commodity should be treated in the same manner as the oil being drawn from Turkana county. “They draw water from our rivers for free but sell it to Nairobi residents yet Murang’a people have just 40 per cent of water coverage. We are not asking for a lot, just 25 percent of the revenue as is with oil,” Wairia said.