Following reports that DCI George Kinoti is pursuing him, an acting MD of one of the leading parastatals in the energy sector has panicked. He no longer sleeps in his palatial home within Nairobi’s Karen area or picks calls. Most of his aides have no idea where he spends his nights in the wake of the renewed anti-graft war. He is said to have pocketed a cool Sh100m in kickbacks from both local and international firms to award some controversial tenders. Our mole in the government agency says the usually arrogant boss has toned down after learning his juniors are willing to testify against him.  Did a governor from western Kenya dash into a saloon car at a posh hotel in
Kisumu to hide from his party boss who was having a function in the same
hotel? Well, Corridors is aware that the governor, driven by a woman, was not accompanied by his aides as they sped off from the hotel.  Those who spotted him and the woman
questioned why he was not accompanied by his security detail considering his
status. Corridors learnt that the county boss had slept in the hotel
and it emerged that he did not want to meet his party boss because he has recently been leaning towards a senior Jubilee official ahead of 2022 politics.  Is the
Jubilee party mulling taking action against two female MPs from central Kenya
who were at the forefront of opposing President Uhuru Kenyatta’s memorandum last Thursday? Well, a mole confided in Corridors that the ruling
party is unhappy with Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba
and her Laikipia counterpart Catherine Waruguru for their vocal defiance to the party
directive. Also singled out is Marsabit's Safia Adan. Show cause letters
could well be on the way to the the three waheshimiwas in a bid to nip dissent.  A
senior parliamentary official is on the spot for his globetrotting missions.
The official is said to have muzzled a number of his juniors and decided that
it is him who must travel or there would be no such trips. The official
has gone ahead and partnered with one of the leaders of Parliament with whom
they have been travelling a lot around the globe. Even in cases where his
juniors require opportunity for exposure, the official has been adamant on travelling.
There has been grumbling in the corridors of Parliament over lucrative foreign
trips and it is only a matter of time before the matter explodes. Some are
plotting a scheme to deliberately sabotage his work in a well-designed go-slow likely
to commence in a few weeks.