ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has hit out at “dishonest” Western Kenya leaders who have become mouthpieces of an “outsider”. He said on Saturday that he is not interested in their advice. “Stop lecturing me! I’ve been around long enough to know you are not honest but a megaphone for someone,” he told Sports CS Rashid Echesa and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka during the burial of Prof George Godia (former ambassador to Unesco) in Banja village. The two were present. The Nasa founder said the false narrative that Luhyas are divided is “foreign-driven and funded” to create political despondency. “They want us to remain suspicious so we shadowbox one another. The impression that we’re not united is meant to make us unattractive for the presidency. They don’t want us to reach out to other Kenyans,” he warned. Mudavadi condemned “treacherous” Luhya politicians who attend unity meetings in Nairobi but come to funerals to pretend they are advocating unity while “paying hecklers to disrupt solemn occasions”. Echesa found himself in uncharted waters when he tried to promote DP William Ruto’s 2022 candidacy. The crowd became hostile when he said the community is not ready for the top job. Read: Luhya unity to involve everyone – Mudavadi One mourner shouted, “Talk about yourself! Where are the stadiums?” Lusaka passed the DP’s condolences. He told the community to work with “our neighbour who will reciprocate and help us get the presidency”. But Mudavadi retorted, “In Nairobi, we gather together and make milestones in matters concerning the region. But you then come to funerals to ask for unity as if you’re not part of it. Who’s this to harvest unity and give it to you if you are distancing yourself?” And in a veiled reference to ODM leader Raila Odinga, he hit out at those stampeding to be identified with government. Mudavadi said they are hypocrites and “travellers who mourn more than the bereaved in the hope of earning free food”. Also Read: Politicians criticise Raila over opposition to Luhya unity push Click here for the latest political news