Nairobi county assembly members yesterday elected Majority Chief Whip Mwaura Chege to replace impeached Beatrice Elachi as speaker, albeit in an acting capacity. The defiant MCAs disregarded the court order that temporarily reinstated Elachi, arguing the former nominated senator stands impeached. Mwaura was elected unopposed after two other nominees – Mary Arivisa and Mary Njambi (both nominated) – withdrew from the race. Their names had been proposed by Peter Imwatok and Millicent Mugadi respectively. Elachi was impeached on September 6 before being forcibly ejected from the office by the MCAs on September 10. Deputy speaker John Kamangu presided over the session attended by 84 out of 122 members. The members held their first plenary sitting since impeaching Elachi on September 6. “In the absence of a speaker due to the issues affecting her creates a vacuum which the House cannot afford and since the county government and the Constitution allow for members to elect an acting speaker in the absence of one; I direct this house does so,” Kamangu said. Kamangu cited Article 178 ( 2 ) (b) of the Constitution and Section 9 ( 4 ) (b) of the County Government Act. The Article states that in the absence of the speaker, another member of the assembly shall be elected by the members to preside over the session. Read: Not even Raila’s call could save Elachi from Nairobi MCAs’ ire 'DON'T PLAY WITH MY NAME' The Act reads, “At any time in the absence of the speaker of the county assembly or in matters that directly affect the speaker, the county assembly shall elect a member to act as speaker as contemplated under Article 178 ( 2 ) (b) of the Constitution.” After taking his oath, Chege called on the MCAs to support him to deliver services to the residents. “I know I am not better than anyone of you and I take it with at most humility that the office of the Acting Speaker shall serve in a very open manner,” Chege said The session was, however, marked by minutes of drama when Arivisa, who was not in the chamber by the time her name was proposed, stormed the chamber. She shouted. “who told you to play with my name….. who told you to play with my name…. I am with Elachi.” The incident temporarily disrupted business. She was directed out of the chamber after the deputy speaker ordered so. She will appear before the Powers and Privileges over her conduct. South B MCA Chege Waithera, who proposed Mwaura’s name, said there was need to elect acting speaker because the assembly was vulnerable without one. Read: Why Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi has been impeached Also See: Saved by the DP, Elachi lives to control assembly again Click here for the latest political news