Lamu leaders on Thursday stormed out of a Lapsset meeting chaired by Petroleum PS Andrew Kamau, citing non-cooperation from the government. The meeting which was to discuss land acquisition for the Sh2.5 trillion Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport project was attended by officials from the Lands ministry, National Land Commission among other stakeholders. The meeting was held at the Majlis Hotel in Shella Island. NLC has allocated 70,000 acres in Kililana and Mashunduani for the project. The project entails building of the Lamu Port, Lamu-Lokichar Crude Oil Pipeline, a railway line and the controversial Sh200 billion Lamu coal plant to be set up in Kwasasi area. The walkout was led by governor Fahim Twaha, woman representative Ruweida Obbo and MPs Stanley Muthama (Lamu West) and Sthman Sharif (Lamu East). The leaders accused the government of failure to address residents’ grievances. They said NLC had no right to allocate the land to the project before owners are compensated. Twaha said not all owners have been paid yet the government was pushing on with the project. “The land injustices in this region keep mounting and we are getting tired. People just want to come and get land and carry on as if the land has no owners,” Twaha said. The governor said it was unfair to subject land owners to persistent suffering as the government went on with its projects. “Those displaced have not been paid. Are they just supposed to sit and comfortably watch as the government puts up development projects on their land? The unfairness is too much and must stop,” Twaha said. He said the county will not sit back and wait for people from Nairobi to make decisions that affect residents. “You can’t sit in Nairobi with the people of Nairobi to make decisions for the people of Lamu without the input of the residents. There is a reason Lamu is a devolved unit,” he said. The governor asked the state to conduct public participation programmes to enlighten locals. Muthama said the government had not honoured an agreement to include residents in making major decisions. The leaders accused NLC of attempting to irregularly extend the acreage for the project. Muthama said they will block a plan to relocate fishermen to pave way for dredging at the Lamu Port. RENEGED ON PROMISE He said fishing channels were being sealed off. “We support national projects but people should stop playing games with the lives of our people,” he said. “We have realised many ills going on. We raised the issues but no one is willing to sit down with us and listen. That why we’re walking out.” Shariff said the government had reneged on the initial deal and was planning to resettle those whose land had been taken. “The agreement was for people to receive Sh800,000 in compensation for for an acre. That is what we want, Nothing less or more,” Shariff said.