Kenya is among African countries pushing for ways to fight climate change, as developed countries are blamed for cutting climate funds. Kenya’s director for Multilateral Environment Agreements Richard Mwendandu said African countries have invested for decades in meetings to discuss and find solutions to “the devastating impacts of climate change and loss of biodiversity”. “While it is not my wish to dwell on the past and lament loudly how Africa has borne the brunt of climate change, it should clearly be known that Africa has contributed the least to the causes, a mere three percent,” he said on Monday during the Seventh Special Session of the African Ministerial Conference on the Environment It was also noted that funds from developed countries, which largely blamed for the mess, have dwindled. Mwendandu said the region has over the years experienced frequent and unpredictable weather conditions such as droughts and floods; unprecedented disease and pest outbreaks and rangelands and wildlife habitat destruction. The director said there has been a disruption to water resources systems, food insecurity, disruption of coastal ecosystems due to rising sea levels and pressure on ecologically fragile ecosystems. “Little room is left to plan and move forward,” he said. Mwendandu said as countries engage in the global processes to find solutions to climate change and biodiversity losses, there is need to mainstream best practices to be part of national development. “In addition, we have to take the courage to invest whatever resources we can marshal internally, as we seek external partnerships and resources. After all, its about our countries and the people that comes first,”he said. Juliette Biao, the UN Environment regional director, challenged African states to be innovative. “Africa should focus on making a paradigm shift through practical innovative actions so that we can benefit at the maximum levels,” she said. This was also captured during the sessions. Biao said there is need for Africa to speak the truth to each other, as it has emerged the developed countries were turning their back on them. “[President Donald ] Trump said environment was a business and he will protect Americans,” he said. Experts during the session raised concerns, as it emerge that developed nations were not keen to help developing nations mitigate the impact of climate change, as provided under several international protocols such as the Paris agreement. Under Paris agreement, developing countries are supposed to get $100 billion (Sh10.1 trillion) climate funding every year. However, some developed countries are not keen to provide the funds. Biao said targeted environmental policies have the potential to provide solutions to sustainable socioeconomic development and poverty alleviation across Africa. It is estimated that ecosystem degradation costs Africa $68 billion annually. The conference, which ends today is expected to adopt a declaration — decisions and key messages, and the outcomes — which will feed into the 4th session of the UN Environment Assembly meeting to be held in March 2019 at UN Environment headquarters in Nairobi. Click here for the latest political news 