Nairobi Central police boss RobinsonThuku yesterday was questioned by MCAS about the “intrusion” of police officers during a fracas at speaker Beatrice Elachi’s office. He denied illegal entry. MCAs stormed Elachi’s office on September 9 and attempted to forcefully eject her following her impeachment three days earlier. The speaker had obtained court orders suspending her removal. The assembly’s Powers and Privileges Committee chaired by Naftali Mathenge said police officers violated the Powers and Privilege Act by entering without invitation from the sergeant-at-arms. Read: MCAs eject Elachi from office, say they won’t allow her back Vice chairperson Patrick Musila said anti-riot police with batons arrived shortly after chaos erupted. They were ready to seize MCAs who had gone to remove Elachi from office. “I was present and I saw the police officers. I asked why they had come because we were not criminals,” Musila said. Thuku said police learnt about the violence through a live television broadcast. “I received call a from the speaker saying her life was in danger. I then directed the OCS at the KICC station to check what was going on,” Thuku said. He said the offi cer found Elachi locked in a toilet. “The OCS later informed me that there was nothing the police could do because the matter could be handled by the MCAs,” he said. The police boss said he decided to go to the office due to constant calls from Elachi. “I did not force myself in because I contacted City Hall’s chief officer and there was a sergeant-at–arms who let me in at the gate,” he said. He said he found the situation to be normal and left after Elachi had come out of the toilet. The committee also questioned MCAs who were involved in the commotion. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had since summoned the MCAs for interrogation over their conduct. Read: Use the law, not the backdoor to remove me - Elachi STRANGER Yesterday, Majority leader Abdi Guyo, Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu and Mary Njambi (nominated) were questioned. Guyo said there was no fight in the assembly and the EACC was acting in bad faith. “It was not a scuffle but an engagement between the Elachi and the members. As the Majority leader, my role was to calm the legislators and let Elachi leave voluntarily. The conduct of members was normal,” Guyo said. He said no kamukunji had been held to discuss Elachi’s ejection. Njambi and Kiragu denied they were drunk when they stormed the speaker’s office. Njambi said her reaction was caused by the pepper spray from the speaker. “I didn’t use force. It was the pepper spray that caused chaos,” Njambi said. Kiragu accused the beleaguered speaker of provoking MCAs to cause chaos. “As of September 6, Elachi became a stranger in this assembly. She also chose to become a security threat by spraying pepper on members,” Kiragu said. More: Assembly starts probe of MCAs’ conduct in Elachi ejection fracas Click here for
the latest political news