An Embu county officer has expressed concern over drug abuse among primary and secondary schoolchildren. Gender, Children and Social Services executive Joan Mwende yesterday said the problem is to blame for increasing school dropouts and “all kinds of social evils and crime such as defilement, incest, murder, robbery with violence and suicide. Governor Martin Wambora’s administration is looking into ways of stemming the vice, she said. It has founded a rehabilitation centre in Siakago, Mbeere North subcounty. Mwende said the county focussed the fight against drug abuse among adults, only to realise the vice had crept up in schools. She said many children use marijuana and miraa leaves. Mbeere subcounty is worst hit, the officer said. She said across many schools, headteachers are struggling to contain the problem. The uproar over bhang comes as Kibra MP Kenneth Okoth plans to introduce a Marijuana Control Bill, 2018, with a view to decriminalising its growth and use. In a letter to National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi on Friday, the he said amnesty measures should be instituted for the removal of criminal records against citizens with prior convictions of marijuana use. He called for regulations for growth and safe use of marijuana and hemp, including registration of growers, producers and manufacturers. Okoth proposed a special focus on protection of children from illicit use “just as we do with tobacco and alcohol”. But Mwende wants parents to be on the lookout lest their children turn into misfits. “The unfortunate thing is that many of the parents are still ‘sleeping’ and assuming their children are upright. Many parents don’t even bother when invited by schools over their children’s behaviour,” Mwende said. She warned that the situation is threatening lives and the wellbeing of future generations. “Even though we have pieces of legislation regarding drug and drug abuse, we’ve felt that we need to do more than just have laws by going beyond the paperwork to actions,” Mwende said. The Gender, Children and Social Services and Education departments have organised an advocacy programme for students and pupils. They are trained to become champions in the war on drugs and illicit liquor. The University of Embu students have also been brought on board. It will take place this week. The county will partner with the International Youth Fellowship — a programme of the Good News Mission. Mwende said they will also ECDE teachers so they can educate their pupils. She urged teachers, parents, religious leaders and other players to join the fight against drug abuse to protect the young generation. Last month, MPs, school heads and parents raised the red flag over increase in drug abuse among pupils and students. Kenya Primary School Heads Association chairman Shem Ndolo said most students consume edible tobacco, commonly known as ‘kuber’. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairperson Indimuli Kahi said students abuse alcohol, tobacco, prescription drugs, cannabis and other psychoactive substances. She said the majority of school heads remain mute on the matter for fear of victimisation. “School heads cannot come out and report an emerging drug problem in school because fingers point back at them asking them where they were when students engaged in drugs,” Kahi told the Star on the phone. He said the opening of day wings in boarding schools has contributed to drug abuse among students. Kahi said substance or drug abuse has hurt academics, resulting in poor performance, conflict and violence and irresponsible sexual practices. Senate Education Committee’s Christopher Langat said hard drugs penetrate learning institutions, raising fears there could be a connection with the fires and unrest.