Mobile phone numbers that are irregularly registered must all be switched off by Friday, the Communication Authority ordered yesterday. The regulator instructed all mobile network operators to audit their subscriber data base and remove numbers that are in use illegally. In a renewed fight against SIM card fraud, the operators have also been asked to immediately switch off all partly, improperly and fraudulently registered SIM cards with multiple ownership. “We have given them upto end of this week to comply. We have also told them that we will make a forensic audit on the level of compliance in three months time,” CA director general Francis Wangusi said. The move is likely to see the operators lose subscribers hence shedding a portion of their market shares depending on who has a majority of unregistered subscribers. There are currently 44.1 million mobile subscribers in the country. According to findings of a forensic audit by the regulator, most SIM cards with non-conformity were registered using passports used as a form of identification and alien identification cards. This was witnessed in the numerical length of the Kenyan passports. The audit revealed that a number of agents do not request for identification documents at the point of purchase of the SIM cards. In instances where they request for ID, the agents do not verify the identities of SIM card buyers against the documents presented. SIM card hawking is a rampant challenge that has seen some agents charging buyers an additional fee for registration. “On overall, the audit showed that the data in the subscriber databases of the operators was incomplete and inaccurate, pointing to the need for a verification system to help enhance authenticity of the data,” Wangusi said. To curb this, the regulator has announced plans to adopt the Personal Identification Secure Comparison and Evaluation System to verify the authenticity of passports used as a form of ID. While the director general did not disclose when the system will be adopted, he said discussions with the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government is on. “Most agents don’t seem to have a good relationship with operators in terms of enforcing controls required for SIM card registrations, most of unregistered SIM cards is as a result of agents,” the regulator said The authority has demanded details of agents and sub-agents that deal in sales and subscriber registration on behalf of operators, their company registration details, number of outlets and locations in which they operate. 