Digo elders in Msambweni have demanded a meeting with ODM leader Raila Odinga over what they termed frustration of their MP Suleiman Dori. Dori, who is the Coast Parliamentary Group chair, has received flak from ODM leaders including secretary general Edwin Sifuna, for openly supporting Deputy President William Ruto. On Sunday, the elders said Dori is merely coping Raila's move. "If Raila shook hands with President Uhuru without being criticised, let Dori also shake hands with Ruto without being vilified," they said. Speaking ahead of a rally that was to be addressed by Dori himself, the elders led by Saidi Mabavu said they will stick with Dori even if it means leaving the Orange party. "Raila should the way we have been campaigning for ODM is the way we can campaign for any other party," Mabavu said at Uwanja wa Jogoo, in Gombato ward, Msambweni constituency. Ali Mwangauri and Mwasifa Juma accused Sifuna and ODM chairman John Mbadi of frustrating Dori, who they say has overseen remarkable development in Msambweni. The legislator was among politicians summoned to appear before the party's disciplinary committee on claims of defying the party's ideals. The Party Disciplinary Committee met today and resolved to summon the members below to appear before it on the 10th of Oct. 2018 at the Party Heaquarters. pic.twitter.com/DbUPbPe2Mx "We are asking Raila to come down to Msambweni and meet us so we can talk this issue out," Mwangauri said. Juma said Msambweni has been supporting ODM for decades and must be respected. "If Raila lets the likes of Sifuna and Mbadi run the party, the party will run aground," he warned. The elders said Msambweni has also been left out of the recent appointments to state jobs brought about by the March 9 handshake. "We have seen people from other communities and areas be rewarded but Msambweni has been left out. This is tiresome. We can only take so much," Abdalla Tenga said. President Uhuru Kenyatta has appointed several Raila and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka allies as well as Jubilee election losers to state jobs. The appointments were gazetted on Friday. "If we wronged you, come and let us talk like elders. Don't humiliate the leaders we have elected," said Tenga. The elders say ODM has done little for them over the years. Click here for the latest political news 