The life of a tortoise seems difficult. What a terrible way to live, moving through life slow and cautious. So seemingly fraught with anxiety is the tortoise that at the first sight of change, sudden and unexpected, the tortoise will retreat into its shell. And there it shall remain, waiting for things to go back to the way they were. So the Finance Bill 2018, that happened, and things, financially speaking, are about to get trickier for many people. Now when times are difficult, when change besets the economy suddenly and unexpectedly, the tendency is to hunker down. In other words, we make like a tortoise. Slow and cautious, we start off by cutting costs. And when that doesn’t help much, and the downturn moves from bad to worse, anxiety sets in and the inevitable happens — we retreat into shells, waiting for the economy to pick back up. Understandably, one of the first things to go when money is tight is innovation. And yet it is in these slow periods, these bad times, that one should innovate. It sounds counterintuitive to be adventurous when surrounded by economic uncertainty but look at it this way, you can complain about increased taxes, and predict economic hardship, which changes nothing, or you can grit your teeth, look hard times straight in the eye, and change things up. I’d go for the second option. And while we’re still on the subject of changing things up, the draft bill by Kibra MP Ken Okoth comes to mind. The Marijuana Control Bill, which I’ll refer to as the Weed Bill, basically seeks to legalise the recreational and medical use of marijuana in Kenya. It proposes, among other things, regulation of the growth and safe use of marijuana, including registration of growers, producers, manufactures and users. Okoth, in proposing this bill, has an eye on boosting Kenya’s economic independence through taxation of the cannabis industry. I don’t need to say this but we all know this Weed Bill is dead in the water. First, weed has a bad rap. And second, the guardians of Kenyan morals will burn tyres and stone motorists if there’s even a hint of this bill being taken seriously. Okoth, though, is not completely off his head when he frames cannabis in economic terms. Back in March, Forbes magazine run an article on this very topic. With the heading Legal cannabis industry poised for big growth in North America and around the world, the piece went on to state: “Spending on legal cannabis worldwide is expected to hit $ 57 billion by 2027.” Convert that into Kenya shillings and we’re taking some serious chunk of change. I don’t have an opinion about weed either way. I don’t know whether it would be beneficial to the economy or would destroy our morals. All I’m saying is, it doesn’t have to be weed or anything else that makes good moral people froth at the mouth, but it does have to be something new, preferably bold, that we do to turn things around. Retreating into a shell is a terrible way to live.