The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission yesterday formally sacked CEO Ezra Chiloba who has been on suspension since April. Chiloba had been indicted by the commission’s internal audit report which revealed taxpayers could have lost millions in flawed procurement of goods and services for the 2017 General Election. The report, which was published on August 20, examined Sh6.2 billion worth of 31 contracts the commission entered into during last year’s general and repeat presidential elections. The auditors concluded that after reviewing the tenders, there was no value for taxpayers’ money in 10 contracts worth Sh4.6 billion. Chiloba has been engaging the Wafula Chebukati-led commission in a protracted legal duel to keep his job after he was sent on compulsory leave to pave the way for an independent audit. Read: IEBC Finance boss, Chiloba’s PA arrested for sneaking out files Yesterday’s decision to finally sack Chiloba for gross misconduct was arrived at after a meeting attended by Chebukati and commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye. The commission had invited Chiloba to appear before its disciplinary committee yesterday morning but he failed to show up. After the audit report indicted him, the commission wanted Chiloba to explain some of the decisions he made leading to possible loss of public funds. Last evening, Chebukati did not respond to calls and texts from the Star to confirm the latest developments. However, IEBC communications manager Andrew Limo said he was not aware. "Not anything that I am aware of," Limo said when responding to the Star’s inquiry if the commission had made a decision to sack Chiloba. But when he received the audit report, Chebukati had indicated that a copy had been submitted to investigating agencies to probe the procurement and hold to account culprits even as he hinted at sweeping changes at the secretariat. "The report confirms the concerns raised by the plenary before commissioning of the audit. The report will inform internal actions the commission will take in terms of dealing with the issues raised," he said in a statement then. Following the decision to send the CEO on compulsory leave in April, three commissioners - Connie Maina, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya - announced their resignation on April 16. Also read: IEBC crisis: Chiloba sues Chebukati over 'illegal suspension' Click here for the latest political news