Britain's main
opposition Labour Party is set to vote down any deal Prime
Minister Theresa May clinches with the European Union and is
open to a second referendum with the option of staying in the
bloc, its Brexit spokesman Keir Starmer said on Tuesday. With just over six months until Britain leaves the European
Union, May has yet to reach a deal with Brussels on the terms of
the divorce, and her plan for future trade ties has been
rebuffed by both the EU and many lawmakers in her own party. Labour has listed six tests it would apply to any Brexit
deal, including whether it ensured a strong future relationship
with the EU and delivered the same benefits Britain has as a
current member of the bloc's single market and customs union. Starmer said May was on course to fail these tests. "Everybody recognises the talks are going badly and it looks
as though we're heading for a bad deal or even no deal," he told
BBC TV. "We, the Labour Party, are going to vote down a bad deal
or we're going to vote down no deal because that is not good for
our country nor is it what people voted for." In a speech to his party's annual conference later, Starmer
will say the Conservative government does not have a credible
plan for Brexit, and that there is no majority in parliament for
May's so-called "Chequers" proposals, which envisage close ties
with the EU in the trade of goods. Labour could play a decisive role in whether any Brexit deal
is approved by parliament. May has a working majority of just 13
in the 650-seat parliament and a former junior minister said
this month as many as 80 of her own lawmakers were prepared to
vote against a Brexit deal based on the Chequers proposals. SECOND REFERENDUM? Labour's conference will vote later on Tuesday on keeping a
second Brexit referendum as an option if May fails to get her
Brexit plan through parliament, heaping pressure on the
struggling prime minister. Starmer said a meeting of party officials on Sunday had
agreed that any second vote would allow for Britons to vote to
stay in the EU after all, seeming to contradict the view
expressed by the party's finance spokesman on
Monday. "The question that would be asked was left open because we
don't yet know the circumstance we'll find ourselves in,"
Starmer said. "The meeting on Sunday was very clear that the
question would be wide enough to encompass the option of remain.
Nothing is being ruled out, including the option of remain." The government's Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab said on
Monday that Labour's "nonsense" about a second referendum would
encourage the EU to offer a "lousy" deal and most people in
Britain just wanted politicians to get on with Brexit. "Labour seem determined to take us all back to square one by
rejecting a deal out of hand then trying to delay Brexit and
re-run the referendum," junior Brexit minister Robin Walker said
in a statement. "Labour promised to respect the referendum result, but are
just playing political games and trying to frustrate it." Also read: UK foreign minister Boris Johnson resigns in protest over May's Brexit plan Click here for the latest political news