Nurses at Pumwani Maternity Hospital have lifted the lid on the challenges they face in their line of duty in the wake of the death of 12 babies at the facility. The health workers complained of consultants failing to report to work, malfunctioning equipment, lack of promotions, inadequate personnel, and managers' high-handedness. The issues emerged in a crisis meeting called after 12 babies died on Monday. Nairobi governor Mike Sonko attended the session. He was at the facility on an impromptu inspection following the reports of the deaths which have been blamed on equipment failure. See: [VIDEO] Sonko suspends Pumwani boss after 12 babies die in machine glitch Sonko expressed his shock after the revelations made by the nurses who raised concern after they accused other departments frustrating their jobs. The governor discovered that top officials at the hospitals and consultant doctors had not reported to work as scheduled. "We have a problem with the consultants who never come to work and once they arrive they work for an hour," a nurse said. They cited cases of mothers who spend nearly two weeks waiting for consultants to undertake Cesarean section deliveries. The nurses complained that they are the ones who are always punished for cases of negligence involving the absentee doctors. Pumwani hospital has 162 nurses but the labour ward has less than 20 who work in shifts. They also complained of an imbalance in the shift workloads. The nurses further complained that despite being in touch with the mothers, they are never consulted or involved in the management. The meeting was held after CSSD sterilising machines stopped working, which has been blamed for the deaths of the infants. It was reported that the facility's six CSSD machines, used for sterilising theatre equipment, had not worked since Friday. "We are normally assigned 10 sterilisers. If these are depleted by the end of the night, we have nothing else to use," a nurse said. The nurses had threatened not to admit mothers at the facility if they will not be provided with the equipment to help with the deliveries. After the steriliser machine broke down on Sunday, the nurses said they liaised with Kenyatta National Hospital for more sets of steriliser which were delivered after 8 pm. The hospital does not have an ambulance as they were withdrawn by the county government, further hindering the referral of cases. Apart from the nurses' grievances, the hospital suffers a shortage of beds after two wards were closed for lack of staff. Mothers are, therefore, forced to share beds. The hospital's elevators have not worked since 2013. Sonko promised that the county government will hire 80 nurses for city hospitals by next month to fill the void left by nurses who have left the public service. "I’m told there is a shortage of 50 nurses at Pumwani hospital alone. My administration will address the problem," he stated. Click here for the latest political news   