Small traders in Kenya are not benefiting from funds that international lenders channel through local commercial banks due to demand for collateral. This, coupled with the new International Financial Reporting standards (IFRS9), that all banks are expected to follow has further tightened the credit squeeze to SMEs. With the new accounting standards, banks are opting to impose collateral based lending rather than unsecured lending to avoid high provisions for risks in their books of account. Over the past year, banks have been obtaining finance from international institutions to a tune of Sh44.6 billion, mainly for lending to the private sector and especially SMEs. IFC loaned Sh15.2 billion and Sh1 billion to Co-operative Bank and I&M Holdings, AfDB Sh10.4 billion and Sh7.5 billion to KCB Bank and Diamond Tust Bank, SwedFund Sh500 million to Victoria Commercial Bank while a syndicate of financial institutions loaned Sh10 billion to Stanbic. “We expect banks to continue employing prudent loan disbursement policies, and tightening their credit standards, to address the concerns around asset quality, and protect their profitability,” Cytonn Investments analyst Faith Maina said. “We have seen banks adjusting their business models with lending skewed mainly towards collateralized lending and working capital financing,” she said. The standards came into effect in January and require banks to set aside funds for all loans based on their risk factor rather than just non-performing loans. This has forced lenders to adopt more stringent lending policies. “To survive in this new environment, banks have had to evolve and employ innovative risk management tools that are able to robustly estimate credit risk losses,” KCB group chief finance officer Lawrence Kimathi told the Star. “As a result banks will need to reassess their product offering and risk management, which is likely to lead to tightening of credit scoring and appraisal processes.” Data by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows there are more than 17 million SMEs registered in Kenya, with 98 per cent of the enterprises contributing 25 per cent of the country’s GDP and employing up to 50 per cent of the workforce. The 2016 National MSME Survey released last March also shows that banks only finance 5.6 per cent of licensed small businesses. This is despite at least four out of every five small ( 87.9 per cent) and medium ( 80.6 per cent) sized establishments having a bank account with commercial banks. “As a result of the stringent risk assessment and credit scoring, the vast majority of borrowers categorized as risky will find it challenging to access credit. The law capping interest rates further exacerbates the situation due to the fact that it incapacitates the lenders ability to price for risk,” Kimathi said. Click here for the latest political news