Utawala residents on Wednesday lit bonfires in protest over sand trucks which they said mess up roads in the area. They also complained of pollution from dust emitted by the trucks as they transport building materials. One of the protesters said the trucks operate day and night, a situation she said causes them sleepless nights. The woman, a landlord in the area, said all the tenants who rented her house have left because the dust. "We have the right in this country. The dust is too much. This road is not for lorries and they should desist from using this route." The trucks reportedly use the road to avoid a weighbridge at Mlolongo, a situation the locals said also exposes children to respiratory diseases. "We have tried to talk to the area MCA but haven't seen any solutions. We are suffering. The former MCA tried to solve it but nothing happened," she said. Victor Mochere, resident, said they have the right to demand for better infrastructures in the country. "Do we need to protest in order for the government to provide amenities and build infrastructure? The state of roads in Utawala is pathetic," he said. Kenya Red Cross advised motorists to be caution when using the road. Air pollution levels remain dangerously high in many parts of the world. World Health Organisation's latest data shows that 9 out of 10 people breathe air containing high levels of pollutants. Updated estimations reveal an alarming death toll of 7 million people every year. This is caused by ambient (outdoor) and household air pollution. More than 90% of air pollution-related deaths occur in low- and middle-income countries, mainly in Asia and Africa. While Kenya has gazetted laws such as the Air Quality Regulations passed in 2014 to limit air pollution and protect the air that we breathe, there is limited information on the level of particulate air pollutants in Nairobi. The lack of data makes it difficult to assess the potential impact of air pollution in order to adequately respond to the threats posed by poor air quality. Read: Measuring Nairobi’s air quality using locally assembled low-cost sensors Click here for the latest political news