Two-time African Rally champion Manvir Baryan is the StarTimes Sports Personality of the month of June.
Navigated by his British partner Drew Sturrock, the Multiple Racing Team Skoda Fabia R5 speedster, racked up the coveted award following exhilarating cockpit displays which saw him sweep the ground with all and sundry on the prestigious Gomes Zambia International Rally. The Zambia rally, synonymous with the legendary Muna Singh rally dynasty of Lusaka, counted towards the fourth round of the 2018 FIA African Rally Championship.
Prior to a career second Zambia triumph, Manvir entered his name in the annals of continental rallying history in April by becoming the first ever non-South African competitor to win ARC 3 York Rally (formerly Sasol Rally) in Nelspruit.
 The 2017 Kenya Motor Sports Personality-of-the-Year equally sealed the coveted ARC title after winning the ARC 6 Oryx Energy’s Rally of Tanzania in Bagamoyo region. Manvir became the fourth ever Kenyan driver to lay his hands on the coveted ARC title after Shekhar Mehta and David Horsey in 1980s and Jaspreet ‘Jassi’ Chatthe in 2015.
Speaking during the ward presentation, StarTimes Kenya marketing director, Japheth Akhulia said: “StarTimes has endeavoured to recognise and reward excellence in major sports genres and this award is a true testament of our diversity this being the very first time in 12 months to award a rally champion. Our aim is to inspire stakeholders in the sports fraternity and progressively support the diverse disciplines to achieve greater success.”  
In winning the June award, Manvir received a cash award of Sh100,000, a personalised trophy and an elegant StarTimes 43’ inch LED TV. Manvir beat three other nominees to the award including Gloria Mulei, who set a new triple jump record of 12.97m at the Athletics Kenya national championships, Sheil Kotecha, who won all his singles rubbers at the Davis Cup Africa Group III Championship where Kenya earned promotion to the Euro/Africa Group II and Dominic Abuda, who set a new national record of 62.45 metres at the AK National Championships. Another nominee for the June award was Mathew Sawe who improved his national high jump record to 2.30m also at the AK national athletics championships.
And it was a pleasant surprise for Manvir who is shaping up for the iconic ARC 7 Rwanda Mountain Gorilla Rally after clinching the FIA continental rally diadem.
Flanked by Kenya Motor Sports Federation general manager, Mwaura Njuguna, the MRT ace driver said: “It’s such a great feeling to be considered for any award alongside Kenya’s world beating middle and long distance runners. I’m overly excited to lay my hands on this award and the fact that the rally sport is finally regaining the recognition it has held for years. I take this opportunity to thank sports Journalists and StarTimes for their unswerving support of rewarding and acknowledging local sports personalities; for me it hasn’t sunk in yet.”
KMSF General Manager lauded Manvir for putting the country’s name on the continental arena.
Manvir becomes the fifth winner of the award this year after Telkom women’s hockey club goalkeeper Cynthia Onyango (January), KPA’s basketball forward Felmas Adhiambo (February), three-time World Half Marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor (March), Wycliffe Kinyamal (April) and boxer Judy Waguthii in May. Other winners of the award incepted last year include World Boxing Council (WBC) female’s super-bantamweight champion Fatma Zarika and Deaflympian Simon Cherono.