Some 27 Busia MCAs face arrest for allegedly tampering with evidence in Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s graft case. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission wants them charged with abuse of office, perjury and forgery. Also targetted are members of the Budget team in the last county assembly who were not reelected. “They committed criminal offences,” lawyer George Gilbert said. The current and former MCAs have been summoned to record statements at the EACC headquarters, Nairobi. “The EACC has evidence they have been interfering with documents and other materials at the county level, which is part of the evidence in the graft case. They have already contacted us to help deliver the summonses,” a police boss in Busia told the Star. The second-term governor and nine county officials and contractors were arrested by EACC officers on July 4. The others include Timon Mboga, Bernard Yaite, Lenard Obimbira, Samuel Ombui, Allan Omachari and owners of the Madam R Enterprises Ltd — Edna Odoyo, Renish Omullo and Sebastian Hallensleben. They were charged at the Milimani law courts, Nairobi, with Sh8 million fraud involving procurement of solid waste management services between March and September 2014. They pleaded not guilty. They have been charged with additional six counts, which include abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an economic crime and engaging in a project without proper planning. Other charges include wilful failure to comply with the law relating to the management of public funds and fraudulent acquisition of public property. Sources at the EACC said investigations started in 2016. Ojaamong is among high-profile Kenyans charged in the latest graft crackdown. Others are former Youth Affairs PS Lilian Omollo, ex-NYS director general Richard Ndubai, former Kenya Power MD Ben Chumo, Kenya Power general manager Beatrice Meso and former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero. Others are former Nyandarua governor Waithaka Mwangi, National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri, NLC chief executive Tom Chavangi, Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina, Sirisia MP John Waluke and Embakasi North MP James Gakuya.