Former Chase Bank chairman Mohamed Khan was yesterday charged with stealing Sh1 billion from the bank two years ago. Prosecution said he faces additional charges and could be prosecuted for stealing more than Sh4 billion at the end of investigations. Khan was accused of stealing the Sh1 billion between January 2015 and March 2016. He was also charged with money laundering. The suspect denied the charges before senior resident magistrate Hellen Okwani. This is the third time Khan is charged with stealing from the bank, which was placed under receivership after the scandal. Yesterday, he was to be charged alongside Dancun Kabui, James Mwenja and Makrios Agumbi. Others are Patrick Musimba, Angela Musimba, Lucien Sunter and Ronald Vlasman. But only Khan turned up for plea taking. Lawyer Cecil Miller said Kabui, Mwenja and Agumbi were had not been instructed to appear before the court by the Banking Fraud Investigations Unit and opposed a warrant of arrest against them. Okwani issued a warrant against the Musimbas, Sunter and Vlasman. State counsel Mungai Warui pleaded with the court to remand Khan. Read: Former Chase Bank boss released to seek treatment He said BFID is still conducting investigations into the high-profile theft at the bank and Khan is likely to to be charged with stealing not less than Sh 4 billion. Warui said the court must consider the colossal amounts Khan is accused of stealing from depositors and the likelihood of absconding trial. He said Khan’s family lives in the US and possibility of choosing to remain there is very high. The counsel also applied to have Khan’s movement prohibited by the court. Warui wants Khan’s travel documents to be deposited in courts to be seeking permission before traveling. But Miller opposed Warui’s application to have Khan admitted on higher bond terms with sureties. The lawyer said Khan has serious heart problems and has flown to US twice for surgery and has always returned. “Our application is purely on medical ground. The accused is scheduled to have the third operation next week and admitting him on bond with sureties will delay him because he is not likely to get the sureties immediately,” Miller said. He successfully applied to have Khan detained at Kileleshwa police station after Okwani pushed the ruling for bail terms to Monday. Also See: End of a long wait as Mauritius lender completes buy-out of Chase Bank Click here for the latest political news