A year after the last general election, assertive ward representatives have trained their guns on speakers in what could impede legislation, oversight and representation at the counties. The new wave of impeachments have thrown most
speakers off balance, with some of them staring at ouster bids in what could
further deepen the crisis political parties are facing in legislative arms. With statistics showing that over half of the
country’s 2,222 MCAs were voted out in last year’s polls, most newcomers are
said to be angling for appointments for their relatives and cronies, while at
the same time seeking a slice of the assembly contracts. The pressure has set them against the speakers, who
also chair the powerful county assembly service boards, which approve contracts and employment of staff. In a bid to kick out unfriendly and unyielding speakers,
MCAs have accused their bosses of gross misconduct and abuse of office, serious
allegations that constitute the provisions for the removal from office of a
county assembly speaker. It all started in February when Kisii MCAs vowed to
impeach speaker David Kombo over corruption and poor management. They accused
Kombo of allegedly presiding over irregular recruitment of workers when he was
the County Public Service Board chairman. At least
42 MCAs had signed the impeachment motion to remove Kombo, in what could have
triggered a ferocious political turmoil for both Jubilee and ODM, which control
the assembly. However, a
quick intervention by Governor James Ongwae and local leaders salvaged
the situation In June, Nakuru MCAs ganged up to
impeach speaker Joel  Kairu for denying the representatives funds for
benchmarking in foreign countries. “We were allocated Sh15 million for foreign trips
but only Sh9 million is available as the financial year comes to an end. Where
did Sh6 million go? asked Biashara  MCA PeterNyaguthii then. However, conciliatory meeting among local leaders
led by Senator Susan Kihika, Nakuru West MM Samuel Arama and his Nakuru East
counterpart David Gikaria saved the speaker. At least 55 out of 78 MCAs had signed the petition to sack him but some
changed their mind at the last minute. In Kisumu, MCAs early last month plotted
to impeach speaker Onyango Oloo but the move was thwarted by ODM, which
stepped in at the last minute when the motion had been filed. The MCAs leading Oloo’s impeachment
campaign were said to have beaten a hasty retreat after receiving phone calls
from the party headquarters in Nairobi on August 8. Market Milimani MCA Seth Kanga had
planned to table the motion in the county assembly on Tuesday afternoon.
Several MCAs had thrown their weight behind the motion. In Migori, speaker Boaz Okoth who was
re-elected Migori County Assembly Speaker in February in a court-ordered repeat
poll after chaos marred elections last August, has been facing threats of
impeachment. The same situation is in Kakamega,
Vihiga and Kilifi, where speakers have been warned by MCAs that they
could be impeached because of failing to yield to their demands. In Nyamira, MCAs last month impeached deputy speaker Duke Omoti over abuse of office claims, piling questions
on the legality of post in the devolved system. MCAs
unanimously endorsed the motion that indicted  Omoti of misuse of power, incompetence,
malice, pride and general abuse of office. Even in this impeachment, questions had been raised on whether deputy
speakers are protected in law. In July, two High Court judges dealing with questions on the same ruled the
post is not a "creature of law". While inaugural county assembly MCAs who served in
the early years of their 2013-17 term enjoyed huge perks because of lack of
firm structures by the Transitional Authority, their current counterparts are a
stark contrast. MCAs, most of whom resigned from their high-flying
careers to take up legislative roles at the county assemblies hoping for huge
perks that were initially enjoyed by inaugural MCAs, the SRC slashed the pay drastically
in a review last year. Currently MCAs take home Sh144, 000 down from
Sh166,000 with their sittings capped at a maximum of 8 sittings a week, in what
has shrunk their take home at the end of the month. Following elections last year that saw incumbents
fell by the wayside, the current crop of MCAs are battling to influence operations
of the assemblies and firm up their grip on mega contracts and employment opportunities. The situation is further compounded in scenarios where
MCAs picked new speakers in drastic changes of regimes to accommodate their interests
as they assumed office with a full-in tray of both hopes and demands. Feeling cheated, the MCAs have ignited a fresh round
of impeachment threats that could paralyse operations at the devolved units. “We have always advised our MCAs to always engage in dialogue
before resorting to impeachments,” said ODM chairman John Mbadi. The Suba South MP said the party was concerned that some
MCAs have taken up such motions tools to intimidate and harass speakers whenever
there is disagreement. “As a party, we are determined to ensure our
MCAs, as crucial pillars of devolution, work in harmony with their speakers to
provide a conducive environment for growth at the counties,” he said. In the second phase of devolution, rogue MCAs have
triggered a fresh round of stalemate with some speakers working on borrowed
time. In the last term, the ward reps targeted governors
through well-orchestrated impeachment threats, in what has often exposed their rapacity
for handouts. The target now is in the their own House. In some
instances, inherited county assembly clerks from the inaugural assembly, are
working in cahoots with factions of members, in well-choreographed schemes to
oust new speakers who have barely settled in office. “It is true that in some instances where we have had
newly elected speakers, MCAs want to bulldoze their way to get contracts and
have their friends get jobs,” said political risk analyst Dismas Mokua. Mokua asked political parties to strengthen engagements
and establish platforms for regular dialogue at the counties to build synergy. “If we can have political parties forums at the
counties, where the members can easily engage their leadership on their problems
we can be able to overcome these impeachment threats,” he said. Determined Nairobi MCAs on Thursday defied pleas
from Jubilee and ODM parties — the two main parties controlling the assembly — to
drop their impeachment motion against speaker Beatrice Elachi. Attempts by State House and ODM party leader Raila
Odinga to step in to save Elachi were not headed, as
Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu tabled a motion for a her removal from office on Thursday
afternoon. Some 103 MCAs out of the 122 Nairobi MCAs voted in support of
the motion, two opposed the motion while two abstained from the vote, further cementing
a deeper political crisis at City Hall. Although Elachi’s lawyer rushed to
the Labour Court earlier Thursday and obtained temporary orders suspending her
impeachment, the ouster plot lifts the lid on the behind-the-scenes maneuvers rocking
county assemblies just a year after their swearing-in. On Friday, county speakers said they have been toying with the idea
of making it impossible for MCAs to impeach them by raising the threshold of
indictment. Forum chair Johnson Osoi said they want to amend the law and add more
processes other than 75 per cent. He said a court must find a speaker culpable of violating the Constitution
before removal from office, adding that such a provision is lacking in the
County Government Act of 2012. "In the absence of such determination, it is nonsense," he said. Osoi proposed that a speaker must be required to appear before the Senate in
case of removal, as there is no such requirement. “What we are asking is the leaders to become responsible and uphold the law
without abusing the powers to impeach,” he said. For a speaker to be sacked, a notice must be given in writing to the clerk
of the county assembly. It must be signed by at least one third of all the MCAs
stating the grounds . A motion for removal resolution is then presided over by any MCA.