The Jubilee administration has turned into a dictatorial regime that does not respect democracy, nominated MP Wilson Sossion has said. The ODM lawmaker who is also the Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general said the tax taxes imposed by the government will make Kenyans poorer. Speaking in Bungoma on Friday, Sossion said the government has turned to robbing the electorate through Parliamentary dictatorship. "We all know that the government we have now is not a government of the people but that of dictatorship. It dictates the counties and even Parliament," Sossion said. "The dictatorship we've seen in Parliament is one of the worst since independence." Sossion spoke in reference to last Thursday controversial passage of the Finance Bill which has increased tax on petroleum products by eight per cent. The Knut boss who spoke during an annual general meeting for Bungoma East branch said the new tax regime will make teachers poor. He said life has become unbearable for Kenyans and accused the government for adding salt to the injury by increasing tax. "The burden of taxation is going to affect every household. It is said for a nation that is already reeling under a high poverty index," Sossion said. He said Knut will continue to fight for the welfare of teachers and Kenyans and urged wananchi to join trade unionism. He said Kenyans need the voice of teachers to fight government ills against the people. He cited social economic problems, mismanagement and bad governance saying the three were responsible for the tax burden. "Trade unionism is about defiantly resisting that which is not right. It doesn't matter if you die because those living will continue with the fight," he said. Sossion said Kenya was increasing taxes while Ghana was offloading its taxes every year and aligning its priorities for economic growth and social equity "We must borrow from that because it is the true econometrics of a progressive nation," he said. "What we are witnessing here is banditry and I agree with former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga who said Kenya is a bandit economy." Sosion said the union will stand out and say the truth and fight for Kenyans’ rights "even if it means eating a bullet." "Knut as institution of social justice has been existing for over sixty one years and one of the biggest achievements that we know teachers have contributed is the freedom of this country that explains why the colors of the union are of the flags of this country and so we shall speak and speak right without mincing words to see Kenyans liberated from poor leadership." Bungoma woman representative Catherine Wambilianga and Governor Wycliffe Wangamati were present. Click here for the latest political news 