A section of Migori residents on Sunday took to the streets protesting against the arrest of governor Okoth Obado. The residents with placards written 'No Obado , no peace' chanted his slogans while demanding his release from police custody. Obado was arrested on Friday afternoon after he appeared at the DCI headquarters to make a statement over links to the murder of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. Marching through the streets of Uriri trading centre on the Migori-Kisii highwaythe protestors claimed the murder charge hanging over the head of their governor is politically instigated. The protests however sparked mixed reactions with another fraction of the residents accusing the protestors of taking political advantages to interfere with an active case. While some said Obado should be released to serve the county as investigations continue, others said there should be no any form of intimidation in the process and if Obado is found guilty of the crime, he should be charged in accordance with the law. Obado who is currently being held at the Gigiri police cells, is expected to be arraigned at the Milimani law courts to answer to the charges. Read: Obado to be charged with Sharon's murder, DCI confirms The governor has been on the spot for the third week running after it emerged yesterday that detectives are pursuing what is believed to be suspicious transfers of county funds to his children abroad. The Star has also established that asset recovery agencies have frozen the bank accounts of Obado's wife, Hellen Adhiambo Odie, five businessmen and three companies believed to be proxies or associated with the county boss. In documents filed in court, EACC says major Migori county suppliers who are alleged to be Obado's proxies made huge international transfers to, among others, Obado's children in Australia, Hong Kong and China. The proxies known to each other registered many companies that have been awarded what EACC terms as “inflated and fictitious contracts”. Over Sh2.5 billion has been paid out to the dubious companies over the last five years. “The preliminary investigations have raised reasonable suspicion that the embezzled public funds have been used by the governor, his wife and the said close proxies, the respondents herein, to accumulate property and illicit wealth,” EACC said. Read: EACC freezes Obado accounts over graft Click here for the latest political news   