It’s supposedly a year ago when we saw Camp Mulla reunite at the Tekno Wave concert. There was endless speculation that the hip hop group was making the brazen comeback the industry needed. Critics and fans had equally expressed disappointment in their unending hiatus, and this surprise performance gave hope to those who wanted to see the music group that put Kenya in the global scene back on the charts. Unfortunately, that was not to be. The group is yet to release any new projects after that exhibition. However, they’ve gone ahead to release solo projects and attempt varied music styles, which they seem to want to identify with. Miss Karun, the only woman who made the group, is still living her dream and has moved on to making alternative music, R&B. When she came back to the music scene a while back, it no longer mattered what level of success she had aclaimmed in the music group. She knew herself better now and was clear about the road she wanted to take. Her music now can be considered gloomy or even brooding, but if you actually pay attention to the lyricism you figure how soulful, bright and buoyant the artiste is. Her catalogue is gradually growing. This year she’s already released two tracks, “Make Believe”, featuring Blinky Bill, and “High.” She deftly delivers these tracks with a sound so intricate and varied. Her most significant project, 2016’s “Indigo”, was wholly cohesive in its variety. It was a deeply personal collection of songs that told of her experiences. She built her own niche and worked with talented acts like Skeme Music, Change Kato, Jinku, Joseph Kiwango and Nu Fvnk. Karun delivers determination draped in effortless cool. She’s in complete control of her career now and has taken the time to turn her fanbase from their earlier perceptive and they’ve embraced the new style. She is changing the look and sound of music, even though it’s yet to be greatly accepted in the country. For Karun, it’s about doing what you want to do with the passion it deserves.