Tara Singh dam in a secluded scenic spot in Nyandarua West does not draw people to admire the landscape and the sunlight or moonlight on the water. They come to kill themselves. The 40-metre-high dam is in Gichaka, two kilometres from Gichaka shopping centre. It’s known as Tara Dam by Ol Joro Orok residents It was built in 1986 by an Asian contractor, Tara Singh Dogra, to provide residents with clean water for domestic use, farming and livestock. In the past five years, however, the dam is the spot where eight people came to end their suffering and plunge to their deaths from the dam wall. latest suicide The latest case was a 26-year-old university student from Kirimangai in Weru ward. Moses Irungu, who was studying Agriculture Engineering at Jomo Kenyatta University of Science and Technology, disappeared from his home on September 3. He walked more than eight kilometres to the dam. Parents and residents knew something was amiss and tried to save him but they missed his plunge by about two minutes. The body was submerged for days and finally retrieved on September 10 when it floated. He was buried yesterday at his parents’ home in Kirimangai. On September 2, Irungu visited the dam. In the evening he told his parents that he contemplated suicide and sought forgiveness. The reason for his despair was not immediately disclosed. His parents said they did not know he would accomplish the suicide mission the following morning. Nancy Wanjiru from Kirimangai location said her 65-year-old husband Simon Karugu travelled eight kilometres to hurl himself into the dam on March 7, 2013. He had been having mental problems since 2000 and had been hospitalised several times. “Sometimes he would disappear and come back. There was a day he visited the dam. A Good Samaritan saw him standing on top of the wall and chased him away. But the day he killed himself he left the house early in the morning. I had taken milk to the dairy centre,” Wanjiru told the Star. She said the government should fence the dam and put up guardrails, “otherwise we are going to be left without children”. Local photographer Wanjau Kariuki says other victims include a mother who plunged to her death with her baby strapped to her back. “She had been beaten by her husband after which she killed herself and the baby. We recovered her body with the baby still on her back,” he said.Another victim was a man still from Kirimangai. A young man, only identified as Ken was also said to have dived to his death to escape the wrath of residents who were pursuing him. They suspected him for theft. woman survives Another person is said to have walked five kilometres from Charagita location to the dam to commit suicide. In 2017, a woman in her late 30s or early 40s survived after jumping into the dam. Resident Wambugu Mathenge said the woman stayed afloat after she landed in the water with her arms and legs spread apart. People who were following her saved her in time. Residents attribute the high suicide rate in Ol Joro Orok to depression, domestic violence and internet games such as the Blue Whale ‘suicide game’, where the players are dared to kill themselves. Oraimutia chief Geoffrey Gatheca says the dam is always the first option for people with suicidal thoughts as it is deep and secluded. “Most people come from the neighbouring locations, like Kirimangai and Charagita. One person came all the way from Passenga in Ol Kalou. It appears they always want to hide and kill themselves without interruption,” he said Gatheca says this can be prevented if the county government — as water is a devolved function — fences the place and employs a caretaker. fence vandalised Former councillor Peter Karanja, known as Jasho, during whose time the dam was built, says a strong chain-link fence and metallic guardrails were erected atop the dam but they were all vandalised. Also vandalised was a pump and caretaker’s house at the entrance to the dam. The metallic doors, windows and iron sheets were taken away. Karanja says the dam poses a serious health challenge as the water is consumed in various parts of Ol Joro Orok and in learning institutions such as Weru Secondary School. He urges leaders, including Governor Francis Kimemia, Ol Joro Orok MP Michael Muchira, Nyandarua woman representative Faith Gitau and Senator Githiomi Mwangi to find a lasting solution. Muchira says many dams in the area are a danger. He says if Tara dam has become such a problem, funds will be set aside to restore the fence and guardrails. The other dams will be secured by fencing. But Nyandarua water executive Simon Ng’ang’a said fencing and guardrails on the dams wall will not stop people determined to take their own lives. “It is not a mitigating measure because you cannot lock a public dam. Again you cannot employ a watchman to stop those on suicide missions,” he told the Star. “I think these are psychological problems that requires help. Fencing won’t do anything.”     