The controversial ‘Rafiki’ film will now be submitted to the Oscars selection committee Kenya for entry to the 2019 Oscars Award after the High court suspended its ban for seven days. Rafiki tells the story of a romantic lesbian relationship, hence the move by the Kenya Film Classification Board to ban it over the homosexual theme. But the board's CEO Ezekiel Mutua reacted angrily to the court's decision and dared cinema halls to show it. 'It would be a tragedy and a shame to have homosexual films defining the Kenyan culture. That's not who we are and homosexuality is not our way of life. Read: Kenya bans lesbian based film 'Rafiki' ahead of Cannes Festival "If people want to screen the homosexual film in their houses that's fine. We are watching to see which public theatre will exhibit it without the Board's approval," said Mutua. In her judgement, Justice Wilfrida Okwany said she is not convinced that Kenya is such a weak society whose moral foundation will be shaken by simply watching a film depicting gay theme. She said the choice by an adult on whether or not to watch a film cannot be directed by the film director Wanuri Kahiu or anyone for that matter so as to justify the claim that the film will compel change of moral values. “On weighing the interest of Wanuri who has a right to freedom of expression and artistic creativity against her rights of the public who are under no obligation whatsoever to watch the film or even associate with what it depicts, I come to the irresistible conclusion that the application is merited,” said the Judge. The suspension will lapse on September. For clarity purposes the Judge directed that during the 7 day suspension period, the film shall be open for the viewing of willing adults only. Read: What critics think of Kenya's banned lesbian film 'Rafiki' The Judge held that the matter before court for determination is not whether homosexuality is right or wrong, moral or immoral but the matter before court is the determination of whether an artist or a film maker can in exercising his or her right to freedom of expression and artistic creativity make a film depicting gay theme. “In any event, the applicants have not stated that any Kenyan will be under any obligation to watch the film or that they will be forced to watch it against their will,” she said. Wanuri had told the court that orders lifting the ban on the film for exhibition to an adult’s only audience for seven days would suffice for the Oscar nominations. Entry to the Oscars is set to close on September 30 the date upon which the order of the court will lapse. Kenya Film Classification Board CEO Ezekiel Mutua banned the film in April this year due to alleged homosexual theme depicted in its content. More: 'Rafiki' film ban ignites state film agencies' sibling rivalry Click here for
the latest political news