Kenyan-based Englishwoman Geraldine M. Macoun, who made history by being the first woman to climb Mount Kenya, died on September 10 in Langata, at the age of 102. Geraldine led a very long and active life. She had been a mountaineer, rider, intrepid explorer, artist and photographer, and wife and mother. She was born on August 23, 1916, in England, in the middle of the First World War. Her father, Gerald Carew Sladen, had been at the Battle of the Somme and was fighting in the trenches. He was awarded two DSOs and an MC. He retired as a General and had served in the Boer War, Somaliland Camel Corps and KAR. Her mother was Mabel Orr-Ewing from Cardross House, Stirling, Scotland. The Sladens arrived at Mombasa in late 1919. Geraldine was only three. They bought 4,000 acres of bush at Rongai from Lord Delamere and called it Fintry. Next door was Deloraine, belonging to the Scotts, and Gogar farm belonging to the Dudgeons. Geraldine, her brother Edward and sister Ruth were brought up at Fintry Farm. Initially the girls went to school at Limuru until it burnt down, and were then educated by governesses on the farm with the Scott and Dudgeon girls (Pam and Moy, Bissie and Jean). Early days at Fintry were spent riding horses with Airedale dogs and on safari. Gerald hunted when he could get away from farming, which was hard work and not very profitable. Grandmother Mabel ran things. Life was challenging and exciting. It took two days to drive to Nairobi to shop, stay at Muthaiga Club and go to the races. Gerald died of pneumonia in 1930 and is buried at Nakuru. He broke down in the rain at 9,000 ft and died four days later of pneumonia. Geraldine was very active and a keen explorer and an excellent moutaineer. She became the first woman to climb Mt Kenya in 1938 with her brother Eddie. Geraldine went to England and Scotland on trips with her parents every few years. Her brother went to Stowe. Geraldine studied Art at the Slade School. She skied and climbed, including the Matterhorn. She also drove from England to Kenya across the Sahara with her brother and an old family friend in under six weeks in 1938. She wrote an excellent diary with great photos and drawings. Sadly, Fintry Farm was sold in 1935. Her mother moved to Elburgon and Molo. ARMY EXPERIENCE Like most farm girls Geraldine joined the FANYs, the women’s section of the British army. When war broke out in 1939, she was posted to Dar-es-Salaam, where she met and married Michael Macoun. Her son Brian was born there. Michael, who had been born and brought up in China and Ireland, was a fluent German speaker after studying at Oxford and then Munich University. He was sent out to Tanganyika by the British government to round up the Germans in 1939. After that he was posted to Combined Services Intelligence at Nairobi at Shell House. Her son Tony was born in Nairobi. Geraldine’s brother Eddie was in the Kings African Rifles in Abyssinia, and then with the East African Scouts in the Arakan in Burma, where he was killed in 1944. After the war, she returned to Tanganyika, where Michael served in the Colonial Police at Mbeya, Iringa, Arusha and Dar. Life was spartan after the war. Arusha was our favourite posting. Brian went to school at Pembroke House in Kenya and Geraldine used to drive him there over awful roads during the Mau Mau Emergency, with a pistol in her hand bag. Michael was promoted to top job in Dar and then transferred as Commissioner of Police to Uganda for six years. Geraldine enjoyed Uganda, where she ran the blood transfusion service. We did many safaris, and there was also trouble in the Congo and insecurity in Rwanda to keep my father busy. After Independence, Michael stayed on for two years and then joined the Foreign Office in London as Inspector General of Colonial/Dependent Territories Police Forces. This took him and Geraldine all over the world. She never really liked Surrey in England, where they settled, and most of her friends were ex-East African. Michael died in 1999 and Geraldine moved to a small house. She continued driving until she was over 92. Sadly she had a fall and moved to a care home that was not pleasant. In 2011, she moved to Nairobi to stay with her son Brian in Langata. The Queen sent her a card on her 100th Birthday in 2016.