Jubilee MCAs have backed down on plans to impeach Nairobi governor Mike Sonko. They said there are ‘no compelling reasons’ to remove the governor and they will shoot down the motion when it’s tabled in the assembly. On September 6, MCAs debated the state of the county and set out conditions for Sonko to avoid removal from office. They gave the governor two weeks to relocate from his Mua home in Machakos county to City Hall. They also told him to appoint a deputy governor, stop demolitions of kiosks, recall suspended officers and reopen closed offices at City Hall. Majority leader Abdi Guyo yesterday dismissed the impeachment talk as “just hot air”. He said MCAs never resolved to eject Sonko from office. Read:Plan to impeach Sonko is hot air, majority leader Guyo says “The public is fed with rumours and propaganda. Only two or three members have been pushing the plan. That is not the position of the whole assembly,” Guyo said. He spoke during a press conference in his office. Guyo said Sonko has not violated Article 181 of the Constitution that spells out grounds for the removal of the governor. “By delaying the nomination of a deputy governor, has the governor grossly violated the Constitution? Does it amount to gross misconduct? These people should be serious,” he said. Related: MCAs give Sonko two weeks to shift from Mua residence to City Hall Guyo said Sonko is in office to stay and no MCA has signed a petition to remove him. But deputy minority chief whip and Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto said the plan to remove Sonko is on. He said a state of the county report that will be presented in the assembly will inform their course of action. “We expect the majority leader to table the report for us to know if the issues we raised have been addressed. If not, then be assured, the motion will come,” he said. For the governor to be removed, 82 members or two-thirds of the 122 MCAs must vote him out. Jubilee has 64 members in the assembly and the opposition has 58. If the MCAs are convinced the grounds are sufficient, then one member — the sponsor of the motion — will notify the speaker supported by at least a third of the members. The motion will then be debated and voted. In case of impeachment, the Senate speaker will convene a sitting within seven days to discuss the case and uphold or reject the removal. Click here for the latest political news