ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President Wiliam Ruto have led Kenyans in congratulating Fatuma Zarika who retained her WBC title on Saturday. Zarika took on Yamileth Mercado of Mexico in the World Boxing Council super bantamweight championship title at KICC in Nairobi. The Kenyan champion garnered  290 points to retain the title against her strong challenger who managed 280 points. More on this: Fatuma Zarika beats Mexican Yamileth Mercado to retain WBC title "Congratulations @FatumaZarika on retaining your WBC Super Bantamweight Title. You have done Kenya proud. An impressive performance from @YeimiMercado16 as well. Hongera," Raila said on Sunday. Ruto said, "Huge victory for Kenya as Fatuma Zarika outclasses Mexican Yamileth Mercado. We salute Zarika for her perseverance, steel and strong mentality to prevail." "Congratulations to Fatuma Zarika on retaining the WBC title. Thanks for making Kenya proud!," @Alex_Mwakideu said. User @governorkingi said "Congratulations Fatuma Zarika ... Your fighting spirit earned you a deserved win. We're proud of you." "Congratulations to Fatuma Zarika for beating Mexican Mercado. Though I'm a novice of boxing but was there watching crossing fingers for Zarika to win," @MangiAlfred said. @odhiambowino89 said, "We are so happy with her performance adding into our basket a win after the stars gave us one, we are Kenyans we are strong." "Kenyans are ready to defend our flag at all costs. We expect the same from the government to respect and protect its own citizens," @DouglasMyles10 said. Zarika led in a split decision after the first five rounds 37-39, 39-37 and 39-37 and after the eighth round 74-78, 77-75 and 79-73. "The huge number of fans who turned up cheer me up propelled me to victory. This is for you and I thank God for the victory once again," Zarika said. Zarika, who stretched her record to 31 wins also thanked her sponsor SportPesa. "Special thanks to my sponsor (@sportpesa) and all my fans. Thank you for having my back the past few months up to the last half hour. This one is for Kenya. It was all worth it," she said. Click here for the latest political news