Seven officials of Nyeri county government were yesterday arrested and are expected to be charged today. The seven are five members of the county Public Service Board and two ward administrators. They were arrested by Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission officials over irregular recruitment of subcounty and ward administrators. EACC detectives arrested them after they honoured a summon in their offices, where they were held for questioning for hours. The five are Alice Muita, who was the chairman of the board; Anthony Muriu, the secretary (CEO) and board members Beatrice Gikaru, Geoffrey Mahinda and Shelomith Nderitu. “All suspects are under arrest and will be taken to court. We are processing them and we will take them to court probably tomorrow (Wednesday),” EACC’s Central regional manager Charles Rasugu said. They received a report against the board in 2015 on the irregular appointment. “The investigations established here were irregularities in the recruitment that culminated in the appointment of the subcounty administrators and ward administrators in the county of Nyeri in the period between July 2013 and March 2014,” Rasugu told reporters outside the EACC offices in Nyeri. He said the investigation file was submitted to the Director of Public Prosecutions, who agreed with the commission’s recommendations to charge the suspects. The suspects face offense of abuse of office contrary to Section 46 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act 2003, read with Section 48. The second offense is conspiracy to commit an offense of corruption, contrary to Section 47A( 3 ) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003. “Others to be prosecuted are Johnson Njogu, a ward administrator, and Jackson Kibutu, a ward administrator,” he said. The two will be charged with forgery and presenting a false document which was used for the recruitment purposes. “Investigations found the CPB Secretary and 4 board members responsible and thus culpable for those irregularities. The investigations also disclosed deception on the part of some of the applicants who were ultimately appointed as Ward Administrators.” the EACC tweeted.