Karma — in the sense of the
spiritual principle of cause and effect, and not the flash-in-the-pan Kenyan
celeb from a decade ago — can be a spiteful nightmare, and I have the bruises
to prove it. For many years, I have cheered on
gleefully when I’ve seen the traffic police pull over a motorist for clutching
onto their mobile phone with one hand or sandwiching it between ear and
shoulder as they drive. I have lectured friends and made foes of a few people
after I tore a strip off them for being on the phone instead of concentrating
on the road. Of course, the imperfect being that I
am, I have once or twice handled my phone while driving, but of course I was
never caught (and in the manner of a politician caught off-side, I will gruffly
brush that hypocrisy off and leave it as a story for another day). While the reason for my cursing of karma
is to do with a mobile phone, I wasn’t driving a car and there were no cops to
arrest me, but I know for sure had I watched it happen to someone else, I would
have tried very hard not to laugh or be judgmental, and failed miserably. Without beating about the bush for too
much longer, the other day I paid a visit to the toney Constantia Village
shopping centre (this most upmarket of Cape Town’s neighbourhoods would never
allow the crassness of a common shopping mall to blemish it’s leafy suburban
air) when I missed a step and fell facedown into the car park. This unfortunate accident, in which I
twisted my ankle and hurt my shoulder as I attempted to break my fall, would
never have happened if I hadn’t been texting while walking. Let me just say
here that what little dignity I may have had, cast aside as I let out a string
of rapid-fire curses (and not a little blasphemy) between mid-air and the
ground. Looking back, it’s amazing how these
incidents appear to have been in slow-motion, even though it all happened in
the split second it takes to put one foot ahead of the other and misjudge the
distance to the ground. No longer a sprightly youth, I couldn’t
get up quickly and try to appear as if nothing much had happened. Instead I
spent nearly a whole minute patting myself down to check that nothing was
broken other than my cell phone screen. The latter was handed to me by a
passing workman, while trying not to smirk at the sight of a middle-aged man
sprawled on the ground and trying to salvage the smashed-up remains of whatever
decorum he may have once had. I am generally recovered from my
injuries. However, until my ego heals, I will not be revisiting that shopping
centre. Meanwhile, I will never again text while
walking, and if I ever have enough money to give away to scientific research,
it will be to help invent a collision avoidance system chip that can be
embedded in the human body and somehow connected to a pair of spectacles
smartphone so that nobody ever has to fall as I did — unless it’s for a joke.