The 6th edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) went down at the Eko Hotel and Suites in Lagos, Nigeria, on Saturday. As usual, African celebrities graced the red carpet and stole the show, while some were horribly dressed. And for the first time, Kenyans beat their Nollywood counterparts to emerge the winners in various categories. Nyce Wanjeri, popularly known as Shiro of Auntie Boss, won the Best Actress in a comedy and TV series. The multitalented actress took to social media to share the great news, flaunting her award. “Mama!! I made it!! Watch me from heaven and see my dream as we watched those naija movies, afro cinema continues shortly...” Mark Maina scooped the Best Picture Editor award for the movie “18 Hours”. Phoebe Ruguru won the Best Overall Movie award and the Best Movie award in East Africa for the 18 hours movie. Dennis Wanjohi Maina emerged tops in the Best Documentary category for the documentary ‘The Flesh Business’. Maina’s documentary highlighted the rampant underage prostitution in the coastal region. Below is a list of people who were nominated along the Kenyans who made us proud: Best Picture Editor: Idemuza - Aloaye Omoake; 18 Hours - Mark Maina WINNER; Alter Ego - Moses Inwang/Tunde Bakare; Hakkune - Asurf Oluseyi; Hidden - Jibril Mailafia Best Lighting Designer Movie/TV Series: Tatu - Akpe Ododoru, Tunde Akinniyi WINNER; Kada River - Godwin Gata; Hidden - Agbo Kelly; Lotanna - McBaror; Children of Mud - Sunday Olalekan Best Documentary: The Flesh Business - Dennis Wanjohi WINNER; Nightfall in Lagos - James Amuta; God’s Wives - Bolanle Olukanni; Omidan, Styles Defunct by Ayaworanho3d - Aderemi Davies; Calabar Carnival: What the People Think - Oghenefego Ofili Best Movie East Africa: 18 Hours - Phoebe Ruguru WINNER; Devil’s Chest - Hassan Mageye; The Forbidden - Kizito Samuel Saviour; Rain - Mathew & Eleanor Nabwiso; Bella - Math Bish Best Actress in a comedy and TV series: Rita Dominic - Big Fat Lie; Adesua Etomi - 10 days in Sun city; Queen Nwokoye - Excess Luggage; Bimbo Ademoye - Backup Wife; Dakore Akande - Isoken; Nyce Wanjeri - Auntie Boss WINNER