Namier was a British historian most notable
for his work chronicling the history of British Parliament. That observation remains apt today as it did
more than 54 years when he said the words. For its part, Kenya’s National Assembly traces
its existence to 1906, when the Legislative Council of Kenya was established
and remained in place until it was dissolved at Independence to pave way for
the first post-Independence Parliament. The council was created to represent
British citizens throughout its life and remained all-White for most of its 65
years, save for when it incorporated Indians and Arabs. It was not until 1943,
however, when the first African was nominated by the governor to represent the
majority Africans. Although its composition has changed to
reflect the new freedoms and suffrage, many aspects were carry-over of the
colonial legislative council, which became an issue for the African members and
thus the urge to reform Parliament to gain total independence and repudiate
colonial practices. However, all this was to no avail with the
rise and growth of the imperial presidency and the continued Executive
dominance, which further marginalised Parliament. Indeed, one can say without
any serious challenge that Parliament remained a rubber stamp for the President’s
whims throughout the 70s, 80s, and 90s. Question is, what about now? Is it still a
rubber stamp for the presidency or do they have any usefulness as an
institution representing the interests of the ordinary Kenyans, besides special
interests it has always been beholden to? It’s a wrong question. To paraphrase Sir Namier,
the right question is: Is the social structure of Kenya reflected in our
National Assembly, and can the presence or decay of independent political life
in the villages be watched in the representation? The answer is a resounding No, despite what
appears on paper. The 2010 Constitution brought about all manner
of desired changes (and some undesired ones) and among these was distributing the
budget making roles between the Executive, Parliament and independent offices
such as the Commission on Revenue Allocation and the Controller of Budget, a
departure from before when the Executive did all this. So, as to whether Kenya’s social structure is
reflected in Parliament, the answer is Yes, but only on paper because even though
the Constitution endows the electoral system with a number of guiding
principles — freedom to exercise political rights, the two-thirds rule, fair
representation of persons with disabilities, universal suffrage  and the right to free and fair elections —
none of them have been implemented to anywhere near to what was envisaged. As to the question of whether the presence or
decay of independent political life in the villages be watched in the
representation in Parliament, it’s doubtful one can find other than an echo. However, with the recent attempt by an
alliance of cross-party line opposition to the Executive in its efforts to ram
through an unpopular tax bill, one saw a glimpse of what MPs can do, if they
woke up and took their roles seriously as representatives and defenders of the
common mwananchi and not just a rubber stamp. We hope for once in our lifetime these MPs can
sustain this level of standing up against the government regardless of party
affiliation to do what’s right for Wanjiku, whose interests are never of any
concern for most of them and certainly not the Executive, given the runaway
corruption in the country. It’s the least expected of them. Samuel
Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States