A Cabinet Secretary unsuccessfully tried to stop the deportation of a Cameroonian involve in fake money printing syndicate The CS, known to have previously engaged in the illegal business, called several people including parklands police who were holding the man, Peter Longa Doccta and demanded that he be released. But as he was making efforts to release the man, his Interior counterpart Fred Matiangi acted swifty and signed a deportation order which saw Longa deported yesterday. Longa is linked to Arafat Omar, alias Omar Rashid  (a Kenyan), and Fidel Ako (a Ghanaian) who were arrested last weekend and are facing various charges in court. An analysis of Omar’s communication shows he has been communicating with a well-known judge for some time, and have a sexual relationship.  Suspect implicates Governor Korane's brother One of the suspects held in connection with the gangland-style shooting of former Garissa county Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar has implicated a brother to the Governor as having approached him to look for goons. In a statement Mohamud Hussein Aden recorded with police on August 28, 2018, after his arrest in Ngara, Nairobi, the former soldier says  that Bunow Korane, a brother to governor Ali Korane, approached him and " asked if I have goons for hire." Korane had denied any involvement. "I did not know his intentions because I did not bother to ask him at that time," the suspect states in the statement police said he recorded voluntarily.  Why we may not have a friend in China Anyone with a problem with alcohol, considers whoever buys them more booze without judging them, as a good friend. But are they? Africa is like an alcoholic who has discovered a friend who will splash before them lots of alcohol and asking no questions. And China is probably fully aware that its debt-driven diplomacy is only driving Africa further into dependency. Chinese money makes it harder for Africa to make even the smallest things such as paper clips, ear-buds or even toothpicks. All are from China. We now have absolutely no incentive to produce these things. We are not just addicted to Chinese money; we are also desperately losing our ability to hunt, like a fed lion in a zoo that will never survive in the wild.  Why speakers are MCA's new targets Incessant demands for lucrative foreign trips, bonding and bench marking outings, bare-knuckle battles to control multi-million tenders and the scramble to influence staff recruitment, are behind the latest onslaught by MCAs on county assembly speakers. A year after the last general election, assertive ward representatives have trained their guns on speakers in what could impede legislation, oversight and representation at the counties. The new wave of impeachments have thrown most speakers off balance, with some of them staring at ouster bids in what could further deepen the crisis political parties are facing in legislative arms. With statistics showing that over half of the country’s 2,222 MCAs were voted out in last year’s polls, most newcomers are said to be angling for appointments for their relatives and cronies, while at the same time seeking a slice of the assembly contracts.  Judicial immunity is enemy of rule of law and justice For those who have been around for long enough, people who have been interested in the welfare of our country have always fought for democracy, for without freedom and rights, life is unlivable. In addition, progressive people have fought for the rule of law and equality before the law because without them, there is no justice, without which life tastes like ashes. In the past, when judges were denied security of tenure by the dictatorship, fighters for freedom and justice said no at great cost to themselves. When Judges were subjected to the whims and dictation of the one-man dictatorship, again, freedom fighters said no.  Your Weather: Today NAIROBI: Partly cloudy all day. Low 12ºC. High 24ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Generally clear; Showers at night. Low 22ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. KISUMU: Generally clear; Partly cloudy, with a possible thunderstorm at night. Low 18ºC. High 30ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h.  Your Weather: Sunday NAIROBI: Partly cloudy; Showers late at night. Low 14ºC. High 25ºC. Winds E at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. MOMBASA: Showers morning and night. Low 21ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. KISUMU: Partly cloudy day and night. Low 19ºC. High 31ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h.