In 2011 a law was passed requiring legislators to have a college education. But its opponents seem to have won. They have successfully frustrated and deferred implementation of the law — in 2013 and 2017 elections — requiring MPs and MCAs to hold degrees. I bet it will be deferred again in 2022, despite proliferation of the underground certificates industry. Those opposed to strict academic requirements say leadership qualities include natural intelligence, talent, wisdom and integrity. Education is equated with ‘book knowledge’. ‘Natural’ leadership agents are averse to education as a prerequisite for leadership. They aver that education does not guarantee honest democratic leadership. They argue degrees are just labels; that their inclusion as criteria in political leadership will be ‘discriminatory’ and will lock out those with ‘traditional skills’. But the ‘traditionalists’ can’t name one exemplary ‘traditionally’ endowed leader in contemporary times. The cynics have a point, though. The increase in the number of ‘educated’ MPs hasn’t improved performance. There are certainly more lawyers, accountants, academics, engineers, architects, economists and journalists in Parliament. But the opposite has happened; debate and oversight have suffered ignominy in the hands of these ‘educated’ MPs. Paradoxically, the more the educated flock to Parliament, the more compliant, complacent and complicit it gets. ‘Cleverness’ is being misapplied; MPs moonlight in Parliament for personal deals. The only correlation between academic excellence and MPs incompetence is their enrichment. When illiterates make money more than those who ‘have gone to school’ and buy leadership positions, society cheapens education. Primitivity sets in when disowning academic qualifications as a virtue in political leadership becomes fashionable. No wonder youths don’t associate success with education anymore. The sooner they burn schools and are out hustling in the footsteps of their ‘hustler’ mentors, the sooner society gets to know ‘who they are’. It’s the reason they elected the dastardliest people as MCAs, MPs, senators and governors. Sorry, it’s better to have an educated idiot than a wise illiterate. ‘Book education’ can’t be divorced from modern leadership. Academics is not about memory; it’s discovery. It builds virtue; an inquisitive, disciplined, confident and interrogative mind; analytical skills, civic responsibility and public duty. There are three reasons the degree was thought mandatory for political candidates post-2010 Constitution. One, the country needs to give meaning to education, which takes most of the budget. Going to school needs a morale booster to counter the slide into hustler mentality. How does a country emphasise and justify colossal expenditure on education and then delete it in a matter as vital as choice of top leadership? Second, the need for equal opportunity; degrees are mandatory in other professions and careers. Academic qualifications can’t be mandatory in all cadres of blue-collar employment except political leadership. Third, the imperative to match skills between the Executive, Judiciary and Parliament. We have an irony where MPs who oversight the Executive and Judiciary have lesser education qualifications. High echelons of the Executive and Judiciary are degree holders yet Parliament is full of swaggering illiterates only interested in the next deal. No wonder they are often overawed during oversight and legislation charades where they sit for rent seeking. County assemblies are overrun by noisy brawlers because the governors, deputy governors, county executive members, chief officers, directors, subcounty administrators, name it, are multi-degree holders whose penchant for running rings around MCAs only results in threats of impeachments. Seriously, how many MCAs comprehend the complexities of the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP) minus the itemised budget aide? Unfortunately, what we have for educated MPs ( 166 have artisan certificates or diplomas) are charlatans whose certificates, diplomas and degrees are mainly fake from equally questionable institutions. Alarmingly, those academy papers are products of term papers and exams subcontracting industry that proliferated after 2013. Assignments were written and exams done for some. Some catapulted from EACE graduates to degree holders in months. Its horrifying having as decent discussion with some graduate honourable. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com