Fighter jets roared over
the US Naval Academy on Sunday in a final tribute to former
Senator John McCain as the Vietnam War hero and two-time
presidential candidate was laid to rest at the military college
that began his career six decades ago. As three F-18 jets from the Navy's Blue Angels show squadron
streaked overhead, a fourth plane broke formation and arced
skyward, marking the conclusion of an extraordinary five-day
show of mourning for one of the United States' most admired
politicians. Family and friends, along with the Naval Academy's class of
1958 and its current student body, bade a final farewell in a
private service at the Naval Academy chapel before McCain, who
died August 25 at age 81, was interred in a cemetery on the
academy grounds. "I watched them lay my friend to rest today. I will miss
him," Senator Jeff Flake, who represented Arizona alongside
McCain in Congress, wrote on Twitter. Crowds gathered along the route of the motorcade bearing
McCain's body. At one point, a large American flag hung
suspended between two cranes on a bridge. McCain's burial plot was next to his classmate and friend,
Admiral Chuck Larson, a former commander of US Pacific Command
who died in 2014, according to the McCain family. Among those paying tribute to McCain at Sunday's private
service were his sons Jack and Don, retired Army General David
Petraeus and Senator Lindsey Graham, a long-time political ally
and friend. McCain, an often imposing presence for decades in US
defense and foreign policy, was eulogized by former US
presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush, as well as his
daughter Meghan McCain on Saturday at a Washington ceremony. Without naming Trump, McCain's daughter, Bush and Obama all
rebuked Trump, who feuded with the late senator and mocked his
military service, which included 5-1/2 years as a prisoner
during the Vietnam War. During both the Washington ceremony and the Annapolis
burial, Trump was at his private golf course in Virginia. Before the burial Graham, appearing on CNN, said; "I'm going
to try to focus on the fact that I'm going to admit to what I've
lost. I cannot think of anything I've done in politics of
consequence, any cause I've engaged in, that John was not there,
that I was not his wingman." Joseph Lieberman, a former US senator and close friend,
said on CNN: "I say goodbye and my heart will be heavy. I'll
shed a tear and yet I'll thank God that I knew a man like John
McCain so well." Click here for the latest political news 