Refugee children need to be included in the national education systems of their host countries, a recent report says. The report Turn the Tide: Refugee Education in Crisis dated August 30 says there are currently four million refugee children who are out of school. The report calls on host governments to eliminate barriers that block access to education, such as requirements for birth and school certificates. "We cannot build a future by shunting refugee children into a parallel system of schooling that relies on outdated materials, makeshift classrooms or untrained teachers. We cannot improvise an education and imagine that this is good enough," the report says. "If all women received a primary level education, child deaths from diarrhoea, malaria and pneumonia would fall, as innumerable studies show. Deaths from diarrhoea, for example, the third most frequent cause of child mortality, would be reduced by eight per cent if all mothers completed primary education, or by 30 per cent if they had secondary education. These threats are especially acute in displacement situations," it says. The report gives an example of Rihanna, 12, as one of the many students in Kakuma refugee camp, in northern Kenya. When she was nine, she and her younger sister, Ikra, were separated from their parents during their family’s journey to escape violence and persecution at home. Rihanna is one in a million out-of-school refugee children around the world who have been enrolled in primary school, despite being overage, thanks to Educate A Child – a global programme of the Education Above All Foundation that unites private sector actors, foundations, non-governmental organizations and UN agencies to ensure out of school children get the opportunity to go to primary school. The programme helps with teacher training, school infrastructure and equipment, innovative ways to make sure children can attend school, and the provision of teaching and learning materials. Today, more than 80,000 refugee children are enrolled in school in Kakuma refugee camp. The report is calling on the donors to commit to multi-year predictable funding from the emergency phase onwards so that no refugee is excluded from schooling due to lack of funds. Click here for the latest political news