Sixty Uasin Gishu county staff have been sacked or interdicted so far for involvement in corruption, Governor Jackson Mandago has said. Mandago last week interdicted 17 employees over graft. Another 43 have been sacked in the last year for the same reason. The 17 who were interdicted were involved in defrauding the county through the computer system. “They were defrauding the county using our computer system and we cannot allow such dishonest people to be among our staff,” Mandago said. He said some residents collude with staff to evade paying taxes to the county or engage in corruption. “We want to tell members of the public that it is very expensive to evade paying taxes or pay bribes to get any services from the county government,” Mandago said. He spoke in Eldoret on Friday. “If any of our employees asks for a bribe, they should be reported so that we take action against them. I will not entertain graft under my administration,” the governor said. Read: I won’t tolerate lazy, inept and corrupt staff, warns Mandago Warning Mandago said 42 other staff in the parking department have been sent home last year after they presented fake banking slips for money collected as parking fees. The workers diverted more than Sh5 million which they had collected. The county hired new parking attendants and implemented an automated system to stop diversion of the money. The governor said all employees have been warned to desist from corruption or they would pay a heavy price, including losing their jobs and prosecution. He said county employees have the duty to ensure illegal and unlicensed businesses do not operate in the town. Just pay “We have to all fight corruption and even at the county level, we have to use the resources we have prudently and serve the public with dedication,” Mandago said. He said it would be easier for traders to pay for permits for their businesses instead of using money to bribe officers. “Once you pay for the permit, you do your business in peace, rather than operate in a manner that is unlawful,” Mandago said. More: Mandago warns health staff diverting drugs, wasting resources Click here for the latest political news