Detectives have taken samples from a vehicle believed to have been used in the abduction of the daughter of Githongo law court senior resident magistrate Caroline Kemei. Maribel Kapolon, 9, went missing on September 6. She was murdered and her body dumped in a forest. On Friday, nine officers from the homicide department and Nairobi DCI checked the car at Meru town police station. No one was allowed near the scene during the exercise. Suspect Benson Marangu, a former prison warder, was also with the officers. He was later escorted by one plainclothes officer to cells at the station. Marangu is believed to be the owner of the car. Maribel’s body was found in Gitoro Forest. She was a Standard 4 pupil at Consolata Primary School. She was kidnapped along Total Road in Meru, near the county commander’s office and adjacent to the county commissioner’s residence. North Imenti police boss Peter Kimani said the samples collected by the detectives will be taken to government chemist for analysis. He said they would not disclose all information as that would undermine investigations. “We have DCI officers from the headquarters working round the clock to ensure the matter has been pursued to its conclusion and all culprits apprehended. This is a sensitive matter and everyone is following it to know the end result,” Kimani said. On Thursday, priests, pupils and teachers, legal officers, judges, judicial staff and magistrates attended Kaplon’s funeral service at Meru Cathedral. They called for quick investigations and punishment for all those involved. CALL FOR JUSTICE Meru judge Alfred Mabeya said such acts will not deter judges and magistrates from performing their duties. He described Maribel as a God-fearing and committed child whose death is hard to accept. “When one of us is hurt, we are all pained. Let it be known that no amount of intimidation, threat and terrorist acts will stop us from performing our oath of office,” Mabeya said. Meanwhile, detectives and a pathologist left journalists at the Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary without any communication. It was alleged the family wanted postmortem results kept private. Guards and a supervisor requested journalists to step out for them to lock the gates after the two vehicles belonging to detectives and one from the family left. Kimani pledged to brief the public once the sample results were out. “A postmortem was conducted yesterday [Thursday] and samples taken to the government chemist for analysis. We shall communicate to you whatever the results. We are other clues to help unravel the motive and subsequent kidnapping and killing of the magistrate’s daughter,” he said. Benson Marangu and another suspect Francis Otundo will remain in police custody after a Meru court ordered that they be detained for 10 days so the officers can complete investigations. Chief magistrate Hannah Ndung’u said, “Due to the nature, complexity and public interest of this matter and in light of the submission by the state, I grant the DCI 10 days to complete investigations.” Harrison Kiarie represented the Director of Public Prosecutions, Eliud Mutuma defended the suspects.