The government has embarked on building courts within or next to prison premises to eliminate delays in the arraignment of accused persons. At least eight courts will be built near prisons, chief Justice David Maraga said yesterday. Maraga who spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony for the proposed Kahawa Courts at Kamiti Prisons said having the courts near the detention facilities will ease the work of the Judiciary. “We often experience delays in hearings when prison authorities are unable to bring the accused persons to court on time,” Maraga said. The proposed courts will mainly deal with transnational and organised crime which requires special arrangements for hearing. .The special arrangements include
extra security for suspects especially
those facing terrorism charges. Maraga said the new courts will
also address congestion.
“Kahawa Courts will also be used
to try criminal cases from around
the region. This will go a long way in
clearing congestion in Kiambu and
Madaraka courts,” he said. Interior CS Fred Matiangi said that
the government was willing to work
with the Judiciary to address existing
challenges. He said the courts were part of
the governments plan to intensify
reforms in the correctional services
sector. “We will remain collaborative
with the judiciary. We’ll work with
you and support you to ensure we
dispense justice as fast as possible,”
Matiang’i said. The CS said the government had
enough land to build the courts
around the country. He said morecourts will reduce movement and
save the time taken to transport accused
persons to court. “Sometimes moving these prisoners
to court is a matter that takes up
a lot of resources and time. Doing it
within the premises makes it easier,
reduces cost and guarantees security,”
he said. Commissioner of prisons Isaiah Osugo
said the prison service system
had a big congestion problem. The prisons can only accommodate
27,000 inmates.
“Today, we have 53,000 inmates
countrywide. About 21,000 are in
remand and 30,000 have been convicted,”
Osugo said. He called for reforms to address
the challenge. Read:New housing unit for women inmates in Garissa prison The prisons boss said
inmates are well taken care of and
offered several learning programmes. “We give them vocational training,
chaplaincy and education from primary
to university level to enable
them acquire skills that will help
them reintegrate into society,” Osugo
said. In February, the Office of Director
of Public Prosecutions said it was
reviewing remandees’ cases to ease
congestion in prisons.
Deputy DPP Jacob Ondari said the
Kenya Prisons Service facilities were
overstretched because of the high
number of remandees. Read:How mindfulness is helping Kenyan prisoners achieve inner freedom “We want to
determine when these cases are going
to be heard or consider dropping
some petty off ences to help decongest
these facilities,” Ondari said at
the Kodiaga Prison in Kisumu. “The offi ce of the DPP has obtained
data of all remandees and identified
237 cases of petty offenses whose
files have been requested for review”. In 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta
pardoned 7,000 petty offenders who
were about to clear their sentences.     