A joyous Kenya Wildlife Service on Wednesday welcomed the birth of a black rhino at the Tsavo East National park. "New kid on the block: The birth of a black rhino in Tsavo yesterday has brought thrill of amazement and smiles on our faces," KWS tweeted on Wednesday. Paul Udoto, the agency's communications boss, said they are considering asking for public suggestions on a possible nickname for the newborn. KWS formally registers all rhino births in a database and allocates the calves distinct ID numbers for life-long identification. The details entered in the register include date of birth, place of birth, mother/father, age, and sex. But Udoto noted that rhinos are often named after partners, donors, well-wishers, KWS staff, and important guests. This is to appreciate their support and contribution to conservation of rhinos and other species. "So, for the rhino born in Tsavo East, we have the ID and other biometric details but we are yet to name after a human being or other discretionary identity," he said. This joy was extended to Kenyans who asked KWS to protect the rhino with all their hearts and might. "Please,
please keep it safe. If you ever need any help, post it, ask for it.
There are people, and governments, all over the world, I am sure will
assist," @Ndege said. The comments followed deaths of 11 black rhinos were reported in July when they were being moved from Nairobi National Park. Reports indicated that the rhinos died after taking highly saline water on arrival in the new environment. @GeraldGichuki said: "@NTVnewsroom @citizentvkenya something positive or are you waiting for another death so that you can rush there?" "Any name chosen for the adorable baby rhino?" @PhilipOgola asked. @GametrackersKe said: "Wonderful news indeed! Trust we need all the aerial and ground support you can afford to keep this one safe as well." Read: Another rhino dies at Tsavo East, death toll rises to nine In July, Tourism CS Najib Balala said the KWS officers were "traumatised and shocked" by the deaths of the nine black rhinos. The government launched an independent investigation into the deaths at Tsavo National Park. More on this: KWS officers 'shocked, traumatised' by deaths of rhinos at Tsavo - Balala Also read: Kenya relocates endangered black rhinos to more secure habitat Click here for the latest political news    