I’m feeling quite proud of myself after finishing up my editorial. I attach it to an email and hit send. Good! I can tackle Rob’s list now. He basically wants both of us to write a list with 30 items that we require of each other. A wish list of sorts, each party can veto up to three items and that’s it. Everything else must be granted. I open the document and read through what I’ve written. Not bad. What else do I want in a man? I think this is harder than you’d imagine it would be. Try it. If a genie popped out of a lamp and gave me three wishes, it would be easier. I’d go for good health for me and my family, the end of poverty in the world and world peace. Why not? Do I sound like a beauty pageant contestant? Alternatively it might be cool to read people’s minds. And have a billion dollars. And have a fabulous body. I cross my arms over my chest and grab my shoulders. I then rotate my upper body from the waist, turning gently as far as I can in either direction. The stretch feels good and I can feel the tension on both sides of my lower back ease off. A billion dollars would buy me the perfect man who does whatever I want, whenever I want. Ha ha. Wait. This is silly. How can I not know what I want from a man? I dial Rob. “I’ll read out my list to you, if you do the same,” I say. “Ok…” he says. For the next few minutes, we do a back-and-forth.  Rob’s list is emotional, for lack of a better word. He wants to introduce me to all his friends. Why? I frown. He wants to meet my family. Who does that? So soon? He wants me to introduce him as my man. Oh, by Toutatis! He wants me to commit to cooking for him once a week. I narrow my eyes. This nigga is crazy. He wants me to ensure that we speak every day. How is this my responsibility? Are we back to the thing where he never has credit? I have a headache. “Your turn,” Rob says enthusiastically. That happy tone will sound very different when I’m done reading. I actually have to leave some stuff out so I don’t sound like a materialistic bitch. My entire list is about wanting gifts, going on trips, needing him to move to a better pad, etc. Mmm. On the surface of it, I should be thrilled that his requests are so possessive. Isn’t this what a girl wants? A man who will commit? A man who will profess to all that you are his woman? Meeting all of his boys should feel like getting into the coveted inner circle. But instead, it sounds like he is parading me. Like some sort of trophy. Maybe my list needs to sound more like I’m on a pageant after all. 13 ) You need to do community service once a month. 14 ) You need to do something nice for someone without them knowing you did it. Do this once a month. 15 ) You need to be kind to someone who has treated you like total shit. Ok, just once, for this one. I know you’re not a saint. 16 ) You need to give away everything you do not wear to charity. Not sure why people don’t do this, by the way. They’d rather hoard stuff for years rather than give it away. I’m making this up as I go along and Rob is impressed. “I never knew this side to you,” he says. “You really genuinely care about other people.”