Makueni government needs Sh150 million to complete the construction of a tannery, which stalled eight years ago.
Agriculture and Livestock Executive Lawrence Nzunga appealed to investors to partner with the county in the project.
The project is among other six mini tanneries across the country initiated in 2010 jointly by the then Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Development and the Kenya Leather Development Council under the economic stimulus programme.
Others are in Baringo, Bungoma, Wajir and Garissa.
Speaking at the site in Wote town when KLDC handed over the project  to the county government, Nzunga said the money will be used to install electricity, water supply and a waste management plant.
‘‘We intend to put in place three phase electricity, a borehole to ensure constant supply of water and an effluent management system for full operations to begin,” he said.
Other required works are a tannery block, an underground water tank, installation of machinery including a standby generator, a fleshing machine, two motorised tanning wooden drums and chemicals for tanning.
Nzunga said once complete, the project would impact positively on people through creation of wealth and employment.
‘‘The project has a huge potential for value addition as livestock farmers will get market for their hides and skins. Besides, young people will get jobs in the tannery,’’ he said.
He said the county government will source for hides and skins from neighbouring Kitui, Kajiado and Taita Taveta counties to meet the demand of the tannery.
Nzunga said the department of veterinary services will also train butchers and farmers to take care of animal skins when slaughtering them, to improve the quality of leather.
“We shall train butchers to on how to do skinning and emphasise to farmers to control pests and parasites that may lower the quality of the skins and hides,” he said.
County leather officer Bernard Kyalo said the completion of the tannery will be a reprieve to residents who sell hides and skins at throw-away prices of between Sh100 to Sh200.
Kyalo said the county currently produces more than 360 tonnes of hides and skins annually against the tannery’s processing capacity of one tonne per day.
He noted the processing capacity was low and would be upgraded to five tonnes a day.
“The tannery can process up to wet blue stage, which can either be exported or used to make leather products like belts, bags and shoes,” said the leather officer.
KLDC chief executive officer Dr Issack Noor said the tannery should be operationalised fast, in tandem with the Vision 2030 initiative.
He said the project was initiated to enhance value addition to available raw hides and skins and promote rural development in arid and semi -arid regions.
He assured the county government of KLDC’s support in operationalising the tannery.
‘‘As a council we call on the county government to equip the tannery and create capacity for manufacturing leather products. We will offer technical assistance when need be,” said the CEO.