Double Taxation Treaties, commonly termed DTT’s or DTA’s,
refer to bilateral taxation agreements that seek to eliminate the double
taxation of income that arises in one jurisdiction and is paid out to residents
in another jurisdiction. Through DTT’s, governments seek to foster cooperation
and coordination in tax revenue collection so as to ultimately enhance foreign
direct investment. Kenya, in a bid to enhance her image on the global stage,
as well as to strengthen trade relations with her international partners, has
directed numerous resources toward the conclusion of DTT’s. This is in line
with the concerted effort to strengthen global trade and investment
partnerships, with the message passed across being that Kenya is ready and open
for business. This pro-active stance by the Government of Kenya is to be
lauded. As the world moves toward a becoming a global village, as a result of
globalization, it is important for governments to formalize agreements that
will not only promote international trade, but also work toward sealing
loopholes in the taxation system. However, despite the above, it is important for countries
seeking to foster international trade to look after their interests as well. An
important tool, such as the DTT, can easily become a liability, if not
correctly structured. Particularly, imbalanced DTT’s pose the risk of tax
revenue loss that may actually be higher than the gains received through
Foreign Direct Investment. In order to arrive at this balance, it is important that
Governments’ negotiating Double Taxation Agreements adequately consult with the
relevant governmental bodies concerned, as well as external stakeholders. This will ensure that any tax revenue loss suffered as a
result of the final concluded DTT is well expected, and appropriately balanced
with the resultant Foreign Direct Investment to be attracted. Further, this
will also serve to ensure that the interests of the executive, particularly in
the formation of National Trade Policies, are well aligned with the interests
of the relevant revenue collection authority. It is important to note that lack of communication between
the executive and the responsible revenue collection authority carries the risk
of resulting in an unfavourable taxation environment – one that promises certain
benefits and incentives on one hand, but unreasonably demands for tax on the
other hand. This, in the long run, will reduce Foreign Direct Investment rather
than promote it. In consideration of the above, it is our duty as an active
Nation on the global stage to create an internationally facing tax regime that
promotes Foreign Direct Investment in a manner that does not compromise our
position as well. This is more so important given increased interest in the
Kenyan market – a positive consequence of the Kenya’s aggressive marketing
strategy.