Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka says the reduction of Sh9 billion in counties' budgets will hamper projects. The Senate will discuss the budget cuts forced through by Parliament in the Finance Bill on Thursday last week, which also enforced the 8 per cent VAT on fuel. Lusaka spoke in Eldoret on Monday where senators held their first sitting outside Nairobi The speaker said the Senate should have been consulted on the changes. On the first day of the sittings, the senators met with MCAs and Uasin Gishu officials at the county Assembly. Lusaka said the forum in Eldoret will be used to discuss ways of strengthening the capacity of counties and MCAs. Senate Minority leaders James Orengo, Senate Minority Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr, and majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen, among others, were present. Security has been beefed up in the town for the week-long Senate Mashinani meeting. More than 40 police officers were deployed at the Uasin Gishu county assembly — the venue of all Senate and committee sittings. Related: Senate picks Uasin Gishu for first sittings outside Nairobi Read: MPs seek funding cuts for UhuRuto offices, target travel See: 'Broke' Treasury plans to slash county budget by Sh15 billion Uasin Gishu majority leader Josphat Lowoi said MCAs will have an opportunity to have a first-hand experience of the operations of the Senate. Governor Jackson Mandago and Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan said the county is operating smoothly. "We’re proud to host the first Senate sittings outside Nairobi. This is a plus for devolution," Mandago said. Billboards have been erected along major roads leading to the town with welcoming messages and senators' portraits. Lusaka said the forum will assess the successes and failures of devolution. Discussion on farming will take centre stage since the county is the bread basket of the county. Uasin Gishu senator Kamar, who chairs the ad hoc Senate Committee on the maize crisis, is expected to hold public forums. Seven governors will appear before the Senate to respond to queries over their counties. On Monday, Baringo’s Stanley Kiptis and his team will be quizzed on questions raised by the Auditor General. They will appear before the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee chaired by Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang’. Mandago will meet the Finance and Budget Committee to explain the implementation of the national government’s Big Four agenda. Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos will also meet the House team. On Thursday, West Pokot governor John Lonyangapuo appear before the Kajwang team to respond to audit queries. The Health committee will tour West Pokot county to probe claims of deteriorating health care. On Wednesday, Kisumu county chief Anyang’ Nyong’o will appear before the Budget Committee. Click here for the latest political news