After a successful nine-year stint in Rwanda, acclaimed coach Paul Bitok is now offering his services to his mother land, Kenya at the end of his contract next year. Bitok is keen to assist in developing the game in the country as long as he is offered the chance by Kenya Volleyball Federation. Bitok is currently coaching the Under-21 Rwanda men’s team ahead of next week’s African Nations Championship scheduled for September 10 -20 in Abuja, Nigeria. The former Kenya women’s tactician believes he has lived up to expectations in as far as his contractual obligations in Rwanda are concerned and wants to replicate the same here. “I left Kenya in 2009 after being offered a job by the Rwanda Patriotic Army team but before I could settle, my fortunes changed and I was offered national duties. One thing led to the other and I am now in charge of all national teams as well as developmental sides. The fruits of my hard work are all there for anyone to see,” said the soft spoken coach. He added: “I work with a team of coaches and although I might not be seen, I run things from behind the scenes to ensure I give out the right training programs.” “We have amazing talent back at home and if we can invest in them, I believe Kenya will remain a powerhouse in the sport. I plan to come back home after my extended one-year contract and I would wish to assist in the development of the sport.” The 44-year-old sentiments comes after the Kenya Under-20 side failed to impress in the just concluded World Championships qualifier over the weekend. Reigning champions Egypt and fast-raising Rwanda booked the two slots to the event set for Mexico next year. Bitok, who also runs a Paul Bitok Sports Foundation, said besides being available for the development position, his focus will be on the foundation. “Once back, my foundation will be top of my priority and I want to ensure athletic and volleyball get the much needed time. Of course we won’t interfere with the learning process of the pupils but we will take advantage of the four hours on offer from 3 to 6,” said the tactician. He added: “I will be hands-on- coach. I want to manage these players after they clear with their primary level by helping them settle in the secondary schools and in case they get good grades, I will ensure they get scholarship where they will study and at the same time exploit their talent.”