Leaders from the Coast have told Opposition leader Raila Odinga their political marriage is over. The 20 MPs and a governor said on Saturday his time in politics is up and he should call it a day. They said they have been supporting the former Prime Minister for many years but there is nothing to show for it. The leaders included Governor Salim Mvurya (Kwale), MPs Suleiman Dori (Msamweni), Ali Wario (Bura) Hashaka Wario (Garsen) Owen Baya (Kilifi North) Senator Juma Wario (Tana River) Said Haribae (Golale), Senator Anuar Toitiptip (Lamu), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi) and Mohammed Ali (Nyali). Others were Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Shariff Ali (Lamu East) Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Michel Kingi (Magarini) and Gertrude Mbeyu (Kilifi), Lydia Haika (Taita Taveta) and Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mungaro. The leaders spoke during the opening at Mprirani Primary School in Kwale. Deputy President William Ruto was present. "The announcement that our friend wants to contest for the presidency is not news to us. He did the same thing in 2007, 2013 and 2017. He might even do the same in 2032. We have no business with him because we know where we are going," Mvurya said. "We are not looking for individuals who jump left and right. We will back someone who is development minded like our brother William Ruto." Also read: Raila will contest in 2022, says Orengo Dori said Coast voters were now enlightened and will not be misled to support individuals who lose in every election. "This time round the people of the Coast have decided to support Ruto and Jubilee for the sake of development," Dori said. Mbogo said Kenyans are tired of Raila’s antics. "Indications are that Raila will contest the presidency again in 2022. We want to tell him early enough not to count on our support," Mbogo said. Jumwa said it is time for the residents of the Coast to chart their own political destiny. "We didn’t vote for Jubilee last year, but the Deputy President is here with us on matters of development. We are not going to wait for anyone to tell us where we are going," she said. Baya told the Mijikenda community their destiny is in their hands. "The community has been misused for a long time. We have to change tack and support Ruto to be part of the next government," Baya he said. Ali said Coast has lagged behind for a long time. Ruto said Jubilee is ready to work with all leaders irrespective of their political affiliation. He said politics based on ethnic, religion or party grounds have been overtaken by events in this 21st century. “We are here with all these leaders today on matters of development because elections ended with last year’s elections. It’s now time to deliver on the promises we made to Kenyans,” said Mr Ruto. He said the transformational agenda can only be achieved if leaders focus on projects such as water, electricity, roads, health and education. The DP said Kwale has been allocated Sh500 million for the Last Mile Project targeting 15,000 new households for electricity connection. He issued title deeds for Kigato, Mwabuko, Kombani and Kasemeni settlement schemes. Click here for the latest political news