Eleven infants whose bodies were found wrapped in plastic bags at Pumwani Maternity Hospital will undergo postmortems next Tuesday to establish the cause of their death.A government multi-agency team, led by the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Nairobi government, settled on postmortem as part of the probe into the deaths.Yesterday, KNCHR vice chairman George Morara told the Star the postmortem is being done at the request of families of the infants.  “This is a matter of national importance and Kenyans want to know why the babies died,” he said. Read: Sonko finds 12 dead babies hidden at Pumwani storeKNCHR has promised to ensure the truth over the deaths is unravelled. “The government multi-agency team will make public the results of the postmortem exams once the results are out. Our commission is determined to ensure measures are put to stop further deaths of babies in hospitals due to negligence or other avoidable causes,” Morara said. The bodies were transferred to City Mortuary on Monday after Nairobi governor Mike Sonko made an impromptu visit to Pumwani Hospital, where he found the bodies of the infants. The facility does not have a mortuary.Six of the bodies had been wrapped in polythene bags. Others were stuffed in carton boxes inside a room at the hospital. Faith Kanini, 28, from Umoja whose baby died at Pumwani Hospital last week has appealed for help to know the cause of her child’s death. “I want justice so that I know what caused my baby’s death. I was told my baby had died,” Kanini told the Star in an interview. On Wednesday, Sonko visited Pumwani after expectant mothers sent him alarming messages on the deaths of the infants and alleged poor maternal care. “I was sent a text on Sunday September 16 by a mother who said there was a problem at Pumwani hospital,” he said.Pumwani is not new to controversy after a woman was last month arrested while trying to steal a newborn at the hospital. More: Health CS Sicily Kariuki orders probe into death of 12 babies at Pumwani Click here for
the latest political news