ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula have been advised to form one ticket with Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 presidential race. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale said Luhyas stand a chance for the presidency only by engaging the Kalenjin, rather than the Luo community. Khalwale advised Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to merge their parties so that the Luhya community has one presidential candidate to negotiate with Ruto for a compromise candidate. “We as Luhya community have no political debt to anyone. We are there free to be chosen and to choose,” Khalwale said. “Ruto keeps coming in and out of Luhyaland but no one knows whether he comes to forment trouble or make friendship,” said Khalwale He spoke at Silungai Girls’ Secondary School in Malava constituency during a fundraiser for the school on Tuesday. Ruto’s aide Farouk Kibett, National Assembly chief whip Ben Washiali, area MP Malulu Injendi and Kenya National Nurses Union secretary general Seth Panyaco were present. The DP has been visiting Western Kenya more frequently since the October 26 repeat presidential election. He has recently delivered buses to two secondary schools in Kakamega county. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have avoided his visits. The two are in the process of merging their parties into a single entity to consolidate the Luhya vote in 2022. Last week, Mudavadi told the DP that dishing out cash at public events will not make him a better leader. Khalwale said one cannot become president by force, rather by allowing Kenyans to make the decision He said the Luhya community’s continued association with opposition leader Raila Odinga has cost it leadership. “We have learnt the hard lessons and we now know that the way to become president is by choosing the right friends,” he said. Khalwale urged MPs to back taxation and austerity measures proposed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said that taxation is a complex issue that ought to be handled with a sober mind. “I listened to the head of state carefully. I heard his tone and it amounted to a confession that he cannot handle the issue of taxation single-handedly. It is a matter that calls for concerted efforts from all Kenyans,” he said.MPs will to vote on President Uhuru’s proposals today. 