Title: Room 25 Artiste: Noname Genre: Hip hop Release: September 14  “This f*ck around and be my last tape. The way niggas consume music is so weird. I hope Room 25 means something to some. If not, I tried,” was a since-deleted tweet made by Chicago rapper Fatimah Nyeema Warner, better known by her stage name Noname, days after releasing her debut album. She sounded exhausted about how the audience fails to recognise artistes who are actually going the extra mile to create projects with an ornate concept. If you are not familiar with Noname, then let this enlighten you. Her debut mixtape, “Telefone”, was not only a phenomenon, it was a brilliant breakthrough. As an independent artiste, she built a niche around other misprized talents like Saba, Raury and Smino. She also got to work with Grammy award-winning rapper Chance the Rapper. Her sound can be described as idiosyncratic, as she comfortably fuses spoken word and rap lyrics in her delivery. “Room 25”, unlike what is currently getting attention in the mainstream media, is a deep dive into artistry that is more focused, thoughful and quite elaborate. We get to experience Noname’s braggadocio on the album’s opener, “Self”, which delves into the current political situation, her religious inclination and success in music. “Blaxploitation”, a portmanteau of ‘black’ and ‘exploitation’, delves into the issues affecting black people in America. Her delivery is nothing close to what you are used to, and this is very well felt on “Prayer Song”, which recruits the vocals of Adam Ness. Phoelix offers a proper hook on “Window”, which is followed by “Don’t Forget About Me”, which discusses NoName’s life after fame. She hopes her dearest still view her as the same person she was before stardom. Ravyn Lenae features on “Montego Bae”, before we get to experience ‘the Goat Trio’, comprising Smino, Saba and Noname, on “Ace”. Phoelix is back again, this time alongside Benjamin Earl Turner on the essential track “Part of Me”. The 11-track album closes out with “No Name”, which features Yaw and Adam Ness. The track highlights the reason that could have inspired the artistes to pick her stage name. For any avid music lover, Noname is not your typical artiste. Her previous project and its sequel leave listeners pondering about their existence. She is deep and makes a lot of sense.  Star Rating: 4/5