The United States on Monday
will adopt an aggressive posture against the International
Criminal Court, threatening sanctions against ICC judges if they
proceed with an investigation into alleged war crimes committed
by Americans in Afghanistan. President Donald Trump's national security adviser, John
Bolton, is to make the announcement in a midday speech to the
Federalist Society, a conservative group, in Washington. It will
be his first major address since joining the Trump White House. "The United States will use any means necessary to protect
our citizens and those of our allies from unjust prosecution by
this illegitimate court," Bolton will say, according to a draft
of his speech seen by Reuters. Bolton will also say that the State Department will announce
the closure of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
office in Washington out of concern about Palestinian attempts
to prompt an ICC investigation of Israel. "The United States will always stand with our friend and
ally, Israel," says Bolton's draft text. The Palestinians said they were undeterred from going to the
ICC. They deemed the planned PLO mission closure a new pressure
tactic by a Trump administration that has slashed funding to a
U.N. agency for Palestinian refugees and to hospitals in East
Jerusalem, which Palestinians want as capital of a future state. "We reiterate that the rights of the Palestinian people are
not for sale, that we will not succumb to U.S. threats and
bullying," Palestinian official Saeb Erekat said in a statement. "Accordingly, we continue to call upon the International
Criminal Court to open its immediate investigation into Israeli
crimes." Israel welcomed the Trump administration's move and accused
the Palestinians of seeing the court as a way of sidestepping
U.S.-sponsored bilateral talks. Those contacts stalled in 2014. "The Palestinians' resort to the ICC and refusal to
negotiate with Israel and the United States is not the way to
advance peace, and it is good that the United States is taking a
clear stand on this matter," said an Israeli official who
requested anonymity. Bolton's draft speech says the Trump administration "will
fight back" if the ICC proceeds with opening an investigation
into alleged war crimes committed by U.S. service members and
intelligence professionals during the war in Afghanistan. If such an inquiry goes ahead, the Trump administration will
consider banning judges and prosecutors from entering the United
States, put sanctions on any funds they have in the U.S.
financial system and prosecute them in American courts. "We will not cooperate with the ICC. We will provide no
assistance to the ICC. We will not join the ICC. We will let the
ICC die on its own. After all, for all intents and purposes, the
ICC is already dead to us," says Bolton's draft text. In addition, the United States may negotiate more binding,
bilateral agreements to prohibit nations from surrendering
Americans to The Hague-based court, says the text. The court's aim is to bring to justice the perpetrators of
war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. The United States did not ratify the Rome treaty that
established the ICC in 2002, with then-President George W. Bush
opposed to the court. Bush's successor, President Barack Obama,
took some steps to cooperate with it. "We will consider taking steps in the U.N. Security Council
to constrain the court’s sweeping powers, including to ensure
that the ICC does not exercise jurisdiction over Americans and
the nationals of our allies that have not ratified the Rome
Statute," says Bolton's draft text. Palestinians have reacted with dismay to the U.S. funding
cuts, warning that they could lead to more poverty and anger -
among factors stoking their decades of conflict with Israel. Trump last week ordered that $25 million earmarked for the
care of Palestinians in East Jerusalem be directed elsewhere. "This decision will create serious cash-flow problems at the
hospitals and will necessarily create delays in life-saving and
other urgent treatments," Walid Nammour, head of the network of
six hospitals affected, told reporters on Monday. "Overall, the
decision puts the health of 5 million Palestinians at risk." Click here for the latest political news