A secondary school run by Nigerian Catholic missionaries has been closed over claims of sex orgies and devil worship. Caritas Mariana Secondary School in Thika, with 72 students, was closed on the recommendation of Ministry of Education. The officials, led by Thika subcounty director of education Ronald Mbogo, said they were responding to complaints of rampant indiscipline, including sexual promiscuity and cases of devil worship. The school was ordered closed two weeks before the end of second term and parents were instructed to take their children to other schools in third term. However, the school management and parents blamed the closure on  individuals they claim wanted to grab land owned by the school. The school is on prime land within Thika West sub-county. Parents Teachers Association chairman Henry Ngure said the decision has hurt 10 KCSE exam candidates who have failed to get admission to other schools. "Parents are now stranded with their children at home since they have been rejected by other schools. Again the Education ministry policies do not provide for closure of a school in the middle of an education year. Why have they closed our school?" Ngure asked. John Mwaura, a director of the school, said no one bothered to investigate the allegations, which were contained in an anonymous letter written to the subcounty director of education. “No investigations to ascertain the allegations were done and that’s why we are reading an ulterior and sinister move in this whole scenario,” Mwaura said. Parents said other schools have declined to enroltheir children and instead they’ve been told to try next year. “Where will we take our children who are candidates because we have been told to wait until next year by other schools?" one concerned parent lamented. Parents said they have faith in the school since it’s founded on a Christian foundation. They said the allegations of sexual promiscuity, exploitation and devil worship are malicious. However, Mbogo defended the decision saying where there are allegations of sexual exploitation of students, investigations are needed. Click here for the latest political news