The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority boss Captain Gilbert Kibe on Tuesday opposed the relocation of the Kibarani dumpsite to Mwakirunge, saying it is on a flight path. Kibe said the birds scavenging at the Mwakirunge dumpsite pose a security threat to planes landing at the Moi International Airport. Last week, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s administration announced that the controversial 12-acre Kibarani dumpsite has been decommissioned and the 2,200 tonnes of garbage generated in Mombasa daily will now be taken to Mwakirunge. Speaking during a press conference on the sidelines of the 6th Africa’s Civil Air Navigation Services Organization (CANSO) Conference at Whitesands Hotel, Kibe warned that KCAA will not allow Mombasa to continue dumping at Mwakirunge. “You see, planes fly overhead Mwakirunge at a very low level and having a dumpsite there might be a problem because of the scavenging birds. We do not support to have dumpsite taken there,” he said. In Mombasa, the aggressive Indian Crows, which mostly scavenge at the Mwakirunge dumpsite are a big risk to planes approaching the airport. In May this year, a plane belonging to German leisure airline Condor was forced to make an emergency landing after a bird strike. Two crows are said to have been sacked in one of the plane’s engine. Coast regional police boss Noah Mwivanda confirmed that the plane, which was flying tourist to Zanzibar from Mombasa, was forced to land after a bird strike. Joho has been under pressure from locals, government agencies and private companies to shout down Kibarani dump site because it had become an eye-sore to the coastal town of Mombasa. Unesco had also warned that Mombasa might lose its Island status because of the crazy sea reclamation that was ongoing at Kibarani. Speaking at the same event, Tourism CS Najib Balala challenged airlines and airports in Africa to up their game to match the services offered in other world’s best airports. According to Balala, there are over 1.4 billion World travellers every year, but only 60 million come to Africa, and this could be as a result of poor services offered by airlines and airports. “Quite a number of airports in Africa are not up to standards. The frustrations of every client coming through our airport, might make them not come back again,” said Balala. Read: Condor plane replaced after bird strike in Mombasa Click here for the latest political news