Kisumu MCAs have rejected a bid to introduce a motion on sugar belt zoning terming it as premature. The motion presented by nominated MCA Caren Muga on Thursday suffered a blow when majority leader Kenneth Onyango, who was to second it, deliberately opposed it. In her motion, Muga noted that if zoning is introduced, it would lower prices for cane farmers, who are currently free to sell the cane to the millers of their choice. “It will be unfair to farmers who rely on their cane in order to get the best out of their products,” Muga said. The MCA was displeased by her motion being thwarted. She said farmers were being frustrated by the ailing millers, who are unable to pay for delivered cane. “Farmers should start enjoying their deserved sweat, but the prevailing wages of the ailing factories have barred them from accessing the value they rightfully deserve,” she said. Onyango supported his move saying the constitution bars members from discussing a motion that has already been tabled before the Senate. “We support all efforts undertaken by the governors in the Lake Region Economic Bloc. We are aware of their progressive move to address the issues to the President and the ministry of Agriculture in reviving and writing off the debts,” Onyango said. Julius Genga, MCA for Koru-Muhoroni ward, urged farmers not to be worrried by the proposed zoning. “We are not against independent sugar producers, but the motion was premature to discuss what is already before the senate,” Genga said. Some leaders in sugarcane growing areas have opposed zoning while others support it. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati recently said that the national government should implement the plan fully. Wangamati said Western governors had reached an agreement with Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri on what needs to be done to save the collapsing sugar industry. He said they proposed the reintroduction of zoning of industries. “We discussed various issues with the Cabinet Secretary two months ago at the Windsor Hotel and we want them implemented fully to save our industries,” he said. The proposed laws say that specific zones designated for millers will be created in consultation with county governments and farmers based on the milling capacity and crop productivity. Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale opposes reintroduction of zoning.