Please stop it, even if you
think we are at a time aptly captured by Frantz Fanon, “Today the vultures are
too numerous and too voracious in proportion to the lean spoils of the national
wealth”. We, Kenyans, do not share Frantz Fanon’s view. Those you perceive
as vultures are just ‘smart and hard working Kenyans’, who were just preparing
on how to  ‘allocate’ your Sh3 trillion
budget to the highest bidder. One more reason to stop the war on corruption is that it is not
based on ‘fair play”. Those vultures were playing chess but you decided to play poker.
They are using the equivalence of AK 47 to commit crimes but you are using
weapons of mass destruction, with the latest laser guided warheads called
Nordin Haji and George Kinoti. Those being hit are wondering where the
principle of proportionality went. Mr President, Kenyans and even foreigners know they are
actually in Kenya because of seeing corruption every day. If you eradicate it,
how shall they know that they are actually in the country and not planet Mars? In his article, Pax America
is over, New York Times columnist Roger Cohen, a wrote in December: “America
is an idea. Strip freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law from
what the United States represents to the world and America itself is gutted”. Mr President, Kenya has been an idea too. Strip corruption,
impunity, land grabbing and nepotism, and it will be unrecognisable from the
land and air. Furthermore, Kenyans have become accustomed to corruption that we
always thought it was what is referred to as ‘arcane imperii
(mysteries in government) Mr President, shaming of ill-gotten wealth is akin to changing the
country’s psyche. We have always thought that material wealth is a sign of
success, regardless of the source. It is due to this belief
that civil servants, businessmen and women have been amassing wealth so that
they can venture into politics because Kenyans judge who to elect on the number
of helicopters and Four Wheel Drive cars he or she has. That’s why we idolize the rich and often elect profligate
politicians, who have all the characteristics of Al Capone. Have you not even seen how well-educated lawyers discuss the
prices of their watches on television, while others constantly remind us how
they live in the city’s upmarket as poor Kenyans song their praises? Contrary to our thinking on material wealth, you have decided to
take the view of President Roosevelt in his 1933 inaugural speech when he said:
“Recognition of the falsity of material wealth as the standard of success goes
hand in hand with the abandonment of the false belief that public office and
high political position are to be valued only by the standards of pride of
place and personal profit.” To our utter dismay, we have also learnt that like American poet
Herman Melville, you describe ‘hard working’ Kenyans as people who ‘ have
civilized bodies and yet barbarous souls.’ In Kenyan parlance, they are wale
wanajua kutafuta. (those who know well how to look for money) It is not only in Kenya that food has been
omnipresent in the corruption discourse. We
are informed by Paul M Heywood
that in Russia and Croatia, the terms Kormlenie
 and Uhljeeb are used. The former literally means feeding while the
later is derived from the pre-Slavic word for bread. Mr President, please stop your war on corruption because it is
bound to cause disruption. Some of those arranged in court were busy preparing to run for
political office. Some innovative Kenyans were also designing their shirts,
while others were ready to invoice them for developing their social media
strategies.  Mr President, all theses
will now go to waste because their bank accounts have been attacked by your warheads
. Most of those arrested so far and those being mentioned have been
singing your praises for many years. In fact, they had perfected the art of
what George F Will of the Washington Post call “groveling as governing”. If they are imprisoned,
wouldn’t you miss their never ending but insincere praises? Mr President, the Kenyan media have relentlessly exposed graft
scandals as if their cardinal duty is inform us only about corruption as
attested to by Michele Wrong in her Foreign Affairs in May 2014. “Newspapers
warn about it in editorials, columnists denounce it, beleaguered civil society
groups lament it.” At the rate in which your newly acquired warheads are hitting
their targets, media owners and even civil society groups will reduce their
staff. Mr President, weekends are meant to be family days, when we take a
break from our work to rejuvenate for the week ahead. For Kenya’s
tenderpreneurs, it’s time to compare notes on upcoming tenders and discuss the
sharing formula. Unfortunately, your new weapons are most effective during this
very crucial time. Please stop the war so that the rich can enjoy peacefully. As I say goodbye, it’s time we ask ourselves why those entrusted
with our precious but limited resources commit such plunder. I find the answer
in a poem by a Somali poet which says: “kuwii
ariga  dayacay, ayaa geela  loo diray. (those who failed to herd the
goats were sent to the camels) Let me end on a more serious note, and in the words of Carl Jung,
a Swiss psychiatrist and psychoanalyst: “No tree, it said, can grow to heaven
unless its roots reach down to hell.”  Abdi Noor Mohamed is the chairman, Party for Development and
Reform( PDR) kenyapeacenow@gmail.com   