A househelp who allegedly killed a woman and her three-month-old baby in Muhoroni is expected to take plea in a Kisumu court today. The suspect failed to take plea last Tuesday, after the prosecution asked senior resident magistrate Winfred Onkunya for more time to allow psychiatric testing. Her identity has not been disclosed. The case will also be mentioned today. The suspect was arrested in Uganda following alerts by Kenyan police after it emerged that she might have escaped to the country. The suspect is a Ugandan citizen. Police applied for her extradition to face trial over the murders. She will be charged with the murder of Elizabeth Achieng, 26, and her son who were found dead in their house in Shauri Yako estate in Muhoroni in June. The bodies were discovered by neighbours. Achieng’ worked as a community health officer at Kadenge Health Centre in Muhoroni. Her body had several knife wounds to the chest and burns on the left side. Her husband Evans Otieno said the burn was inflicted by an iron box that was found beside the body. The househelp had been recommended to the family by a friend. She had only worked for a month before the tragedy. Otieno said he learnt about his wife’s death from a neighbour a day after she had been murdered. He had unsuccessfully tried to reach her on the phone. The calls went unanswered. His sister-in-law made similar calls. Neighbours said the suspect sat outside the house eating chips when they went to enquire about Achieng’s whereabouts. The househelp said Achieng had taken her baby to the clinic. STRANGLED INFANT The neighbours returned after hours and entered the house where they found Achieng’s body. The suspect had disappeared. The maid is suspected to have strangled the infant before she wrestled her employer, strangled her, stabbed her multiple times and partially burnt her using a hot electric iron. Achieng and her baby were buried at her husband’s home in Oyugis, Homa Bay county, in June. Click here for the latest political news