Lethal Gor Mahia forward Jacques Tuyisenge has vowed to fight for the SportPesa Premier League Golden Boot in their remaining two matches against Vihiga United and Mathare United. The Rwandan import has found the back of the net 13 times, two goals shy of equaling former Nzoia Sugar striker Elvis Rupia’s tally. Rupia left for Zambian side, Power Dynamos in July. Tuyisenge has vowed to unleash his scoring magic in the remaining two league matches set for Bukhungu and Kisumu this weekend and next weekend respectively. The towering forward said he would have closed on Rupia’s record had he not missed four league matches last month owing to a recurring ankle injury and coach Dylan Kerr’s decision to use him during their continental assignments instead. He said: “I am in a better position to win this year’s Golden Boot award as I only need two or three goals. I would have surpassed the record held by Rupia last month but I sat out of four matches due to an ankle injury. The coach preferred to use me in the Caf Confederation matches which I played under pain killers but I have recovered and ready to muscle for the gong.” He added: “Vihiga and Mathare are not tough and I believe I will hit the target.” Tuyisenge further tipped the duo of Ephrem Guikan and Francis Mustafa to fully fill the void left by his compatriot Meddie Kagere who crossed to Tanzanian giants Simba SC. He noted that the two have skills and pace, just like Kagere, and were determined to break into Kerr’s first eleven. “These two strikers have the abilities to play the roles which Kagere used to. It was comfortable to play alongside him and we enjoyed a good partnership. The two have skills and pace just like that of Kagere and I am sure if given playing time, they will fully replace him,” he said. “We enjoyed a good partnership with Kagere courtesy of playing together for a long time and I believe if I am consistently paired with them, the club will no longer miss him (Kagere). The Tuyisenge-Kagere axis was the most dreaded in the country and in the Cecafa region and the exit of the latter has left Kerr with the puzzle of selecting Tuyisenge’s partner among Guikan and Mustafa.