Pope Francis has hit out at what he describes as a money-centred culture that 'promotes poverty, slavery and waste'. The Pope ranted about modern society in an interview with Italian financial newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore, saying it valued money over people. The pontiff said, "We can't ignore the fact that an economy structured like this kills because it makes money central and only obeys money. "When people are no longer central, when making money becomes the one and only objective, then we're outside all ethics and that's how we get structures of poverty, slavery and waste." Talking about unemployment in Europe, the Pope decried 'an economic system that is no longer able to create jobs, because it idolises money'. The Argentine Pope has repeatedly criticised what he calls the 'culture of waste' which excludes the poorest and weakest people and destroys the environment. "There is still much work to do to reduce behaviour and choices that don't respect the environment and the planet,' he said. "It is imperative to promote integral human development, reduce inequalities... and abandon consumerism," he added. The Pope also slammed modern society for promoting selfishness and destroying the sense of community. He said, "There is lacking awareness of a common origin... and of a future to build together. This basic awareness would allow for the development of new attitudes and lifestyles. "Distribution and participation in the wealth produced, social responsibility, company welfare, wage equality between men and women, harmony between time for work and time for life, respect for the environment, recognition of the importance of man compared to machines, recognition of a fair salary and the capacity for innovation are important elements that keep the community dimension alive." The Pope's comments come after he was accused of knowing about sexual abuse within the church for years. An 11-page text penned by Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano, the Vatican's former ambassador to the US, claimed that Pope Francis knew about sex abuse allegations since 2013. Vigano even claimed the pontiff tried to cover up for Archbishop Theodore McCarrick, who resigned this year after a series of sexual assault allegations. Click here for the latest political news