Why was the tender for the expansion of one wing of a hospital in Nairobi terminated? Sources whispered to Corridors that the tender which was to be financed by a foreign government was riddled with graft. Its said the tender was awarded to the highest bidder and in flagrant violation of the law. After the foreign government through their local embassy got wind of the mess, they hastily canceled the deal. This is despite the graft purge that was thought to have scarred procurement bosses and accounting officers. Sources within the facility said the mess was so deep that the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji should intervene. Corridor promises to tell you more about this scandal. Why is there tension between Commissioners at the National Land Commission? Sources whispered to Corridors that the relationship between the NLC top brass is so bad. Its said that the fallout was precipitated by among others division of some land in Athi River where one commissioner was allegedly involved as an expert. There has also been public blame game between beleaguered NLC Chairman Mohammed Swazuri and his deputy Abigael Mbagaya. Swazuri claims Mbagaya is behind his woes. The Vice Chair also believes that the Chairman is behind a string of negative stories hitting her left right and centre Is the Inspector of Police Joseph Kipchirchir Boinett aware of atrocities and abuse of human rights by Police in Huruma Police Station,Nairobi? Its said that the law enforcers have been brutalising people in the area indiscriminately with no apparent reason. After several counts of canes, the innocent victims are then bundled into a stand by car before being taken to police station where each one is supposed to part with a hefty bribe that is shared among the top echelons of the service.What baffles many is the fact that all officers who openly ask for bribes in drinking joints were newly posted to the station in question. Residents have been asking if the officers were using the same tactics where they were. Residents now want nothing but action to tame the impunity. A section of Mwea residents in Kirinyaga county opted to pour their anger on social media – Facebook – over what they alleged as discrimination in rolling out of development projects by the county government. They allege the recently unveiled Sessional Paper dubbed “Mountain cities blue print” by governor Ann Waiguru did not factor Mwea in the proposed county development plan. The Sessional Paper is meant to guide the county for the next 15 years by establishing special economic zones. Well, the residents argue Mwea has not been featured in the plan. Click here for the latest political news