An uncle to the slain university student Sharon Otieno, Joshua Okong’o was on Sunday ejected from their home when after he tried to reveal the lates' marital status. Okong’o narrowly escaped assaults from angry mourners who jeered him when he was delivering his speech at their home in Magare village, Homa Bay Town constituency. The Sunday afternoon incident occurred when Okong’o was given time to address mourners who included four woman reps Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Pamela Odhiambo (Migori), Rosa Buyu (Kisumu) and Janet Ongera (Kisii). The drama started when Okong’o took microphone and begun telling mourners that they should understand Sharon’s marriage background. Okong’o had on Friday addressed journalists in the home compound as a spokesman of the family “I want everybody to know that Sharon was a married woman and she separated with her husband in January… I know her because she stayed with me most of the time during her childhood,” Okong’o said. The crowd booed him but he insisted with his speech. “The husband has never appeared in this home but we need him because Sharon will not be buried here due to our cultural beliefs,” he went on. Related: Police to question Obado on Sharon But the charged crowd shouted him down louder claiming he is turning a traitor. “No noo nooo! You’re wrong to say those things here and you are an elderly,” a voice shouted from the crowd. The jeered voice went loud before Sharon’s father Douglas Otieno got angered and snatched the microphone from Okong’o. Area Chief Simeon Onano and some family members rushed to the dais to intervene in the matter by pushing him out from being attacked by youth. Activities came to a standstill in the compound as everybody watched how some angry youths took over and pushed him to a vehicle. Onano told Okong’o to move out the place to avoid causing chaos. But upon entering his car, Okong’o was hurled with insults and castigation. He eventually left the compound. The incident came shortly after Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji vowed not spare anyone linked to the death of the deceased. Haji said any suspect, including Migori governor Okoth Obado, who has been adversely mentioned, will be charged if investigations link him to the murder of the 26-year-old woman. “Investigations are going on, and at the right time when we feel the governor needs to be arrested, that will definitely be done,” he said. He said they will only do so when they have watertight evidence. “No one is above the law, not even the governor. And no one mentioned will be spared,” he added. Read: We'll charge anyone including Obado if linked to Sharon's murder - Haji Click here for the latest political news 