Kitui MCAs on Wednesday unanimously demanded an apology from governor Charity Ngilu for “making” them travel to Mombasa for a consultative meeting ‘that never was’. They told assembly speaker George Ndotto to write to and demand an apology from Ngilu. However no recourse was specified should the governor decide not to respond. All the MCAs present voted in support of a motion that discussed last week’s aborted retreat between Ngilu and them in Mombasa after the governor’s office switched the venue to Mwingi. The meeting was to take place between September 4 and 8. The venue was changed to cut costs. The motion was moved by majority leader Peter Kilonzo. He noted that a letter dated August 30 from county secretary Alex Kimanzi invited the assembly to the Mombasa consultative meeting. He said the assembly went on to adjourn sittings to attend the meeting. He further noted that on September 5, when the MCAs were already in Mombasa, another letter from Kimanzi was received by the assembly at 1.25pm indicating the meeting had been relocated to Mwingi. official invitation The majority leader said the assembly has been portrayed in negative light on social media following the mix-up. He further said some wards had been marginalised in development projects. Passing the motion, the MCAs resolved that they must each be given a copy of the official invitation to the aborted Mombasa meeting. They further demanded that the assembly committee on procedures and rules formulate guidelines on future engagements with the executive. The assembly agreed a committee on powers and privileges would be formed to investigate the matter of “malicious publications and allegations” resulting from the aborted Mombasa retreat. The assembly further resolved to urgently formulate a ward equalisation fund which would take up 30 per cent of the county’s annual development budget to ensure equality in the development of all wards. Ndotto insisted the MCAs’ trip to Mombasa was official.He denied reports the MCAs were stranded in Mombasa. Ndotto said the MCAs did not squander public money.  