Fishermen at the Shimanzi/Tudor Creek in Mombasa want the government to test the brackish sea water where a species of tilapia has been found. Wavuvi Association of Kenya (Wake) chairman Hamid Mohamed yesterday said they fear the species of tilapia found at the Shimanzi side may not be fit for consumption due to water pollution. “We never used to have tilapia here. We don’t know where they have come from. Many fishermen are worried because they eat or sell the fish but they are skeptical about them,” Mohamed said. Tilapia is the common name for nearly a hundred species of fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe. They are mainly freshwater fish inhabiting shallow streams, ponds, rivers and lakes and less commonly found living in brackish water. Brackish water is somewhat salty, but less salty than sea water. On Sunday, Haki Africa officials visited the creek, next to the decommissioned Kibarani dumpsite. "To our dismay, we are still receiving reports of dumping in the area and further land reclamation from the sea," Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said. "The result of all this is untold suffering for fishermen and destruction of the environment to the detriment of local communities and Kenyans at large." Khalid urged the national government, Nema and the county government to intervene and stop further dumping of waste into the sea. He said the polluters of the sea must be compelled to compensate the fishermen whose livelihood has been hurt. A private firm has constructed a bridge that connects it to the Kenya Ports Authority. This bridge has blocked the water and created a pond, making it difficult for fishermen to access the deep seas to fish. Mohamed said as a result of the blockage of the waterway, there are no tides in the ‘pond’, which helps keep the salinity of the water constant. "The water is stagnant now. This means, with the constant dumping of waste, the water’s salinity has dropped because of whatever factors and now this kind of fish can be found here," he said. Click here for the latest political news