The National Assembly committee on Powers and Privilleges will from next week start probing MPs on bribery claims reported during rejection of the contraband sugar report. Some lawmakers said their collegues pocketed between Sh10,000 and Sh30,000, according to their hierachy in the political arena. The incident took place on August 9. It is reported to have occurred a few minutes before the afternoon sitting. House clerk Michael Sialai said the committee, chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi, will question witnesses on September 18 and 19 to unearth the truth. “Witnesses will provide information on what transpired,”he said. Some committe members will appear as witnesses. Muturi said Onyango K’Oyoo (Muhoroni) and Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) will be questioned over the matter that raised questions on the integrity of the 12th Parliament. Last Wednesday, the committee met to determine individuals who would appear to provide information over the allegations. The committee will take advantage of the ongoing recess to gather information from individuals linked to the claims and compile a report. Read: Muturi to MPs: Produce dossier on sugar bribery claims Barasa said he is ready to testify before the committee and any other investigative agency. He said he will speak against Wajir woman representative Fatuma Gedi for allegedly “championing the bribery campaign”. Gedi denied she dished out money to her colleagues at the preccints of Parliament. Kiambu woman representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara recounted how MPs were approached to reject the report. Wamuchomba said some MPs were bribed in Parliament’s toilets. “They told us the money was not our mothers’ and that we were being too arrogant. They went to the toilets and corridors to dish it out.” Kihara said some received the cash before the report was tabled. She said one lawmaker from Nakuru informed her that Jubilee had decided to defeat the report. In August, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati and Makueni’s Dan Maanzo, among others, claimed the report was edited between the Panari Hotel and Parliament Buildings. It indicted Cabinet secretaries Henry Rotich (Treasury), Adan Mohammed (EAC and formerly Trade) and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett. The aggrieved MPs claim the doctoring was a conspiracy between the two chairpersons and clerks who were ”overprotective” of the ministers. Read: Muturi cracks whip to cleanse committees of bribery claims Also See: Bribery claims rock House committees Click here for the latest political news