Clashes that left four people dead in Narok South have spread to Nessuit ward in Njoro subcounty. Tension engulfed the area on Wednesday and three people were killed. Njoro police chief Charity Dorcas and local politicians met yesterday in Nessuit. They called for peace and dialogue to end land disputes. Families in Njoro spent Wednesday night out in the cold for fear of impending attacks. Local administrators said 10 people were seriously injured. Eight houses were set ablaze when youths from the Ogiek community, armed with pangas, bows and arrows, invaded the area at night. The clashes with the Kipsigis were triggered by cattle rustling. Dorcas said they received reports of lost cattle on Tuesday and launched investigations, which showed no cattle had been stolen. “The Ogiek complained about their stolen cattle in the forest, but when we met and investigated the matter, we realised it was not true,” she said. After the peace meeting, the Ogiek attacked the Kipsigis on the same night. The skirmishes come a few days after similar violence rocked Narok South last week. The Maasai Mau violence has been linked to evictions from the Mau Forest. Landowners who felt duped into buying non-existent land are venting their frustrations on one community. The clashes erupted after a herder was killed in Nkoiben. Thirty-three people suffered serious arrow injuries and more than 60 houses were torched. This raised tension between two communities living in Nkoiben, Sagam, Olmegenyu and Oloilabangi near the Maasai Mau Forest. Two major communities – the Kalenjin and Maasai – are accusing each other. The Maasai feel the Kalenjin are responsible for the destruction of the forest. The Kalenjin say they were cheated into buying non-existent land. More than 300 police officers have been deployed to quell the tension. In Njoro, the fighting pits the Ogiek, who had earlier sold their land to the Kipsigis but now want to forcibly reclaim it. A resident who asked for anonymity said they had to hide in maize plantations as they fear night attacks. The areas affected are Sigotik, Tritagoi, Sigaon and Neissuit. Njoro MP Charity Kathambi called for calm and peace.