Garissa leaders have accused police officers of doing little to fight al Shabaab terrorists. Led by Senator Yusuf Haji, Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane and Ijara MP Sophia Abdinoor, they said security officers had failed to act on information volunteered by residents. They cited the killing last Friday of two non-residents who were removed from a bus and shot dead by militants believed to be al Shabaab members. The leaders said residents informed police about the presence of the militants. The report was made to the Sangailu military camp in Ijara. The leaders spoke on Wednesday at Masalani town during the launch of Huduma Mashinani. “Going by the information I gather from the locals, the security agents had intelligence regarding the presence of al Shabaab militias in the area a day before the attack. It is utterly disappointing that they did not act on that information,” Dagane said. He said it was wrong for residents to be blamed yet police were not doing their job. “Surely, who is to blame? Residents find themselves between a hard rock and a stone because when they report, action is not taken and when they fail to do so they are themselves rounded up and beaten,” Dagane said. Haji said it was high time security officers “stand up and be counted when it matters.” He said Ijara constituency has hundreds of security officers who include regular police, the military, GSU and officers from the Rural Border Patrol Unit. “I’m sorry to say they are doing very little to enhance security,” a visibly angry Haji said. “Instead of making foot patrols and traversing the area looking for the militants killing innocent people and terrorising residents, you will only see them in vehicles busy rounding up locals and beating them for no reason.” The former security minister said local leaders today will meet with Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and his Defence counterpart Rachael Omamo to the violence. “I’ve spent all my life in the security sector and have always restrained from issuing statements about police inaction. But I’ve been forced to that because of the prevailing circumstances. I can’t just keep quiet and watch as innocent Kenyans lose their lives at the hands terrorists,” Haji said. Abdinoor complained about forced disappearances, saying residents have allegedly been picked by security officers on suspicion of working with militants. Many of those picked have never returned. She said authorities have been notified about six people who have mysteriously disappeared in the hands of police in the recent past. “You round up our people and take them to unknown destinations, months later we don’t know where they are. As leaders, we will not allow this to happen,” she said. She faulted the security tactic being used saying it was counterproductive.