Police have arrested a former prison officer in Meru over the killing of a magistrate’s daughter. Police also arrested a man from Nairobi’s Kayole estate, after he called the magistrate’s family demanding Sh500,000 ransom, days after after the picture of the missing girl was circulated on social media. Meru county commissioner Wilfred Nyangwanga said the two suspects are already being questioned. “One of the suspects was with the deceased a day before she died,”Nyagwanga said yesterday. The decomposing body of the missing daughter of Githongo law courts magistrate Caroline Kemei was found at Gitooro forest in Imenti North, Meru county, on Sunday. Police said her death was brutal and she could have been tortured. The body had cuts on the thighs and one arm appeared to have been burnt with acid. The body was lying face down and a part of the head had no hair. The nine-year-old Maribel Kapolon went missing on September 6. She was a pupil at Consolata Primary School along Total road in Meru. Some witnesses said she was kidnapped while heading home after being dropped by the school bus. They said she was invited into a car she may have thought was familiar. Others said the girl was walking with three other pupils when a stranger called her by her name. Law society of Kenya Meru chapter Ken Muriuki on Monday led lawyers to demonstrate from Meru High court to various police offices. “The police must tell us the progress of their investigation,” he said. Meru courts operations were hampered as judges magistrates joined the demonstration. Muriuki said they want assurance from police on safety of lawyers judges and magistrates. “Such a scene should not occur again. It is unfortunate and should be condemned with strongest terms possible,” he said.Meru-based NGOs including Ripples International and Creaw also joined protestors in seeking justice for the class four pupil. Municipality MCA Elias Murega who took part in the demonstration, said school children are facing of insecurity. “There is also another child who is missing in Karama. As leaders we will not keep quiet as women are being raped and children killed,” Murega said. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, whose entourage was caught up in the demos, was forced to address the demonstrators. “The security boss in the county is the county commissioner. I will join to ask Wilfred Nyagwanga to hasten the probe. Maribel’s killers should be brought to book,”he said.           