Three kilometres south of Kakamega town and a few metres off the busy Kisumu-Kakamega highway stands the 131 foot or 40 metre sacred Crying Stone of Ilesi. To the Luhya tribe of Kakamega, the stone will forever be a sacred and a revered part of their everyday lives because it is believed to have supernatural powers. Whether you call it fiction, superstition, myth or belief, the people of Ilesi believe the stone does shed tears. The rock formation resembles a solemn head falling on weary shoulders and a tie. In the past, ‘tears’ would flow down the length of the column, about 40m long from the top. But the stone has stopped crying, although it is still stained with a dark green colour as a result of several years of ‘weeping’. The ‘weeping stone’, commonly known as a crying stone, is one decent tourist attraction site in Kakamega county. It is located in Ikolomani subcounty. The stone has earned the county local and international reputation, with tourists flocking in from various destinations just to see it ‘weep’. Motorists plying the route slow down as they approach the area to have a glimpse of the magical stone. The landmark is clearly visible on the left side of the highway when driving towards Kisumu.  MYTH Tour guide Ibrahim Khakali says a Luhya legend has it that there used to exist a king who used to mistreat his subjects. One day he left for a tour to Uganda, only to come back and find his wife, the queen, had been taken by another man. The villagers told him to stand on the hilly side of the community, look around and see who had taken his queen. He did so and saw her with another man. Out of disappointment and feeling betrayed, the heartbroken husband lamented and called on the gods to rather turn into a stone than continue having conflict with people. He turned into a stone, and the whole surrounding area became rocky as well. Khakali says it is not that the stone stopped crying completely; it cries during the month of September, especially during the first week of the month. September is believed to be the month the king was offended, hence the ‘tears’. Scientists, however, believe the stone cries because a large depression behind the smaller stone collects water and from time to time cascades down the large stone, giving the impression of the stone weeping. They argue that the stone cries no more in the rainy season and in times of drought because of locals planting eucalyptus trees around the stone. Scientifically, the stone holds water on the hole on the top part. The water is absorbed by algae, which releases it slowly with time. Eucalyptus trees are believed to be sucking up the groundwater around the stone. The heartbroken husband has, therefore, stopped crying for the moment. Geologists describe it as an acid plutonic rock consisting mainly of quartz, alkali, feldspar and mica.  RITUALS The stone is a place of rituals, healing, resolution, cleansing and sacrifice. Luhyas believe that when the stone cries, it is a good omen. They believe they should expect a bumper harvest. When there is drought, the Luhya performs rituals to bring rain. The water from the stone is believed to cure various ailments and diseases, such as asthma, typhoid and healing of wounds. Believers from the famous Legio Maria sect from as far as South Nyanza also pay pilgrimages and fetch the water from the stone for healing purposes. They strongly believe this is the best place to commune with their maker. Other religious groups on several occasions camp at the site while crossing into a new year or celebrating Easter festivities. Located under the crying stone is a cave commonly known as ‘Shimichiro’, where those involved in unacceptable acts are cleansed. People involved in incest, murder, theft and rape among others are cleansed before they can be re-accepted into the community. Resident Valentine Murunga says after performing the rituals, men usually slaughter a bull, a sheep, a goat and some chickens to go with traditional foodstuff, such as ugali made from millet flour for the feast. Women just prepare the food but are not allowed to partake in it. Children as well are not allowed, as this is strictly a men’s affair. Several animals are slaughtered at the foot of the stone in the night-long ceremony to appease the gods for rain or to avoid looming calamities like famine. Murunga says the cleansing process involves those affected going to the cave to be administered traditional herbs, normally prepared by respected elders. According to him, the cleansing is so effective that no misfortune comes the way of those cleansed thereafter. “Another folklore has it that the stone on several occasions fought wars for the Luhya community. Murunga says the story dates back to pre-colonial times. There was war between Luhyas and the Nandis over the boundary of the two communities. During one instance, it is said the Nandis tried to pull down the stone, which they believed gave the Luhya immense supernatural powers. At the end of the day, more than 100 Nandis died. They thought the stone was helping Luhyas to miraculously defeat them, and all of those who attempted to destroy it perished,” he narrates.  MANAGEMENT The community has in the past resisted takeover of the crying stone by the government or private developers, who would like to build amenities around the area because of the cultural value attached to it. But the recent visit shows plans by the county government to take over the tourist attraction site and preparations to fence it are underway. Khakali says: “The site is currently managed by the community. Visitors are charged Sh100 to visit it. Foreign tourists are charged a bit higher. The place is mostly busy during April, August and December, when schools are closed. “I can’t give an estimate of number of guests and revenue collected per day because it varies from one day to another. Sometimes we have even 60 people coming as a group. My hope is that once the county government comes in, even our terms of work will improve. “The county government is currently still negotiating with the owner of the land for compensation, and other people neighbouring the site if they could relinquish a portion of their land for construction of social amenities to boost tourism. For instance, we don’t have a shelter, so we have problems when it rains. But we are sure that will be catered for if the county government takes over the site,” he adds. An official from the county government says they have been working on it since devolution took effect and have already engaged the community in ensuring there is no ownership and conflict wars. They have so far carried out community consultations to agree on thorny issues, such as land acquisition, infrastructure and landscaping. He says a management plan was prepared in collaboration with the museums of Kenya, and the report has since been adopted by the governor. The county government will also ensure the local community is trained in various aspects, such as tour guiding and hotel management, so they can serve tourists. “Our main focus is on washrooms and building a place for visitors to rest. As for hotels, tourists can always use the ones we have in the county. Alternatively, the local community will provide accommodation when a clear plan is effected fully,” the official said. “We also want to focus on provision of Luhya heritage orientation, such as Isukuti dance and other local dishes. Currently we have allowed the community to open a bank account and be collecting revenue from the stone to support their own development.” Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has already established a management committee to see the operationalisation of this project.  The county government is set to invite officials from the National Land Commission at the end of this month to undertake land valuation ahead of compensation of the owner. Another area of focus will be landscaping for ease of accessibility. Accessing the site is not easy for the urbanised lot, for you have to meander through rough patches before getting to the mystic rock. There is also a plan to remove all the exotic trees, especially the eucalyptus, and replace them with the indigenous ones. The official says even though the trees have contributed to the stone not crying, there are other phenomenon factors. He says even though the ecosystem becomes disturbed when replaced, it is not about trees alone. The county, according to the official, is currently focused this year on the crying stone and Nabongo shrine, located on the outskirts of Mumias town. But they have identified five other tourist attraction sites and are still consulting with the communities before they can take the next plan of action.