Deputy President William Ruto yesterday said the government requires additional resources to propel the country’s development agenda. Ruto’s statement comes as the executive is expected to engage the National Assembly today on the 16 per cent value added tax on fuel products. Speaking at a fundraiser in Gikondi, Nyeri, Ruto said he is optimistic they will gather enough cash to fund development projects. “We will ensure we have enough money to push matters of development.” “But the most important thing is that we should get enough money to improve our infrastructure and other development projects.” Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi recently said the increased VAT on fuel products “is meant to pay for stolen funds at the energy sector”. “We have time and again cautioned against uncontrolled borrowing. Chickens have come home to roost and the government does not know where to turn to or what to do,” Mudavadi said at the party’s headquarters. “The government is taxing poverty to pay for stolen funds. It is worse when Kenyans are being taxed heavily to pay for corruption.” Yesterday, Ruto trashed Mudavadi’s sentiments, saying Jubilee is united and geared towards transforming Kenyans’ lives. “There are some individuals from the opposition who think we want additional taxes for corruption. We know where this country should go and the steps we should take,” Ruto said. Related: State to cut deal with MPs to fix high fuel costs, says Ruto “We will engage MPs, especially those from Jubilee, to remind them how the transformation agenda has been planned.” Last Thursday, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi chaired a meeting of heads in the executive to solve the fuel crisis. The meeting was attended by Treasury CS Henry Rotich, AG Paul Kihara, Solicitor General Ken Ogeto, Deputy Chief of Staff Njee Muturi, Majority leader Aden Duale, National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai, Budget committee chairman Kimani Ichung’wa and Finance committee chairman Joseph Limo. Muturi said the matter will be resolved in due course and appealed for patience. Also Read: Ruto pledges 'quick' solution on fuel crisis Click here for the latest political news