A section of Jubilee MPs opposed to the contentious VAT on petroleum products were last evening divided on whether to attend or boycott today’s Parliamentary Group meeting at State House, Nairobi. President Uhuru Kenyatta Friday sent the Finance Bill, 2018, back to the National Assembly with counter proposals including reducing the levy from the earlier 16 to 8 per cent but the MPs were not amused. His memorandum also contained wide-ranging austerity measures and drastic budget cuts to plug the 2018/19 fiscal deficit. MPs from across the political divide are torn between party loyalty and responding to the cry of the electorate reeling from an upsurge in the cost of living due to high taxes. 90 people die each day due to cancer- data reveals At least 90 people die each day in Kenya due to cancer, data from the ministry of health reveal. The new data released last week by World Health Organisation reveal that the disease is now claiming 69 per cent of its victims which translates to 32900 deaths each year. This accounts for more than ten times the total deaths caused by road accidents that claims an average of 3,000 lives each year. The grim numbers paint a grey area in the fight of the disease that ranks third in the list of top killers in the country after pneumonia and malaria. Courts built next to prisons try terrorists The government has embarked on building courts within or next to prison premises to eliminate delays in the arraignment of accused persons. The proposed courts will mainly deal with transnational and organised crime which requires special arrangements for hearing. The special arrangements include extra security for suspects especially those facing terrorism charges. At least eight courts will be built near prisons, Chief Justice David Maraga said on Monday. Maraga who spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony for the proposed Kahawa Courts at Kamiti Prisons said having the courts near the detention facilities will ease the work of the Judiciary. KRA goes after four traders in Sh50 million tax evasion case Kenya Revenue Authority is pursuing Sh50 million from four companies involved in tax evasion. KRA’s prosecutor Irene Muthee successfully sought to have the companies’ directors summoned before court after they failed to turn up to be charged. They are Bhupen Gala, Ahmed Osman, Simion Mokaya and Esther Mwambi. Muthee said the four, being directors of the companies, did not comply with the law by failing to pay tax on different days between 2011 and 2018, thereby denying the country revenue. Woman in labour bleeds to death as family opposes aid on religious grounds A Lamu woman in labour for three days has died from loss of blood following a failed ‘divine delivery’ at her home in Mkunguni village. Kendi Kiecha’s relatives refused to take her to the hospital because it is against their religious beliefs. The 29-year-old died on her way to the hospital on Sunday evening after police broke into the locked house where relatives prayed. Neighbours said Kiecha went into labour on Friday but was kept at home as the family chanted and danced.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Generally clear; Partly cloudy at night. Low 12ºC. High 26ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Generally clear - Day and Night. Low 22ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SSE at 15 to 25 km/h. KISUMU: Generally clear; Partly cloudy at night. Low 19ºC. High 31ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h Click here for the latest political news  