The impeachment of Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi continues to draw varied reactions. One lawmaker has opposed her removal from office, but members of the public say if MCAs have evidence against then she deserves to go home. Elachi was impeached on Thursday afternoon after a heated debate in the county assembly. Some 103 MCAs voted to remove her from office, two voted against while two others abstained. However, Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen said no governor, senator or county speaker deserves to be impeached. The Senate Leader of Majority accused MCAs of not following due process. "As a Senate, we don’t encourage impeachment. Even where they happen, MCAs are required to follow the law," he said. "Since the speaker has an order halting her removal, I'm asking ward representatives to re-look into the matter and find an amicable solution". Elachi obtained a court order reinstating her hours after she was kicked out. Read: Court halts Elachi's impeachment as Nairobi County Speaker Murkomen's views, however, did not go down well with some Twitter users. Former Kiambu governor William Kabogo said, "She’s been impeached she goes". @ColeterK said, "Kila mtu apambane na hali yake...wacha sisi tupambane na 16% VAT on petroleum products....Do you know bus fare imeongezwa? (Let everyone face their issues. Do you know fare has been hike because of the 16% VAT on petroleum products?) @thomskan82 said, "Nairobi county assembly has spoken. There is nothing left for Beatrice Elachi to salvage. Even if she runs to court to be reinstated, which assembly is she going to control when more than â…” of MCAs have no faith in her". Another user said Elachi deserved the ouster because she was the first one to reject Miguna Miguna's nomination as Governor Mike Sonko's choice for deputy governor. Munjua Nelson said, "Wembe ni ule ule." @NyarangibBenard said, "An impeachment is also an amicable solution. What is there to discuss if all the MCAs have impeached her? Hata akirudi, ataambia nani order amsikie?". (Even if she returns, who will listen to her?) Joe Asali said there comes a time when Elachi needs to read the mood of the house. "If over 90% of MCAs didn't want u why insist on staying..!? Who is she going to order now. What if all of them walk away and leave her with only his two supporters?" he asked. Ward representatives removed her for causing "great embarrassment" to the county assembly. In a motion by Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu on Thursday, the MCAs accused Elachi of gross misconduct. Also read: Why Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi has been impeached See: Not even Raila’s call could save Elachi from Nairobi MCAs’ ire Click here for the latest political news 