Kenyans yesterday continued to pile pressure on President Uhuru Kenyatta to
suspend the implementation of the 16 per cent VAT on petroleum products. Governors, MPs and ordinary Kenyans on the streets were unanimous in their
appeal to the President who is away in
China. They want him to direct Treasury CS Henry Rotich to shelve implementation until he (Uhuru)
either signs the Finance Bill 2018 into law or returns it to Parliament for
further changes. At the same time, activist Okiya Omtatah and three others filed separate petitions
in the High Court in Nairobi and Kisumu, respectively, seeking the suspension of
the new VAT. Read: Omtatah moves to court to stop 16% VAT on fuel The petitions both seek conservatory orders quashing the decision by
Treasury CS  Rotich and the Energy Regulatory Commission to levy the 16
per cent VAT pursuant to the Finance Act and VAT Act 2013. Omtatah says the new levy has a negative
impact on the public and should be suspended pending determination of his case. He says the tax violates the Constitution because "it has an effect of
limiting rights to property and advancement of socio-economic rights." If allowed, the implementation of the new levy will be in total defiance of
Parliament, which has already suspended the same, they say. The Treasury Cabinet Secretary, Kenya Revenue Authority, Energy Regulatory
Commission, and the Attorney General are named as respondents. In Kisumu, the three activists — Titus
Alila, Jackline Otieno, and Francis Ogada — suing on their own behalf and as
registered officials of Sumawe Youth Group described the
levy as an additional burden  for Kenyans to shoulder. Six governors from the Central Kenya Economic Bloc also asked the Treasury to adopt
“creative ways” of raising revenue from taxation without hurting the struggling
citizens. Led by their chairman, Francis Kimemia of Nyandarua, the governors asked
President Kenyatta to review the fuel tax upon returning from China because
it is 'too high for our people'. "We have discovered oil in Turkana. The paradox of increasing oil
prices goes against what we would expect as governors from the Central Kenya Economic Bloc. We ask the national government to lower the cost of oil in this
country," they said. See also: ODM MPs threaten mass protests over 16% VAT on fuel The levy has caused a sharp increase in fares
for Kenyans commuting to work in urban areas as well as those travelling across
the country. "There are many ways of raising revenue through taxes by the government and
it should not adopt means that trigger poverty in the country," Kimemia
said. Other governors present at the press conference at a Nairobi hotel included
Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Nderitu Muriithi
(Laikipia), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru) and Kiraitu Murungi (Meru). The six governors (out of 10) from the Central Kenya Economic Bloc were
meeting for the second time to discuss the region’s development agenda. Kimemia said the governors of Nyeri, Kiambu, Embu and Murang’a were held up
with county matters. "Tax on oil is going to affect many sectors, including the matatu industry,
lighting of homes and cultivation of land where ploughing an acre is going to
shoot from Sh4,000 to Sh6,000. The income for farmers is also going to be
diminished," Kimemia said. Governor Murungi warned that taxing fuel would impact negatively on the
economy, including Uhuru’s ambitious Big Four agenda. He asked Rotich to listen to the “cries” of Kenyans and their elected
leaders and reverse the tax. Kinyanjui warned that taxes on fuel will make Kenya’s exports less
competitive regionally and globally. Governor Njuki asked the national government to “tighten the nut” in curbing
huge sums of money lost through wastage and corruption. Governor Waiguru said the tax will stifle economic growth and increase the
cost of living. More: Hard times ahead as Rotich effects 16% VAT on fuel Click here for the latest political news