Mutula Kilonzo Jr should learn how to chew before swallowing 'for him to be made president after William Ruto', political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has said. This was after Mutula choked on a piece of chicken while having lunch in a Nandi hotel on Wednesday. He was treated and discharged from Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital Eldoret. Read: I'm out of danger, says Senator Mutula "Mutula is a fine young brand. He should be made President after Ruto. But he must learn to chew... We need him alive. Be well my young friend," Ngunyi said in a Twitter post. His remarks sparked reactions on social media with most of his followers putting him to task over 'Ruto to be made president' remarks. "So Ruto’s presidency is confirmed?" user @_fels1 said. @ZacharyTourist said: "And who said Ruto is gona be the president? Never he will not and he will never, wait until 2022." "Presidents are not made! They are elected... They are made when they steal," @nayomikui said. @neotribe_0 said: "After Ruto? What if we don't want Ruto?" "If the 'system' wants him, he will carry the day with or without votes and vice versa. The MPs know this better after the financial bill saga," @mmartinkamau said. @JosephEugine said: "I don't like this guy Mutahi, for saying Ruto will be our next president. Kenya is not for two tribes. Yaani sisi wengine ni kutazama tu wakibalishana uraisi nchi ikiumia (Are we mere observers as people exchange the presidency)." "He came up with tyranny, he made it up. He's telling us he'll do it again for Ruto. Thanks for the wise up. We know what to do this time around," @salim_akudo said. @eowino16 S said: "Did I hear you right!? Be made president after who?? And now you admit presidents are made not elected." "And when is Ruto becoming the president? One of us is wrong on that. Lets wait and see. I will buy you coffee if you happen to take the day," @pmbugua SAID. @mmartinkamau wrote: "You're right! In our 'democracy', like most 'democracies' in the world, Presidents are made not elected! The system always carries the day." Folks, not even MPs could get in the way of the system in matter Financial bill. Remember that! @McMuge said: "Whoever listens and takes note on what this guy says, you’re doomed together. You’re part of the problem Kenya is having today. We elect, not make leaders. You’re confirming a narrative that they rig presidents in." ‏YES TO MUTULA @KrisYnaina said: "He is a good young man though he has surrounded himself with people without vision in political life." "Hon @SenMutula will make president by election not to be made. He is much better than you and Ruto companies," @Muthui64134734 said. @JohnRoyMwaniki said: "True, @mutulakilonzo must weather many a political storm, resist sycophantic party loyalty and avoid being "boxed" and intimidated by ill-informed party positions." He added: "His future is more certain than that of those he owes allegiance to and his pedigree, no doubt, speaks for itself." Read: Is UhuRuto marriage ending before 2022? Also read: Ruto seeks new allies over 2022 fear of ‘betrayal’ Click here for the latest political news 