Mbeere North MP Muriuki Njagagua yesterday told residents that the constituency will not be scrapped for failing to meet the minimum population required by law. He said resources in the country are distributed according to constituencies and scrapping one means its people will be discriminated against because they won’t get the funds. Njagagua said he will seek protection from the Supreme Court. “We’ll stand firm. No constituency in Embu county will disappear. We’ll go even to the highest court to prevent the resources we get from being removed from us,” Njagagua said. In the 2012 review, each constituency was required to have at least 133,000 residents based on the 2009 census. The Kenya Bureau of Statistics will conduct nationwide census next year and the figure could increase. The IEBC will realign the borders before 2021 — a year before the next election. Some could be scrapped and others created to meet the 290 provided by the Constitution. For a constituency to maintain its status, the population must be greater or lesser than the quota by either 40 per cent for cities and sparsely populated areas and 30 per cent for other areas. The quota is arrived at after dividing the total population with the 290 constituencies. Mbeere North is one of the 27 constituencies that did not meet the population criteria in the 2012 boundary review. They were allowed to stay as constitutionally protected – a caveat that will not apply in the next boundary review. Njagagua urged residents to ensure they are enumerated during the census. He said it would be an injustice to scrap the constituency. The legislator suggested that a section of Runyenjes around Kiringa area and a section of Mbeere South at Kwamurindi be ceded to Mbeere North in case they do not get the numbers needed. Others that could be done away with include Lamu East, Lamu West, Mvita, Mwatate, Wundanyi, Voi, Bura, Galole, Isiolo South, Kilome, Laisamis, North Horr, Saku, Ndaragwa, Tetu, Murkurweini, Othaya and Kangema. Others are Mathioya, Samburu East, Marakwet East, Keiyo North, Mogotio, Vihiga and Budalang’i.