A Senate committee has disclosed that some maize millers took advantage of the importation of duty-free maize and sold it to the National Cereals and Produce Board at exorbitant prices. The Senate Select Committee chair and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula questioned why the government allowed and licensed millers to sell maize to NCPB instead of buying it from the board. Julius Musyoki, the Kenya Revenue Authority commissioner in charge of Customs and boarder control told the select committee that between May to October last year, most of the maize that was imported by the different importers was sold to the Ministry of Agriculture through the NCPB. Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam He said that NCPB bought from importers 650,190.59 metric tonnes and sold to millers 610,328 metric tonnes. By end of October 2017, the cereals board had a maize stock of 39,862.29 metric tonnes in their stores. Some of the companies and individuals that were licensed to import maize outside East Africa and COMESA region include African Service Maintenance Limited, Alpha Grain Millers Limited, Capwell Industries Limited, Export Trading Co.Limited, Gold Leaf Kenya Limited, Kabansora Millers Limited, Kitui Flour Mills Ltd, Hydery Ltd, Ministry of Agriculture, Mombasa Maize Millers, Pembe Flour Mills Ltd, Seaboard Overseas Kenya Ltd, Stuntwave Ltd, The Commodity House Ltd and Unga Ltd. According to KRA statistics, the government imported a total of 1,734,487 metric tonnes of duty free maize. This was in line with the gazette notice published on April 13, 2017 allowing importation of duty free white and yellow maize following a shortage of maize in the country that resulted to prices of a two-kg packet of maize flour skyrocketing at a high of Sh150. Most of the maize originated from Mexico with a share of 1, 398,094 metric tonnes, followed by South Africa at 248, 956.74 mt, Ethiopia at 31, 212 mt, Russia at 37,050 mt, United States at 7,166 mt while the rest of the maize was imported from Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, Mozambique and Ukraine. Musyoki also disclosed that out of the 22 companies which were allowed to import duty free yellow maize for animal feeds, only six companies utilised part or their entire quota. Read: PS Lesiyampe, 8 others charged over NCPB maize scandal Click here for
the latest political news