 Senior officials of Kenya Ports Authority, KRA and Kenya Bureau of Standards were charged yesterday with allowing importation of substandard rice, fertiliser, tyres and adult diapers. Among those charged were KPA chief manager for container freight stations Kiprono Bullut, customs head for verification David Mbogori, Kebs manager in charge of Kilindini Port Peter Ndung’u and inspector Joseph Bojo. They court heard that the officers connived in releasing consignments of different goods from the Middle East. The goods did not meet standards. Read:DCI arrests top Kebs, KRA officials over substandard rice imports The customs and Kebs officials faced additional charges of abuse of office and willful disobedience of statutory duty. In one of the counts, it is alleged that Bullut wilfully neglected his duties by clearing consignments of substandard goods on December 27 last year. The suspects were charged with disobeying the law on regulations and verification of standards. Some of the companies whose consignments were cleared include Inland Africa Logistics Ltd, Igsar Group Kenya Ltd, Kiamba Clearing and Forwarding Ltd, Elgon Kenya Ltd, Sahel Clearing and Forwarding Ltd and Harleys Ltd. . The accused denied the charges and and asked Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi to release them on reasonable bond terms. Read: Kebs MD Charles Ongwae, nine others arrested over substandard fertilizer They promised to abide by all conditions set by the court. But prosecutor Alexander Muteti opposed to the bail request and asked the court to only grant bail commensurate with the offences. Andayi ordered the accused to pay a bail of Sh300,000 each or be released on an alternative bond of Sh500,000. The magistrate ordered the accused to surrender their passports to court at the next mention date since most of them are from Mombasa and had left the documents at home. Andayi declined an application by prosecution to have suspects ordered to report to the investigating officer every month, saying they had convinced the court there was no reason for them to do so. The case will be mentioned on October 8 for pre trial. The hearing date was set for November 15. Click here for the latest political news