Last Thursday Parliament dealt with a memorandum from President Kenyatta that changed the Finance Bill we had presented to him a couple of weeks ago. Our Bill had upheld a decision made by the 11th Parliament to charge 16 per cent VAT on fuel. However, like had happened twice before, Parliament had proposed to kick the can down the hill again, and have the tax implemented in 2020. Uhuru proposed eight per cent VAT. He also asked us to reconsider the proposals made by the Executive for additional taxes to support affordable housing and universal healthcare that we had refused to pass. The uncomfortable reality is that Uhuru runs a very expensive government compared to his predecessors. We have 47 governors, each with their own public-funded mini-government; 47 senators and 47 women representatives all of whom were not part of government before. We also have another close to 50 MPs as well as 24 Cabinet secretaries. (Before CSs were MPs and the extra cost when appointed to Cabinet was a fraction of what it costs to maintain a CS today). Our political reality is such that every community feels ‘included’ in government only when ‘one of their own’ is at the table. This is why we (now) have the Chief Administrative Secretary position and huge parastatal boards. The public also expects government to be ‘felt’, hence, the big cars and entourages. Ironically, to ‘protect’ ourselves from the excesses of government, we set up 15 ‘independent’ commissions to ‘check’ government, which employ thousands of officials and operate annual budgets in the billions. Finally, Kenyans want a quasi-welfare state despite being a Third World economy. We have free primary and secondary education, social welfare cash transfers for the elderly, free maternity, police at every corner, etc. But our only source of funds to run all these operational costs — and any development work that the government can squeeze in — are taxes because Kenya does not sell anything special to the rest of the world. We have not been able to commercialise the oil found in Turkana, and our coffee industry is struggling, terribly. Meanwhile the ordinary Kenyan will not pay taxes, not unless he has to. To illustrate, in a country where 19 million people are adult enough to vote only 3.2 million filed tax returns this year. Out of the 3.2 million, close to 50 per cent said they made no income in 2017, and filed ‘nil’ returns. I have followed public conversations about how large our government is. But we voted for this government structure overwhelmingly in 2010. However, even if we were to reduce it by 50 per cent, as long as only 1.7 million Kenyans are paying taxes voluntarily we will still not be able to fund it. (Incidentally if more Kenyans were paying taxes each would pay less tax per person). So until more Kenyans pay taxes voluntarily, the government will continue to ‘ambush’ us into the tax-bracket through levies such VAT, which are structured to get money from every Kenyan with any income — no matter how meagre. However what clearly makes Kenyans even more upset about these new taxes is the belief that some public officer somewhere will end up stealing a large chunk of this money, and get away with it. Unfortunately we are the same Kenyans inviting these public officers to social and political events every weekend where we expect them to donate millions; and we never query where they get all this money from! The President’s memorandum was unpopular, but it was the right way to go in the circumstances. The President had hoped that Jubilee MPs would go out and explain this uncomfortable truth to the public. Unfortunately, most chose to play to the gallery and lie to Kenyans. Fortunately, they did not carry the day.