President Uhuru Kenyatta looks set to have his way after Wiper MPs on Wednesday joined their ODM colleagues in declaring their support memorandum and proposed budget cuts. This came as the proposals were robustly defended by National Treasury CS Henry Rotich. The MPs seemed to soften their stands after the government accepted not to cut CDF and the affirmative action fund. It's those two issues that upset most MPs who vowed to marshall two-thirds majority to overturn the President's proposals. DPP wants orders staying Mwilu's case discharged The office of the DPP has filed a fresh application in court seeking to set aside orders staying the criminal proceedings facing Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. Through lawyer Lillian Obuo, the DPP wants the court to order the immediate transfer of the petition filed by Mwilu challenging her prosecution to the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the High Court. The matter is before the Constitutional and Human Rights Court. Justice Chacha Mwita declined to transfer the matter and directed the application be heard on October 9. Riddle of NLC commissioner with two passports A commissioner at the troubled National Land Commission may have used false information to acquire one of his two passports. Commissioner Abdulkadir Adan Khalif is a dual citizen of Kenya and the US. The two passports in possession of the Star indicate that Khalif claims he was born in Somalia in the US passport and in Mandera in the Kenyan passport. City assembly seeks to stop EACC from probing members Nairobi county assembly is trying to stop the EACC from investigating some lawmakers over alleged bribery in the award of a health insurance contract. The county has been on the spot over the extension of medical insurance cover for county staff. The executive had been accused of forcing the assembly to pass a supplementary budget for the contract. Six MCAs and two others face arrest if they fail to honour summonses by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to appear on September 24 and 25. West Pokot fights cattle rustling with meat, milk and fish projects For decades, cattle rustling has been a key driver of insecurity in the North Rift region, costing many lives and property. Leaders tried in vain to disarm combatants and resorted to holding peace talks instead. This led to proposals on projects to end hostilities. In West Pokot, the projects have focused on improving the livestock sector. The county is distributing Sahiwal bulls, dairy heifers and Artificial Insemination services to improve breeds. It is also introducing fish farming along the border with Turkana Your Weather NAIROBI: Generally clear; Showers late at night. Low 13ºC.  High 26ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers. Low 22ºC. High 30ºC. Winds S at 15 to 30 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Generally clear; Partly cloudy at night. Low 18ºC. High 30ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for the latest political news