Last week, I met a senior UNHCR official, and he complained about Kenya’s
little and skewed coverage of migration issues. I pleaded guilty, but not entirely. Media has reported on this issue. I
think we should further ask what responsible or concerned agencies are doing to
deal with the migration crisis. The migration crisis in Europe can be traced to
migrants from developing countries that are either grappling with economic
problems and harsh living standards or experiencing conflicts. Many are in
search of  'a better life', while others
are fleeing from war and persecution. These countries include Eritrea,
Somalia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Algeria, Yemen and Syria. Managing these numbers has proved difficult due to a number of reasons on
the receiving states end. These include a broken European Union migration system;
failure to put in place updated security measures as well as the Schengen
Agreement that made Europe a borderless area, a factor that should be a wake up
call to newly integrating states or regions. An analytical look at increased migration, especially the South-North
migration can be zeroed in to a desire to have a 'better life' due to widening
awareness of opportunities through advanced communication. To note, the very poorest people are the most affected by global
inequalities and are desperate to move under whichever means and circumstances.
They'll take any risk. Nothing will pull them back. They got nothing to lose
after all. The other problem is that there are far more unemployed or under-employed
people in the developing countries than the jobs available in the segmented
level markets of the developed economy. Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May is
on record as the Interior minister saying that four out of 10 migrants
entered the UK with no job secured for them. That number must have increased
since then. While there is a push to have a single European Policy on asylum and
migration, research shows it is difficult to disrupt momentum associated with
migration networks through policy. There is more to be done. In fact, in the
recent past, there has been an expansion on rights and entitlements that allow
certain people — asylum seekers and refugees — to cross borders and stay
abroad. Many more countries have signed the 1951 UN Refugee Convention, which
guarantees protection and assistance outside their country of origin. I would admit that
it is difficult to develop effective policies on migration due to its increased
complexity, unless collectively. It is also unfortunate that few if any of the
major labour exporting countries publishes accurate records on the number of
international migrants they produce. They need to play their part by well
structuring labour export. By
cooperating more, and the word here is cooperate, in peacekeeping efforts and
by streamlining development, the ongoing conflicts will end. This is opposed to what some
European companies are accused of, part-funding conflicts in Central Africa Republic
by entering into timber deals with militia groups. This definitely reduces refugees
and asylum seekers a big deal. 