Knut has issued a warning of a strike in October. The Kenya National Union of Teachers yesterday said teachers will disrupt learning if a meeting with the TSC fails to solve their grievances. Secretary general Wilson Sossion said the meeting is scheduled between September 30 and October 5. The union will demand withdrawal of all policies adopted between 2015 to date. The union further wants reversal of the delocalisation policy that transfers teachers from their home counties. Sossion is also unhappy with the performance appraisal tool and says promotion should be based on academic qualification. “If the meeting fails to bear fruit, we will lift the suspension on the strike that was to begin on September 1,” he said. Read: Knut, TSC plan five-day retreat to avert September strike Paralyse examinations The strike threatens to paralyse KCPE and KCSE exams set to begin on October 30. The council relies on teachers as invigilators, supervisors and markers. “National examinations begin in November, by October 5 if the union is not satisfied with the outcome of the meeting then the examinations are also under threat,” Sossion said. However, Knec chairman George Magoha said he is confident in the examination. He said they can rely on contracted teachers. “Although the teachers contracted are members of the TSC, the council contracts them on a different level and are paid by the council.” Blame game Sossion accused the TSC of dishonesty in the outcome of the August consultative forum that resolved the two parties meet on September 30. “TSC last month admitted formulating policies without consulting the union and apologised,” the secreatry general said. “At the end of the meeting, nothing conclusive was reached regarding the review of the policies.” He said despite the agreement, the TSC has continued to mislead teachers on the outcome of the consultative meeting. “It is regrettable that TSC is attempting to engage in savage attacks of the union leadership and members,” Sossion said. The teachers employer had accused Sossion of being dishonest about the ongoing negotiations between the union and the commission. On Monday, TSC accused the Knut secretary general of being dishonest about the ongoing negotiations between the union and the commission. the TSC distanced itself from some of the grounds the union boss was quoted saying they had reached in the negotiations. Read: Sossion ‘misleading’ teachers on TSC talks Click here for
the latest political news