About 40 Kenyans seek help through suicide hotlines daily. Befriends Kenya yesterday said people with suicidal tendencies prefer making calls to sending emails and text messages. The charity focuses on suicide prevention. It offers emotional support to those in distress and danger of dying by suicide. It has professional therapists and volunteer counsellors in its centres who are trained to swiftly respond to those seeking help. “Most of those who die by suicide suffer from depression and other mental health conditions,” Befriends Kenya psychotherapist Hiram Chomba said. The World Population Review ranks Kenya 114 among 175 countries with the highest suicide rates. The WHO global suicide data show that about 800,000 people die by suicide annually — one person every 40 seconds. “The number is definitely higher but due to limited surveillance, stigma and criminalisation of suicide, very few people report,” Chomba said. “Criminalising suicide and attempts does not prevent them, it only encourages stigma against survivors and victims.” A 2018 economic survey by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics showed that 421 suicide cases were reported last year. It showed that men were at higher risk of dying from suicide than women. Out of the 421 reported, 330 were men and 91 women. Depression and self-harm was, however, more common in women than in men. A World Bank report released last year showed that 1.9 million depression cases had been reported in Kenya by 2015. It ranked Kenya the sixth country with the highest number of depression cases in Africa. Read: CHITAYI MURABULA: Stop stigmatising suicide attempts Chomba said for every death in Kenya there are about 25 suicide attempts. Social media platforms such as WhatsApp are used to keep contact with those who are unable to physically attend counselling sessions at Befriends’ centres. “I talk to several patients from different parts of the country via WhatsApp. It’s important to follow up on the progress of everyone who reaches out to us,” Chomba said. Cultural and societal structures play a role in the high suicide rates among men. A research by Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital on the patterns of suicide found that as much as girls make suicide attempts more often than boys, the males commit suicide more often than girls. Chomba attributed this to cultural beliefs. “Men have been brought up with the notion that they are supposed to be strong and always be heroes,” he said. “While women have strong social fabrics, men are not emotive and rarely openly express how they are feeling. This heightens depression and makes them more detached.” Chomba said in the past month, only one man has continued seeking counselling services. Women exceed 20. Click here for the latest political news