Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama and his deputy Amos Nyaribo agreed to share County Executive Members and Chief Officers on a 50-50 basis. According to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) drawn by Kevin Mogeni and Company advocates, the appointment of county secretary after consultation between the governor and his deputy. Last week, Nyagarama reinstated County Secretary Eric Onchana amid protests from his deputy who said he was not consulted. “The Governor and his deputy shall at all times consult each other on policy decisions and shall endeavor to reach consensus on all matters affecting the county,” said the MoU which was deposited with the office of the Political Parties Registrar on May 29, 2017. The MoU which was seen by the Star on Tuesday, was also deposited at ODM headquarters when Nyagarama applied for nomination, according to a source at Orange House. In case of disputes or disagreements arising from implementing the MoU, it should be referred to eminent arbiters hailing from Nyamira but appointed by the chairman ‘for the time being appointed by the chartered Institute of Arbitrators’. Nyaribo was nominated by ANC to contest the governor’s seat but dropped his bid to be Nyagarama’s running mate. Before he flew out to India for treatment, Nyaribo accused the governor of disregarding the MoU and failing to pick his calls. Yesterday, Nyaribo would not be reached for comment. Nyagarama told journalists recently that the relationship with his deputy was ‘cordial’. The governor confirmed that he has not met his deputy since he returned from the US where he spent two months while undergoing treatment. North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko and his Borabu counterpart Ben Momanyi have however dismissed the MoU as a ‘gentleman’s agreement’ which has no basis. The county has been facing several challenges including delay in paying staff, health workers strike, spiraling wage bill and wrangles which have affected service delivery. Nyamoko blames succession politics on the crises facing the county. Click here for the latest political news