Procurement and public financial management laws were violated during former West Pokot governor Simon Kachapin’s tenure, a Senate committee heard yesterday. Governor John Lonyangapuo told the County Public Accounts and Investment Committee that he has already submitted critical documents to the anti-corruption commission for investigations. Kachapin is now Education Chief Administrative Secretary. Lonyangapuo told the committee some goods and services were procured despite unavailability of funds, which is unlawful. In other cases projects were abandoned by contractors despite having already been paid, he said. Read: Leaders want Kachapin prosecuted for misusing West Pokot resources The Auditor General in his 2014-15 report pointed out that furniture had been bought for Sh8.5 million that was not factored in the budget. “People were doing things without following the law. They were transferring money from one vote to another. Some money was even spent without a supplementary budget-down procedure. “But since I took over, things have changed. We are following the law and the laid-down procedures.” The team chaired by Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang’ held sittings at the Uasin Gishu county assembly. Kajwang’ said the county violated the Public Finance Management Act, which prohibits reallocation of more than one per cent from one vote to the other. “This is a fiscal indiscipline that must not go unpunished. You cannot run the county like this,” he said. The committee unanimously agreed that apart from Kachapin, CECs who served in his administration should also be held responsible. The former senator told the committee that his deputy is on study leave in the US and does not draw a salary. Dr Nicholas Atudonyang has not been in Kenya since he was sworn in a year ago allegedly because he has a full time job in America. “My deputy has been away in the US. He went with my permission. He has finished what he was doing and as a county, we will benefit from what was doing there,” Lonyangapuo said The senators warned that if it turns out that Atudonyang was earning double pay, then Lonyangapuo will face the law. Lonyangapuo asked the Senate to amend the law to give deputy governors clear roles and responsibilities. Click here for
the latest political news