Chinese President Xi Jinping
said on Monday that Chinese funds are not for "vanity projects"
in Africa but are to build infrastructure that can remove
bottlenecks in the continent's development. Speaking at a business forum ahead of the start of a
once-every-three-years China Africa summit, Xi said: "Resources
for our cooperation are not to be spent on any vanity projects,
but in places where they count the most." "Inadequate infrastructure is believed to be the biggest
bottleneck to Africa's development," he added. Chinese officials say this year's summit will strengthen
Africa's role in Xi's Belt and Road initiative to link China by
sea and land through an infrastructure network modelled on the
old Silk Road with southeast and central Asia, the Middle East,
Europe and Africa. Xi said that the plan, which Beijing has pledged $126
billion for, would help provide more resources and facilities
for Africa and would expand shared markets. Xi was scheduled to address the opening of the summit later
in the day. From 2000 to 2016, China loaned around $125 billion to the
continent, data from the China-Africa Research Initiative (CARI)
at Washington's Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced
International Studies shows. It is the most significant contributor to high debt risks in
three African countries, Congo Republic, Djibouti, and Zambia,
CARI said last week. In most other nations, traditional donors, multilateral
agencies and private creditors held significantly higher
portions of debt, it added. The last decade has seen a boom in
African Eurobond issuance. China has denied engaging in "debt trap" diplomacy, but Xi
is likely to use the gathering of African leaders to offer a new
round of financing, following a pledge of $60 billion at the
last summit three years ago in South Africa. Ethiopia and Zambia, heavy borrowers from China, have
expressed desire to restructure that debt, while bankers believe
Angola and Congo Republic have already done so, though details
are sparse. But even countries heavily indebted to China say Beijing
offers far better terms than Western banks, and that European
nations and the United States fail to match its generosity. Every African country is represented at the business forum
apart from eSwatini, self-ruled Taiwan's last ally on the
continent, which has so-far rejected China's overtures to ditch
Taipei and recognise Beijing. African presidents in attendance include Kenya's Uhuru Kenyatta, South Africa's
Cyril Ramaphosa, Egypt's Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, Zambia's Edgar
Lungu, and Gabon's Ali Bongo. Also read: Profitability cited as Ethiopia debt woes curtail China funding Related: Amid US trade war, China's Xi Jinping reiterates reform commitment Click here for the latest political news 