Vihiga governor Wilber Ottichilo has said graft forces have ganged up to frustrate his government. He promised to remain focused to eradicate corruption. “I must be strong to deliver as the governor,” Ottichilo said on Wednesday. The governor said forces have united to fight his resolve to battle the corrupt systems he inherited when he took office. “I have resolved to fight corruption in Vihiga and ensure the money goes to projects. A lot of your money was going into people’s pockets and they are now fighting back,” he said. The county chief said Vihiga was spending more than Sh50 million to pay people who were not working but collecting salaries. “Those who placed them on the payroll were receiving something. That is why they are fighting me when I seal the loopholes they used,” he said. A government audit early this year revealed the payroll had ghost workers, underage staff and overage employees. Two months ago, Ottichilo overhauled the Finance and Procurement departments by transferring staff to destabilise graft networks. Ottichilo spoke at Idavaga Muslim Primary School during the launch of branded ECDE teachers’ guidebooks and learners’ workbooks. The books, printed by the Kenya Literature Bureau, cost Sh11.9 million. KLB managing director Victor Lomaria was present. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission detectives are probing several issues raised by Ottichilo over the way the previous administration ran the county. On Wednesday, the governor said he started restructuring the county government to end corruption. He appealed to the residents to allow him time to deliver on his election promises. On August 28, Ottichilo told county politicians he was unable to perform any function since the county treasury was swept clean by the previous regime. “I was given a vehicle without fuel and insurance. I cannot advertise vacant positions because newspapers are owed colossal amounts. They want cash,” the governor said. Last month, Ottichilo told MCAs criticising his performance to follow procedures. He said his success as a will depend on the people’s support. “Just give us time and your support and I assure you this government will deliver the services,” Ottichilo said.