A Cabinet secretary unsuccessfully tried to stop the deportation of a Cameroonian involved in fake money printing. The CS, known to have previously engaged in the illegal business, called a number of people, including Parklands police who were holding the man — Peter Longa — and demanded his release. But as he made efforts to release Longa, his Interior counterpart Fred Matiang’i acted swiftly and signed a deportation order. Longa was deported on Friday. Longa is linked to Arafat Omar, alias Omar Rashid (Kenyan), and Fidel Ako (Ghanaian) who were arrested last weekend. They are facing charges in court. Read: DPP, DCI differences play out in dramatic arrest of Cameroonian freed by court Omar had been communicating with a well-known judge for some time. They have a sexual relationship. Meanwhile, on Friday, police launched investigations into the relationship between the Cabinet secretary and the deported Cameroonian. “It looks like the Cabinet secretary could either be involved in this business or is very well known to those criminals,” a senior police officer told the Star. Longa had been profiled since 2012 for his involvement in fake gold business. He was deported in January but sneaked back into the country. In July, he was rearrested and detained at Parklands police station after one Sharad Patel filed a complaint that he had defrauded him of Sh300,000 and given him fake US dollars. When the matter reached Matiang’i, he immediately ordered Longa’s deportation papers prepared and a ticket in the next Kenya Airways flight to Duala procured. “He was very upset that Longa had sneaked back into the country, continued with his illegal activities and was being protected by his fellow minister,” an Immigration official who was involved in the deportation said. Matiang’i also deported a Chinese man who was filmed calling Kenyans and President Uhuru Kenyatta monkeys. The Immigration Department on Thursday posted on Twitter that Jiaqi’s permit had been cancelled. “Liu who was arrested due to his racist remarks has been deported,” it wrote on its Twitter handle. Click here for the
latest political news