The die is cast as three teams Equity Bank, Kenya Defence Forces and Kenya Ports Authority take to the courts today to muscle for the two remaining play-off slots during the Kenya Volleyball Federation national league at the Wote grounds in Makueni County.
The three teams will be hoping to get maximum points to join champions General Service Unit and league leaders Kenya Prisons, who have secured their regular slots.
While all eyes will be on Equity versus KPA match as whoever wins the tie will be guaranteed of the play-off slot, KDF who play Bungoma County will be praying that KPA beat the bankers for them to benefit from the remaining slot. 
 Equity, who have 27 points from 10 matches will return to the courts with a match against  KDF, who have 25 points from 11 matches while KPA have 24 points from nine matches.
KDF team manager, Alfred Ruto, knows pretty well what is at stake as they seek to return to the play-off having  missed last year’s event.
Ruto said: “We have three matches on card including Bungoma County, Kahawa Garrison and Equity Bank. All these matches are important to us but of interest will be the tie against Equity as a win against them will give us an advantage and we will be hoping that Equity lose to KPA,” said Ruto. He added: “The stakes are high and we just want to see who will blink first but all in all, our wish is to return to the play-off.”
Other matches on card, Bomet take on Nairobi Prisons, Administration Police battle Vihiga County as Kenya Prisons entertain Kiambu County.
Kericho County will take Mombasa Prisons, Bungoma county play Naks in their second match of the day before Western Prisons square it out with Vihiga .
KPA will then cross swords with Vihiga as GSU entertain Kahawa and Kiambu in their two matches of the day.
In the women’s matches, champions Kenya Pipeline take on Bomet before Bomet play KDF; league leaders Kenya Prisons welcome DCI on the local front after participating in last month’s East and Central Africa Police Games in Tanzania.