The new police reforms will ensure there is no leapfrogging to the next rank, National Police Service Commission’s Mohamed Murshid has said. Previously, he said, there were no guidelines of moving to the next rank and this led to some officers rising to higher ranks very fast. Others stayed in the same rank for a long time before being promoted to the next, Murshid said. To be promoted to the next rank, the guidelines state that one should be in one rank for a period of three years. A police officer will also not move to the next rank for six months if they have disciplinary issues. They have to be cleared. To be in the rank of an assistant chief inspector, an officer would be required to have a masters degree. Murshid said previously, there were no guidelines, which would have ensured accountability, transparency and fairness in the commission. “There are many people who walk around with masters degrees and they do not have a bachelors degree,” Murshid said. In transfers, the guidelines will ensure officers will get transfers after a minimum of three years. The transfers will require one to alternate from hardship areas to non-hardship areas. Murshid said this would help the officers to be all-round. “Familiarity brings corruption,” he said. Murshid said the reforms will motivate officers to do better. He spoke during a sensitisation of police officers on the career progression guidelines and regulations at the Police Training Centre in Mombasa. On Wednesday, Commission chairman Johnston Kavuludi said officers will get information on promotions and moving upward in ranks. “Since the force was established in Kenya, there has never been an organised way for officers to know how they are to rise in the ranks,” Kavuludi said. He said the education will help them adapt to the reforms. They will be allowed back to school to qualify for promotions. Read: {SPEECH} Changes aimed at streamlining police operations - Uhuru The process has been established by the NPS and was commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta in February, but most of the officers do not understand the process. “We are talking to our officers about regulations being used by NPS on officers’ discipline, transfers and how they are to be assigned duties.” The chairman denied speculation that the reforms will result to some officers losing their jobs. “No officer will be sacked. The only new thing is that we shall have leadership that will not lead to a clash in giving commands,” Kavuludi said. He said in the past, the force had three commanders. On July 27, Uhuru gave Interior CS Fred Matiang’i 30 days to produce a strategy on how to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the National Police Service. Uhuru asked Matiang’i and IG Joseph Boinnet to address the persistent housing problem and report back. “I have directed Matiang’i and Boinnet to provide me with a comprehensive policy framework and strategy,” Uhuru said via Twitter. See: Omtata wants Court to reverse Uhuru's changes on police service Click here for the latest political news