Youths have descended on the recently demolished Southend Mall on Langata road in their numbers,scavenging angerously through the rubble for scrap metal. At a glance, one could mistakenly take the place for a construction site or even think that some serious search and rescue mission is going on. But on moving closer, one realises a different scenario. The youth, about 200 in number,were at the scene with an assortment of tools to remove the steel and othermaterials that could be turned into cash. They said the site had become their source of livelihood and they have been ‘reporting to work’ every morning since the building was flattened more than a week ago. “They (police) allowed us to comehere; it is not illegal because the demolitions ended. This is a fulltime job for us,” Clement Mutinda said. So booming is the business that a scrap metal dealer has set up shop on the site. The availability of a ready market for the scavenged materials has given the youths the morale and urge to work for longer hours. “Some of us leave here as late as midnight. It is worth it because if I go back home, children will eat meat or have milk,” Tom Ouma said. Ouma said he has been going home with between Sh1,000 and Sh2,000 since he started ‘working’ there last Thursday. The youths come from as far Mukuru, Mathare and Korogocho slums, though the majority of them are from Kibera. But even as the business appears to be booming, the site looks dangerous. While some of them climb on top of the hanging debris, others have dug holes to the underground rooms whose pillars and walls were not knocked down. They are covered by the debris and look like people working in a quarry. Julius Wanjau, the officer in charge of the demolitions, said the team will be going back to the site after flattening Airgate Centre, to clear the debris. “We will do proper landscaping after we are done with Taj Mall. We will carry away the debris and take red soil there,” he said. Wanjau said flowers, grass and trees will planted to conserve the rivers. The same will happen at the demolished Ukay Centre in Westlands and Shell petrol station in Kileleshwa. Meanwhile, the demolition of the Airgate Centre continued yesterday under tight security. Wanjau said the building will be completely flattened in two weeks. The government will spend about Sh3 million – fueling of the machines and meals for the demolition team and police officers – to pull down the structure.