Deputy President William Ruto has asked members of the Kuria community to discard outdated cultural practices that impede development. He regretted that Female Genital Mutilation (FGM), cattle rustling and witchcraft were still being practised, thus slowing development in the region. Addressing wananchi at Kegonga grounds in Kuria East, Migori County, on Friday, the Deputy President urged residents in the area to take the education of their children seriously, and desist from such cultural activities. “The current situation in Kenya is the competition about education, technology and development. FGM, cattle rustling and witchcraft have no room in this era. Instead, let us instead focus on those activities that can make us prosper,” the DP said. He urged the members of the Kuria community to exploit the many opportunities in the education sector, where the Government had put about 30 per cent of its total budget. “Kuria cannot be developed by outdated cultural practices. We can only change this place through education and initiation of projects that can transform the lives of the people,” said Ruto. The Deputy President assured residents in the area that the Government had put in place security measures aimed at taming insecurity occasioned by banditry and cattle rustling. He, however, asked them to work closely with members of the security team by exposing criminal elements amongst them. “It is sad that in this 21st Century, some Kenyans are still engaging in stock theft when the rest of the country is busy on matters of stock exchange. We must, therefore, do away with stock theft and embrace peace,” said Ruto. Present were MPs Marwa Kitayama (Kuria East) and Mathias Robi (Kuria West). The Deputy President said the Government’s development agenda for the area was progressing well, citing improvement of roads, equipping of health and technical institutions as well as connecting houses to electricity. He said Sh3.5 billion would be used to tarmac the 75-kilometre Isebania-Kehancha-Kegonga- Ongata Baragoi-Lolgorian road. Meanwhile, DP Ruto lauded the role played by Savings and Credit Cooperative Organization (SACCOs) in the development of the country. He said this during the launch of Kuria East Boda Boda SACCO that the sector could help in the implementation of the Big Four agenda, especially the housing pillar. Ruto said SACCOs have mobilised Sh500 billion over the years in form of savings, encouraging Kenyans to join the sector as one way of empowering themselves economically. “It is through cooperative movements that we can transform our lives. In fact, SACCOs serve as the engine of our country’s development,” he said. He asked leaders to forget about issues of elections and put their energies on matters of development. “We all know that time for politics is over and its an opportunity for us as leaders to serve the people. Those of us who are going round the country should do so on matters of development and not rhetoric,” said Ruto. The MPs praised development efforts being initiated by Jubilee since 2013, saying Kuria will soon be at par with the rest of the country on matters of development. “As people of Kuria community, we are grateful that Jubilee has initiated many development projects for us in only six years compared to the 50-year-rule of the previous regimes,” said MP Robi. Marwa said members of the Kuria community would not be misled in future to support individuals who have no development agenda for them. He said the community has resolved to support the Government, saying “it is committed to addressing challenges facing all Kenyans”. Click here for the latest political news