An
official statement assessing the event noted, among other things, the meeting “reviewed
with satisfaction the development of relations between China and Africa, and
commended the forum for its well-developed structure and improved efficiency
over the past 18 years since its inception, and for its contribution in
substantiating China-Africa relations.” The two sides agreed to continue
pursuing FOCAC’s objectives, the statement noted. Social
media, however, was abuzz with many criticizing  and even trashing African leaders for trooping
to China with bowl in hand for more handouts. This
criticism is misplaced and misses out entirely on what’s going on. FOCAC
follows an inaugural China-Africa security forum hosted by the Chinese military
in June of this year. The purpose of the event was “deepen the China-Africa
comprehensive strategic partnership, promote a shared future for China and
Africa, and meet the needs of Africa’s new security situations and China-Africa
defense cooperation. The
hosting of these events back to back is nothing but a carefully planned and now
execution of heightened Chinese political and economic cooperation with African
nations, with a view to dominate and exert irresistible influence and reach,
with the chosen vehicles being infrastructure investment, enhanced diplomatic
relations, and China training the next generation of African leadership. Unlike
the West, who conquered and subjugated African to colonialism, Chinese approach
is a win-win cooperation on economic development, which emphasizes on mutual
benefits, bilateral cooperation and noninterference in the internal affairs of
African nations. The Africa
Center for Strategic Studies notes there are five components to China’s strategy
in Africa towards increasing the nation’s global prominence — economic
engagement, military interests, UN peacekeeping, political parties training and
soft power. There are 1 million Chinese migrants in Africa, and an estimated 12
per cent of Africa’s industrial output — $500 billion each year — is handled by
Chinese companies, of which more than 10,000 are in Africa. It's,
therefore, no accident that China hosted the inaugural security and military forum
because having a close relationship with Africa in security and military will help
protect its vast investments and economic interests in the region, allowing it
to police the trade routes that support their economy. Along
with that, China is undertaking a global “Belt and Road” initiative, also known
as “One Belt, One Road” and “Silk Road”. It is regarded by China as the largest
project of the century, covering infrastructure, transportation and energy with
a network of railroads and shipping lanes in 70 countries in Asia, Africa,
Europe, and Oceania. Already a
trillion-dollar project, the initiative could cost $4 to $8 trillion and
encompass 62 per cent of the world’s population and 40 per cent of global
economic output upon its scheduled completion in 2049. We are
already witnessing the implementation of this ambitious projects in our region
and among these, are the Addis Ababa-Djibouti railway line, the Mombasa-Nairobi
railway, and other projects under development Tanzania and that’s only in East
Africa. The point
is, the train has already left the station; what must happen now is not to
whine or condemn the leaders who have been dragged kicking and screaming with
bouts of excitement all the way to their banks, but to demand accountability
such that what they have pocked or intend to pocket as a result of this massive
China expansion into Africa is returned or remains in the public till where it
belongs. As for
the viability of these projects, ultimately, the expansion would and has to
benefit Africa and if it takes China adjusting its own policies or even terms
of their existing investments, that’s something they will gladly do provided
there’s effective leadership from among the African nations to effect that. In other
words, blame not the Chinese, but African leaders if only the Chinese benefit, despite
their willingness to fashion their expansion as a win-win for China and Africa.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States 