Ailing Mumias Sugar Company could be auctioned by creditors to recover huge debts, Sports CS Rashid Echesa has said. The debts have stalled the company’s operations. Reviving the miller is an uphill task requiring the collective effort of the government, political leaders and other stakeholders, Echesa said. “If we don’t hold hands as stakeholders, Mumias Sugar Company will become extinct. I talked to my friends in government about the dire situation of the company and they agreed to give us Sh2 billion more. Butnwhen I came to the ground I realised that the company is grappling with debts and is on the verge of being auctioned by its creditors,” Achesa said. He spoke in Matawa Primary School in Mumias West constituency when he distributed over 5,000 shoes and slippers to pupils on Friday. The CS said the debts Mumias owes various firms cannot be cleared even if the company were to be sold. He said the Sh2 billion is just a drop in the ocean. Workers have not been paid for a year and the company owes them nearly Sh1 billion. The Kenya Revenue Authority has written to the miller about selling its property to recover debts. “Mumias Sugar owes KRA Sh12 billion, Kenya Power Sh1.8 billion, Eco Bank Sh3.2 billion and KCB Sh2.5 billion. The company also owes farmers lots of money and many others. So, you realise that even if you sell the whole company it will still be difficult to clear all the debts,” Echesa said. Kenya Power disconnected the miller’s supply, but Mumias disputed the Sh1.2 billion in unpaid bills and challenged the disconnection in court. In August, the company’s senior management and the board resolved that the Sh2 billion they had requested from the Treasury would be essential to resuming operations. Part of the revival plan is to pay farmers the outstanding Sh700 million for cane delivered. Echesa said the only way the miller can be salvaged is through objective discussions to convince the creditors to wait to be paid after the company resumes operations. Mumias has not produced sugar for six months because of lack of cane and financial woes. The miller resumed production of ethanol last week. Acting CEO Patrick Chebosi said the miller is using bagasse and molasses sourced from neighbouring millers to produce ethanol.The brewing industry is the main user of ethanol. Proceeds from the sale of ethanol will be used to pay farmers and workers who have gone for more than a year without pay. 