In life, we go through a cocktail of experiences – the good, bad, ugly, crazy, complicated and sometimes, massively complex. Many of these experiences leave a lasting impression on us psychologically. And the negative experiences tend to have a stronger impact on our minds; often, they create mental blocks that could last a lifetime. Negative experiences create negative mental images that can become the lenses through which we view life. Hence, we develop response patterns that become our default response. Thus, creating the comfort zone. Usually, the comfort zone is established by limiting beliefs from negative experiences. Due to the trauma, the mind automatically keeps looking for ways to maintain safety. The comfort zone is an inaccurate read on your potential. At every point in life, there is always a next level; there is always more to you. That’s the design. You were designed to constantly evolve with time into better versions of yourself. The comfort zone is abnormal to your design. You were made for more. How do you know you are in a comfort zone? How do you know you are trapped? First, you stop dreaming. New ideas bother you. Fresh insight or new ways of doing things make you weary and uncomfortable. You are in the comfort zone when you think primarily in negative terms. “I can’t”, “It’s too expensive,” “It’s impossible,” “It won’t work,” “I’ve tried that before and it failed. Why bother?” These thought patterns confirm you are trapped. It’s a sign that you need to break free. It shows it is time to reach for more. You can break free from your comfort zone by stopping the negative stories in your mind about yourself created by negative experiences. Your crazy experiences created a negative belief system about yourself that led to negative self-talk. You’re beautiful, but negative experiences lied to you and now you believe you’re not beautiful. Therefore, you look yourself in the mirror and tell yourself you’re ugly. You talk ugly to yourself and ugly is now your reality, even if you’re truly beautiful. You break the comfort zone by changing your self-talk from a negative to a positive one. As you speak kindly and positively to yourself, your self-image begins to align with your positive talk and your behavior begins to gradually change to match your positive self-talk. Furthermore, you begin to experience positive results. So, set fresh, exciting goals, shift your mindset by talking to yourself about your exciting future and successfully break your comfort zone. Email:
smpamugo@gmail.com