From Egypt to England to New York, The Map of Love by Ahdaf Soueif tells the story of a desert romance that moves across continents over the span of a century. In 1997, an American journalist in New York called Isabel Parkman sends a vintage travel trunk to an Egyptian woman called Amal al-Ghamrawi. Amal is the sister of Parker’s friend, Omar al-Ghamrawi, a famous classical music conductor whom Parker is secretly in love with. The trunk contains hand-written letters, documents and mementos, which belonged to Parkman’s great grandmother, Lady Anna Winterbourne. The letters are written in Arabic and Parkman hopes that Amal can help her unravel their stories and understand her heritage. Anna Winterbourne was an upper class English woman in a loveless marriage with a former war veteran, who was psychologically devastated during Britain’s warfare in Sudan. When her husband died, she travelled in 1900 to Egypt, then an Ottoman-ruled country, where Britain was seeking greater influence in a geo-politically important region. While on a desert safari, she was kidnapped by a band of rebels then rescued by an Egyptian nationalist called Sharif Basha al-Baroudi. The two fell in love, got married, and though Anna is effectively spurned by the British community, they couple enjoyed a life of domestic bliss, crowned by the birth of a much-loved daughter. When Pasha was killed, Anna returned to England with her daughter and never visited Egypt again. Initially indifferent, Amal becomes deeply engrossed in investigating the story, partly because she wants to understand her own identity. In the process of investigating, the two women discover surprising family connections between them. Isabel’s infatuation with Amal’s brother acts as a kind of parallel love story. The Map of Love is written almost like a personal journal, where present-day events are intermingled with letters and excerpts by Lady Winterbourne. Ahdaf Soueif, who is both a writer and a political commentator, brings in the context of the period, a time of growing tensions as Egyptians agitate against colonial British rule. At the same time, she enlightens us on present-day Egyptian nationalism. We are taken into the privileged life of British expatriates and the secluded quarters of wealthy Egyptian families. The language is subtly beautiful and filled with richly descriptive landscapes. Souief draws us back and forth from the present to the early 1900s in a sometimes fragmented manner, and guides our perspective from the viewpoint of the three women. The family tree and index of Arabic words keep the story manageable for non-native readers. Sometimes the intimate story was obscured by long examinations of historical events whose authenticity has been questioned. At the end of the day, I read this as more of a cross-cultural romance and family saga than an accurate chronicle of history. One is expected to suspend some aspects of actuality, and the insertion of supernatural events supports this idea. The Map of Love was shortlisted for the Booker Prize.  Star Rating: 4/5