A borehole in Baringo county that has been blamed for the miscarriages of 11 women in Silale ward will be demolished. Residents say its water is poisonous. Naudo chief David Arupe yesterday said the demolition will start soon. “Stakeholders have discussed with residents and agreed to get rid of the borehole because it is dangerous to humans and livestock,” he said. The borehole was sunk by World Vision-Kenya in 2013 at a cost of Sh7 million. It was aimed at providing clean water to more than 8,000 residents of Chemukutan, Chemisik and Nasiywalet villages. Among the targeted beneficiaries were more than 300 pupils of Riongo and Naudo primary schools, currently struggling with persistent drought, hunger and water shortage. The pastoral community is now relying on dirty water from seasonal pan dams such as Chemeri, Lokiwach, Morlem and Losikiriamoi. “Samples of the water taken to the Government Chemist tested positive for excessive sodium fluoride, iron, salt and high temperatures, which are highly poisonous to humans and livestock,” Baringo World Vision project manager Fred Wambia said. The area lies on the hot belt of the ongoing multi-billion Silale power generation plant being installed by Geothermal Development Company. Wambia said the decision to demolish the borehole was reached by stakeholders, among them the Baringo government and the Rift Valley Water Service Company. Medically, he said, the effects are not felt immediately in humans but with time they cause weakening of bones and teeth, leading to fractures or premature deaths. Wambia said it would lead to disorders such as poor development of a foetus and stillbirths among expectant women. “I’m headed there today (Tuesday) to mount posters and caution residents against consuming the poisonous water,” he said. In March, the Star highlighted that 11 women had lost their pregnancies after taking water fetched from contaminated boreholes and muddy pan dams. Silale MCA Nelson Lotela said residents and children complained of stomach upset immediately after drinking the water or consuming food cooked with it. Chemket Nyangatiang, 60, confirmed the spontaneous miscarriages and abortions among expectant women, blaming it on the ‘poisonous’ water. “Even if the case is that serious, we have to continue drinking the water from the borehole until another source is available for us,” she said. Nyangatiang said women and girls trek in scorching sun for more than 15km in search of clean water along River Nginyang in Chemolingot. Riongo resident Hosea Kipkugat said even after being warned against taking any foods or animal products cooked with the water, they have no choice but to use it.   