Police in Garissa have seized an assortment of food suspected to be contraband. It was being transported from Mandera to Nairobi. Garissa police chief Aron Moriasi said the consignment included milk powder and rice. It was retrieved from a truck involved in an accident a few kilometres from the Modika police barrier. Modika is about 15km from Garissa town. Moriasi told the press in his office yesterday the lorry was trying to evade the police barrier and overturned on a rough murram road. The truck’s trailer was extensively damaged. The police boss said officers manning the barrier were attracted by the bang and dust, prompting them to go and check. “Officers found the overturned truck but the driver and turnboy fled,” Moriasi said. “Under normal circumstances the driver should have walked to the police barrier to report the incident and seek medical assistance. But the fact that he decided to escape from the scene means there was something fishy with the consignment.” The police chief said upon inspection, police recovered documents showing the consignment was being transported to Nairobi in the 5am incident. “How would such goods move from Mandera to Nairobi when it is supposed to be the other way round?” he said. It is unclear how the consignment moved from Mandera without being detected by security agencies manning road blocks and barriers on the route. “With incidents of contraband goods being smuggled into the country through the porous border, we have been forced to further investigate this consignment,” Moriasi said. He said a multi-agency team involving officials from Kebs, KRA, DCI and Public Health will inspect the consignment being held at Garissa police station. “We want to investigate whether the necessary tax was paid, whether the food meets standards and is fit for human consumption. Police would also like to know from the truck’s owner, the driver and the turnboy the source of the goods,” Moriasi said. The incident comes two weeks after Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik cautioned transporters against engaging in illicit trade. Birik said proceeds from contraband goods are used to finance al Shabaab militants.