NASA leaders Musalia Mudavadi and Raila Odinga are expected in Western this weekend. Mudavadi will be in Hamisi constituency, Vihiga county, for the burial of former ambassador to Unesco George Godia. He is expected to intensify his anti-government crusade. Raila is to visit Kakamega county for the burial of an ODM supporter in Lubao village, Lurambi subcounty. The ODM leader last visited Kakamega in April when he delivered a keynote address during the fifth Devolution Conference hosted by the county. Lugari branch ODM chairman Nabii Nabwera on Friday confirmed the visit. “I’m in his office even as I talk to you to confirm one or two things,” he told the Star on the phone. Raila will use the occasion to explain the benefits of the handshake to the people of Western and Kenyansin general. On Thursday, some ODM MPs defied Raila’s stand on the Finance Bill and opposed it in Parliament. Raila had earlier met his ODM brigade and urged them to back the President’s proposals on fuel tax and other measures aimed at bridging budget gaps. The team agreed to offer conditional support, but some later went against the grain and took a divergent view. Mudavadi has been packaging himself as the face of alternative government following the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta. He is emerging as a political firebrand and has evolved into a constant critic of the Uhuru administration. The ANC leader has accused the government of ignoring the plight of wananchi. “He is likely to talk about the illegality of the debate on the Finance Bill 2018 that was acrimoniously passed by MPs on Thursday. A court had already declared the bill illegal even before it was debated,” Mudavadi’s private secretary Kibisu Kabatesi told the Star. The bill reduced VAT on fuel from 16 per cent to eight, besides introducing taxes on mobile and bank transactions. ANC MPs opposed it. Kabatesi said Mudavadi will tell Kenyans that he withdrew his support for the reduction of VAT on petroleum products after learning that the president’s proposal contained other oppressive taxes that will burden the common mwananchi. On Wednesday, Mudavadi told Uhuru to resign or dissolve and reconstitute his administration. He said the budget crisis in the country is self-inflicted by Jubilee administration’s lack of fiscal restraint. He told the President to think outside the box owing to what he called a crisis of confidence over the government’s inability to manage the economy. “In situations of paralysis like this, governments resign or dissolve,” he said in a statement. Mudavadi said endemic corruption is a large contributor to the budgetary crisis. He said the situation has been magnified by the fact that “a large chunk of loans and the budget are stolen within government bureaucracy”. “Kenyans have not been told what the Eurobond, whose repayment is due, was used for. The Treasury shocked Kenyans with the admission that it didn’t know what government departments did with the share disbursed to them. Of course this was sheer despondency,” he said.