Good Morning, It is another warm day in most parts of Kenya with a forecast of slight clouds though the weatherman has warned of heavy rains in the Coastal region. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star on a day when Migori MCAs continue to collect signatures in readiness to impeach embattled Governor Okoth Obado. Obado who is fighting a murder charge in a Nairobi court was sent back to remand until Thursday when a decision will be made on his bail application. Out of the 60 Member of the Migori County Assembly, 23 had signed the petition to remove Obado on account of integrity by 6pm on Tuesday. The MCA's who want the governor out say he has disgraced himself and his position has become untenable. Millers give assurance on maize flour prices Kenyans have a reason to stay calm amidst concerns that the recently enacted tax on fuel would raise the cost of living further. Millers have said they will not raise the price of maize floor despite the slapping of an eight per cent tax on petroleum products. The Cereals Millers Association said on Tuesday that they will not raise the prices despite the fact that they can no longer claim VAT refund. The National Treasury has made a decision to stop zero rating wheat and maize flour. Parliament pokes holes in Uhuru's capacity to implement Big Four agenda Parliament has poked holes in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s capacity to implement the Big Four agenda. In a report, the August House has raised alarm over the costly debts, poor government policies and implementation of devolution. The report dubbed Eyes on the Big Four says Uhuru's failure in security and governance has denied Kenyans value for their money. Ruto to tour Coast, issue 6,000 titles Deputy President William Ruto is set to yet again tour the Coast region starting Thursday and issue at least 6,100 title deeds to residents. Landlessness is a major thorn in the flesh of many Coast residents and issuance of title deeds is one way of winning their hearts. The Star has established Ruto will issue at least 2,600 title deeds in Kwale county and another 3,500 in Mombasa county in a move aimed at addressing the squatter problem rampant in the region. ‘Pepper-sprayed’ MCA eyes Passaris seat in 2022 poll She has been a social media sensation following her "si hiyo ni kirimino' (it's that criminal) comment a few weeks ago. Nairobi nominated MCA Mary Njambi, who was left with watery eyes after a confrontation with Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi, has said her vision for 2022 is clear. Speaking to Word Is, the Makadara-based legislator said she is not bothered by the newly acquired fame, and is, in fact, eyeing Nairobi Woman Representative seat currently held by Esther Passaris. For more on these stories and others, keep browsing the Star website for the latest news making headlines across Kenya and around the world. To get the Breakfast Briefing right into your inbox every morning, click here for a free subscription.