The founder of the African Heritage gallery in Athi River, Mlolongo, has sued Kenya Power for serving him with an inflated bill of Sh616,000. American artist Alan Donovan says on Tuesday last week, KPLC, without notice, disconnected his power. It occasioned him unfathomed frustration and loss because he relies on power to run the Heritage House. “I depend on Kenya Power supply to run my home, which is also the African Heritage House, with thousands of African Art collections. I constantly host local and international guests as they view the art,” he says. Through lawyer Samwel Mohochi, Donovan says the termination and disconnection of electricity is in a punitive retaliation against him, He supported a matter in which lawyer Apollo Mboya sued KPLC for sending inflated bills to customers, among other issues. He also says, “Having been indisposed and admitted in Nairobi Hospital from September 2017 until February 2018, a period of which my electricity consumption was on the bare minimum given my hospitalisation, I was shocked to learn through an unofficial communication of Sh616,000”. The unofficial communication he refers to was a piece of paper given to his representative Tom Otieno, who enquired on the April bill. Donovan, who has been a customer since 1973, wants KPLC compelled to reconnect power and allow him to continue enjoying the service pending determination of the petition. He says since 2008 KPLC has been issuing him erroneous bills, which pushed him to set up a new meter box to resolve the issue of erroneous bills but in vain. “After I received the outrageous bill, I wrote a letter to kplc requesting further explanation on how they arrived at the said figure and explained my absence in April and May.” In June, Kenya Power wrote to him, saying his bill for November 2016-March 2018 had been calculated erroneously and the firm wanted to bill an uncharged consumption of 28,758 units. “I concluded that the alleged uncharged consumption units were malicious and exorbitant and only meant to harass and extort customers in paying for unexplained consumption,” he says. Click here for the latest political news