Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has criticised attempts to amend the constitution as proposed by a section of political leaders. Kalonzo said he will stand and oppose any attempt to erode the benefits of devolution. "I will stand and oppose any attempt to erode the benefits of devolution. I will say no. We should strengthen the national assembly and the Senate but we will have a healthy conversation on this," Kalonzo said. He spoke during a church service at Kaseve Catholic in Machakos Sub county on Sunday. Kalonzo said MCAs have become the target of the constitutional amendment. "It is not right that you make nonsense of what vision we had. The intent of devolution was to make lives different in counties up to the ward level but life is as usual because of corruption," he added. ODM leader Raila Odinga has been pushing for Constitutional amendment saying it will fix problems facing the country. Read: Raila says Constitutional changes will help fix Kenya’s perennial ills Kalonzo said the Kenyan challenge is not the wage bill but monies looted by certain leaders. Kalonzo called on Kenyans to support President Uhuru Kenyatta in his fight against graft. "Let us support President Kenyatta in his second and final term in office since he is committed to leaving a legacy after his reign," Kalonzo said. He said the government should hunt down corrupt leaders so as to bring back stolen funds and other public resources. Kalonzo cited Migori County where it is alleged that Sh2.5 billion ended up in the pockets of Governor Okoth Obado's cronies through proxies. "It may not be in county governments alone, the leakage can be stopped," Kalonzo said. "If we recover all the monies held in in foreign bank accounts belonging to corrupt leaders, we may achieve a lot." Kalonzo was accompanied by Machakos Speaker Florence Mwangangi, former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti, Machakos county Majority Leader Mark Mwendo and 21 MCAs from Machakos, Makueni and Kitui counties. Read: Use Bomas Draft model to change law, says Kalonzo Read: Kalonzo backs constitutional changes but doesn't want special positions Click here for the latest political news