Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has said the Sh9 billion budget reduction for the counties may affect operations, especially for planned projects. Lusaka said the Senate will discuss the budget cuts passed by Parliament in the Finance Bill last week which enforced the eight per cent VAT on fuel. “The Senate should have been consulted on the budget cuts; but this is one of the issues we will be discussing to get the way forward,” he said. Lusaka spoke in Eldoret where he led senators as they started the first sittings outside Nairobi. They met MCAs and Uasin Gishu county officials during the first day of sittings at the county assembly. Lusaka said the sittings in Eldoret will also be used to strengthen the capacity of counties and MCAs in relation to devolution. James Orengo, Mutula Kilonzo, Margaret Kamar and Kipchumba Murkomen were among the senators at the meetings. Security was stepped up in Eldoret. The week-long ‘Senate mashinani’ event started yesterday and police are guarding top hotels where the senators are being accommodated. More than 40 police officers were deployed at the Uasin Gishu assembly — the venue of all Senate and committee sittings. Majority leader Josphat Lowoi said it was a good opportunity for them to have first-hand experience on the operations of the Senate. “MCAs are happy to mingle with the senators and share experiences on how best we can improve devolution,” he said. County commissioner Abdi Hassan and Governor Jackson Mandago assured the senators of smooth operations in Eldoret. “We’re proud to be the first county to host the first Senate sittings outside Nairobi. We believe this is a plus for devolution,” Mandago said. AUDIT QUERIES Billboards have been mounted on major roads in the town. They display welcoming messages and have portraits of all the senators. Farming will take centre stage during some of the discussions. Kamar is chairing the ad hoc Senate committee on the maize crisis. It is expected to have public forums. Seven governors will appear before the Senate to respond to queries over their counties. Today, Baringo’s Stanley Kiptis and his team will be quizzed on queries raised by the Auditor General. He will appear before the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee chaired by Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang’. Mandago will meet the Finance and Budget Committee to explain the implementation of the national government’s Big Four agenda. Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos will also meet the House team. On Thursday, West Pokot governor John Lonyangapuo will be before the Kajwang team to respond to audit queries. The Health committee will tour West Pokot county to probe claims of deteriorating healthcare. On Wednesday, Kisumu county chief Anyang’ Nyong’o will appear before the Budget Committee. Click here for the latest political news