Article 26 of the 2010 Constitution guarantees every Kenyan the right to life. The right to life is fundamental as without it, it is impossible to realise all other rights. Kenya has a history of violating the right to life. The country has been dogged by many cases of extrajudicial killings, executions and assassinations; from Field Marshall Dedan Kimathi — pre-Independence— to Pio Gama Pinto, JM Kariuki, Tom Mboya and Robert Ouko — post-Independence. Many others lost their lives in the struggle for multipartyism, the Mwakenya movement and the Wagalla massacre in the 1980s. In the 1990s, political pluralism, the Islamic Party of Kenya (IPK) and constitution reforms saw many more losing their lives in what was seen as excessive use of force by security agencies while cracking down on local communities. At the turn of the century, the fight against terror, secessionist movements and electoral violence saw hordes of people extrajudicially executed. Post-2010 violent extremism and rise of crime in most urban centres have been used to justify extrajudicial killings. According to statistics, more than 100 people are suspected to have lost their lives through extrajudicial killings in the past one year. These killings have given rise to social justice movements. In Nairobi, various slums have launched social justice centres to, amongst others, fight extrajudicial killings and police impunity. In Mombasa, two weeks ago Haki Africa presented a list of over 30 persons suspected to have been executed by the police since January. In Kisumu organisations, including TEAM, have documented killings by police during and after last year’s elections. In Northeastern, particularly Wajir, rights groups continue to lament the excessive use of force by police. In a visit to the region, Haki Africa was informed by local groups and communities that extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances are on top of their list of human rights concerns. Many youths have been killed or have mysteriously disappeared on allegations of being linked to al Shabaab. Individuals are picked from their homes, workplaces and even places of worship by security forces, only to be found dead days later. The accounts are horrid and chilling. At 10am on September 10, in Mtongwe, a 21-year-old deaf and dumb youth was shot in the head in front of his mother for allegedly stealing a goat. A few days earlier, three suspects were believed to have been arrested, forced to lie on the ground and shot dead at point-blank range. In Nairobi, particularly in the slums, residents wake up to dead bodies lying in pools of blood every other day. While we acknowledge and support the need to fight crime and violent extremism, we urge the police and security forces to do so within the confines of the law. Extra legal operations are counter-productive as they create a wedge between communities and security authorities at a time when the two need to work together. Security is the responsibility of each and every person. For citizens to play their role in enhancing security, they need to be embraced by the security authorities and invited to cooperate. Extrajudicial killings must be avoided to build trust and confidence in police and justice actors. The announcement by Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji of a process that will rope in the Inspector General of Police and Director of Criminal Investigations to look into allegations of extrajudicial killings in Mombasa is welcome. It is our hope that this will usher in a new era of police accountability and end impunity within the service. The sanctity of life must be respected by all. While we condemn all forms of criminal and violent extremism, we equally condemn extrajudicial killings. Kenya boasts of one of the best bills of rights in the world. It is disheartening to hear of such atrocities being committed in the same country. We urge Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to address the issue and assure Kenyans of his personal desire to protect them from unnecessary police brutality. If the security leadership is firm in acknowledging and stopping extrajudicial killings, then our police service will reform and respect human rights and the rule of law.  Executive director, Haki Africa