IS President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) back in the country from his week-long foreign engagements? Well, Corridors has eavesdropped that the Commander-in-Chief “sneaked” back into the country on Sunday night without fanfare. Unlike in the past when the President’s return was marked with fanfare and photos of arrival shared on social media, the Sunday night arrival was quiet with only traffic police, his security and very close aides aware of his return. Almost 24 hours later not a single photo or word had been released from State House, begging the question, is it this VAT thing? There was drama in a parliamentary committee sitting yesterday when two lawmakers literally scrambled for a Sh100 note, which dropped from the pocket of one of the two male MPs. The MPs who both laid claim to the new Sh100 note did not bother about the presence of their colleagues or journalists who were still dismantling their tools of trade from the tiny committee room. After minutes of locking horns, one MP who appeared to be the bona fide claimant of the cash gave up the fight but not before warning his colleague of the “unbecoming behaviour” of taking what was not his. Is that the effect of the 16 per cent VAT on petroleum products on the mightiest of our nation? Fear has gripped top members of the executive and staff of a county in South Nyanza after a red alert was issued against 84 accounts in four different banks late last month. The move linked to the ongoing probe in the county has also seen some contractors engaging in illicit trade with the county having their accounts being closely monitored. Also caught in the mix are two daughters of the area governor whose accounts had suspicious multi-million-shilling transactions in the last four years. Our mole has intimated that the county top brass want the investigations expedited so that whatever course of action necessary is taken urgently in the interest of peace which has been elusive since last year’s election. Click here for the latest political news