On Thursday, he
also met UK Prime Minister Theresa May on her maiden tour of Africa. The President
will then head to China to join President Xi Jinping at the China-Africa Forum
in Beijing. Commentators in Western media, specifically in America have opined
that Kenya and Uhuru will gain more from these engagements than the three more
powerful nations of the world. This month marks one year since Uhuru came from
a disputed election process, whose results were annulled by the Supreme Court.
He has since mollified the doyen of opposition politics, Raila Odinga, through
the March 9 handshake. Meeting the three preeminent world leaders is a big
boost to Uhuru’s stature in the regional political equation and on the diplomatic
stage. People are likely to be wowed by his current position as a darling of the
economic and political powerhouses than to remember the baggage of the first
term. In East Africa, Kenya has almost reclaimed its first among equals status
that Jakaya Kikwete ran away with during the Nusu Mkate government. However, the question on the lips of local
analysts is whether Uhuru has managed this feat on account of his deftness, or
he is a beneficiary of diplomatic chaos at the global stage. Many American
political bigwigs never took Donald Trump’s candidacy seriously. Even his
Republican Party mandarins largely ignored his declaration of interest. Politicians
in the establishment in Washington were encumbered by American traditions of
clean and gentleman politics. The traditions and culture of the world super
power and leader of the free world had no place for chauvinists such as Trump.
He belonged to the closed business world not used to public probity and open
scrutiny on personal lifestyle. Lost in this mix was growing nationalist
movement worldwide and the shock on pure race Americans that a Black person had
risen from obscurity to lead them. That Barack
Obama was able to win a presidential election and reelection remained anathema
to thoroughbred Americans. It also created fear among racist Caucasians outside
American borders. Immigration and border control became a game changer in
ensuing campaigns. Jobs for locals was the bestselling manifesto point for
inward looking politicians. Leaders with regional and global outlook faced
internal challenges and their hold onto power was greatly threatened, if not out
rightly eroded. In the UK, David
Cameron lost the Brexit referendum and with it the premiership, while
Chancellor Angela Merkel survived by the skin of her teeth. She needed six
months of tough and nail-biting negotiations to craft a coalition government.
Trump’s arrival as the US president consolidated the nationalists’ movement. He
became the destabilizer per excellence. His speeches were unpredictable and his
policies became anti-globalisation. The world had
looked up to America to smoothly guide the transition from small jingoist
states to the big global village. However, Trump was able to turn around this
foreign policy within two months of assuming office. He was able to demonstrate
how the rest of the globe had lived off the sweat of American workers almost
like leeches. The economic problems and social hardships facing ordinary
Americans were explained as caused by the paternalistic foreign policy of the
previous Democratic Party leaderships. The Republicans
who cared to be politically reasonable in pushing for free market economy and
protection of the vulnerable were soon subdued in the party and Congress. The
immigration laws were dramatically altered to give opportunity for the violent
image of America hitherto unknown to the world. Support to the developing
countries in strategic areas for global security such as health was halted or
significantly reduced. The Big Brother America became insensitive to the less
fortunate of the world. In its place, the world began to see a different side
of the once invincible superpower. President Trump then took the next awe
striking step of hobnobbing with leaders considered to be despots. This
culminated in the meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea in Singapore and
later Vladamir Putin of Russia in Helsinki, Finland. Trump succeeded
in charting a path that was clearly unfamiliar in international relations. He
thereafter cemented his foreign policy of moving America not only from the
world but also from the superpower seat. This was to his advantage because he
was keenly aware of his strengths and weaknesses. He needed to play his politics
where he had comparative advantage. He is looking for reelection and he will
win it on his terms. He, therefore, needed to redraft the rules of political
engagement at home and abroad. Once he decimated the competitors, he trained
his guns on those who previously relied on America’s benevolence in the west.
He deranged the Western alliance and portrayed the other powerful states as
parasitic in their relationship with the US. At the G7 meeting in Switzerland,
he paid no attention to protocol issues and even less regard to collegiality.
He then flew to Canada for the NATO meeting, where he pointedly told off the
post-World War II military alliance members. He openly treated his erstwhile
colleagues with disdain and condescension. The die was cast! He pushed
Germany to the wall on its dealings with Russia, while making more with Putin;
had altercations with both host Canadian Premier and French President; and
celebrated the almost successful impeachment of British Prime Minister.  He was now cannibalizing the very
institutions that have made America the global police. He jettisoned overboard
the very allies that America has always relied on to justify her imperialist
foreign policy. As he reeled in
the comfort of confusion caused among America’s traditional voting partners,
the American President unleashed the final onslaught. He unveiled a number of
trade restrictions targeting America’s rivals in the South and East. China
became the first flank in this war. Tariffs have been imposed on Chinese
running into billions of dollars. He has ordered the renegotiation of NAFTA
Agreement and Turkey is the latest to suffer the weight of American trade
tariff yoke. China has been prompt and kind in its response to the new tariffs
from its largest trading partner. The trade war of words between the two
members of the Security Council has escalated and pushed previous US allies to
the side of China. The former US
would like to take advantage of this opportunity to demonstrate their
individual capacities in global power politics. On the other hand, China has
always looked forward to the occasion where it can demonstrate her arrival as
the new world superpower. The confluence of these interests has thus found
common ground and Trumps trade policies has isolated the Big Brother and helped
unite the world against the US. Will Africa join the fray or be aloof
bystanders? Uhuru’s foreign policy and global engagements may give a glimpse
into the future.  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst