Just who is behind the attempts to remove Nairobi City County Assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi? Corridors has learnt that on Tuesday evening, a city businessman hosted over 100 Nairobi MCAs at a hotel in Kilimani area with those in attendance carrying high expectations that the tycoon will give them handouts. But the man of Asian extraction told them to take at least a soda and water to the disappointment of some MCAs who had expected hard drinks like whisky and high end wines. The man then told them he will Mpesa them Sh2000 each by last Thursday and that they should ensure Elachi doesn't set foot at City Hall. One MCA was overheard grumbling about how cheap they are perceived to be. ***** A senior provincial administrator in Kisumu county is on the spot over open bribery which has now been mainstreamed in her office. The officer, who handles land board matters is accused of demanding money from those seeking her services. Every person is asked to part with Sh3,000 - Sh5,000 before they can be served. She uses proxies and a clerk to collect the cash from clients. The land board has to approve any land transaction before a title deed can be processed. Locals are now demanding for her immediate removal have appealed to Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to transfer administrators who have overstayed in Kisumu. ***** A governor from Nyanza is rarely in the county. He has been nicknamed “sky team” by locals who wonder if he has a permanent office in space. He recently flew to Europe amid rising questions about the benefits of his numerous foreign trips. The electorate claim he has no time to listen to their concerns and or take charge of running the county where he spends two or three days before disappearing on his globe-trotting missions. Before his election, he was a fierce critic of governors fond of foreign trips he termed as a waste of public funds. How things change! ***** A senior employee of the Bomas of Kenya recently traveled overseas for a private mission using the organizations petty cash Corridors is informed. Several staff were heard complaining that the man who has been in the institution for decades is high handed and has also threatened several staff with sacking if they continue to complain about lack of petty cash. It's said the man is also working to ensure that all evidence on a recent audit released about the organization is tampered with. Staff want Tourism minister Najib Balala to intervene and have the man retired or fired from the organization. Click here for
the latest political news