When the video of a Chinese man calling President Uhuru Kenyatta and all Kenyans monkeys surfaced, I was absolutely embarrassed and flabbergasted. Not only was I completely nauseated by his attitude, he just seemed really stupid for allowing himself to be filmed. Obviously, he was angry, but I wholeheartedly agree that he deserves to be deported or worse. He’s an a**hole. So this raises the question: are the Chinese people racist? Firstly, yes, there are some Chinese people (like the guy in the video) who are racist in the strict sense of the word. They have deep prejudices against specific tribes or peoples, just as there are some Kenyans who are racist, as well as some Americans. Secondly, no. In general, the Chinese are not racist, they are simply ignorant and arrogant. In a country of 1.3 billion people, 91.59 per cent of these are from one ethnic tribe — the Han — They look incredibly homogeneous — the black hair and the black squinty eyes that you are used to. Not only are Chinese typically surrounded by carbon copies of themselves, there is also simply a complete and utter lack of racial exposure. When I visited Shanghai last week, after being in Kenya for nearly a year, all my friends had such seemingly racist yet ultimately benign questions about my African friends: What they ate (rice and beef just like us), if their hair was fake (sometimes), and do they need to wear sunscreen (yes). My Chinese friends have never left China, and they don’t have a single black or African friend in Shanghai. Can you really blame them for their ignorance? At least they are curious! Within Chinese founding myths, the people use the term ‘Descendants of the Dragon’ to describe their ethnic identity. The Chinese translation of ‘China’ is ‘Zhongguo’, or the middle country, meaning that it is in the centre of the universe. For thousands of years, China controlled large areas of land, innovated within its society, and enjoyed relative economic prosperity. For these reasons, the Chinese simply think they’re better than everyone else. Even in the years I was growing up in the US, I was constantly being told that I couldn’t compare myself to my white classmates because they were lazy and not as smart as I was. Were my parents intentionally discriminating against Caucasians’ levels of intellect? Certainly not, they had fought all odds to settle in America and viewed the country as full of opportunity and promise. There is just a great sense of ‘us’ and ‘the other’ in Chinese culture, and by being ‘racist’ towards my white classmates, they were preserving that sense of ‘the other’, in order to more clearly define ‘us’. Simultaneously, as demonstrated by the comments after Black Panther was released in China, there is a sense of ‘colourist’ prejudice in China, but this is different from racism. When I came back from a long holiday in Italy, my father told me I was so dark and that I looked like a nongmin, or a peasant. In dynastic, agriculture-based Asian societies (Japan and Korea included), light skin was a proxy for wealth, showing that you could afford to stay out of the fields and out of the sun. This was only exacerbated by Western imperialism, and even to this day, this attitude is so deeply ingrained that whitening creams and full-coverage outfits are a billion dollar market. This is neither an aspiration towards whiteness, nor an aversion to darker-skinned races. The experience of moving to Kenya, or any other country in Africa, can be overwhelming, even for a self-identified adventurer like myself. There is a deep language divide, as well as a cultural one. Next time, rather than assuming a Chinese person is being racist towards you, maybe they just need a Kenyan friend to give them some context.