Severe weather conditions due to climate change threaten the Big Four agenda, the government said yesterday. Environment PS Susan Mochache said extreme weather must be addressed if food security, universal health and housing are to be realised. “Efforts to address climate are necessary if we have to realise the Medium Term Plan III and Vision 2030.” Mochache made her remarks at a Nairobi hotel during a climate forum. Her speech was read on her behalf by Environment Secretary Lawrence Simitu. The forum was organised by the National Environment Management Authority and Safaricom. It aimed to create awareness on climate change. Mochache said drought and floods have become more severe and devastating. “In Kenya, some of the major climate manifestations through severe drought were witnessed in 1999-2000 and 2005-06 which resulted in the death of livestock and crop failures,” she said. Between 2000-11, the government spent an average of Sh4.2 billion on post-disaster relief each year due to extreme climate. “Further it is estimated that between July 2016 and April 2017, at least 20,000 livestock died in Marsabit due to drought,” she said. Mochache said threats arising from climate change have been prioritised in the development of the Medium Term Plan III. She said the Climate Change Act, 2016 is being implemented to offer sustainable solutions to climate change. Mochache said the National Climate Change Action Plan 2013-17 has been reviewed and will soon be launched. The plan, she said, guides the approach in addressing climate change. Already, Kenya has committed to cut her emissions by 30 per cent by 2030. Mochache urged the private sector to cut emissions. Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu said the authority has initiated climate change programmes. The authority is accredited as the National Implementing Entity under the Adaptation Fund and Green Climate Fund. Nema has facilitated the development and roll-out of major climate change mitigation. They include the food security project at Waldaa, Marsabit, spearheaded by Red Cross and water projects in Kajiado and Wajir supporting development of waterpans, Wahungu said.