Title: East Atlanta Love Letter Artiste: 6lack Genre: R&B / Soul Release: September 14  Having that R&B softness and some hip hop energy, Ricardo Valentine, better known by his stage name 6lack, has built a pretty nice momentum for his career. His vocal range is huge, as he switches up his delivery to keep his fans interested. His debut full-length album, "Free 6lack", maximised his sound and placed him among the artistes to watch. At 26, he has managed to develop a sense of self, as he often finds himself expressing his experiences around the topic of love. We've loved 6lack on tracks like "Cutting Ties" and "First F**k", featuring Jhene Aiko, and now he is back with his long-awaited sophomore album, which has the entire world in awe. 'East Atlanta Love Letter' is a love record that extends that narrative and is brighter than its predecessor. 6lack fits the role of a storyteller, with stimulating love episodes that most of his fans relate to. He kicks off the 14-track album with a pleasantly mellow "Unfair," a track that highlights his attempt to be in a loving relationship, where he hopes his lover would also put effort to ensure it is pure. 6lack's career has just been on a progressive trajectory, which has seen a lot of people want to associate with him, especially the women, as is captured on "Loaded Gun." The album title track, "East Atlanta Love Letter", recruits Future's vocals, before we get to the trap-inflected "Let Her Go," a track that expresses the dilemma of whether he should leave or stay with his lover. Listeners are firmly tuned to the album by the time they get to the euphonious track, "Sorry," in which 6lack boldly owns up to his wrongs and takes accountability for them. Rapper J Cole joins 6lack, who details a failed relationship. On "Disconnect", 6lack highlights his attempts to make a relationship work, but their differences are too significant. Ty Dolla offers his vocals on the "Switch", a track that highlights 6lack's sudden rise to stardom. 6lack shows his hip hop side on "Balenciga Challenge" alongside Migos' Offset. "Nonchalant" is a smooth, calm track produced by the impressive Stwo. Khalid offers his vocals on "Seasons." This comes months after they had worked together earlier this year on "OTW." The album closes out with an unending bond between lovers on "Stan". This is a bold move in and of itself for an R&B artiste, and it feels so real. Working on such a heavy topic, he exhibits great rigour and creativity that details a story close to heart of many. 6lack is talented and he effortlessly proves his ability once again on his sophomore. What we know is that he is here to stay top of the charts.  Star rating: 4 out of 5