American businessman Ross Perot, best known for being an independent presidential candidate in 1992 and 1996, once said, “The budget should be balanced, the treasury should be refilled, the public debt should be reduced and the arrogance of public officials should be controlled.” Reading the quote above, one feels as though it is directly speaking of Kenya’s financial situation today. Kenya’s financial situation has been a major discussion across the country and beyond. It is basically about being able to balance the needs of the country and how to raise money to cater for these. Last week, the National Assembly was given the enormous task of putting the country back on the right economic track. The country’s financial status has been a concern to all Kenyans and thus the need for a reset. MPs had to painfully implement budget cuts that affect not just them but other institutions across government. They also had the task of putting in place more taxes that will see Kenyans contribute more to the national coffers. The purpose of taxes is to help the country put together development projects that help the economy to grow and do so in a significant manner. The economy cannot look up if we are not focused on producing more than we consume. To achieve this balance, there must be significant cuts to the national government expenditure on travel, hospitality, advertisement, transfers to semi-autonomous agencies and other administrative payments. This must also be extended to the county governments, which, just like the national government, have been spending more than half of their budget on recurrent expenditure. It is time we struck a balance in our budgets and gave more money to development. It is the duty of all public officers to ensure that this is done and they should not hold grudges against those who question and want money spent well. In the past, we have spent more money on sitting allowances and foreign travel than what the national and county governments spent on some essential services. We have spent more money on consumables within government than we have put in for development. Are we really focused on ensuring that taxes are used to the benefit of Wanjiku? Have we lost touch with the needs of the public? County governments cannot afford to continue spending on luxuries such as foreign travel, refreshments, flowers and uncontrolled allowances while services to mwananchi remain a mirage. Kenya is aiming at pushing towards major economic growth that will see it move to the level of middle-income economies and above. This aspiration can only be supported by budgets that are well prioritised and prudently executed at all levels. It is important to note that this level of growth will be supported by increased production in agriculture, continued investments in infrastructure, energy, building and construction, manufacturing, retail and wholesale and financial intermediation. However, these plans must be matched with initiatives that ensure that there is a reduction in this over-dependence on the taxpayer. These initiatives should aim at helping people become self-reliant. Creation of jobs is important and the government must continue to invest heavily in measures that create more employment opportunities. We must revive the development of textile and leather sectors as well. In fact, creation of more jobs will help the government expand the tax net and increase revenue, thus avoiding increase in taxes that touch on basic commodities. As long as we tighten the administration of these taxes, we will achieve more as a country. The public must also learn to participate in the budget-making process to ensure that their taxes go to financing their needs and not those of a few individuals. In addition, the public must offer government the support needed to deal with corruption as a way of ensuring that more money is available.  Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda    