City MCAs will hold a special sitting today to discuss "salient matters
bedevilling the county government". They say the endless internal wrangles and leadership problems in the county assembly and the executive are threatening
to hamper services. The MCAs, who are currently on recess, have been holding kamukunjis
since Monday. Jubilee
MCAs were the first to hold a meeting on Monday, while their NASA
counterparts met the following day. They held a joint meeting
yesterday and agreed to hold a special session today. Key
in the agenda is Governor Mike Sonko's "deliberate and apparent
reluctance" to appoint a deputy governor—nine months since the
office fell vacant. Polycarp
Igathe resigned as Deputy Governor in January, saying he had failed to
earn the governor's trust. Despite the Supreme Court giving him an okay
and MCAs piling pressure on him to pick a deputy, Sonko is yet to pick a replacement. Speaker
Beatrice Elachi yesterday confirmed receiving the members' petition
to gazette the sitting. MCAs who spoke to the
Star said they have outlined issues that touch
on the county's management and leadership. “We
will discuss the state of the county government and members' welfare.
We have been meeting since Monday and everything will be laid bare
tomorrow [today],” Majority
leader Abdi Guyo said. Minority whip Peter Imwatok said, “Nairobi
must be given direction from the assembly to the county government.
We cannot be living
in guesswork and massaging people's egos. We need to wake up or else
Nairobians will slay us. Things are not right.” In
May, the MCAs rejected Sonko's nomination of controversial lawyer Miguna
Miguna. But speaking in a radio show two weeks ago, Sonko said he nominated Miguna out of respect for the Supreme Court
advisory. Some
MCAs and residents have said services such as garbage
collection and provision of water are below par. The
county legislators will also discuss Sonko's conduct
and leadership, including his random dismissal of staff and closure of public
offices. This habit, they said, has denied the public services. “Nearly
half of the offices at City Hall been locked and the reason given is
that their holders were suspended over corruption. Which law allows
the governor to close public offices?” a Jubilee MCA said off the
record. City
Hall employees work in fear because of the governor's random suspensions
and impromptu office raids. In previous interviews Sonko has defended his leadership
style, saying it is his way of fighting corruption which is entrenched
at the county headquarters. Sonko
has suspended more than 300
county employees over
corruption allegations since he took over from Evans Kidero in August
last year. Many offices in the procurement, lands, planning, finance and legal
departments have been locked after their occupiers were sent home. The issue of Sonko running the county government from
his rural home in Machakos as well as his "unbecoming conduct of
recording and setting us up with the DCI and DPP" are also on the agenda. Two
week ago, Parklands MCA Jayendra Malde
was arrested, in what appeared as a set-up, by the EACC for attempting
to extort
Sh5.7 million from a businessman. Elachi's conduct will come up for discussion. The MCAs say she
wrote to the EACC to investigate 19 members of the Labour committee
after an audio recording claiming that they received bribes emerged. “The speaker
has to be questioned. Things are not right in the county assembly.
The DCI and EACC are all over the place and we don't know what is
happening. We cannot pretend and bury our heads in the sand [as if]
things are [alright] yet we
[are] summoned everyday to the EACC,” a member said. They
accuse the speaker of condemning the assembly in the media as a corrupt
place. Two
weeks ago, five county officers were charged with allegedly colluding
to defraud the county of Sh900,000.