Two letters to the DCI and EACC, curbing MCAs’ travels and allegations of gross misconduct might have triggered the impeachment of assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi. In June and August, she wrote to the DCI and EACC asking them to investigate financial operations at City Hall and the conduct of members. Sources told the Star Elachi had discovered multiple cases of financial impropriety in the office of the clerk. She raised questions on millions of shillings spent to build a cafeteria at City Hall without the County Assembly Service Board’s approval. On June 13, Elachi and clerk Jacob Ngwele almost engaged in a fistfight in the corridors of the assembly in the full glare of the media. A week later, 67 MCAs signed a petition to impeach her but the plot flopped after Waithaka MCA Anthony Kiragu failed to appear in the assembly. Kiragu, who was behind the motion, claimed Elachi violated the Constitution, undermined the assembly service board’s authority and abused her office. Majority leader Abdi Guyo and Elachi sit on the board. Other officials are Ngwele and minority leader Elias Otieno. Sources say DP William Ruto intervened, urging the MCAs to focus on development and stop sideshows. “He told them Jubilee had many wars to fight to be distracted by the assembly feuds,” a close ally of Ruto said. Waithaka resurfaced three months later – last week on Thursday – ready to impeach Elachi on the earlier grounds. Other allegations include gross misconduct and conflict of interest. Elachi was voted out by 103 MCAs but obtained court orders to stop her removal. The speaker has said her impeachment is political. “The allegations against me are very interesting,” Elachi said. But Guyo has dismissed Elachi, saying, “If 98 per cent of members don’t have confidence in you, you should just excuse yourself instead of trying to use courts to impose yourself on people.” On Monday, MCAs forcibly ejected Elachi from her office despite the court order pending the hearing of her case. “Elachi should leave,” nominated MCA Mary Njambi said. On Tuesday, the Employment and Labour Relations court extended the orders issued by Justice Maureen Onyango barring her removal from office, until today when the case will be mentioned. The Kenya Women Parliamentary Association has defended Elachi, saying she is being victimised for being a woman. They also condemned the MCAs for using force against her. As a result of the Monday chaos, EACC summoned 12 MCAs. However, they failed to show up as they are on a retreat in Mombasa. Guyo said the MCAs did not commit any crime by shouting down Elachi. ‘reduce majority leaders power’ Yesterday Elachi said the power of the majority leader should be reduced through law amendment. She said majority leaders have been given too much power that “they feel it’s normal to remove anyone they are not comfortable with”. “We need to put laws barring majority leaders from threatening, intimidating and wanting people to be at their mercies,” Elachi said. Elachi said MCAs were coerced with cash to voting for the motion, which was “in fact unlawful”. “Leaders should value principals and integrity, not money. Money cannot buy values but values can take you places,” she said. Elachi spoke in Likoni, Mombasa, during the launch of Huduma Mashinani. Born in Kakamega, Elachi is the third born in a family of five. She schooled at St Teresa Primary School before joining Moi Girls High School Vokoli. She later graduated at African Nazarene University with bachelors and masters degree in peace and security Elachi is a mother of nine after she adopted seven kids, following Tana River clashes in 2013. Her political career started in 2002 when she became a programme officer at the National Council of Women of Kenya and later got endorsed into the “Kibaki Tena” team in 2007. From 2010 to 2013, Elachi served as the Alliance Party of Kenya secretary general and was later nominated to the Senate.She later became the Senate chief whip. In August last year’s election, Elachi lost to Simba Arati in the Dagoretti North parliamentary race. On September 6 last year, she was elected as Nairobi assembly speaker after garnering 90 votes.  