Elgeyo Marakwet county plans to protect irrigation furrows on its escarpments to attract domestic and international tourists. Tourism executive Anne Kibosia yesterday said they are a “display of the community’s mastery of water engineering designs”. Last week, the furrows were listed by Unesco as a world heritage site. They are said to have been established in the 18th century for irrigation. They are still in use. Residents made wood pipes that enabled them to supply water for irrigation from major rivers, including Arror and Embobut, to drier areas of the Kerio escarpments and the Kerio Valley. Kibosia said the sites will help the county to generate revenue. “The county is working with the people of Arror and Embobut to ensure the furrows are maintained. We are also in the process of developing tour camps in the area,” she said. “Tourists can trek along the furrows and at the same time enjoy a scenic view of the Kerio Valley.” Kibosia said the furrows are historic and rival those in Egypt where the Marakwets migrated from through Sudan to Kenya. “They demonstrate how our people have placed irrigation to ensure food security since time immemorial,” she said. On December 2, 2010, Kenya, through the National Museums, applied to have the furrows recognised as a world heritage site. Last week, Unesco said the irrigation system, as well as the entire landscape and the associated ‘intangible heritage’, makes the furrows “an outstanding universal value”. The UN agency said the furrows are testament to civilisation that has stood the test of time. It said the use of furrows for irrigation demonstrates how harnessing water is a survival technique adopted by communities living in harsh environments. “The furrows are under threat due to the introduction of modern agricultural techniques in certain parts of the escarpments,” a statement on the Unesco website read. A set of taboos have been used by the Marakwet community to ensure the furrows are not destroyed or abused, the agency said, adding residents have helped preserve the trenches for many generations. World heritage sites are areas or landmarks selected for their cultural, historical, geographical, physical or scientific significance. International treaties legally protect them to ensure they are conserved for posterity and can be delisted if recognisable features cease to exist. They are meant for the collective interests of humanity. In Kenya, such sites include Lake Turkana National Park, Mount Kenya National Park-Natural Forest, Lamu Old Town, Sacred Mijikenda Kaya Forests, Fort Jesus in Mombasa, Kenya Lake System in the Great Rift Valley and Thimlich Ohinga Archaeological Site in Migori.