A favorite in Kenyan households and corporate circles alike. In fact, football conversations in East Africa rarely happen without a mention of the name. The club Gor Mahia FC is Kenya's most decorated, having won 17 domestic league titles, 10 domestic cups, three Cecafa Senior Club Championship crowns and remain the only Kenyan outfit to bag a continental trophy when they won the 1987 CAF Cup Winners Cup (Mandela Cup). K’Ogalo (house of Ogalo) as the team is affectionately known by their passionate supporters was formed on February 17, 1968 following the amalgamation of Luo Union FC and Luo Stars FC but the team traces its history to the 1950s with the formation of the former. Rival factions saw Luo Union split in 1966 and towards the end of 1967; officials approached revered trade unionist and former Minister for Economic Planning in the first independent Kenyan government, the late Thomas Joseph Mboya, to unify the warring factions. The name Gor Mahia proposed by Aggrey Olango who played for Luo Sports club was adopted during their February 17, 1968 meeting and that marked the birth of the greatest football club in Kenyan history. Since formation, Gor have continued chalking milestones that have set the club apart as the biggest brand in Kenyan football. This has established the club as a domestic, regional, continental and global force in the game.  17th Domestic league title and a remarkable year so far 50 years later, despite a season of bangs, blood, sweat and tears, Gor Mahia won the 2017-2018 SportPesa Premier League title in front of their fierce rivals with six game to spare after opening unassailable 23-point gap at the summit. Read more: Gor Mahia humiliates AFC to a 2-0 win to retain the 2018 SportPesa Premier League title This Sunday, Gor Mahia will face 2008 league winners, Mathare United FC where they will be presented with the SPL trophy after the game.  The season also saw the club enter record books when they became the first Kenyan outfit to play in the group stages of the second tier Confed Cup, with the defeat in Algiers to USMA denying them a slot in the quarters when they finished third in their pool. More history was made as Gor Mahia put their SportPesa Cup title on the line when the second edition of the tournament was held in the Kenyan town of Nakuru. Once again, K’Ogalo were untouchable, silencing Tanzania heavyweights Simba SC 2-0 at the June 10, 2018 final at Afraha Stadium to retain their crown. Yet again, victory earned them the opportunity to take on Everton but this time, their anticipated second meeting will be played at Goodison Park on November 6, 2018 with Gor Mahia travelling to England. This will be a chance to avenge their 1-2 defeat to Everton in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania last year.  Gor players celebrate after winning the inaugural SportPesa Super Cup. Photo / COURTESY History will be made at Goodison with Gor becoming the first East African side to play the Blues at their famous home that remains an emblem of football at the kingdom that invented the game. 