Newly crowned SportPesa Premier League champions Gor Mahia players have downed their tools, owing to unpaid salaries and allowances. The playing unit has given the training sessions a wide berth for the last four days hence disrupting their preparations for the next league match. Gor Mahia were relying on the proceeds from sale of Ugandan defender Godfrey Walusimbi, whom they cashed to South African-based Kaizer Chiefs for a reported fee of Sh12m, to clear the players dues. However, the Kenyan champions are yet to receive the money from South Africa, forcing the players to desert duty as a way of tabling their grievances to their bosses. According to a source, who sought anonymity, the players have not trained for the last four days in protest for unpaid salaries and allowances, an allegation which the first vice chairman, John Pesa, has differed with, saying the salaries had been cleared by the sponsors, SportPesa. The source said: “It’s true we have not trained for the last four days because we have not received our salaries and allowances. We are yet to hear from the executive committee on the status of our dues.” Pesa said their shirt sponsor SportPesa had cleared the salaries and were only expecting money from Kaizer to sort playing unit’s allowances. He said: “We are yet to receive money from the sale of Walusimbi and as soon as we receive, we will sort the players allowances. As far as I am concerned SportPesa have cleared the salaries and we will soon play our part.” Gor, who have been declared champions with six matches to spare, are set to play Thika United this weekend as the league resumes after the Fifa international break. Meanwhile, Masoud Juma is back to his roots — Kariobangi Sharks — after terminating his contract with South African Premier League side, Cape Town City FC, according to Goal.com. A free-agent Juma rejoined Sharks for a training session yesterday to keep fit, almost a month after he terminated his contract with City. “Our legend is back!” Sharks said on their official facebook page accompanied by the photo of Juma and his former coach William Muluya warmly embracing each other. Neither the club nor the player has made any statement on the current arrangement and it’s highly suspected that the 2017 Kenyan Premier League top scorer may rejoin his former club next season should he fail to get another club. Though not eligible to play for Sharks this season, Juma can still sign for any club but will have to wait until next season to play. Juma decided to end his eight-month stay with Benni McCarthy’s side after realising that he was facing the axe. The Harambee Stars striker was among five players who were facing the chop following the arrival of Dutch keeper Peter Leeuwenburgh from Ajax Amsterdam.