For a relationship to work, one of the
parties has to love the other more. One has to be willing to put up with more;
one has to need the other more. When this power dynamic comes to play, you want
to be the one that the other person loves more. Because when you realise it’s
you and not him, you’re screwed. That’s my situation right now. It’s been 3
months since Rob ghosted and now he’s back. The strangest thing is that he’s
happy to pick up where we left off. Actually, he’s surprised and even angry
that I can’t understand his disappearance, which he is attributing to work.
He’s on the phone right now. “Do you want me to ask you for money
every time I need to pay rent?” he asks, his voice rising. “I don’t disappear
to have fun, I do it to look for jobs.” “What are you talking about?” I ask.
“People in relationships don’t just disappear for 3 months and make it look
like the other person is being unreasonable for questioning if indeed it’s a
relationship!” “Not everyone has an easy life like you,
Samantha,” he says his voice going very quiet. “I’m frustrated! You make comments like
those but you won’t talk to me. Why not let me know what’s going on? Don’t you
ever miss me?” I ask. He says nothing for a long minute. “I miss you,” he finally answers. “So when can I see you?” I ask. “I don’t know. Things are very up in the
air right now,” he says. This guy can’t be serious. Why did he
even bother calling? “Are you sleeping with someone else?” I
ask. “I can’t believe you’d ask me that,” he
says. “Why not? It’s not like you’re sleeping
with me!” I retort. He doesn’t say anything. “Do you want to know if I’m sleeping
with someone else?” I ask. “No,” he says. “Listen Samantha, I will
call you when things calm down and hopefully you’ll be available to see me.” And with that, he’s gone. This of course
is the moment I realize that the power dynamic has come to play. He holds all
the cards. He gets to see me when he likes. I have no say. I can take it. Or
walk away. He doesn’t seem to care either way. I place my phone on the table resisting
the temptation to smash it against the wall. The worst part of realizing you’re the
one who loves the other more is understanding at the same time that they have
the power to hurt you badly. They have this power because they don’t pull crap
like this when they just met you. No. They do it when they have hit the spot in
bed. When they know you’ve fallen for them. They do it when they are sure
you’re not going anywhere. I’m in love with Rob. When we talk my entire body
heats up. I imagine him running his hands over my body. I can see him in my
mind’s eye staring at me when I reach orgasm. “You feel that?” he asks as he does
something with his penis that I can’t describe. It’s almost as if his member
has a life of its own and can tip and hit my g-spot at will. I obviously scream
with abandon when he does it and he has his answer. Those damn screams. My
damned ardour, waking up the neighbours as I screamed in pleasure is what has
brought me here. He is treating me like shit because he can. Because he knows
that I’m not going anywhere. No one gives up on sex that good. I’m no
exception.