Berlin Marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge received a warm welcome in his hometown of Kapsabet two days after jetting back into the country from Germany. Kipchoge was yesterday morning hosted by Nandi governor, Stephen Sang for breakfast at his offices in a function also attended by former National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) president Kipchoge Keino and Nike team coach Patrick Sang. Also present were 2018 Berlin Marathon runners-up Amos Kiprotich, 2012 London Olympics marathon silver medalist Abel Kirui, former 800M African record holder Sammy Kosgei and Nandi CEC for sports Elly Kurgat and chief officer Kennedy Tanui. Also in attendance were Nandi and Uasin-Gishu AK officials led by chairman Abraham Mutai. Sang praised both the Berlin marathon stars (Kipchoge and Kipruto) for pushing for a 1-2-3 win in the event that was streamed live to the Kapsabet residents in by county government. Kipchoge, Kiprotich and Kipsang swept the board in the men’s category while Gladys Cherono took the women’s title. He said the decision to construct Sh100m training facility to be named after Kipchoge was inspired by his feat to shatter Dennis Kimeto’s previous record of 2.02.57 to by more than a minute ( 2.01.39 ). "The achievement is worth being recognised because I know you can still bring it to sub two hours in future," Sang told Kipchoge. The ‘Eliud Kipchoge Sports Complex’ will be situated just a kilometer from the legendary Kipchoge Keino Stadium. "Nandi county government is committed in the development and tapping of athletics talents in the area," Sang said. He also praised Keino, saying his name in the history of athletics was a monument and will not be brushed aside and that the stadium named after him will be completed soon as the national government had taken over. The new facility will have a 200-bed capacity and will accommodate Team Kenya for their training for future events. Stressing the need to spread anti-doping campaign to the grassroots, governor Sang explained that Kenyans were talented athletes and did not need energy enhancing substances to win. "The drugs are a creation of foreigners meant to ruin our brothers and sisters and I am asking every athlete to keep away from such because they only help to taint our good image," he said. "Kipchoge is one of the athletes who has stood to run clean and natural and with discipline, you can all see the magnanimous success he has achieved." Kipchoge arrived into the country incognito on Friday alongside his coach Patrick Sang at the Eldoret International airport and was driven away in his saloon vehicle. His coach said they had no plans to hold a celebration yet because of the huge tasks ahead. Click here for the latest political news