Morticians at the Kenyatta University Funeral Home have been blamed over the missing Adam’s apple of a Kiambu businessman.A report from the DCI before Kiambu principal magistrate Justus Kituku yesterday showed Macharia Muriu, 43, committed suicide in his house in Gitamaiyu village, Kiambu, on June 19. Police documented the scene before transferring the body to KU Funeral Home for preservation and postmortem.A postmortem was conducted on June 22 by pathologists Dorothy Njeru, Peter Muriuki and Fredrick Okinyi. They concluded the cause of death was due to neck compression from hanging, with suspected chemical poisoning.Later the family disputed the results and filed a suit to have a second postmortem to establish if the cause of death was suicide or murder.The second postmortem was conducted on July 4, by Chief Government Pathologist Johansen Oduor who led a team of four. They included the three pathologists who conducted the first postmortem and Prof Kiama Wangai. They concluded the cause of death was due to compression to the neck. The Adam’s apple was missing. See also: Ex-state pathologist denies stealing heartThe investigations showed Ngunjiri Blaise, a receptionist at the Funeral Home, confided in police after the issue of missing body parts was raised. He said inquired from the morticians what had transpired and in response, they hinted a part resembling the one missing had been found and were in the process of putting it back.The DCI recommended the two morticians of the funeral home be blamed, saying they unprofessionally handled the internal organs and negligently performed their duties, violating the Anatomy Act.Last month, the court ordered Kiambu DCIO Paul Wambugu to investigate the whereabouts of the missing body parts and the cause of death. Kiama, a forensic pathologist, said the missing body parts are key in establishing whether Muriu committed suicide or was strangled. Lawyer John Gikenye for the family has filed an application at the High Court after magistrate Kituku ruled the body of Muriu be released to the family for burial, despite missing organs. Click here for
the latest political news