Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has said he will not set foot in his City Hall office and will continue to run the county from his Mua home in Machakos for safety reasons. The city boss also vowed to defy MCAs’ demand to appoint a deputy governor in 14 days, saying the ultimatum amounts to intimidation and blackmail. Sonko said City Hall – the gazetted county headquarters – is not safe for him and he will not go back until he ‘cleans’ the entire place. “I have got my own reasons why sometimes I don’t go to my office. If there are bills to be assented to, I just come to the speaker’s office and I sign. I go to the office of Majority leader and I sign or to one of my CEC’s offices and I sign,” he said.bodyguards “I know the dirtiness in my office. I have to deal with this first and clean all the seats, pour out water in the refrigerator, clean the cups before I go back. Otherwise I can go there and by just biting my nail, I collapse and die.” Pressure has been mounting on the governor to appoint a deputy and return to City Hall after he shifted to Mua in May. This came after the government scaled down his security detail from about 20 to five. The bodyguards have since been restored, but Sonko has continued to hold executive committee meetings in his home. CECs, chief officers, the county secretary, MCAs and other senior officials have been trooping to the governor’s rural home for meetings. Last Thursday, the MCAs discussed the state of the county and the governor’s conduct and gave him 14 days to return to City Hall or face a censure motion. But Sonko has told them off. “When I had a problem with some officers of the national government, they are the people who came for me in Mua. So they cannot tell me not to operate from Mua yet they are the people who came for me there,” he said. deputy governor On the appointment of a deputy governor, Sonko said he played his role and nominated lawyer Miguna Miguna, but he was rejected by MCAs. Sonko said he is now taking his time and consulting with Jubilee and NASA leadership before nominating another person. “I will not do it [appoint a deputy in 14 days] and I am telling them [MCAs]in advance that I won’t do it because I have to consult widely. I will never be pushed. They should forget it,” Sonko said. court He said the Supreme Court advisory that gave him the nod to appoint a deputy governor is silent on what happens if the nominee is rejected by the House. “Maybe I will be forced to go back to the same court and seek direction,” Sonko said.