Lands CS Farida Karoney has appealed to Kenyans to raise their concerns over land records with the team she formed to look into digitisation. Karoney appointed the taskforce on electronic land transactions through a Gazette on August 3. It will submit draft guidelines within two months. “The taskforce is mandated to study and review the Land Registration Act 2012, regulations and sector-related laws to formulate guidelines for electronic registration of transactions and conveyance systems,” she said. The team comprises 15 members from the ministry, the National Land Commission, the LSK, the AG’s office, the Kenya Property Developers, the Land Development and Governance Institute, the Kenya Bankers’ Association, the Kenya Private Sector Alliance, the Institute of Surveyors of Kenya and the Real Estate Association. On October 2, Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu and Taita Taveta residents will meet members at the Kenya School of Government, Mombasa. Those in Nakuru, Narok, Bomet and Kericho will converge at the Rift Valley Institute of Science and Technology, while Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and Nandi residents will meet in Medical Education Conference Centre hall. Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Turkana locals will be at the College of Health Services. On October 4, Nairobi, Kiambu and Kajiado will get served at the Bomas of Kenya. Those in Embu, Meru and Tharaka Nithi will be in Embu University. Kakamega, Bungoma, Vihiga and Busia residents will be at Kakamega Golf Hotel. On October 5, Kisumu, Siaya and Homa Bay will be served at Kisumu Hotel. Machakos, Kitui and Makueni will be at the Machakos Teachers College. On October 8, Northeastern residents will converge at Garissa government guesthouse. Those in Nyeri, Laikipia, Murang’a, Nyandarua and Kirinyga will be served at Nyeri Polytechnic. Kisii, Nyamira and Migori residents will be served at the Kenya Institute of Highways and Building Technology, Kisii campus. The taskforce will wrap up its activities in Marsabit on October 11.