A Form 4 student of St Patrick’s Boys High School in Iten is expected to sit his 2018 KCSE exam in a juvenile prison. The 17-year-old student was sentenced to four months in Kamiti Youth Correctional Centre after an Iten magistrate found him guilty of torching a Sh3.5 million dormitory at the school on July 26, 2016. The boy, an orphan, was being sponsored by the Equity Bank’s Wings to Fly scholarship programme.Equity Bank withdrew the sponsorship following the charges. The student was in form two at the time of the offence. Iten senior principal magistrate Hezron Nyaberi sentenced the student on September 10 but the ruling did not come to light until recently. Nyaberi heard that the accused had boasted to a friend that he would bring down a dormitory, and after 20 minutes the dorm went up in flames. Two other students charged with the arson were acquitted for lack of evidence. A witness, also a student, told the court he saw the accused enter a dormitory and come out with a mattress that he placed against a wall. “Shortly, an explosion occurred, followed by a huge fire. I saw a student who had covered his head with a blazer run into the staff quarters,” the witnesses told the court. Read:St Patrick's Iten student jailed for arson, to write KCSE from Kamiti Former school principal Wilson Yego told the court the fuel used to burn the dormitory was in one of the halls. It was being used by the school to mark the playing field in preparation for a sports event. Nyaberi, in his ruling, said the conduct of the accused, bragging to the witness that he would bring the dormitory down, demonstrated his intention to willfully and unlawfully set the dormitory on fire. “I therefore order that the offender be committed to the Kamiti Youth Correctional Centre for four months,” he ruled. Also read: Iten police foil raid 'for sex' on Sing’ore Girls The accused appealed for a non-custodial sentence, saying he was in Form 4 and was set to sit his exams next month. “I have suffered enough and I pray to the court to consider giving me a non-custodial sentence to enable me to complete my studies,” he urged the court. The Kamiti Youth Correctional facility in Kiambu county is intended to rehabilitate youth aged between 17 and 21 years who have been convicted of various offences. Click here for the latest political