Jubilee is considering disciplinary action against MPs who defied President Uhuru Kenyatta’s order and went ahead to vote against his memorandum on the Finance law. Uhuru and DP William Ruto met the Jubilee MPs at State House, Nairobi, on Tuesday morning, but a section of the lawmakers defied their leaders’ position. They mobilised themselves and managed 215 MPs — just 18 shy off the requisite 233 required to overturn the memorandum that reduced VAT on petroleum products from 16 to eight per cent. The party has called a meeting today to deliberate on the matter. The National Executive Committee is likely to refer the matter to the disciplinary committee, which would write show-cause letters to the renegades. Yesterday, secretary general Raphael Tuju told the Star that consultations were underway before a decision is made on the nature of discipline to be meted out to the rebels. “This is a matter of concern. The party is going to give details,” he said when asked whether the party would sanction the MPs. Last Thursday, there were chaotic scenes in Parliament as Nasa and Jubilee MPs ganged up in a defiant attempt to shoot down the memorandum. The session was marred by jeers and boos as Speaker Justin Muturi pushed through the Finance Bill. Smarting from the chaotic session, some MPs are pushing for the overhaul of the parliamentary leadership and want Muturi impeached. Muturi is serving his second term as National Assembly Speaker. He has laughed off the push as “excited malcontents”. “They lacked strategy and now want to roll it over on me. They have no clue. You need to tell them that to veto the President’s memo is like changing the Constitution. Noise is not enough,” Muturi said on Saturday. Read: Chaos as MPs lose fight against fuel tax “I’m not moved by the jabs. I’m just waiting for them to make good their threat.” But yesterday Kitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka and Turkana South’s James Lomenen warned that they will mobilise colleagues to axe Muturi. Onyoka (Ford Kenya) said MPs will have to debate Muturi’s conduct. “Why would Muturi treat us as if we are juveniles. Some of us are respected and highly educated people with dignity and decency,” he said. Lomenen on Thursday accused Muturi of employing strong-arm tactics to frustrate MPs. Yesterday, he said a motion to impeach Muturi would be supported overwhelmingly. “We represent the people. Muturi doesn’t wear a shoe of any constituency. When heavy taxes are imposed, it is the people we represent who suffer. He should not chest-thump, this is a serious matter,” the Jubilee lawmaker said. The Star has, however, established that President Uhuru has assured Muturi and National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale, who is also under siege from colleagues, that they have his full confidence. Also Read: Uhuru signs into law new taxes passed by MPs Click here for the latest political news