Industrialization CS Peter Munya has said failure of most financial institutions to offer credit to Kenyan manufacturers has hampered the country’s export. Munya said the manufacturers have market though lack adequate financial resource to effectively produce their products in masses for export market. “I have visited EPZA on a familiarization tour to understand the constraints which various companies operating within the zone have in terms of increasing their manufacturing exports. Our exports have been going down as a country,” said Munya. “The problem is not a single one, the biggest challenge is accessing credit,” said Munya. He spoke to the Star at Epza on Thursday. Munya said most banks have declined to lend the manufacturers money. “Banks are not lending them money, the Sirilankan Company (Hella Garments Epz Limited) that is doing clothes want short term lending for a turnaround from their sales to pay back. They cannot get, what is helping them is Sirilanka. Their money comes from Sirilanka, paid there though they do not produce there,” added he. He said other companies involved in value addition at the zone with large markets also want to expand, buy machinery but can’t get the money since no bank is willing to give them financial credits. Munya said as a government, they need to focus on how the manufacturers can have access to credit even before thinking about constructing more factories in Kenya. “This is not about affordable credit, they cannot get it at all. They have been talking to Kenya Commercial Bank, Equity Bank but they cannot get the money,” said Munya. He said the government has to come in and see what restructuring it can do to ensure the entrepreneurs helping the country sell products outside the country get financial credits from banks so that we seize being an importing nation. “That is what we must do which is in the heart of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s strategy of expanding the manufacturing sector to 16 percent share GDP,” added he. “I want to address this vacuum that is in the value chain. Farmers are there ready to farm, processors are there to add the value to help us unlock the potential,” said Munya. Munya said the government will see what to do to structure a system that will make manufacturers have access to credit facilities.