When
local authorities in eastern Kenya slapped a ban on trading
charcoal earlier this year in an effort to save the region's
dwindling forests, charcoal producers worried their income would
disappear. "It was a chilling announcement," said Peninah Kilungya, 42,
a mother of five with the bright red traditional fabric of the
Maasai people tied around her waist. "We always turn to charcoal production so that we can feed
our children," she said. Rain often fails in this semi-arid area, which makes farming
risky. For some people, turning trees into charcoal is an option
of last resort to make ends meet. But Kilungya and others may now have found a way to hold on
to their charcoal-making income while also protecting trees,
building a more sustainable future for themselves. They have turned to producing wood briquettes from tree
branches, reducing the felling of trees while also making a
product they hope could interest supermarkets and help lift
hundreds of families out of poverty. Producers of traditional charcoal can make about 1,800
shillings ($18) a week. A 90-kilogram bag of traditional
charcoal chunks sells for just 450 shillings - and takes one or
two trees to produce. The new briquettes, however, use far less wood - and produce
more income. On a recent day, in the tiny village of Mitamisyi in Kitui
County, Kilungya and other charcoal producers gathered under an
acacia tree. They crushed pebbles of charcoal made from tree branches
into fine dust with a locally-crafted briquette-making machine,
then mixed the powder with fine red soil and water. The sky-blue machine then spat out elongated and chunky
charcoal briquettes that look a bit like burned sausages. More than 150 charcoal producers have adopted the technique
in Kitui County alone. The briquette-making initiative is also
ongoing in neighboring Tharaka Nithi and Embu counties. Joseph Mwikya, the chairman of Mitamisyi's charcoal
producers association, said the charcoal used in the briquettes
is made from sustainable wood - tree branches that grow back. Branches can also be crushed easily, unlike tree trunks, and
the briquettes made with the wood sell for more - a minimum of
100 shillings per kilogram, he said. The regular shape of the product also allows them to be
packaged in a way producers hope could appeal to big-city
supermarkets. "All we need is a way of producing them in larger quantities
so that we can start marketing them," said Jane Vengi, the
chairwoman of the Kitui-based Mwaka Charcoal Producers
Association, one of the country's top charcoal producers. Scaling up production would require cutting of more branches
- but that would still be preferable to more trees being felled,
promoters of the project said. For now, the briquettes are being sold to local people, said
Vengi. "These briquettes are now our new source (for) cooking
energy and, hopefully, it is likely going to be our new source
of income in the near future," she said. NO ALTERNATIVE Forests cover about 7 percent of Kenya's land area, down
from 12 percent half a century ago. When Kitui's governor, Charity Ngilu, ordered a crackdown on
charcoal production in January following a campaign promise to
make natural resources better serve people, environmentalists
welcomed the move. But it also heightened tensions in a country where about two
million people make a living producing charcoal, according to
the World Agroforestry Centre. Since the charcoal trade and tranport ban was put in place,
normally quiet Kitui has seen an angry mob set charcoal-packed
trucks on fire, the arrests of people illegally felling trees
and the emergence of a song critical of the policy. Kenya has previously tried to ban charcoal production, but
failed. Because charcoal production and sales tend to occur in
the informal economy, they can be hard to police, according to
research by the Stockholm Environment Institute. Instead, authorities are now trying to more closely regulate
charcoal production and trade. With so many people dependent on income from charcoal, doing
away with the popular cooking material altogether is unlikely in
the short term, said Shadrack Musyindu, a project officer for
Caritas Kitui, a Catholic charity that has championed the
briquette initiative. Four in five urban Kenyans depend on charcoal to cook. The
material remains the most affordable source of cooking energy
especially for low-income communities. Kenya has seen no shortage of initiatives to make smarter
charcoal in recent years, using everything from human faeces to
flour or sawdust combined with charcoal dust to produce
briquettes. Still, when burned in open fires and traditional stoves,
wood, coal, charcoal and similar fuels emit harmful smoke that
claims four million lives annually worldwide, according to the
Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves. That makes household air pollution the fourth greatest
health risk in the world, it said. But John Kioli, executive director of the Nairobi-based
Green Africa Foundation, which helps communities manage their
resources more sustainably, said moving on from charcoal as a
fuel remains a difficult task. "Many people in Kitui turn to charcoal production simply
because they have no other alternative source of income given
the tough climatic conditions," he said. Also read: Governors back Ngilu's charcoal ban, agree to stop destruction of forests Click here for the latest political news