Chinese company Avic International on Wednesday launched its Sh40 billion Global Trade Centre in Nairobi. The trade centre in Westlands hosts three new complex towers as well as sports and hospitality facilities. Baptised the Dream City, GTC boasts of a 32-storey 5-Star hotel, 42-storey tower for offices, and another 32-storey serviced apartments tower. "GTC represents an overall upgrade of urban lifestyle in Kenya with its four benchmark elements of invaluable flows of global elites, intelligence, and capital," Avic MD Wong Yong said. Yong spoke at the launch in Nairobi. He was accompanied by the staff and officials of companies that have taken part in the construction of GTC. "As an emblem of the era, it will be remembered as an everlasting lighthouse in the horizon of countless dreams that root deeply on this continent," he said. See: Villa Rosa in intense war with upcoming hotel in its vicinity He said the business complex was one of the flagship projects in Kenya’s Vision 2030 program. The official said GTC is the top city complex project providing all-round services to the elite business community. "It has the largest capacity, highest standards and remains the most comprehensive trade centre in East Africa." After the completion of the project in 2022, Wong said the GTC will uplift Kenya’s international profile. He said the GTC will also provide all-around needs in business, shopping, leisure and residence. "In the foreseeable future, it will continue to act as the power engine of Kenya's economic takeoff, setting the course for the country's business renovations," he said. GTC Office Tower is to be built on a modernistic and avant-grade architectural style as its general design concept. "Thanks to the complex's forward-thinking planning, GTC directly taps into the city's top business icons as well as their top-of-the-line business resources and international capitals," Wong said. Also read: Sonko suspends construction of AVIC Tower, 15 arrested Click here for the latest political news 