Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked members of the party to back President Uhuru Kenyatta's proposal to slash  fuel VAT from 16 to eight per cent. Kalonzo, while addressing journalists outside his Karen office on Wednesday, said the move was for the good of the country . The former Vice President said the Wiper national executive council has approved the same. "The government should revamp its fight against graft," he said, "Corruption is the lead cause of Kenya's suffering." "If Uhuru blinks in the war against corruption, then he will have lost his legacy but he doesn't show any signs of doing that," Kalonzo said. He asked the government to fast-track the return of corruption proceeds said to be stashed in offshore accounts. "I have also been told that the Goldenberg money will be returned but it will take time," he said. After the state visit by British Prime Minister Theresa May, UK and Kenya signed a deal to return stolen cash stashed in British banks. Switzerland President Alain Berset on July 19, pledged to return billions of shillings in corruption proceeds from the Anglo Leasing scandal. This followed talks between him and Uhuru. Read: [VIDEO] Kenya and UK sign recovery of stolen assets, security deals Also read: Switzerland to return stolen assets to Kenya in corruption war He also wants the East African Legislative Assembly, consisting of Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, South Sudan and Burundi, to consider harmonising their tax regimes. "When I ran for president in 2007, I had a very clear proposition on taxation that we were to implement," he said. "The reason a country like Dubai has attracted a lot of investors is because of certainty of their tax regime," he added. He suggested that the tax mechanism be collapsed saying it was too high. "You can imagine out of every Sh100 Kenyans are paying, Sh70 is for taxes either to the national government or county government." The Nasa leader said the taxation memorandum to be tabled tomorrow by Majority leader Aden Duale should not be politicised. "I hope the vote will not be about the handshake," he said. Addressing the proposal of Soy Mp Caleb Kositanny on scrapping the Senate, Nominated MP, and MCA posts, Kalonzo said it is a constitutional issue. "For this matter we have to wait for the Building Bridges initiative to bring it on board," he said. Read:Tax cut: Soy MP Caleb Kositany proposes Bill scrapping Senate, MCAs post    