In Nairobi, Kenya, the government is destroying buildings
constructed on riparian land in a bid to mitigate the impact of floods.
This is just one example of a growing African city that hasn’t
adequately protected its rivers. Kefa Otiso spoke to Jessica Kavonic, an
expert in helping local governments in sub-Saharan Africa on mainstream
natural assets – like rivers – into policy and planning. Why is it important to protect urban rivers? Most of the oldest cities in the world developed around rivers
because they played a major role in sustaining the city itself. Rivers
provide water, support natural processes – like flood prevention – and
provide habitats for plants and animals. These are important to the
city, plants for example have a cooling effect, helping
to lower surface and air temperatures by providing shade and releasing
moisture into the air. They also manage floods as most of the plants
species that grow on river banks absorb a lot of water, reducing flood
energy which is a threat to people and buildings. Rivers also help to connect communities, create opportunities for
recreation and bring people together. But we’ve observed that over time
the explicit value of rivers has been ignored or overlooked by many
people and policy makers. One example is the Cheonggyecheon river in Seoul, South Korea. In the 1940s, the river became heavily polluted
and because of the health risks was eventually paved over for
sanitation reasons and an elevated freeway built over it. But following a
massive government effort, it was restored and today is an oasis in a
concrete jungle —- a boost to local biodiversity and economic development. In the cities you’ve worked in, did urban planning take major rivers into account? As part of our Urban Natural Assets from Africa: Rivers for Life project, currently being implemented by ICLEI Africa,
the cities we are working with are; Lilongwe (Malawi), Addis Ababa
(Ethiopia), Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), Entebbe and Kampala (Uganda). In all of these cities, the major rivers were definitely accounted
for in land use plans with various guiding policies that regulate
activities within and near rivers. For example, Malawi’s 1969 Water
Resources Management Act stipulates that riverine areas act as buffer zones and should be protected. What are the predominant challenges when it comes to rivers and planning cities? Planning for rivers is one thing, but implementation is another. With
the immense urbanisation and growth rate of our project cities,
enforcing and regulating laws is a major challenge for them. For instance,
the Lilongwe river in Malawi is suffering due to rapid population
growth and a delegation of responsibilities which has led to
encroachment, in the form of cultivation and infrastructure development. Africa is the world’s most rapidly urbanising continent. Some estimates suggest that there will be
a 700% increase in urban land cover between 2000 and 2030. How this
plays out on the ground will be daunting. The abuse of rivers is one
area of concern. And that’s happening already. As local governments struggle to keep up with the high levels of
urbanisation, many rivers have become dumping grounds for waste. For
example, the majority of Ethiopian industry is located in Addis Ababa, with a
considerable number based close to rivers. In the absence of an
alternative and environmental enforcement, they have become prone to
discharging waste into the waterways. Riverbanks and flood plains have also become ideal locations for
settlements and urban agriculture, particularly in dry seasons. But as a
result they get more pollution and siltation and their natural ability
to buffer floods is compromised. Another challenge is in the planning itself. Traditional approaches
rely on mass land acquisition and centralised planning – which are not
aligned with the current realities of African cities, given resource
constraints and resistance from impacted landholders. Urbanisation is
also happening at such a rate that land use change is occurring faster
than city councils can plan. New ways of thinking are needed which deal with the realities. For example, urban tinkering
which tries to work with what is already on the ground to minimise
risks and vulnerabilities, rather than create an entirely new plan for
an area. What solutions do other countries offer in addressing these? Our project tries to introduce a new way of thinking so that local
governments see rivers as a tool in planning and use them to guide city
decision-making. To support this, we developed a guideline on how
sub-Saharan African cities can plan for their rivers. Including; dealing
with river degradation, how to move from mainstreaming to
implementation and best practice in mainstreaming. Addis Ababa is a leading African city addressing this. There’s now a
city government office solely dedicated to river restoration with a
budget attached. Last year they embarked on a project to transform a river area, extending over four kilometres, into ponds, walkways and parks. Many other cities are implementing pilot projects on river banks
aimed at restoring natural buffer zones. In Lilongwe, a revitalisation
pilot project is being rolled out near two riverside food markets. This includes; raising awareness and training women in composting organic waste. In others, they’ve involved communities on guiding plans and policies —- which is key. What are the three things Nairobi needs to do now? Many African cities face the same challenges that Kenya does – not
having the capacity to ensure policies are properly implemented and
regulated. But planning for rivers is less about the products produced and more
about the processes followed – like creating space for dialogue. Land
use planners and environmentalists need to be brought together so they
can figure out alternative ways of working together. Communities in risk zones should also be involved. These interactions
sometimes offer much more beneficial, and longer term, results. Finally, it’s important to note that the scale of challenges facing
cities is far bigger than local government and requires involvement from
all spheres of government and all “influencers of development”, like
the private sector and affected communities. By Kefa M. Otiso Professor of Geography, Bowling Green State University. 