The family of Monica Kimani who was murdered last week in Nairobi has forgiven her killers. However, the family said it will not rest until the killers of the 28-year-old are brought to book. One suspect - Joe Irungu - who is the fiancé of TV presenter Jacque Maribe has been arrested in connection with the murder. Monica was buried in her parent’s farm in Chemichemi village, 15km from Gilgil town. Speaker after speaker shared their memories of Monica. A friend from Juba - Alex Mariga - described Monica as a hardworking person who was loved by many and was always ready to help. He urged mourners to dismiss the “unfounded” stories on social media which painted her in bad light. “We have come to mourn a friend and a sister and we hope and pray that no person will have to undergo the pain and agony the family and friends have undergone,” Mariga said. Read: Kilimani woman found slaughtered, body dumped in bathtub ERC director general Joe Ng’ang’a, who was Kimani’s uncle, urged the police to bring the murderers to book. He described Monica as a God-fearing person who respected her parents. “We are crying for justice and we hope that all those responsible will be brought to book and they should be punished as per the law,” Ng’ang’a said. Meanwhile, police are still hunting for more suspects in connection with the murder. Kilimani OCPD Joseph Muchiri on Friday said no new arrests had been made. Irungu has been detained at Muthaiga police station for 10 days pending completion of investigations. Irungu, alias Jowie, was arrested on Tuesday after police staged a parade in which witnesses positively identified him as the man who visited Monica, clad in white kanzu. Monica’s body was found in a bathtub in her house in Kilimani by her brother after her phone calls went unanswered. Her throat had been slit. Maribe was for the second day on Friday grilled by DCI detectives. Irungu allegedly used Maribe’s vehicle on the night when Monica was murdered. The vehicle was dusted by forensic experts. Irungu informed police he spotted three men on a motorcycle while dropping off Maribe at her house. He then allegedly decided to drive back to ask the three men what they were doing and in the process, one drew a pistol and shot him. More: Cops quiz Maribe fiance in murder of Kilimani woman Click here for
the latest political news