T he art farm concept refers to a neologism whose actual definition is still taking shape. It can be used to refer to a space where creatives in different fields, from art to food to music, converge to create and market their products, most of these being either organic, conscious or ethical. In Kenya, one such spot exists within the Kilifi plantation and is slowly taking shape. When we drive up to the space, we are greeted by a striking mural of a beautiful dark-skinned girl with tropical flowers prevalent at the coast, coupled with a pineapple for a crown, and one can’t help but stare at it. This mural was created by Larisa and David Hanegraaf of 4 Shore designs, whose workshop is also located in this space. The siblings grew up in Kenya and after fashion and graphic design in Cape Town and the Netherlands, returned to their home in Kilifi to create a socially and environmentally ethical clothing brand and graphics design company. Their beachwear is good quality, casual and coastal, and they have items like organic cotton T-shirts and homeware with various vibrant paintings, drawings or conservation messages printed on them. They have also created designs for companies like Diani’s Colobus Conservation Trust, Safaricom Marathon Lewa and Tusk Trust. For visitors to this art farm, a key attraction would be The Food Movement, a rustique ‘high-end’ kibanda opened by Kilifi-bred Warren Wilson barely six months ago, and on whose walls the mural by 4 Shore designs boldly stands. “I think we’ve lost touch with what food is about. It’s very easy to walk into a supermarket and buy steak that has a happy cow picture or a smiling chicken on the packaging, but people don’t think about all the work that goes into your food before it reaches your plate,” Warren says, explaining the reason behind the restaurant’s name. “Meal times have always been sacred. Growing up, one of the most fun memories was sitting around fires or at the table with family at the end of the day and sharing a meal while interacting. When you walk to someone’s house and see their kitchen, that to me is the heart of the house. There’s a big movement around food, and that’s essentially how I came up with the name for this restaurant.” Creativity is at the core of the menu here, with Warren being a believer in experimenting with flavours that one wouldn’t typically think to put together. He is for instance keen to create a bacon ice cream, and his current menu, which also fuses in a lot of the local Swahili cuisine, has items like a cheekily named ‘scrambled heads’, which is mahamri stuffed with creamy scrambled eggs and avocado. A lot of the items are farm to table, having been farmed at the plantation, and the menu is big on fresh and seasonal fruits and vegetables, coupled with artisanal breads and cheeses. His spot started with classic Kenyan dishes like chapati and beans traditionally made on a jiko or three stone fireplace. It was initially a place to provide food for all the staff working at the space. “This space tries to bring together a hub of creative individuals to all take residency here,”  Warren says. “I was watching the art farm grow and I thought I would bring in the food. Conceptually, that’s how we started, and it’s grown from there. We now even have yoga on our rooftops on Tuesday and host live music events. There are some really good guys in this art farm. One even makes amazing wheelchairs and has invented his own that moves independently, and it’s really cool.” The space is home to various other creatives who sell products that can be found at Wild Living Cafe, a restaurant that doubles as an eco-market for over 20 community based projects from around East Africa. Most of the brands here are all about sustainable and ethical natural or organic products, ranging from clothing, art, briquettes, baobab oil, moringa powder and more.  LOCATION: Kilifi Plantation, Kilifi  Star Rating: 4/5