Embu governor Martin Wambora has twice reached out to his political rival Lenny Kivuti since his election was upheld by the Court of Appeal last month. Wambora on Tuesday told a reconciliation meeting that he had reached out to Kivuti to end political battles which he said have derailed development. The governor narrowly beat the former senator in last year’s election before the latter challenged the defeat in court. Wambora said battles aimed at removing him from office were negatively affecting services. He said he has twice met with Kivuti for reconciliatory talks since the Court of Appeal upheld his election on August 22. More talks have been planned. Kivuti has since filed his notice of appeal at the Supreme Court. “As you know, we’ve spent a lot of time in court. Most of you don’t know that we have had two meetings with the former senator. There is no tension. We’re talking,” Wambora said. He was speaking at Country View Hotel in Embu town when he presided over an election reconciliation, healing, peace and cohesion building forum for women leaders. The forum was organised by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC). The governor said he had listened to calls for peace from bishops, clergy and politicians led by senator Njeru Ndwiga, former Cabinet minister Joe Nyaga and former PS Cyrus Njiru. He promised to call a meeting of leaders to forge for unity and peace. “The issue of arguments and wrangles in Embu is very soon going to be history. Isn’t that going to be good?” Wambora posed. The forum was attended by NCIC assitant director for civic education and advocacy Kilian Nyambu and Mbeere South deputy county commissioner Beverly Opwora. Nyambu said the commission was extending the reconciliation brought about by the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. He said they will organise more forums in other counties to promote reconciliation and peace. He said last year’s elections were highly charged and left Kenyans divided along tribal and clan lines. “It is important to put in place strategies to avoid violence after elections,” Nyambu said.