This year,
the key highlight was governors Peers Benchmarking Meeting in Makueni county
hosted by Governor Kivutha Kibwana. The
architects of the 2010 Constitution intended devolution to be the game changer
in the governance system. Going through the Constitution, one finds a common
thread of devolving power, decisions, resources and increased public
participation. Few questions will help us get the basis of the arguments made
in this article; has devolution lived up to the intentions of the drafters of
the Constitution eight years after its promulgation? Has the
devolution of resources made a difference in development and local priorities
championed by communities, with respect to their diversity, cultures and
general welfare? Is public
participation genuine, stage-managed or a confused manipulative tool for those
in power with least understanding from the citizenry? In my view,
great strides have been made since 2013, when devolution took effect. County
government structures have been set up and are operational. Recruitment,
capacity building and deployment has been effected and is continuous; development
of county planning priorities through a participatory process that culminated
in respective CIDP in counties; resource allocation for development going by
local unique and specific needs has guided expenditures of resources; and
establishment of Municipal and City boards is almost complete. These are
major achievements on part of the 47 county governments. National government
has been very supportive through resource allocation from the upwards of over Sh1
trillion. Instructive is the special arrangements on Sh38 billion medical
equipment leasing to counties to enhance their capacity in early diseases
detection, provision of cancer treatment as well as dialysis and treatment of
emerging diseases. Health facilities have been expanded and upgraded to Level 4
and 5 in most counties.  Deployment of specialized Cuban doctors to county
hospitals is a further indication of the keen focus national government is
paying to the health sector in collaboration with the counties. Collaboration
and synergy in education, agriculture, water, land administration, and tourism
is wanting and these are some grey areas where challenges are evident between
national and county governments. Taxation
and trade is another area where there is friction with the National Treasury,
imposing guidelines on how counties should collect and spend Own Generated
Revenues. Operational harmony is necessary for the benefit of the people. Public
participation is progressively taking shape through the push by non-state
actors, community organisations, civil society activists and faith-based organisations.
Senate has also developed the Public Participation Bill 2018, which is under
enactment. Much remains to be done to achieve critical mass of citizens in the
counties able to actively participate in local development priority setting and
decision processes that enrich the spirit of devolution. The
provisions of Chapter Six are yet to scratch the surface in relation to
accountability from the leaderships in public office. Many county bosses have taken
for granted the threshold of integrity, character, values and transparency
requirements.  Actions, directives and even pronouncements do not bring
respect, honour and integrity in the offices they hold as provided in Article
73 of the Constitution as well as principles of national values under Article
10. Some governors brush aside accountability queries from citizens and
unfortunately view and treat public petitions as a bother. Whereas there
are agencies mandated to ensure provisions of Chapter Six are adhered to by all
seeking public office such as in the EACC, the IEBC, the Judiciary, Parliament
and in the county assemblies, not much activity to correct the bravado and
display of arrogance by leaders that has been witnessed. Once in office, the
need for continuous leadership monitoring to keep the bar high tends to take a
back banner. Corruption,
particularly in recruitment and appointments at the county level, is very
glaring. County public service boards have been turned into punching bags of
governors, as they accuse them of recruiting for former governors or unknown
political interests, pushing them to make illegal appointments, promotions and
generally harassing them out of office. The huge staff and salaries bills are
self-inflicted burdens by sitting governors. Lastly,
though county assemblies have had lesser corruption-related issues, recent
arrests by the DPP of assembly officials in Nairobi, Homa Bay and others under
active investigations, has turned spotlight on them. It is unfortunate that
most are not objective, do not understand their oversight roles and are ever
accompanying governor for project initiation, or inspection tours, which tends
to blur their objectivity and they end up being compromised. County assemblies
must review the thin lines between initiating development, budget making, and
project audit against their critical oversight role. 
Moving
forward, composition of boards and their efficiency in operationalising municipalities
and cities development activities in the 47 counties, coupled with well-crafted
regional economic blocs will determine the next phase of devolution as
macroeconomic hubs for the nation's development. More
importantly, however, is the need to have focused, results oriented, ambitious
and strategic leaderships heading counties. Everything stands or falls on
leadership. The buck stops there — at the kind of leader in office. The
electorate need to rethink the parameters of why they vote against the urgent
need to tackle the numerous socioeconomic and environmental issues challenge
their lives every day.   The writer is a devolution, policy and governance expert burugujn@gmail.com