Good Morning, Most parts of Kenya are expected to continue getting wet with the short rains season fast approaching. The weatherman has indicated that most parts of the country will likely experience above average rainfall. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star this Thursday. Debate on whether Kenya should have a look at the 2010 Constitution with an aim of reviewing it has gained momentum after opposition leader Raila Odinga told Kenyans to be ready for a referendum. But the calls for a referendum next year by Raila has elicited mixed reactions across the political divide as the Star reports this morning. Members of Parliament were on Wednesday split on the referendum calls depending on their political persuasions. Pressure to impeach Obado divides ODM Opinion was divided in the ODM party on Wednesday on whether governor Okoth Obado should continue holding on to his position despite facing a murder charge. Obado was charged in court on Monday with complicity in the murder of university student and girlfriend Sharon Otieno who was pregnant with his child. Justice Jessi Lesit will this afternoon rule on whether Obado who has denied the accusation will be released on bail or spend more time in remand. Read: EXPERT COMMENT: Obado can govern from prison but MCAS can impeach him - Danstan Omari Growth projects to be sacrificed as state cuts counties’ allocations The recent passage of the Supplementary Budget by the National Assembly is set to hit County Government hard with development set to suffer. The Nairobi County Government has said that it will reduce its 2018-19 development budget after its allocation by Sh454 million. The National Assembly last Thursday slashed the funds allocated to counties by Sh9.04 billion following passage of the Supplementary Budget. The counties had been allocated Sh314 billion. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said the allocation to Nairobi will be reduced by Sh454.7 million — the highest. Lamu’s allocation will be cut by Sh102 million — the lowest. Interest rate cap suppressing economic growth, CBK warns Debate on whether Kenya should continue capping interest rates has been reignited by the Central Bank of Kenya which has given a warning on the economic outlook. CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge has warned that the continued regulation of commercial lending rates is strangling the economy projected to grow to 6.2 per cent this year. Addressing a post Monetary Policy Committee media briefing on Wednesday Njoroge said banks continued to cut on lending to small enterprises deemed too risky tightening cash flow to key economic drivers. "While we talk of a buoyant economy, the impact is not felt downstream. I dare say people don’t eat GDP. It is because the cap on commercial interest rates is strangling the economy," Njoroge said. Why 2,000 Kenyans die from rabies each year As the country gears up for World Rabies Day on Friday, the main impediment to eradicating the deadly disease is lack of awareness. Rabies kills at least 2,000 Kenyans annually, according to the Zoonotic Diseases Unit . The rabies virus is transmitted through the bites or scratches of infected animals and has no cure. However, many Kenyans who own dogs, cats and donkeys fail to appreciate the risk they are exposed to when they do not take anti-rabies vaccinations. For more on these stories and others, keep browsing the Star website for the latest news making headlines across Kenya and around the world. To get the Breakfast Briefing right into your inbox every morning, click here for a free subscription.