Devolution has transformed the lives of millions of Kenyans since its adoption despite some teething problems, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto said projects done by the counties and the national governments have greatly changed the lives across the country. The DP spoke during the launch of the Big Four agenda in Nandi on Monday. He said it was unfair for some people to spend most of their energies on negativity. "There is tremendous work going on across the country especially in the provision of water, the connection of electricity, construction of roads, improvement of health, education among other development activities,” Ruto said. "Those criticizing us are okay to do so but they should know some development work is going on at the counties," Ruto added. Present were Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney (Lands), Governors Stephen Sang (Nandi), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu), Jackson Mandago (Uasin-Gishu) and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet). Others were MPs Alex Kosgei (Emgwen), Wilson Kogo (Chesumei), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Gideon Kosgei (Chepalungu), Vincent Tuwei (Mosop), Isaac Mwaura (nominated), Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), Fatuma Dulo (Isiolo), Irungu Kangata (Muranga), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Amos Wako (Busia), Mutula Kilonzo (Makueni), and Julius Melly (Tinderet). Chief Administrative Secretaries Andrew Tuimur (Agriculture) and Rachel Shebesh (Public Service). Principal Secretaries Fred Segor (Irrigation), Peter Tum (Health) and Charles Sunkuli (Devolution) were also present. Karoney said her ministry has embarked on a physical development plan and land adjudication exercise in the counties to facilitate the issuance of title deeds, urging farmers to use their titles to access loans from banks for their development projects. Murkomen said Senate would protect counties from external interference while genuinely implementing their development projects. "As Senate we will do everything possible to ensure resources allocated to counties were well utilised while on the other hand protecting those which do their work well from external interference," Murkomen said. Governor Sang on his part said county governments were committed to ensuring successful implementation of the Government’s Big Four agenda- manufacturing, healthcare, food security and affordable housing. He said the Lakes Region Economic Bloc that Nandi County was part of will go a long way in providing markets for its agricultural produce. Senator Mutula said corruption is the stumbling block to the implementation of the Big Four agenda. Click here for the latest political news