Human rights groups and politicians in Mombasa have welcomed the proposed police reforms, but want them implemented gradually. The reforms, they say, will help curb extrajudicial killings, which are on the rise again after three years of peace. The killings have seen police clash with human rights defenders in Mombasa, who accuse each other of either protecting criminals or violating human rights. The rights groups, including Haki Africa and Muslims for Human Rights, put at more than 77 the number of people killed by police in eight months at the Coast. The Interior ministry plans to do away with mandatory and free housing for junior police officers, who will instead get house allowances. This means they may choose to live within police units or elsewhere with civilians. They have been given three months to do this. On Sunday, Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and Mombasa senator Mohammed Faki said the period is too short and it will expose the police officers to criminals. “These reforms should be implemented gradually. For Mombasa, the situation is volatile at the moment and getting police integrated within communities right now may do more harm than good.” The leaders addressed the press at the Haki Africa offices in Mombasa. Speaking separately, Muslims for Human Rights executive director Hassan Abdille yesterday said reforms must be in the officers’ attitude, not in clothing. He referred to the change in police uniforms after the merger of Kenya Police and the Administration Police units. “Reform is not in the uniform. Reform is in the mind.” The executive director said the increased mistrust between the police and the community, brought about by extrajudicial killings, is worrying and should be addressed. “The whole thing is about trust. The first thing is for all parties to own up to mistakes done. The police should not kill suspects because there are better ways to deal with insecurity,” Abdille said. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has to ensure the files that the Independent Policing Oversight Authority takes to them are acted on swiftly.  