An uncle to murdered student Sharon Otieno was on Sunday ejected from a funeral meeting after suggesting that she should be buried at her ex-husband's home. Joshua Okong’o had to be whisked away from angry mourners who jeered him. The meeting in Magare village, Homa Bay was attended by four woman representatives. They are Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Pamela Odhiambo (Migori), Rosa Buyu (Kisumu) and Janet Ongera (Kisii). On Friday, Okongo addressed journalists as the family spokesman. “I want everybody to know that Sharon was married and she separated with her husband in January… I know her because she stayed with me most of the time during her childhood,” Okong’o said. The crowd booed him but he insisted with his speech. “The husband has never appeared in this home. We need him because Sharon will not be buried here due to our cultural beliefs,” he said. “No no no! You’re wrong to say those things here and you are an elder,” a voice shouted from the crowd. His statement also angered Sharon’s father Douglas Otieno. He snatched the microphone from Okong’o. Area chief Simeon Onano and some family members rushed to the dais to intervene. They escorted Okong'o to his car. Related: Police to question Obado on Sharon Insults were hurled at Okong’o as he entered his car and eventually left the compound. On Saturday, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji vowed not spare anyone linked to Sharon's death. Haji said any suspect, including Migori governor Okoth Obado, who has been adversely mentioned, will be charged if investigations link him to the murder of the 26-year-old woman. “Investigations are going on, and at the right time when we feel the governor needs to be arrested, that will definitely be done,” he said. “No one is above the law, not even the governor. And no one mentioned will be spared,” he added. Sharon, a Rongo University student, was found dead near Kodera Forest on Wednesday. She was kidnapped on Monday together with Nation journalist Barrack Oduor from a hotel in Rongo. Oduor jumped from a speeding car and escaped from his captors. Read: We'll charge anyone including Obado if linked to Sharon's murder - Haji Click here for the latest political news 