Butali Warriors made a strong statement in their battle to reclaim the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Premier League title with a comfortable 9-1 win over a hapless Nakuru side yesterday at City Park. Kenyan international George Mutira was the main tormentor to the visitors as he bagged a quadruple to aid his side collect maximum points from their weekend double having downed Wazalendo 4-2 on Saturday. Butali broke the deadlock barely three minutes into the game through Constant Wakhura, who sounded the board from a penalty strike after an infringement in Nakuru’s area. Mutira made it two four minutes later evading tackles mounted by the opposition defenders to plunder home a superb field goal. Barnabas Odhiambo entered his name on the score sheet in the 23rd minute before Mutira completed his brace in the 27th minute to hand his side a 4-0 lead at halftime. The former Chase Sailors man quenched his goal thirst again in the 37th minute before Brian Musasia drilled home the sixth two minutes later. Mutira completed his rout in the 48th minute but his teammates ensured the goal taps did not dry as veteran midfielder Zack Aura and Lawrence Okubasu netted a goal apiece in the 54 and 56th minutes. Garry Jean-Louis scored Nakuru’s consolation goal two minutes to the final whistle. Nakuru head coach, Anthony Agesa, admitted that his opponents were stronger and such a performance was not a surprise to him. “We tried our best against a side which is currently on form and have several national team players. Our game plan was distorted from the onset and we exposed our area and got punished.” His Butali counterpart Godfrey Wakachunga heaped praises to his boys for adapting to their new style of offensive play. “We came up with a new style of offensive play three weeks ago and I am happy the players have adapted quickly and the results are here for all to see,” said Wakachunga. The win saw Butali open a massive nine-point gap between them and second placed Kenya Police. However, the champions have three matches in hand. On the other hand, Nakuru remained 11 with a similar number of points. Earlier at the same venue, JKUAT reaped their first win of the season in the ladies tie where they floored Vikings 1-0. Faith Mudogo was the heroine for the students as her 56th field goal sealed their first three points in seven matches a result which steered them a place high while their match day rivals remained at the bottom of the log with a point and winless in seven matches.