The Kenya National Examination Council yesterday warned that fake KCSE and KCPE exam papers are being sold as leaks. The council cautioned parents and candidates not to fall prey to fraudsters. “As we struggle to ensure examination safety, we are also aware that cartels are out there trying to ensure they craft ways to try and access the examination. We want to assure you that the examination will be safe,” Knec chairperson Goerge Magoha said in Nairobi. Some 1.6 million candidates have registered for this year’s national examinations. Of this, 964,119 candidates will sit KCPE exam and 631,750 KCSE exam. KCPE exam will take place between October 30 and November 1, while KCSE exam will be on November 6-30 in 27,172 centres. Read: 1,205 KCSE results cancelled over cheating Knec said schools that will be involved in exam irregularities will be closed and those in charge held liable. The council said the centre managers — principals and headteachers — have decisive control over exams. They have been tasked with ensuring integrity to reduce the number of people handling the papers. Supervisors, invigilators and school heads are required to be extra-vigilant. The council says details such as the time papers are returned could lead to suspicion of sabotage. Supervisors will be answerable to late arrivals at storage containers. In urban areas, papers must be returned not more than 30 minutes after completion. Most collection points are not farther than 10km from exam centres. Supervisors have been cautioned against accepting gifts as this could compromise their integrity. Centre managers have been instructed to use teachers registered by the TSC as invigilators. “Last year, some teachers who stood as invigilators were not registered, posing a challenge when Knec tries to follow up in cases of irregularities,” Magoha said. Read: TSC interdicts teachers over exam cheating A 1.2-metre spacing will be ensured between candidates. Knec said this will prevent collusion, passing of materials and ‘giraffing’ or ‘copying’ among candidates. Some 415 containers have been acquired to secure the exam materials. During the exam period, centre managers will collect papers and deliver them to supervisors. They will be accorded transport and security. Supervisors will visit their centres and assess them to ensure nothing can interfere. Two security officers will be deployed in each centre. “Education officials visiting schools for routine checks on the progress of the exam should be allowed in and sign the visitors’ book while leaving. We’ve noticed it takes less than a minute or two to cover up malicious activities, which might be facilitated by delays at the gate,” principal examination administrator Jacob Omulo said. Details: Why Kenyan students are cheating in exams and what can be done Click
here for the latest political news