The county assembly has launched
investigations into the fracas at
speaker Beatrice Elachi’s office two
weeks ago. The Powers and Privileges Committee
is probing the conduct of
members implicated in the chaotic
ejection of Elachi from her offi ce. The probe began even as the assembly
protested against ‘interference’
by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Commission. The agency has
summoned 12 MCAs to be quizzed
over the scuffle. Yesterday, the committee questioned
three MCAs over their involvement
in the commotion on
September 10. The MCAs are alleged
to have stormed Elachi’s office and
forcibly ejected her. The removal followed the speaker’s
impeachment four days earlier. Elachi obtained court orders suspending
her removal.
Committee chairman Naftali
Mathenge said the EACC overstepped
its mandate in summoning
the MCAs. He said the commission
ought to have given the assembly
time to investigate its own members. Mathenge said the agency ought
to have waited for the committee
to invite them into the matter. “We
are guided by the Constitution. The EACC should not be allowed to come
within the premises of the county
assembly,” the chairman said.
EACC summoned the MCAs on
September 11 but the ward representatives
ignored the agency and
instead moved to court to block the
probe. Hospital MCA Patrick Musili
said the assembly should be guided
by the Powers and Privileges Act,
2017, when it comes to the conduct
of members. He said what transpired in Elachi’s
office was not criminal, warranting
the involvement of the anti-graft
agency.
“As a House, we are supposed to
enjoy some immunity. We are not
talking about criminal cases but the
conduct of members and ethical issues,”
Musili said. The MCA, who is a member of the
committee, said they will recommend
disciplinary actions against
the members found guilty of committing
the off enses or involved in
unethical conduct. Among the three questioned was
Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok. The Makongeni MCA said he did
not do anything wrong and that the
blame should be on those who pepper-sprayed
them. LOCKED IN TOILET "There was no Kamkunji held to eject
Elachi because she had already been
impeached. If anything, it was the
speaker who provoked the members,”
Imwatok said. The MCA said he went to the
speaker’s office after hearing noises.
He said he wanted to calm the
situation.
“But I was shocked to hear that the
speaker had locked herself inside
a toilet,” he said. Mwiki MCA Isaac
Ngigi and his Highridge counterpart
Jayendra Malde were also questioned.