Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has signed a deal with Aga Khan University and Nairobi West hospitals to transform Pumwani. The governor said Aga Khan will provide doctors, nurses, and hospital support staff for a period of two years at no cost. The deal followed after systemic flaws were cited in the case of bodies of 11 infants that were found kept in a plastic at the maternity hospital. Pumwani managers have admitted that the facility lacks cooling facilities to preserve bodies. The hospital has a holding area for infants who die at the facility. Details: Pumwani dead infants saga: Maternity has no mortuary Sonko at the same time unveiled the county's plan to construct a 450-bed capacity hospital at Pumwani and a new 250-bed capacity hospital at Mutuini. The proposed 10-storey Pumwani hospital, which will stand side by side with the old hospital, will comprise of a pediatric ICU, an adult ICU, and a High Dependency Unit. It is also designed to have staff quarters, laundry, and all the necessary facilities. The proposed health facility shall cover a total area of 39,699 square metre. The governor said the hospital will offer surgeries, procedures, deliveries, immunization, inpatient beds, with 24 hrs emergency services and high-end diagnostic services. Others are delivery suites with four fully functional theatre wards, postnatal ward, a newborn unit with 100 incubators, 20 neonatal HDU with 30 procedure rooms for breastfeeding. Also read: Nairobi health officers differ with Sonko on Pumwani crisis, cite systemic flaws The plan also envisages an antenatal ward with 60 beds, acute gynecology with 50 beds, gynecology theatre, hostels for mothers with babies in the nursery, mortuary and post-mortem services. A hospital kitchen, ambulance services for mothers, county insurance desk for residents, residential accommodation for hospitals staff among others are also in the plan. Sonko said the contracts will be signed on September 25 and groundbreaking on November 20. The facility is scheduled to be opened in the next two years. He said the new block is expected to ease congestion at the old hospital. POSTMORTEM Meanwhile, the postmortem on the infant bodies recovered from Pumwani Hospital will be conducted on Tuesday to allow the affected families to know the children's cause of death. The bodies were transferred to City Mortuary on Monday after Sonko made an impromptu visit to the hospital. KNCHR vice chairman George Morara said the postmortem is being done at the request of families of the deceased infants. "The autopsy will help to ascertain the cause of the deaths in order to give justice to the affected families." "This is a matter of national importance and all Kenyans want to know why the babies died in a high number at the hospital," he said. Faith Kanini, 28, from Umoja in Embakasi West constituency had appealed for help to know the cause of her child’s death. Click here for the latest political news