Marsabit County Woman Representative Safia Sheikh Adan risks
losing her seat if the court rules that she contravened the law by vying for the
office while a multiple citizen of various countries. In a case filed by voter Yahya Mohammed Hassan, he claims
that Adan who was born in Ethiopia is also a citizen of USA and Kenya making
her tripartite citizen of three countries. Through his lawyer Omwanza Ombati, Hassan wants the Woman
rep seat to be declared vacant by the court to allow IEBC to conduct fresh
elections in the County. “An order of Mandamus issued to IEBC to declare the seat of
Woman Rep Marsabit County as vacant and call for fresh elections to enable the
people of Marsabit elect a credible, trustworthy and reliable representative” the
petition reads. Hassan further wants a declaration
that the MP is illegible to continue occupying, holding the office of Woman
Representative to the NA and any other state office” the court documents state. The voter also wants all salaries
and other benefits drawn from public funds and paid to the MP to be reimbursed
to taxpayers by Adan. Hassan argues that the legislator seats in the August House,
under the privileges of the House and receives intelligence and other confidential
reports that relate to Kenya while she owes her true allegiance to Ethiopia and
the USA. He claims that the MP took oath whilst knowing fully well
that she owed her true allegiance to USA and Ethiopia and she therefore infringed
article 78(2) of the constitution and the section 31(2) of the Leadership and Integrity
act. “By Oath of office of Kenya, state officers swear their allegiance
to Kenya only” the court documents reads. He argues that the case is of great public interest as it
touches on governance, leadership and also the clear contravention of the law
by the MP. Hassan also avers that the MP is constitutionally ineligible
and disqualified from serving as Woman Rep for Marsabit County and cannot
therefore continue serving in such capacity for she has never renounced,
disavowed or relinquished her foreign citizenship. He claims that Adan’s US passport
issued to her on January 2012 confirms that she is a citizen of the Ethiopia. He also argues that the taking up
of office by an elected person before renunciation, relinquishing and surrounding
or abandoning dual citizenship is an egregious violation of the Constitution. Click here for
the latest political news