Which report is the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission planning to launch in one of the counties in Nyanza that has caused such an uproar? Some residents were heard saying the exercise is a mockery to the theft and plunder that has bedeviled the county. EACC has been investigating graft in the county but has only charged some MCAs. None in the executive, seen as the bastion of graft, has been charged so far. Sources said some 2,500 copies of the report on risk assessment have already been ferried to the county. Some people unhappy with the plan say it is inappropriate given the graft profile of the county. Or is that, in fact, the reason? Maybe His Grace the chairman Eliud Wabukhala should listen the voice on the ground. ***** Is Nairobi governor Mike Sonko really aware of the rot and corruption going on in the parking department? Well, a mole has whispered to Corridors that a corrupt cartel headed by a female officer is flourishing in the department. The boss is said to be working with parking supervisors in Ngara and Industrial Area to harass and extort money from motorists. The officers are using their close relatives and junior parking attendants to extort and deny the county government the much needed revenue. The extortion ring, according to our mole, use a private car that is well known to many motorists in town. Junior officers are now asking if the head of the department or the governor have sanction the business going on. ***** Is some money again missing in one of the ministries of the national government? Well, sources whispered to Corridors that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations was investigating the possible loss of million in a certain ministry when a bigger scandal broke out in the same department. Several officials were charged, thereby delaying the initial probe. But sources said that the matter is alive and a new grand purge is looming. Corridors will keep you posted on the developing scandal. ***** The ongoing Senate sittings in Uasin Gishu county have ironically been received well by the leadership of the National Assembly. One of the assembly’s top dogs was overheard in the corridors of Parliament saying: “Now Senate has known its real role in the legislative process. They should be traversing the counties. I don't want to be seen as undermining Senate but their role is to check on the counties. “ ***** Well, it is unclear whether the ranging battles between the two houses will ease with the Senate stepping out. Questions are also being raised about the viability of its operations if the Senate was to become a House on the Road. Click here for
the latest political news