Kenya will host the Next Einstein Forum (NEF) global gathering to be held in March 2020 Nairobi. The NEF is an initiative of the African Institute for Mathematical Sciences (AIMS) in partnership with the Robert Bosch Stiftung. The charitable private foundations of Europe is known for its promotion of natural and social sciences, including public health, science, education, society and culture, and international relations. Education CS Amina Mohamed signed the MOU on behalf of the government while AIMS President/CEO and NEF Chair  Thierry Zomahoun signed on behalf of NEF. Amina said hailed the third NEF global gathering saying it will be taking place at a time when Kenya has embarked on an aggressive programme of enhancing the uptake of science subjects at all levels of education. This she said is through the roll-out of STEM model schools in the 47 counties. Read: CS Amina asks UK for more scholarships for Kenyans The CS said the government is banking on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) as the key drivers of industrial growth. "We are, therefore, focused on nurturing a young crop of innovators, engineers and scientists who will drive our industrialisation Agenda forward," Amina  said. Zomahoun said that NEF 2018 was the largest scientific event held in Africa with over 1,500 people attending from 91 countries. "We expect 2,500 delegates for the 2020 edition in Kenya. We will host special events such as the NEF Innovation Salon where start-ups from all over Africa, and the world, will showcase their solutions, the Gender Summit Africa and an exciting Arts and Science Festival for all ages,"  he said. The event has exciting sessions such as NEF Fellow Spotlight Sessions – TED like events where Africa’s top scientists share their research and innovations. There will also be live online discussions with special guests, discovery sessions that unpack ground breaking discoveries, an exclusive ministerial meeting and the NEF’s signature continental innovation competition. "Kenya is a strategic country for us because it provides an ideal environment for the intersection of academia and innovation. A strong innovation ecosystem requires a strong link between academia and the private sector." "In this regard, Kenya is ahead of the curve and we look forward to incorporating the ecosystem approach in our program and inviting the world of science to Africa,"  Zomahoun said. The preliminary program will be available in March 2019 after a meeting of the NEF’s Scientific Programme Committee (SPC) in Nairobi that will discuss the inclusion of some of Kenya’s leading Scientists into the SPC. Click here for the latest political news