Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi yesterday denied writing to the anti-corruption agency to investigate MCAs. MCAs on Tuesday accused her of asking the EACC to investigate 19 members of the Labour committee after an audio recording claiming that they received bribes emerged. Members met on Tuesday and resolved to hold a special sitting yesterday to impeach her and discuss Governor Mike Sonko's conduct. Some 101 MCAs out of 122 signed the petition to impeach her. "The issue is of the Labour committee. What I have done is I
requested the EACC to let the Power and Privileges committee to work on
the issue then hand over a report, giving our disciplinary measures and
how we have dealt with the members involved," Elachi said from Malindi. She said some of the allegations levelled against her are being handled in court. MCAs have accused her of stopping them from going on foreign trips, an allegation she denied. "I have members who just came from Sweden, and some are heading to
China and Dubai next week. I also make sure that my Muslim members are
allowed in any religious trips and we have supported them," Elachi said. She requested the Treasury to step in and explain how the trips are
paid for, since all payments are done through the Integrated Financial
Management System (IFMIS). Elachi said no MCA has ever been stopped from travelling. "If it is
benchmarking, we specify where the member is heading to, what you will
bring back home and how it will support Kenya. That is what the policy
says," she said. Elachi denied having interest in assembly tenders. "The issues of tenders are neither here nor there. I sit in the
county assembly Public Service Board with both the Majority and Minority
leaders, so even if I was doing a deal I have to do it with them," she said. "And
besides, who will be that foolish to do so. I cannot do it in my own
county for I will be breaching the law." Elachi urged the MCAs to sit and discuss issues affecting the county "We were not elected to bring drama everyday in Nairobi. We were elected to assist our people," Elachi said.