Pastoralist counties yesterday began a three-day conference in West Pokot to find solutions to cattle rustling and FGM among other challenges that have hindered development. Low enrollment in schools, poor infrastructure and food insecurity were also cited among challenges faced by the Northern Kenya counties. The Frontier Counties Development Council (FCDC) said the challenges must be addressed for the regions to register meaningful growth. The council brings together West Pokot, Isiolo, Tana River, Garissa, Wajir, Turkana, Mandera, Lamu, Baringo and Marsabit counties. Eight governors attended yesterday’s forum. They included John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Ali Roba (Mandera), Mohammed Mohamud (Marsabit), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Mohammed Kuti (Isiolo) Patrick Khaemba (Trnas Nzoia)Mohammed Abdi (Wajir. Leader from nearby counties also attended as did those from Kwen, Bukwo, Moroto and Amudat districts in neighbouring Uganda. Samburu governor Moses Lenolkulal was welcomed as his county officially joined the council. The governors also discussed other challenges including access to healthcare and agriculture and livestock production. The World Bank will donate Sh120 billion to fund identified development projects. The council’s CEO Mohammed Gullet said the governors had decided to come together to develop their regions which have been marginalised for long. “The national government should chip in and funding the projects that we have prioritised so that we have a solution to challenges facing us,” Gullet said. He said the conference’s main objective is to come up with ways to open up the pastoral regions. He said a variety of resources in the counties remained untapped. The conference will help the counties look for potential investors. “We’ll deliberate on strategies to unlock and harness the enormous potential of Northern Kenya for prosperity of residents. We have been in 50 years of resource denial,” Gullet said. The former Isiolo deputy governor said counties in the council are also faced with challenges of diseases, perennial drought and floods. He said sanitation had only improved by 26 per cent while access to clean water had improved by 45 per cent since the introduction of devolution in 2013. Council chairman Ali Roba asked the government to release equalisation funds meant for marginalised counties. “God has good plans for marginalised counties and we’ll soon start reaping the fruits of devolution,” Roba said. He urged partners to fund projects to improve the economy of the member counties. “We want to ensure that these counties are at per with other regions in the country,” he said. Lonyangapuo said cattle rustling in remains a major hindrance to development and urged leaders to come up with measures to end the menace. “Cattle rustling has prevented us from exploiting resources that we have because it scares away investors. We want to ensure that we eradicate the vice,” Lonyangapuo said. He urged local communities to share available resources without conflicts. Lonyangapuo said marginalised counties have been blackmailed by negative publicity and said it was time to prove their potential. Click here for the latest political news