Prominent Ugandan opposition
lawmaker Robert Kyagulanyi arrived in the United States on
Saturday to seek medical treatment for what he said was torture
by authorities in his country. Kyagulanyi, a popular musician known by his stage name Bobi
Wine, was elected last year and has amassed a large following
among youth electrified by his scathing criticism of President
Yoweri Museveni, sometimes delivered in his songs. Protests had erupted in the Ugandan capital on Friday after
police detained Kyagulanyi at the airport during a previous
attempt to travel abroad for medical care. In a tweet posted on Saturday evening, Kyagulanyi said:
"Safely arrived in the US where I'll be receiving specialised
treatment following the brutal torture at the hands of SFC
soldiers." That referred to Uganda's Special Forces Command. "I will soon tell you what exactly happened to me since 13th
August and what is next," he said, referring to the day he was
detained after being accused by authorities of throwing stones
at a presidential convoy. He has pleaded not guilty to the
charges. Kyagulanyi posted in his tweet a picture of himself sitting
in a wheelchair and holding crutches, posing in an airport next
to his wife. The lawmaker has said he was beaten up and tortured while in
detention. See: Bobi Wine flies out of Uganda for treatment - lawyers Ugandan authorities initially dismissed the allegations that
Kyagulanyi was beaten up in detention as "rubbish" and "fake
news." But late on Friday a police spokesman said there would be
an investigation into those allegations. Kyagulanyi, who has emerged as a formidable threat to the
president who has been in power for 32 years, was charged with
treason over his alleged role in the stoning of Museveni's
convoy. Museveni has won praise in the West for his opposition to
militant Islam in the region, but many Ugandans regard the
73-year-old as out of touch with his people, nearly 80 percent
of whom are under the age of 30. He has been in power since 1986 and has repeatedly been
accused by his opponents of rights abuses and the widespread use
of security forces to suppress opposition to his rule. He denies
charges that his government is involved in rights violations. Click here for the latest political news  