Two lawmakers have said the opposition is dead. Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Matungu’s Justus Murunga said Kenyans are left at the mercy of the government following the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. Savula and Murunga added that Raila’s move to join government has compromised the oversight role of the legislature in and outside Parliament. “ODM lawmakers are fully in government and it’s imperative that NASA affiliates must go back to the drawing board,” Savula said on the phone yesterday. “... and strategise on how to form a formidable opposition within Parliament to check government excesses.” Savula said a strong opposition will address national issues affecting Kenyans such as the high fuel cost and the crisis in the sugar industry that threatens the Western economy. He said MPs elected as independent candidates should join those from ANC and Ford Kenya to form the opposition. But Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala said opposition MPs blindly followed the handshake and forgot their responsibility to check government excesses as members of the legislature. “As elected MPs we must come back to our senses and perform our oversight role as enshrined in the Constitution and as representatives of the people,” he said. Malala said Raila’s truce with Uhuru should not compromise opposition in Parliament. He said Raila cannot be blamed for a failed opposition since he is not elected. Murunga said the opposition is irredeemable. He added that the handshake left Kenyans at the mercy of the government because checks and balances on government excesses have been relaxed. “There is no way ODM lawmakers will effectively criticise the government which their leader is a part of. If they become too hard on the government Raila will see them as saboteurs,” he said. On August 22, Uhuru told leaders to stop politicising his relationship with Raila. He termed the relationship with Raila as a “deeper understanding” meant to fulfil the dreams of Kenya’s forefathers. “There comes a time when we should let go of petty politics. There is much deeper understanding between myself and my brother Raila Odinga,” Uhuru said. Raila said the handshake between him and Uhuru was meant to unite Kenyans and enhance development.