At least 2,000 farmers have been cleared by the National Cereals and Produce Board to receive payments for maize delivered to the government. The farmers provided all the details required by the government to confirm that they were genuine maize producers. NCPB spokesman Titus Maiyo said most farmers who have been waiting for their payments have been vetted. Officials of the board and those from the Devolution ministry will are expected to meet in Nairobi how to disburse the Sh1.4 billion payment. “We have concluded the vetting and farmers will be informed when to expect the cash,” Maiyo said. Last week, the the board failed to pay the farmers as had been promised. The board said it was waiting for the vetting to be concluded. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said a total of Sh1.4 billion will be paid out. Eugene directed the officials to speed up the process of vetting and preparing the farmers details for prompt payment. Maiyo said the four-week vetting had been smooth. “The farmers have been cooperative. We will ensure compliance with all government directives ahead of payments,” Maiyo said. The farmers had initially rejected the vetting, saying it would be cumbersome. However, a majority changed their minds and provided details required by the government. The details are expected to be used to get rid of cartels. Two weeks ago, Crop Development PS Richard Lesiyampe, former NCPB boss Newton Terer and other maize traders were charged with an irregular payment of Sh1.9 billion to farmers. Managers at NCPB depots in Rift Valley said farmers must meet all the requirements to get paid. Eugene ordered that all farmers be scrutinised to get rid of brokers from the list of those to be paid. But farmers’ spokesman Francis Koech said everybody who delivered maize to NCPB must be paid. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has begun scrutinising accounts used by the NCPB to make payments to farmers. Two weeks ago, an Eldoret court ordered the Central Bank of Kenya to allow the EACC scrutinise the accounts. Chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa directed that forensic investigators be allowed to probe bank accounts for the Strategic Grain Reserve Trust Fund. The accounts are suspected to have been used to make irregular payments at the expense of farmers. Meanwhile, farners in Uasin Gishu have been advised to adopt pyrethrum, coffee, bananas and avocadoes as a way of diversifying their earnings. The county government says the crops have ready market unlike maize whose payment has often delayed. “Farmers need to grow horticultural crops that have ready market especially in countries overseas,” the county advert says.