The writer argued the DP is not known, lacks the deep
foundations of a tall building or even the deep roots that come with a tall
tree. The latter comparison is, however, not entirely true. Tall trees don’t
necessarily have the deepest roots. The Giant Sequoia, the world’s tallest
tree, standing at over 300 feet, has only 12 feet of roots, but then the writer
had made his point. Ruto’s father, like retired President Daniel Moi once observed,
is not known to many. “Mimi sijui baba yake!” Moi told a public rally in Eldoret
North in 1997, while campaigning for Reuben Chesire against William Ruto, then
aged 30. The crowd, however, defied Moi and voted in the young
doe-eyed upstart, who went on to rise to the position of Deputy President. But
it seems Moi’s statement has returned to haunt Ruto. The writer’s insinuation
was that Ruto, not being known by anyone, was not a suitable leader as compared
to blue-blooded rivals Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Gideon Moi, whose
fathers are well-known.  POLITICISATION OF IDENTITY  I was rather disturbed by the whole article because it
brought us back to the politicisation of identity and also the politics of
entitlement. Debate is raging as to whether the self-styled son of a hustler,
William Ruto, is less qualified for the presidency because he lacks a
distinguished pedigree. Gideon, Raila and Uhuru Kenyatta and Mudavadi come to
the field with big names behind them, or ‘deep roots’ for that matter. They
also understand the power of taking up your father’s last name. Gideon has
lately been using access to his ailing father to leverage his political position.
This is simply the politicisation of identity. It is often said that Mama Ngina Kenyatta, is forever
thankful (and therefore indebted) to Moi for taking under his wing her son,
Uhuru, who some say could have been headed down the road to perdition if he had
not been ‘saved’ by the retired President. This is probably why the same
pundits believe Mama Ngina is behind Gideon’s meteoric rise in favour in the
last few months and also behind the DPs woes.  THE POLITICS OF PEDIGREE There is a sense of romanticism that we create around
our former leaders and which also envelops their children. We feel that by
electing their children, we are re-living a glorious past that has been robbed
of us by time or possibly death. It seems that we are using children to defy
term limits and also biological limitations like age. As a result, we have
various sons and daughters of former leaders who are now in senior leadership
positions in Kenya. Regionally, Kenya has the highest election rate of children
or even spouses of former politicians. The sons and daughters of East Africa’s former
leaders seldom feature in national or even local politics, and are living
rather as ordinary citizens almost always with the same struggles. Dynastic
politics is a uniquely Kenyan phenomenon. And it comes because we create, as it
were, an inordinately high sense of entitlement out of pedigree. The politics
of pedigree is, therefore, neither here nor there. It appeals to our basic
insecurities and collective guilt; it is as though we never fully appreciated
the erstwhile leader so we must now reward his son with the powerful position.  POLITICS OF ENTITLEMENT There is an ominous pendulum in Kenyan politics that
swings between entitlement and identity. One claims a political position
because of their family roots and then feels entitled to it. Entitlement
through identity can be described as not-so-distant cousins of impunity and the
politicisation of identity has created a sense of entitlement in certain
political quarters. At the heart of the politicisation of identity, are the recent
high profile visits Moi has been receiving. Most of them are visitors of
convenience, with little empathy written on their faces for the old man.  The sons of two former East African presidents
Madaraka Nyerere and Jaffer Amin came together to jointly climb Mt Kilimanjaro
in an act of friendship and reconciliation. Their parents, Julius Nyerere and
Idi Amin, fought a bitter war in the late 70s that led to the ouster of the
latter. This initiative portrayed them as ordinary folk devoid
of the trappings of power that surrounded their parents. They seemed like the
rest of us. It is of course a well-known fact that Nyerere did not have much
when he left power and indeed, the National Army had to construct for him a
modern home in his rural Butiama. This is because as president, he never had
the inclination to live above his neighbours in a towering almost-always empty
behemoth of a rural house. Part of our problem is the fact that we want our
sons to be our political heirs to protect our largely ill-gotten wealth and even
power for that matter.  WHO BEWITCHED US? But even Ruto himself will never learn. He once took Uhuru’s son, Muhoho, to Kapsabet and
introduced him to the people of Nandi. Ruto then threw the youngster to the
deep end of the pool by asking him to speak to the enthusiastic crowd. The poor
boy mumbled some words in his Peponi School Swahili, which he read out from his
phone to wild cheers by the crowd. It is the wild cheers that were disturbing. Someone
quipped, rather sarcastically, I might add, that there is Kenya’s future
president. Vision 2042 or maybe even 2032. One of Ruto’s sons, Nick, was believed to be interested
in his father’s old seat at least the part of which had been curved to create
Turbo constituency. When word of his candidacy went around, there was a lot of
excitement and there was no doubt the young man, who is in his early twenties,
was going to take it. It is said that his father prevailed upon him not to vie in
what would have complicated his own bid to project himself as his own man and
not elected on the strength of a big name behind him. He should therefore not
be seen as encouraging dynastic politics. It is clear that Ruto will want be
elected in spite of not because of his lack of pedigree.  THE JEWELS AND THE CROWN What really drives Kenyans to choose the children of
former leaders? Is it a part of our nature or is it nurture? Perhaps this has a
little of both. First, we consider political office as an extension of our
identity. Have you introduced yourself and your home of origin and someone
immediately names your MP, or governor? Political office holders are an extension of our
identity. We also consider political office as a route to vast wealth. Somehow
all that wealth must be kept within the family and ‘protected’ by holding a
powerful public office, and when we leave, we want the heir of the family
jewels to also wear the crown. Insecurity of ‘untried’ leaders is also at the
heart of the politics of pedigree. Perhaps we feel that we are safer in the
hands of a scion of someone who has been there before, never mind that we
probably suffered greatly under them. Jomo Kenyatta presided over one of the
worst kleptocratic regimes, and when we elected his son, what did we expect?
Like really? The same thing with Moi. Everything that Moi did, his son observed
from the front seat, and learnt from the best. Don’t expect a miracle if he
becomes president. Oginga Odinga ran a fascistic organisation in the name of
Luo Union. Do you expect his son to be a saint? The apple, they say, will not
fall far from the tree. Of course, I am saying so fully aware that you cannot
visit the iniquity of the father upon the son, only God does that.  SPREADING THE ROOTS But then with such shallow roots, how does the Giant
Sequoia tree stand all the storms and hurricanes? The answer is that instead of
its roots going down deep, they instead spread laterally like up to an acre of
land. But the roots also intertwine with the roots of other similar trees
forming an unshakeable underground web. This is probably what ‘Kutangatanga’ is
all about. It is the lateral spread and intertwining of the roots. Shallow,
they maybe, but well spread they are. And the tree stands tall.