Migori governor Okoth Obado on Tuesday denied he was involved in the murder of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. Obado told the police in Kisumu that he too was interested in knowing Sharon's killers. The police grilled him for more than eight hours His lawyers Cliff Ombeta and Roger Sagana said their client was innocent but had told the police what he knew about the case. "He is not involved in any way and does want to speculate," Sagana said. It was not also immediately clear if the police took DNA samples from Obado but Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said Obado will undergo DNA tests as part of the investigation into the murder. Kavulundi team term ends; cites frustration from executive, judiciary With its term ending next month, the Johnson Kavuludi-led National Police Service Commission has said it was unable to fulfil its full mandate because President Uhuru Kenyatta grabbed its powers. In his exit report obtained by the Star, ChairmannJohnstone Kavuludi singled out the 2014 amendment of the National Police Service Act and the National Police Service Acts. The change in law snatched NPSC's power to recruit the Inspector General and the two deputies. Despite protests from the then opposition, Kavuludi's powers to appoint the three were handed to the President who promptly used them to appoint IG Joseph Boinnet and DIG Joel Kitili Court dismisses Mtongwe-ferry tragedy victims’ compensation cases Families of victims of the Mtongwe ferry tragedy will not be compensated despite a 24-year wait, after Justice George Odunga dismissed cases at the close of the service week. On May, 1994, a vessel ferrying people across the Indian Ocean sunk killing 272 people. But for 29 families, who had filed a case at a Mombasa court seeking compensation have to endure for losing their relatives and the cases. Odunga dismissed the cases after the plaintiffs failed to appear, even after the court issued a notice of appearance. Sonko to continue operating from MUA, says City Hall is unsafe Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has said he will not set foot in his City Hall office and will continue to run the county from his Mua home in Machakos for safety reasons. The city boss also vowed to defy MCAs’ demand to appoint a deputy governor in 14 days, saying the ultimatum amounts to intimidation and blackmail. Sonko said City Hall – the gazetted county headquarters – is not safe for him and he will not go back until he ‘cleans’ the entire place. “I have got my own reasons why sometimes I don’t go to my office," Sonko said. Firm tackles stigma against fundis to bridge skills gap in Kenyan industry Nowadays, it is not uncommon to see a young man or woman walking in the streets of Nairobi with a placard, asking for a job. These are young university graduates who have “tarmacked” until they resorted to desperate means to get employment. While a degree was once a ticket to the middle class, opportunities have now grown limited. An odd fact in Kenya, which is absent in the West, is that there is stigma that if you are fundi, you are not in the right place in your life. Many youths want to be dressed in nice suits and to take a seat in an office. This is the perception Krones, a German manufacturing giant specialised in making bottles, is trying to change.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Generally clear; Partly cloudy. Low 12ºC. High 25ºC. Winds E at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 10%. MOMBASA: Morning showers; Late night showers. Low 22ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Low 18ºC. High 28ºC. Winds NW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 50%.