A mother on Tuesday narrated to the court how a close family friend defiled her six-month-old daughter at Nyamware sublocation in Kisumu county. The mother said the accused, James Ochieng’, was a very close family friend and she never had any negative thoughts about him. In her testimony, the mother said Ochieng went to her house and took tea with her husband and the mother-in-law. "My husband and my mother-in-law left me in the house with Ochieng’," she said adding, "I told him that I wanted to go and grind rice." Ochieng then asked her to give him the baby to go and play with his children, while she was away. "He asked to go with my baby and I said no because I had to dress her up. He insisted and told me that even if the child soils herself, she will be cleaned," she said. She agreed to leave her child behind with Ochieng’ but on her way she heard her baby crying and she came back to find out what was wrong. She told resident magistrate Angeline Odawo that she saw Ochieng’s daughter carrying the child heading toward her house. On inquiring what had happened, Ochieng’s daughter told her that her father had given her the baby to take her back. The mother took the child and tried to feed her but she refused and she decided to go and find out what could be the problem from her mother-in-law. "I took her to her grandmother, who also tried to feed her but she could not eat," the emotional mother told said. It is only after the child went for a long call that her grandmother noticed blood and her private part was swollen as she was cleaning her. The mother took the child to a local dispensary but was referred to the county hospital, where the doctor confirmed the child had been defiled. On cross examination, the lawyer of the accused said that the Post Rape Care report form indicated that the child’s hymen was still intact. "According the Post Rape Care Report Form, the hymen of the child is still intact," he said. The case was set for a further hearing with two more witnesses on October 9. Click here for the latest political news