Nairobi women drivers and taxi users are now spoilt for choice after a new taxi app hit the market. The week old An Nisa driving app is made specifically for women and children riders, and will be operated by women drivers. Founder Mehnaz Sarwar said she invested Sh1 million into the startup, which has now registered nearly 100 drivers. There are over 200 women taxi drivers in the city and more partners whose vehicles are operating in the cab industry. An Nisa is Arabic meaning for women. Co-founder and marketer Farida Khamis, said a number of riders on taxi platforms are women, at times accompanied by their children. “These riders tell us they prefer women driving them because women are careful, neat and understanding,” Farida said in an interview, adding yjat there are some female drivers who have been desiring to do taxi business but with preference for female riders. The app will take a 10 per cent commission from drivers out of each trip to allow the women get a better income.Farida, a single mother of five, says the women are used to working late hours to meet their partners’ targets, and it will not be very different with An Nisa since the model has in-built security features. “Up to 80 per cent of women drivers work until late hours, and we have equipped ourselves with self-defence training and tactics. However, those cases of carjacking and theft have been noted to happen when a driver takes clients from offline arrangements,” she said. There are plans to introduce new offerings for women who ride with their children so that they will be kept safe and well occupied during the ride. Farida did not expound on how they plan to do this. The entrepreneur projects a savings and credit taking model for members to eventually empower women to buy their own cars. “A big number of women drivers are working for other people, we call partners. The vision of the business is to eventually pool together members’ savings in a chama or sacco, then lend to our members,” Farida said. Among their plans is to ensure as many women buy their own cars, eventually becoming independent. Interested drivers upload original documents, including their driving licence, ID, NTSA inspection sticker, PSV insurance papers and the certificate of good conduct on the app. The industry is experiencing cut-throat competition as established taxi apps develop innovative offerings that have mostly benefited consumers. 