Former Embu senator Lenny Kivuti has refused Governor Martin Wambora’s request to reconcile and withdraw his election appeal at the Supreme Court. Kivuti, who spoke at his Kanyuambora home in Mbeere North subcounty, said the case at the Supreme Court is not personal. The ex-senator is challenging the August 27 Court of Appeal ruling that confi rmed Wambora was validly elected as the Governor of Embu. Kivuti said that he must consult 500 leaders before he reconciles and withdraws the case. “The matter before the Supreme Court is not a Lenny Kivuti matter but it’s a matter for these leaders you are seeing here today. I only lead them and our agenda is bigger than the governor’s seat,” the ex-senator said. Kivuti expressed regret that after the High Court sitting in Embu nullifi ed Wambora’s election and ordered a fresh poll, the governor declined. In August, three Court of Appeal judges upheld Wambora’s election. Embu county leaders, who include bishops, elected leaders and chambers of commerce offi cials, have all urged Kivuti to stop further court battles and work with the governor. Wambora first reached out to the former senator on August 26 during a meeting presided over by Deputy President William Ruto’s Wife Rachel at Mutunduri Full Gospel Church. “My last message is to my brother here, Lenny Kivuti. Earlier this morning I got a revelation that from today I am going to work with all the leaders, the senator, MPs, MCAs, former senator, former Lands minister Joe Nyaga and others,” Wambora said. But yesterday, Kivuti asked why Wambora had called him after the Court of Appeal upheld his election. Kivuti dismissed allegations by the governor that they had twice discussed reconciliation. He said they have never metor spoken on the phone, but he has been reading about the alleged meetings in the media. He also claimed he was not invited to a leaders meeting that the governor has organised on September 20. Kivuti said he is interested in the unity and development of the county and that he will not relent in calling for unity. He argued that his case at Supreme Court cannot prevent Governor Wambora from delivering his promises to the people. He said the environment was conducive to development.