Series leaders, Homeboyz require 15 points to be crowned overall champions at this weekends Christie sevens slated for the RFUEA ground The deejays have wobbled in the past two tournaments losing twice to Mwamba, 36-21 at the Driftwood Sevens last month in Mombasa and 17-0 at the Dala Sevens final last week in Kisumu. The deejays have amassed 100 points with Mwamba breathing hot on their heels on 92 points with KCB third on 81 points. Mwamba will hope that the deejays don’t get to the semifinals in the season-ender to pounce. Coach Paul Murunga expressed confidence that the side can bounce back in the season finale and get to the semifinals after winning the opening three tournaments. “The boys were disappointed not to win Dala Sevens but it’s still in our hands. We will take one match at a time and see what happens,” said Murunga. The deejays are in Pool ‘B’ and will open their campaign against South Africa select side pitting players from Blue Bull and University of Pretoria at 10.30am. They will then face Menengai Oilers at 1:20pm before completing their preliminary assignments against Nakuru at 4:10pm. Mwamba, who are in Pool ‘A’ kickoff their campaign against Russian outfit Narvskaya Zastava, who replaced Ugandan Sevens champions — Pirates — at the eleventh hour. They will then face Mean Machine at 12.40pm and conclude their pool assignments with a tricky tie against holders Kabras Sugar at 3:30pm. Impala, who bounced back to form by reaching the semifinals at Dala Sevens meet an Emerging Uganda select side at 11:10am in Pool ‘C’ and will fancy their chances of beating Northers Suburbs before finishing the day against hosts Quins in a Ngong Road derby at 4:50pm. Perennial semifinalists, KCB, will be aiming to go one place better when they take on promoted Strathmore Leos in the first match at 11.50am and the take on Resolution Kisii at 2:40pm and conclude the day against a vastly improved Nondies outfit at 5:30pm. The top two teams from each pool qualify for the Main Cup quarters with third and fourth finishers relegated to the Challenge Trophy.