The abduction and
subsequent gruesome murder of Sharon Otieno, a 26-year-old pregnant university student is a painful reminder of our shift from a value-based society to a depraved one. Sharon was labelled a
sinner by a community of sinners while her killers were seen as monsters, whose heinous crime
will go unpunished. In Kenya murder is the solution to moral and political dilemmas. In a country where politicians being associated with murders is normal, the assurances given by
the government and various political
leaders do not inspire our confidence in our institutions and leaders. On the flip side, the assurances exemplify our destructive beliefs
in institutions and individuals that have
often let us down and, worse,
have been part of the networks that have destroyed our faith and lives. But then again, we give them the benefit of the doubt. The history of murder in this country is a scar that has long been overlooked, but which is steadily
killing the beauty of the nation by negating the blessings of our independence
and democracy. The rising number of murders is disturbing, not as a
reflection of our wickedness as a people, but of culture in itself. This culture displays a
web of socioeconomic and political
failures ranging from moral decay and poor policing to a shift in our politics
that will take generations to address, not just mere assurances from
government officials and politicians. The murders that attract the most attention — Chris Msando, Mercy Keino, Jacob
Juma, Baby Samantha Pendo and now Sharon, to name but the most recent — quite often involve high-ranking politicians worried about "toxic” outcomes of events. And despite
their connection to this barbarism, they still lead us and, worryingly, command our respect and loyalty. The murders are perhaps their greatest strategy for winning our hearts and
loyalty. As a political scientist with
tremendous respect for life would say, “The murders and the way they strike at
families and the nation defy all known principles of civilisation, and confirm the growing disregard for the sanctity
of life in Kenya.” The murders show we have lost our humanity, a tragedy that
makes these killings monuments of surrender. The history of the
state, its institution, and politicians
with murder raises doubts about the possibility of bringing to book Sharon's
killers. The hope of Kenyans positively influencing the investigation into this murder
through public anger raises more important and sensitive questions about the failure to find and prosecute past killers. This descent to disaster and impunity, though retrogressive leaders, is unusual in a democracy and a
cause of our fall from glory. In this new season of murder targeting young,
defenseless and harmless Kenyans by “fishers
of men”, we see a people resigned to fate thus creating a breeding
ground for these appalling criminals who have turned Kenya
into one of the most insecure countries in the world. The
impossibility of bringing human rights
violators to book not only signals a period of stalled justice but also normalises murder. Political
scientist alegotunya@gmail.com