Apart from white
sandy beaches, Kenyans love to feel adrenaline rush while on holiday. If it
gets it pumping, it has got to be on the list. Below are activities you can try
when you are touring local or on an international trip. On international
activities, we will list activities you can experience while in Dubai, which is
the nearest international destination for Kenyans.  Jump out of a plane Sky diving in
Kenya is something you need to experience this year. Jump off a plane in Diani
and combine the experience of feeling the adrenaline rush you get when your
feet leave that plane to the breathtaking view of the beach down below. For those who
would like to take their sky diving to another level, then Dubai is the place
to be. Divers can enjoy breath-taking views of the Arabian Gulf, the incredible
Palm Jumeirah and the great expanse of the city as they freefall over the Dubai
Marina drop zone at Skydive Dubai.  Drive a supercar or bike In Kenya, if you
want to experience some speed on land, you can try GP Karting. The people who
own speed bikes get to go faster but unless you have a friend who will let you
ride one, you will have to settle for lesser speeds. There are various circuits
in Kenya where you can go and race with other speed lovers like at carnivore in
Nairobi and The Great Rift Valley Circuit if you are not in the big city. For those who want
to graduate from go karting, then head to Dubai. Lamborghinis are not an
everyday indulgence for most but petrol-heads can get behind the wheels of a
sparkling new Lambo, Bugatti Veyron or Ferrari Spider thanks to VIP Luxury Car
Rental in the emirate. With staff on hand to suggest rental models based on
budgets, Dubai visitors can revv up and take in the sights in style, not to
mention gaining some major Instagram points from the photos.  Get your thrills at a theme park Kenya is home to
great entertainment parks. Most of them involve water and are a good activity
for family fun. Splash Water park is Nairobi’s wettest water park with huge
swimming pools and water slides. You can also head to the coast and have fun at
the Wild Waters park with the giant slides, bumper cars and Frisbee ride. Like to go
bigger? Adrenaline junkies can enjoy world class, nerve-jangling rides at
Global Village, IMG Worlds of Adventure, Dubai Parks and Resorts, Wild Wadi
Waterpark and Aquaventure Water Park. To add a bit of intellectual intrigue,
step into the pages of a mystery at HintHunt Dubai or Phobia Dubai Escape Rooms
and have the best ending to 2018. Fly in a hot air balloon If you would
like to experience a safari with a difference, then you need to be on a hot air
balloon over the Mara. Breath taking! You get to see the vast lands below you,
watch as the animals graze peacefully below you, take aerial shots and enjoy
the sun rise or set over the magical land that is Kenya. Already been on a ride in Kenya? Try Dubai
next. Glide over golden sand dunes of the Dubai desert in a massive balloon,
watch the sun slowly fill the sky with myriad hues before bursting over the
horizon. If you want to mix activities, throw in some falconry to the experience
and have fun.  Experience the vastness of the desert One of the
hidden gems in Kenya is the Chalbi desert. Located in the northern parts of
Kenya, Chalbi is the home of desert safaris in the country. Those who sign up
get to interact with some of Kenya’s last nomadic tribes and also see animals
such as oryx, grey zebras and ostriches during desert drives. The Gabbra and
the Rendille are tribes found in the desert and they offer traditional dances
to visitors as well as camel races, rides and a glimpse of the nomadic
lifestyle. In Dubai, the
great outdoors implies miles of undulating sand dunes and clear star-pinned
skies. Explore the dunes, hunt for scorpions and spiders, study constellations
or cook a delicious campfire dinner – the crisp desert air and natural environs
have a bracing effect on the mind and body. Adventurers can do it on their own,
heading out to desert favourites such as Big Red or Al Qudra, or sign up for a
desert stay with Arabian Adventures or Extreme Adventure Dubai.