Speaker Justin Muturi turned down attempts by a section of MPs to have President Uhuru Kenyatta’s memorandum on VAT as well as the Supplementary Appropriations Bill debated during Tuesday’s special sitting. The Speaker insisted that the order of business clearly states that the president’s reservations on the Finance Bill, 2018, and the report of the Budget and Appropriations committee on the supplementary estimates for 2018/19 financial year will be held on Thursday. "We would obviously be in breach of our standing orders and other traditions," Muturi said adding that the memorandum has been referred to the Finance and National Planning Committee for directions. Muturi was responding to Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma who said since MPs from either side of the House appeared to have unanimously agreed to pass the budget cuts, there was no need for voting to wait until Thursday. "I was just requesting Mr Speaker because the main issue as to why people we represent believe we are here concerns VAT, and it’s a matter which I know there is a conscious decision by members, it’s a matter we can put straight away," Kaluma said. The president's proposals on Tuesday got a new lease of life after MPs from both sides of the house appeared to have reached a consensus to support them. Also see: Uhuru wins as NASA, Jubilee resolve to support VAT cut On Tuesday, NASA parliamentarians made a U-turn and declared conditional support for the president’s memorandum. In a statement read by deputy whip Junet Mohammed, the MPs said they will back the changes on condition that the 8 per cent VAT will be done away after a year of being in operation. "In light of the need to address the suffering of the people while ensuring development is also delivered, we recognize and appreciate that there was bilateral support for our attempt to remove VAT altogether and the President was able to meet us half way, lowering the tax from 16 per cent to 8 percent. NASA, therefore, offers its conditional support for the initiative to cut VAT from the initial 16 per cent to 8 per cent," Junet said. He said NASA will agree to sit down and negotiate the extension of VAT for another year if the government makes a genuine effort to implement certain proposals. More on this: NASA's year-long conditions to back Uhuru on proposed 8% fuel VAT They include genuine austerity measures across the board, elimination of extravagance, elimination of waste and completion of parastatal reforms. The MPs made the statement after holding a parliamentary group meeting at Orange House under the leadership of Raila Odinga. The Jubilee MPs also held a similar meeting at State House where Majority leader Aden Duale said over 181 members of the Jubilee Party and its affiliates attended. He said the MPs agreed to support the 5 areas that the president has reservations on regarding the Finance Bill, 2018. Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba asked the Speaker to give directives that voting on Thursday be an open vote so that Kenyans can see which members are for them and against them. "Honaourable speaker, the matter we shall be looking at is the issue of tax and because that is a matter that really concerns Kenyans it was my plea that I beg your direction that when it comes to voting on that particular matter because it raises the question of the integrity of the house (and) the independence of the house that you allow when that voting is done, it be done publicly so that Kenyans can know who is for the Kenyans and who is not for the Kenyans," Milemba said. Muturi, however, reminded the MPs that voting will be guided by the existing standing orders and that he had no powers to make changes concerning how voting in the house should be conducted. "I am unlikely to change merely because of excessive foot thumping. That’s not the way we make decisions here," Muturi said. The speaker adjourned the sittings until Thursday when voting is expected to take place. Click here for the latest political news