About 300 senior officers will be retired as the government implements major reforms in the structure, command, control and welfare of the National Police Service. President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled the changes at the Kenya School of Government on Thursday. Those to be affected are officers who are either due to retire or are past retirement age but have been serving on extended contracts. Because of last year's elections, some senior police officers got contract extensions and will now be asked to take leave pending retirement. 40 Kenyans call suicide hotlines for help every daily About 40 Kenyans seek help through suicide hotlines daily. Befriends Kenya on Thursday said people with suicidal tendencies prefer making calls to sending emails and text messages. The charity focuses on suicide prevention. It offers emotional support to those in distress and danger of dying by suicide. It has professional therapists and volunteer counsellors in its centres who are trained to swiftly respond to those seeking help. Parties want IEBC to abolish voter’s cards Simon Waweru from the Election Observation Group (Elog) asked the commission to propose an amendment to the election laws to provide for the mandatory resignation of incumbent President and governors, months to elections. This will ensure they do not use public resources to campaign or state machinery to intimidate opponents. Lilian Arika from the Judiciary Committee on Elections said there is need to change the law to extend the period for hearing and determination of the presidential election petition from the current 14 to 45 days. Genesis of Elachi’s troubles as she fights to keep her job Two letters to the DCI and EACC, curbing MCAs’ travels and allegations of gross misconduct might have triggered the impeachment of assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi. In June and August, she wrote to the DCI and EACC asking them to investigate financial operations at City Hall and the conduct of members. Sources told the Star Elachi had discovered multiple cases of financial impropriety in the office of the clerk. She raised questions on millions of shillings spent to build a cafeteria at City Hall without the County Assembly Service Board’s approval. ‘Handshake’ and Brexit through the prism of a wedding in England My sister’s wedding reception was a melting pot. Natives of at least five continents were huddled outside a marquee in the sailing village of Birdham, Chichester, mingling over tea and cake. Among the 100-plus colourfully dressed guests was an easygoing black Briton, Nyaika. Pulling on an e-cigarette and blowing out through the side of his mouth, he told me with a flourish: “Welcome to the international nations of England!” Nyaika has roots in Uganda and was here with his French wife, Sophie. There was also a Polish-English couple, an Indonesian-Dutch one, and so on. And the newlyweds themselves? An English-Kenyan pair, George and Aggie Salt, nicknamed ‘Gaggie’.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Partly cloudy – Day and Night. Low 13ºC. High 25ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers; Showers late at night. Low 22ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. Low 19ºC.  High 29ºC. Winds WSW and variable. Chance of rain 50%. Click here for the latest political news