NASA leader Raila Odinga has warned that the war on corruption has just begun and he and President Uhuru Kenyatta will not relent until Kenya is rid of the vice. He said those who have stolen public cash have to be arrested, prosecuted and jailed, and the cash recovered. Raila spoke on Saturday during the burial of Prof. George Godia in Vihiga on Saturday. Godia had been Kenya’s envoy to Unesco. The government has intensified a crackdown on graft, tagetting key leaders suspected of embezzling public cash in state institutions, constituencies and the counties. Some of those charged include former top NYS and Kenya Power officials, Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Embakasi North MP James Gakuya. “The fight against corruption will continue. The government is broke because people have stolen public money and hidden it in their accounts. These people must be seized and the wealth they have acquired returned to the public,” Raila said. Leaders at the funeral criticised him for supporting the eight per cent fuel tax, but he steered clear of the issue, only explaining why he had to retreat over “Kenyans’ journey to Canaan”. PROMISED LAND Raila said the journey is on course and Kenyans will reach Canaan through the Building Bridges Initiative. He said his handshake with Uhuru marked a new beginning and a foundation that will ensure a united and prosperous nation. Raila said “River Jordan had been infested with crocodiles” and the only way across the river to the Promised Land was to build bridges. "We realised our country has not attained the standards that our founding fathers desired. The Kenya where people would dwell in unity, peace and liberty," he said. "Instead, tribalism has gone up, corruption is on the rise, poll rigging is like a normal thing, lack of employment for the youth and poverty are very high, and so we can’t be at liberty. That’s the reason I opted for the handshake — to get solutions for these predicaments." Western leaders lashed out at him and said Kenyans would not be paying the fuel tax if Raila had opposed it. They accused him of betraying Kenyans. They told Raila to lead the opposition. The leaders included Musalia Mudavadi (ANC leader), Moses Wetangula (Bungoma senator), Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga governor), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia MP), Didmus Baraza (Kimilili lawmaker), Bonny Khalwale (former Kakamega senator) and Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga woman representative). Click here for the latest political news