Ever thought of owning a home within a lodge? Well, the Great Pelican Holiday Homes becomes the first ever in Kenya to be situated within the posh Pelican Lodge at the shores of Lake Elementaita, Nakuru county. It took me two hours’ drive from Nairobi to the facility, and upon arrival, I am ushered in by the manager before the proprietor, Richard Mburu, joined me for a glass of juice. I could clearly see the beautiful lake dotted with myriads of birds. The architectural designs of the facility are just meticulous. Mburu says the idea of setting up holiday homes in the lodge was born in 2016, through consultation with professionals to come up with a masterplan. “This being a conference and a tourism hub at Lake Elementaita, we are promising investors that one can reap a turnover investment of Sh300,000 per month. We have 60 rooms at the lodge and the holiday homes will greatly help in containing myriads of our guests,” Mburu says. The villa plot size is 40 by 60 feet and comes with three bedrooms, a sitting room, a kitchen, a dining and parking for two cars. For a three-bedroom villa, an investor is required to pay Sh2.8 million to own the plot and Sh5.5 million for construction. For a three-bedroom villa, one pays Sh2.8 million to own the plot and Sh4.5 million for construction. It only takes four to five months for one to own a villa inside the posh lodge. “Feel at home, my friend. We offer a la carte food, which is liked by our guests,” Mburu says. The lodge has tapped the local market through investing in conferencing, getaways, team building and garden weddings. “Nairobi residents are actually tired of traffic snarl-ups and the hustle. Event managers and corporates have changed from traditional venues in Mombasa and Masai Mara to upcountry,” Mburu says. “From the beginning, we did not want to go the conventional way and replicate designs that have been used in other parts of the world. The uniqueness of this lodge is attractive to our visitors, who come from across the globe,” he adds. At the poolside, guests enjoy watching pelican flamingos, among other bird species at the sapphire-blue Lake Elementaita.  Hotel owner’s contact – Richard Mburu - 0722523372  Star Rating: 4/5