Matatu saccos have agreed to increase fares by 20 per cent following the
introduction of the new 16 per cent on
petroleum products. During a meeting in Nairobi yesterday, leaders of at least 100 matatu saccos
said, however, that they will not go to court to challenge the new fuel prices. Some members had suggested that matatus go on strike until the government
reduces fuel prices. Matatu Welfare Association boss Dickson Mbugua, who chaired the meeting, said
they will engage their members to ensure fares are not exaggerated. But Raila Odinga's ODM party
said it was considering legislation to completely do away with the contentious
tax on fuel, saying  it is an unnecessary burden on Kenyans. Read: Matatu stakeholders protest fuel tax in Nakuru The party’s chairman and National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi said
the party will introduce legislation to do away with the tax, which already has been deferred two times. Mbadi blamed the 10th Parliament for the punitive tax, saying Treasury CS
Henry Rotich was implementing a decision of the legislators. The tax was passed in 2013 and was to take effect on September 1, 2016, but
was deferred for two years, which expired on September 1 this year. "We will first ask the Speaker to fast-track the bill so that the President can
sign it by Wednesday but that will just be a temporary measure. ODM will bring
legislation to completely remove this tax which is unnecessary," Mbadi told the
Star yesterday. MPs today will hold a Kamukunji to discuss the way forward for the fuel tax
which they claimed is hurting ordinary Kenyans, two days after its
implementation. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter said 150 MPs from across the political divide have
confirmed they will attend the informal sitting. Keter was accompanied by Tindi Mwale (Butere), Caleb Amisi (Saboti) and
Godfrey Osotsi (nominated), who said they will do everything to ensure the tax on
fuel products is rescinded. Two lawmakers have already written to both National Assembly Majority leader
Aden Duale and his Minority counterpart Mbadi to reconvene the House to discuss
the tax that has generated public outrage. See also: Boda boda passengers to pay Sh100 for urban services as 16% fuel levy bites Read: Hard times ahead as Rotich effects 16% VAT on fuel Click here for
the latest political news