Everyone should take home cover regardless of the ownership documents, an industry expert has said. “Both renters and homeowners should insure their household items and the domestic workers. You never know when calamity will strike,” Bismart Insurance CEO Eunice Maina says. Usually, homeowners are only compelled to take cover when the households serve as collateral or it is required by property sellers. “Most of those who buy home insurance are those who have borrowed against their household assets or those who have taken mortgage,” Maina said. “This is a rather forced or compulsory kind of insurance because the lender has got insurable interest on the property and is, therefore, forcing the customer to secure the property.” There are five sections under home insurance policy, mainly the building or standalone, which covers against fire, lightning, floods, subsidence or landslide, explosion, malicious damage caused by other persons, falling trees, accident from falling aircraft, among others. Content covers furniture, household goods, and fixtures and fittings, as the insured’s own or for which a tenant is responsible. All risks consist of movables such as laptops and jewellery. Work injury benefit (Wiba) covers domestic workers, while occupier’s liability covers the homeowner if he becomes legally liable to pay damages. “You cannot insure a building that you do not own. Therefore, if living in a rented house, the best option is to buy insurance for your content only,” Maina says. She says Wiba is a statutory requirement for homeowners to cover househelps, gardeners or drivers. “This would protect homeowners against legal charges by the employee in the event the employee is injured or dies in their line of duty.” The dynamics of home insurance are expected to alter with the disruptive change that has put pressure on traditional sales and distribution models. Maina says the emergence of internet of things will ensure proper risk management and easier underwriting. “I also expect development of on-demand home insurance, such that as a customer, I only insure my house as and when I need to, say, when I’m away from home and terminate cover when I do not need it.” Maina says the uptake of mortgages for newly developed assets and loans for house purchases will raise the acceptance of home insurance. The growth of real estate is also expected to push uptake.