Researchers plan to release five new cold-tolerant sweet potato varieties that grow well in cool highlands. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boya yesterday said the dairy industry is concentrated in the highlands and sweet potato vines are highly valued as nutritious dairy feed. Sweet potato is a starchy root vegetable. In the inside, it has a coloured flesh, which is usually orange — though some might be white, yellow or purple. On the outside, it has a thin brown skin. It can be eaten whole or peeled. Its leaves are also edible. They are a rich source of fibre and have an array of vitamins and minerals such as iron that help maintain a healthy body. The Agriculture ministry says sweet potato is ranked as the fourth most important staple food in Kenya after maize, Irish potatoes and beans. “The pressure that the agricultural sector is facing is not only of climate change but also of population growth. The demand for food is projected to double by 2030. The role of early maturing, high-yielding sweet potato varieties in the food systems becomes critical and obvious,” Boya said in a speech read by Dr Oscar Magenya during a meeting in Nairobi. Participants discussed the progress in research for development for sweet potatoes in Africa. Kenya produces an average of 700,000 tonnes of sweet potatoes yearly, compared to 3.3 million for maize and 1.3 million for Irish potato. The average yield is eight to 10 tonnes per hectare. In South Africa, it is at 60-70 tonnes per hectare. Kenya has a potential of 15 tonnes per hectare. “Under an increasing temperature scenario, however, we expect sweet potato production to expand. Drought-tolerant varieties that are also heat-tolerant could also play a critical role in our semi-arid areas,” the PS said. Benjamin Kivuva, a sweet potato breeder from the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation, said the new varieties can grow well in highlands such as Mount Kenya and the North Rift, and are best for food and animal feed. He said Kalro has so far released 25 sweet potato varieties. Julius Okello, an impact assessment specialist from the International Potato Centre, said that in 2010, the Spain-based international organisation initiated the Sweet Potato for Profit and Health Initiative to reduce child malnutrition and improve incomes in 10 million households by 2020. “So far, 5.3 million households have benefitted under the project, though the effective production and expanded use of sweet potato, and 127 varieties of sweet potato vine varieties have been released,” he said.