The Senate Select Committee on the maize crisis is touring counties in Rift Valley and Western to get views from farmers and other stakeholders on how to revive the sector. More than 2,000 farmers have been vetted by the NCPB to receive Sh1.4 billion for maize deliveries since last December but so far, the board is yet to receive the money from the Ministry of Devolution. Margaret Kamar is chairing the committee assisted by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula. The committee will tour Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Busia between today and September 30. “We will meet with governors and other leaders and also hold public hearings so that we get input from all of them on how best we can improve the maize sector,” she said in a statement yesterday. The team will come up with a report to be tabled before the Senate. vetting Separately, NCPB spokesman Titus Maiyo said most farmers who have been waiting for their payments have been vetted. He said the government would communicate on the payment. Maiyo said the four-week vetting was smooth. “The farmers have been cooperating. We will ensure compliance with all government directives ahead of payments,” he said. The farmers had initially rejected the vetting, saying it would be cumbersome. However, the majority changed their mind and provided details required by the government. The details are expected to be used to get rid of cartels. Two weeks ago, Crop Development PS Richard Lesiyampe, former NCPB boss Newton Terer and other maize traders were charged with an irregular payment of Sh1.9 billion to farmers. Managers at NCPB depots in Rift Valley said farmers must meet all the requirements to get paid. strategic reserve Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa ordered that all farmers be scrutinised to get rid of brokers from the list of those to be paid. But farmers’ spokesman Francis Koech said everybody who delivered maize to NCPB must be paid. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has begun scrutinising accounts used by the NCPB to make payments to farmers. Two weeks ago, an Eldoret court ordered the Central Bank of Kenya to allow the EACC scrutinise the accounts. Chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa directed that forensic investigators be allowed to probe bank accounts for the Strategic Grain Reserve Trust Fund.