The stage is set for a tug of war between President Uhuru Kenyatta and MPs over budget cuts. The MPs are at a crossroads on whether to stand with Kenyans and push no tax on petroleum products or back the President’s position. Last Friday, Uhuru rejected the Finance Bill 2018 and instead returned it to Parliament with a memorandum proposing the House cut VAT on petroleum products from 16 per cent to eight per cent. MPs had passed the Bill with amendments in which they called for the suspension of the implementation of the 16 per cent VAT on fuel for another two years. However, National Treasury CS Henry Rotch went ahead to implement the law, which was technically coming into effect on September 1, a move which caused a huge public outcry. Kipchoge the Greatest Of All Time Eliud Kipchoge's epic gallop gripped the imagination of an entire nation. In every village and town, big and small, crowds assembled in expectation. He had tried and came short twice before. This time he was not to be denied. His spindly but sturdy legs carried the hopes of all his 40 million fans. The loose fitting, sweat-drenched white T-Shirt hang loosely over his 5-foot 7 rugged frame, barely doing justice to his solid 53 kilos. Kipchoge had faced daunting tasks before as a small village boy relying on his single mother to keep the family going. The years of toil and pain needed one crowning moment that would establish him as one of the greatest marathoners of all time. Lamu carpenter lauded for making waste plastic boat A Lamu carpenter who built a boat from waste plastics has been recognised by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Ali Skanda comes from a family of carpenters and dhow builders. UN Environment last week lauded his innovation saying it is a lesson for the entire world. The project, aptly named the FlipFlopi, used thousands of flip-flops and ocean plastic collected on beach clean-ups along the Kenyan coast for the construction of the prototype. The first woman to climb Mount Kenya passes on Kenyan-based Englishwoman Geraldine M. Macoun, who made history by being the first woman to climb Mount Kenya, died on September 10 in Langata, at the age of 102. Geraldine led a very long and active life. She had been a mountaineer, rider, intrepid explorer, artist and photographer, and wife and mother. How sun, sand and space agency lured Italians to ‘second home’ malindi For more than 30 years, Malindi has been dominated by Italian tourists, who now call it their second home. Their love affair with the coastal town started in the late 1970s, during the construction and launch of San Marco Space Agency by the Italian government. The first batch of Italians who worked there loved the resort town so much, they brought their families, friends and relatives. Since then, Italians have been coming in large numbers, with some setting up holiday homes. Today, some Italians have intermarried with residents and can even speak Kiswahili fluently. Such is the dominance of Italians that the town has earned the nickname ‘Little Italy’.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Generally clear – Day and Night. Low 12ºC. High 27ºC. Winds ESE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Partly cloudy; Generally clear at night. Low 22ºC. High 30ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. KISUMU: Generally clear; Partly cloudy at night. Low 19ºC. High 30ºC. Winds SW at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for the latest political news