MPs were insincere to Kenyans in the Finance Bill 2018 debate last week, Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula has said. He said only 215 out of the 349 lawmakers were present when the Bill was presented for deliberationon Thursday. “The 134 MPs who were not in Parliament opted to be absent so that the Bill could pass due to lack of quorum and that is hypocrisy,” Wetang’ula said in Bungoma yesterday. He asked why the MPs were threatening to go to court after allowing the Bill to pass. MPs on Thursday last week approved the eight per cent VAT on petroleum products and other measures that increased tax on bank transactions. They had previously passed an amendment to the Bill, suspending the 16 per cent tax for two years. But Uhuru rejected the Bill and returned it to the House. President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the Finance Bill immediately it was passed. The net effect is the increased cost of living. “Since 2013, the MPs have been dancing to the tune of the Executive and have passed many laws that have seen the economy drop as a result of overborrowing and runaway corruption. This is a bandit economy that enriches a few people and impoverishes millions,” Wetang’ula said. The new taxes are intended to raise at least Sh130 billion to finance the budget deficit. The government expects to raise Sh17.5 billion from the VAT on petroleum products, Sh20 per kilo of sugar confectionery, including white chocolate, to raise Sh473 million and Sh9.8 billion from the “kerosene adulteration” tax. The employer and employee are expected to contribute an amount from the monthly basic salary under the housing development fund plan as long as the contributions do not exceed Sh5,000. Nominated MP Wilson Sossion on Saturday in Webuye said the Jubilee government is micromanaging Parliament to push for laws that oppress Kenyans. Sossion accused the government of robbing the electorate through parliamentary dictatorship. He said many youths will turn to crime to earn a living due to the high cost of living. “Investors are now scared to set up businesses in the country while others are closing down. This will lead to massive job losses,” Sossion said. On Tuesday, DP William Ruto defended the tax increase, saying it is for the good of the country. He said the country’s domestic and external debts are within the government’s ability to service and a “crisis should not be created out of it”. He said the government is neither blind nor being driven by selfish interests in the “slight increase in tax”. Ruto said the tax will help the country fulfil its needs and wants.The DP said all governments use taxes to service debt obligations as it seeks others for developments projects. Ruto said the government needs taxes to develop and it is aware of its borrowing limits.