Most Kenyans are hungry, but we the people are not angry enough to tell Caesar some overdue home truths. Taxpayers are offended, but we are not angry enough to say the donkey is tired. There is rhetoric about public-funded projects in Nairobi, but there are areas where taxpayers do not see any development. The rising energy prices have made a bad situation worse. Taxpayers suffer potholed roads, even as policy pushers report massive infrastructure projects. Villagers still trek long distances on earthen roads, in the age of constituency and ward road funds from the counties. On paper these roads have been graded but on the ground, it is a struggle along cattle paths. There is simply no accountability, even if the matter is reported to relevant investigative agencies. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission knows it is asleep on the job. Taxpayers send their children to schools with four teachers for eight classes, even as policy people shout about improved standards. One teacher struggles with 67 students in public schools, which cannot compete with others in national exams. Abandoned water projects, darkness in the age of rural electrification, and dilapidated dispensaries are trails of shattered hopes. But anger for change needs a deeper consciousness of accountability. It needs leadership to explode into reformative mass action demanding value for public money. The wheel of justice is dragging as the plunder of public funds continues. The rage from the centre has not restrained the plunder. It has not deterred ‘little presidents’ in the counties from looting. Their allies, girlfriends, and goons have the best of times. They are in clover. Their allies, who are also relatives, are ready to defend their right to harvest from public shambas. The ‘Oyamo Theory’ and the ‘Sharon Complex’ show up in different forms in different counties. Money. Passion. Intrigues. Relatives are lethal when they work where their kin is boss. The President cannot win this war, of value for tax money, alone. The people must join the fight to isolate looting chiefs. But the masses won’t be part of the fight until they understand the parable of the big man. The big man steals maize from our farms at night, then sells it to us at half price. There was this fringe community that lived along a riverbank. Across the river, on the higher ground, lived their neighbour, who was rich by village standards. Hired hands worked his sprawling wheat plantation. The rich neighbour was generous with the poor folks on the plains. He flattered the folks as he fed on their sweat. Once a week he sent labourers to deliver two tins of grain to each of the 20 households in the plains. They called him ‘Good Neighbour’. That is until they began to suspect mischief. Produce from Good Neighbour’s farm was always sold in faraway markets. The neighbours wondered where he got the grain he gave them. He did not have any on his farm. When confronted, Good Neighbour feigned ignorance. He thought his neighbours knew he was feeding on their sweat. “Where did you think I was getting the maize from? You should be happy I helped you people with the harvesting.” Good Neighbour was deeply religious. He was friendly with the priest and went beyond the call of spiritual duty in tithing. He loved the Ten Commandments, which soften the hunger of the religious. Napoleon Bonaparte was right, “There must be religion, otherwise the poor would murder the rich.” Citizens would have no problem paying taxes, even a higher percentage of VAT, if they were gaining from the revenue. They would be patriotic enough to absorb the shock if there was value for public money. Is it possible Caesar is taking advantage of low public consciousness and discord amongst the masses? Is this indifference acceptable as the looting, especially in some counties, continues? The masses suffer in silence, and hunger in their own ways. Can this suffering be a unifying factor to inspire reconstruction of the State? Can this hunger and anger be galvanised into a change weapon? The donkey is tired. But where is the critical mass to advance the change message?