The final season of Anthony Bourdain’s Emmy Award winning travel show Parts Unknown premiered its final six episodes yesterday. The first episode features a trip to Kenya and a visit to the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, an internationally recognised conservation organisation and a Unesco World Heritage site. Prior to his death, Bourdain travelled to Kenya with fellow network personality Walter Kamau Bell. The Kenya episode is the last to feature Bourdain’s signature narration and full involvement. Bourdain tragically passed away in June before completing the filming of season 12 of his travel show. The trip was Kamau’s first visit to Africa and to a country with great personal significance to him. His name, Kamau, is of Kenyan origin, belonging uniquely to the Kikuyu tribe. While digging into his ancestry, he discovered he had East African connections. Kamau is the host of CNN’s United Shades of American. At Lewa, Bourdain and Kamau experienced the conservancy’s work of protecting endangered species, including the black rhino and Grevy’s zebra, first-hand. They met with the Lewa team to discuss conservation best practices and went on an anti-poaching patrol with rangers. “We were delighted to host Tony and Kamau on Lewa and welcome the opportunity to communicate with people from across the globe about the extraordinary place that is northern Kenya and the exciting conservation and development work that is taking place here, with communities at the helm,” CEO Mike Watson said. “The CNN Parts Unknown series gives an unusual and fascinating insight into people’s lives and we are privileged to feature as part of Bourdain and Kamau’s amazing travels.” The duo and their team stayed at Lewa Wilderness, one of the conservancy’s five lodges. The lodge is tucked into a hillside overlooking a valley, and has stunning views of wildlife and rolling plains. They got to see some of Africa’s most iconic species during their stay. Lewa’s model is one that prioritises human development alongside conservation, ensuring that local communities have access to healthcare, education and economic opportunities.