The Senate select committee on the maize crisis has directed Trade CS Peter Munya to conduct tests on Sh8.05 billion maize currently yellowing at the NCPB silos. The senators want to know whether the maize - which NCPB on Monday said is changing colour in a number of silos - is still fit for human consumption. On Wednesday, while appearing before the same committee, acting NCPB managing director Albin Sanga said millions of bags of maize kept at NCPB stores risk going to waste as a good proportion had turned yellow. Tests He said some of the maize had stayed in the stores over the recommended six months storage period. “Some maize has stayed more than six months in the silos and it has now changed colour and we are looking at ways to sell it. In terms of consumption, it is still okay, only that the colour has changed,” Sang said. The committee chaired by Uasin Gishu senator Margaret Kamar told Munya and Kenya Bureau of Standards to collect samples in the Strategic Grain Reserve to determine their suitability. Related: Bomet officials alert over maize grain turning yellow “CS, we have given you 14 days to carry out the test and give us feedback so that by the time we are compiling the report we know the status of the maize in the silos,” Nyamira senator Okong’o Omogeni, a member of the ad-hoc committee, said. Munya told the committee the mandate of Kebs is limited to random sampling and testing of goods imported at the border points to determine whether they meet the required standards. Imported from uganda Munya contradicted officials from the Ministry of Agriculture on the entry of maize from the neighbouring countries. Agriculture CAS Kello Harsama on Wednesday denied that maize was imported from Uganda and Tanzania, a position Munya refuted, confirming the government allowed the importation of maize from the neighbouring countries. The CS said maize was sourced from Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, United States, Zimbabwe, Ethiopia, Mexico, Mozambique, Russia and Ukraine. Also Read: Maize production cost to remain high in 2017