Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji has formed a task force to develop minimum standards for charging suspects. The team will also come up with alternatives to prosecute suspects as well as develop guidelines on the review of prosecutorial decisions. "The task force shall prepare and submit its report to the Director of Public Prosecutions together with its recommendations within thirty 30 days from the date of its appointment," Haji said in a August 7 gazette notice published on Friday. The formation of the task force comes at a time a section of opinion leaders are vouching for alternative dispute resolution to cases. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Friday said court processes have often times aggravated issues instead of providing solutions to them. He spoke in Nairobi at the end of a training on mediation by the Dispute and Conflict Resolution International chaired by Justice Lee Muthoga. "Mediation is something most Kenyans have not understood to resolve disputes. Many disputes causing differences among Kenyans can be addressed easily through mediation," Kalonzo said. He said apart from taking shorter time, mediation is a less costly avenue to resolve cases. "Litigation is not only lengthy and expensive but it also does not produce sustainable peace," he said. Read: Embrace mediation in conflict – Kalonzo The 12-member task force shall be chaired by the Secretary of Public Prosecutions. Members include all deputy directors of public prosecutions, senior assistant director of public prosecutions, and head of Supreme Court and Court of Appeal. The senior assistant director of public prosecutions of the human rights and judicial review division will also sit on the task force. The team also draws representation from the Law Society of Kenya, the police, Directorate of criminal investigation, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the attorney general, and the judiciary. The Independent Policing and Oversight Authority and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights are also represented. Other responsibilities bestowed on the team include developing guidelines on preparation of case files, operationalization of a central intake of cases and charge sheet formats and information. Haji said the secretariat of the task force shall be constituted by his office. More: Maraga to propose strict rules to speed up corruption cases Click here for the latest political news