Embattled Garissa governor Ali Korane may have lied that he holds a master’s degree from the University of Nairobi. The governor, who is facing a probe following the attempted murder of former Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar, told journalists on Sunday that he does not hold a master’s degree and has at no time declared it to any state agency. Korane has also denied any involvement in the planning or execution of Mukhtar’s shooting on August 23. He was arrested on August 25 and questioned before being released the same day. Documents at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, seen by the Star, show that Korane declared in 2017 that he holds an MA in Business Administration. Read: Korane not on list of UoN’s December 2011 graduands The disclosure was made in the IEBC’s Form S13 – candidates self-declaration form – and in an EACC declaration form that was submitted to Jubilee Party ahead of the April 2017 nominations. A copy of the form was stamped on May 20, 2017. In the documents, the governor stated that he graduated with a master’s degree at the University of Nairobi in 2011. But on Sunday, he denied having any master’s degree from any university. In one of the interviews published by the Star on September 6, 2016, the governor said he graduated with a Master of Arts degree in Diplomacy at George Washington University, Washington, USA, in 1985. See also: Korane, Nathif cleared to run for governor Korane said he pursued an undergraduate course in international studies and diplomacy in the same university. The governor said he had a Master of Science degree in Police Leadership and Management from Leicester University in 1995. But the University of Nairobi, following an inquiry by a voter from Garissa, dismissed Korane’s claims saying the politician did not graduate on December 2, 2011. The voter, through Musyoka Murambi and Associates, had written to the university on January 26, 2018, inquiring on the status of the county chief’s degree. “This is to state that Mr Korane, Ali Bunow is not a graduate of a degree of Master of Business Administration of this university...the copy of the certificate is not genuine and was not issued by this university,” UON says in its January 30 letter signed by Academic Registrar Evanson Mbuva. More: DCI to probe Idriss shooting as family points finger at Korane Click here for
the latest political news