The embassies of the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia last Sunday held the third ASEAN Festival at Rosslyn Riviera Mall, along Kiambu Road, Nairobi. The event marked the third time the Association of Southeast Asian Nations-Nairobi Committee held the event. It sought to showcase the rich, unique and diverse culture of the four ASEAN nations, and how it interrelates. Foreign Affairs cultural diplomacy director Diana Kiambuthi was the guest of honour. The ASEAN ambassadors were Loh Seck Tiong, chairman of the ASEAN-Nairobi Committee and High Commissioner of Malaysia; Indonesian Ambassador Soehardjono Sasromihadrdjo, Philippine Ambassador Uriel Norman Garibay and Thai envoy Cherdkiat Atthakor. Guests enjoyed the authentic taste of Southeast Asian foods, and the diverse and colourful Southeast Asian cultural performances. The festival also provided a good platform for networking with ASEAN communities and diplomatic staff. Among the main attractions were exotic dances, musical instruments and cultural performances from Indonesia, live cooking demonstrations by celebrity chefs from Thailand, ballerina dance recital by the Philippines, and mouth-watering Malaysian cuisine. Visitors at the festival also won gifts through raffle tickets. The Philippines presented the various clothing attires of its indigenous tribes, like Igorot and T’boli, as well as the Spanish-influenced baro’t saya, barong Pilipino and even a Jaki Penalosa-designed Maria Clara-inspired wedding gown. Guests also played the Angklung, a traditional musical instrument made of bamboo from Indonesia, to the songs Malaika and Kenya Hakuna Matata. It is made of bamboo tubes attached to a bamboo frame. The tubes are carved to have a resonant pitch when struck and are tuned to octaves. The festival is aimed at promoting ASEAN through food and cultural activities, besides raising funds for charity causes. Other prominent figures in attendance were executive director of UN Habitat Maimunah Mohd Sharif, High Commissioner of India Suchitra Durai, High Commissioner of Sri Lanka Sunil Dharmasena de Silva, High Commissioner of Pakistan, High Commissioner of Australia, High Commissioner of Tanzania, Ambassador of Slovakia, Ambassador of Belgium and Ambassador of South Korea.