Detectives yesterday scrutinised for evidence a vehicle believed to have been used in the abduction of slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. Officers from the homicide department dusted the car at Oyugis police station in Kasipul constituency. The 45-minute exercise was aimed at establishing those who were in the car during the tragic incident on the night of September 3. The detectives sought to get fingerprints from both the interior and exterior of the Toyota Fielder, as well as other evidence such as hair samples. The evidence will be used to determine whether any of the suspects in custody was in the car. The vehicle was later driven away. The driver of the car, Jackson Gombe, and a suspect who had been arrested and detained were also driven out of the police station. Gombe was arrested on Sunday in Migori and taken to a court in Oyugis on Monday where a magistrate ordered he be detained for 10 days as investigations continue. Read:Sharon's murder:Obado's bodyguard, driver of abduction car to appear in Kisii court Other suspects in custody are Migori governor Okoth Obado’s personal assistant Michael Oyamo, former Kanyidoto MCA Lawrence Mula, a clerical officer in Obado’s office, Caspal Ajwang’, and Elvis Omondi. Detectives have also summoned Obado’s wife Helen for interrogation. Sharon was murdered and her body dumped in Kodera Forest near Oyugis town. She was seven months pregnant. Government pathologist Johansen Oduor said she died from excessive bleeding caused by eight stab wounds; three in the neck, four in the back and one in the left side of the abdomen. Read: Police to question Obado on Sharon Autopsy results indicated that the second-year medical records student may have been raped. Her body had signs of strangulation and bruises suggesting she attempted to fight back. Sharon had a sexual relationship with Obado. The governor however said their relationship broke down in April. He admitted the pregnancy was his. A DNA examination has since confirmed the admission. The foetus was buried at her grandfather’s home in Magare village, Homa Bay. Obado was last week questioned by detectives over the killing. He denied involvement in Sharon’s murder. Click here for the latest political news