Imagine being invited to a fundraiser by a friend or family member to raise money to pay for a damaged car after their tree fell on it, causing damage worth Sh250,000. This is a case that happened two years ago, after a Honda CRV was accidentally damaged and the owner of the home in which the tree grew was asked to pay. Bismart Insurance CEO Eunice Maina says if the homeowner had home insurance cover, the damage would have been covered by an insurance company and the car owner compensated under owner or occupier’s liability policy. However, the uptake of home insurance, a product under general insurance, is still quite low in Kenya, as potential customers disregard it to their financial distress. The accident is one of many losses homeowners face in the event of fire, theft and damage, among others. Massive damage was evident during the March-May long rains, with many houses flooding and home appliances ruined. The Kenya Meteorological Department has warned of possible heavy rains and flooding in the October-December short rains, and damages may likely occur again. Komarock resident Elizabeth Musau told the Star she has never regarded home insurance as a priority in financial management. Musau, who works with TNS Research International firm in Westlands, only has health insurance. “I have my investments elsewhere. I don’t see the need for home cover now, but I’m still thinking about it. Probably in the next year,” she said. Musau said insurance companies have not done enough promotion of home insurance as they have with health and vehicle insurance. Rongai resident Abdi Galma is one of the few Kenyans with home insurance. However, this is because the property seller directed him to take an all-inclusive home cover. He pays a premium of Sh12,000 per year. “I have never faced any risk under the cover since the beginning of this year when I took the cover,” Galma says. COST-EFFECTIVE According to HF insurance group, home investment is such a long-term and financially weighty venture that everyone should take up to increase their equity, especially if they want to sell or transfer the property to the next generation. “The protection of a lifetime investment against loss or damage is important,” HF Group principal officer Jane Surungai said. “The liability a third party could accrue from suffering injury or damage while around the property is a heavy risk. So most homeowners need to have a comprehensive cover.” A building or apartment valued at Sh10 million will cost Sh12,500-Sh15,000 premiums per year, depending on the company you choose. Surungai says the home insurance premiums are lower on average than other covers, such as personal accident, or medical. “When homeowners do not take insurance, it is most likely a lack of awareness of the benefits of cover and not the cost element,” she said. “The product is very affordable. Most people have an average household contents value of Sh300,000. This will cost between Sh3,500 and Sh4,000 per year, depending on the company you buy from. “With the rise of online insurance comparison platforms, homeowners can compare benefits and prices and buy online at their convenience.” On average, HF receives six claims a year, including fire damage, flood damage or burglary. However, the risk of fire normally has a higher magnitude. Surungai says the unpredictability of heavy rainfall has created a greater share of flood damages, making it important as well. “Payments for alternative accommodation while the house is under repair are made when a risk occurs,” she says. According to an annual insurance industry report 2017 by Association of Kenya Insurers, fire domestic cover had a gross written premium (GWP) of Sh1.57 billion. The premium growth for fire domestic cover had increased by six per cent from Sh1.48 billion in 2016 to Sh1.57 billion last year. This represented a 12 per cent proportion of the total Sh13.13 billion GWP in 2017 for both fire industrial and home covers. Out of the 36 insurers in the country, net earned premiums listed to Sh1.14 billion, while the net claims incurred Sh0.3 billion in the fire domestic cover. RELIANCE ON BROKERS Over the years, insurance distribution in Kenya has relied on sales agents and brokers. This is because of their expertise and knowledge of insurance products and how to sell them. However, these distribution channels are geographically limited to the cities, have processes that are not well integrated and are expensive. In its report, the Association of Kenya Insurers says insurance companies should leverage on social media to reach out to customers and understand their evolving needs. The report indicated that 41 per cent of customers use social networking sites to pass on recommendations of products and services to friends and family. AKI data shows that the insurance industry in Kenya has had a progressive increase in key players as at the end of 2017. The number of licensed brokers rose from 186 in 2016 to 221 in 2017. The number of insurance surveyors and loss adjusters increased marginally compared to 2016. In 2017, there was a 43.8 per cent increase in the number of agents to 9,320 compared to 6,481 agents in 2016. Industry players target to grow the penetration rate to six per cent, in line with the global average. According to HF, the proposed 1.5 per cent contribution of individuals’ pay to the housing development fund, matched with a contribution from employers up to maximum of Sh5,000, is a good opportunity to include those not insured. The proposal, passed by MPs and signed by the President, aims to provide affordable housing for low-income workers. “Many people are also not insured due to the type of houses they live in. Insurers are generally wary of houses not built with ‘standard material’ due to the increased risk of fire,” Surungai says.