The National Treasury has expressed satisfaction with the scope of work under the Sh4.5 billion Kisumu Urban Project, which comes to an end next year. Treasury acting director general of public debt management and resource mobilisation Jackson Kinyanjui said implementation of the project is on course. He commended city manager Doris Ombara and Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o for the good work. Kinyanjui said all the components of the project are going well and will have a positive impact on the people once completed. The Treasury official toured the projects to assess progress and report to the donors. The Sh4.5 billion programme funded by the French government targeted roads, security, health, water, schools and other infrastructure in Kisumu city. Kinyanjui lead a team from the French Development Agency in a visit to Kisumu Social Hall, which is under expansion for Sh63 million and the Lumumba heath centre undergoing Sh113 million upgrading. The social hall will have a new performance theatre, changing rooms, a bar, meeting rooms and a cafeteria. It will also have a new landscape, more office space, modern communication equipment and new seats. Lumumba health centre is being upgraded to a sub county hospital. It will support the universal health coverage. Kisumu is one of the counties selected by the national government for the pilot programme. Once completed, Lumumba health centre will have 120 beds — a significant improvement from the current 18. The facility will have a maternity wing, mother-child department, outpatient, laboratories, operation theatres, consultation rooms and general, female, male and paediatric wards. The team also inspected the Sh73 million Kaloleni-Shauri Moyo road. The 1.4km road is being tarmacked and will have a new drainage system to prevent flooding. Other projects under construction are the Sh25 million Family-Neselica road. Ombara told contractors to adhere to regulations and best standards. Five ultramodern schools, namely Angira, Got Nyabondo, Rwea, Rota and Thim Bonde, have been built under the KUP for Sh500 million. Thim Bonde Primary was launched during the tour. The construction in each school includes an administration block, staff room, library, sickbay, two classrooms for each stream, Early Childhood Development block, a boundary wall for security and sanitation and sports facilities. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili assured the development partners of the county government’s commitment to complete the projects on time. He thanked the partners for prioritising the county in development projects. Owili said three markets will be rehabilitated under the programme.