Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board has hit out at Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko for what it describes as politicising the Pumwani Maternity Hospital dead babies issue. KMPDU national chairman Samwel Oroko yesterday demanded that the two doctors suspended on Monday be reinstated immediately. “The doctors should be reinstated or we call a national strike; and if there is a problem, we have a board to address the issue and not the governor walking around and sacking people,” he said. Oroko said Sonko should have handled the matter better. “Pumwani has only one operating theatre; how can more than 50 mothers be served when an operation takes a minimum of one hour ?” he said. Read:Pumwani saga: Sonko suspends Health executive, three officers for insubordination Meanwhile, the Senate Health committee yesterday told Sonko to stop playing politics. During a press conference at Parliament Buildings, committee chairman Mbito Michael said Sonko should take responsibility for the mess at Pumwani. Committee member Abdhulahi Ibrahim said, “We are saddened by the incident at Pumwani, but the governor should stop playing politics with it. Where was he all along? When he was the senator? He is the governor now and he should be aware of what is going on within the county.” CS sicily to be questioned The senators also condemned Sonko for ordering the suspension of the hospital’s superintendent Catherine Mutinda, Dr James Kamau - the obstetrician gynaecologist, and the hospital administrator Zadock Angahya. Sonko also disbanded hospital’s board. “The issue of sacking of hospital management should not arise. The governor should address systematic challenges the hospital is facing,” committee member Naomi Shiyonga said. Sonko made the impromptu visit to the hospital after receiving a tip off and found the bodies of 12 infants kept in a box in one of the rooms. Mbito said his committee will ask Health CS Cicily Kariuki next week on Thursday to appear before the senators to shed light on what is ailing the hospital. See: [VIDEO] Sonko suspends Pumwani boss after 12 babies die in machine glitch Click here for the latest political news      