Nairobi MCAs have accused the anti-corruption commission of intimidating them. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission summoned 12 assembly members over the chaos at speaker Beatrice Elachi’s office in City Hall on Monday. The scuffle erupted after the MCAs attempted to eject Elachi from office. They impeached her last week. The county leaders failed to show up at Integrity Centre at 10am yesterday, saying they had not received the summonses. The MCAs added that they were on a retreat in Mombasa and could not make it to Nairobi. A letter from the EACC said, “The commission is investigating allegations of unethical conduct against MCAs over a scuffle on or about September 10, 2018, within the premises of the Nairobi county assembly.” Lucy Kinuthia signed it on behalf of CEO Halakhe Waqo. Majority leader Abdi Guyo questioned the rationale and the motive behind the commission’s decision. He asked the EACC to act in a way that inspires confidence in it. “We’ll honour their summonses because we have nothing to hide. But they have to serve us first,” Guyo said. “It’s in bad faith in that the letter is already on social media and national TV, yet we’ve not received it physically. It shows there is mischief.” The MCAs began their four-day retreat yesterday. They are reportedly discussing the business to be transacted when they resume sittings after recess. Elachi yesterday said the retreat is illegal as she had not approved it. Besides Guyo, the others set to be questioned include Minority leader Elias Otieno, Minority whip Peter Imwatok, Waithaka MCA Anthony Kiragu, Mary Njambi (nominated) and Peter Wahinya (Ngando). Nominated MCAs Leah Supuko, Doris Ngoyo, Ruth Maingi, Nancy Muthami, Susan Kavaya and Laura Mwololo are also on the list. Guyo said the members did not commit any crime by shouting down Elachi. He said the incident happened within the county assembly precincts, where members enjoy immunity according to the Powers and Privileges Act. “Why didn’t they summon the MPs who literally fought when security laws were being passed? Let them tell us if they’ve summoned the person who was captured on national TV using pepper spray on the members,” he said. “Why should they summon us yet we’re the people calming down other members?”