We agree government has a huge budgetary problem. Between what the government is
receiving and what it's spending there's a huge gap. Concerning the 16 per cent VAT, it's a knee-jerk reaction that will not solve nor
bridge the budget deficit. It's like government milking a cow one
time extra, though it already has problems producing milk — what you
get are more problems. The levies will increase the cost of living
and even multiply it. For instance, a
matatu will not charge you exactly 16 per cent but will add more
to cater for other costs, increasing fares up to 20 per cent. To impose that on the general public at this time is reckless and
dangerous and will have serious consequences. To suddenly impose
this when we have been through considerable inflation, with living standards dipping last year, will hurt the economy. It will have a ripple
effect on the whole economy as people's purchasing power will
decrease. They will buy less, so manufacturers and retailers will
sell less. This is a recipe that will drive the economy into
recession. Personally I have
already started cutting back on expenditures and I guess everyone
else is doing the same, which will slow business and create
inflation. Already employees
have started saying they need to be paid more to cater for the rising
cost of living. This will cause immense
social problems and lots of upset. I doubt if the government thought through the risks before rolling this out. There is no doubt we
need to raise more money and cut our costs. The VAT has to be
withdrawn and reinstated in stages and phases. If we start off with five per cent, we won't like it but it won't be this
painful. Gradual implementation would have been best. As a long-term
measure, we need to prune government expenditure, meaning salaries
and wages. I don't see enough evidence of cutting the costs of running
government, though this is a background issue. The economist
and public policy analyst spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news