In many countries across the
world, enforced disappearances are reported in various contexts but it’s
usually against a certain class of individuals. These could be from one
religious group as is the case for Muslims in Myanmar, or ethnic minority as is
the case for the Ormas in Ethiopia, or criminal suspects as is the case of drug
addicts in Philippines and terror suspects in Kenya. One common element of enforced
disappearances is that it is persistent and one can draw a pattern over time
considering the cases that are reported of the act in a given area. Enforced
disappearance is in essence a violation of human dignity itself. In Kenya and at the Coast
specifically, it is estimated that in the last five years, over 110 persons have
been forcefully disappeared. This number translates to 22 per year, which is
almost two persons every month. While a few of those disappeared at the Coast
are linked to common crimes, including robbery with violence, the majority are
suspected of terror-related crimes. The abductions are done in broad day light
in public places as was the case of Husni Mbarak. On May 25, 2018, 18-year-old
Husni Mbarak was picked by unknown persons at 2:30pm and forced into a waiting
white Toyota Fielder KCP 254W. As he was being picked just in
front of his father’s garage in Mombasa, he managed to scream for help, which
and alerted his brother and co-workers. They rushed to the scene to find out
what was happening, only to be repulsed by armed men who brandished their
weapons and stated they were police officers doing their work. Husni was
bundled into the car, never to be seen again. Despite his father’s and Haki
Africa’s relentless efforts to follow up with the authorities, there has been
no trace of his whereabouts. The family is left destitute not knowing to weep
or keep their hopes alive. This is one of many such stories that can be told in
many parts of the Coast by families, whose kin have gone missing in similar
disturbing circumstances. While people keep disappearing,
the authorities are doing little to find the lost ones and in certain cases,
even when evidence is presented, including vehicle number plates, little is
done by the police to follow up on the leads. This has caused great concern to
the families and Kenyans in general to the extent of suspecting the police are
involved. The cold reception when
confronted about disappearances and police never finding disappeared persons has
further widened the gap between the communities and the authorities. Practise
has shown that hard, illegal, military approaches, including extrajudicial
killings and enforced disappearances, are counterproductive and only act to
push communities further away instead of bringing them closer to security
authorities. These hard approaches also win
criminal and terror groups undeserved sympathy thus recruiting more followers
into clandestine movements. From talking to communities, the acts of
disappearances are worse than killings. This is because they keep anger,
anguish and disappointment alive in the hearts of friends and families for as
long as the ones disappeared are missing. With so many cases of
disappearances, the issue is fast becoming a ticking time bomb, which if not
handled effectively by those in authority, could easily explode in the faces of
Kenyans. While there are no specific laws
on enforced disappearances in Kenya, Article 2 (5) of the Constitution states, “…
the general rules of international law shall form part of the law of Kenya”.
Kenya signed the international convention against disappearance on February 6,
2007, which makes the convention an extension of Kenya’s law. Article 1 (1) of
the convention states, “… no one shall be subjected to enforced
disappearances”. In some security circles, it is believed that some senior
officers justify disappearances claiming Kenya is at war with Al Shabaab.
Article 1 (2) of the convention provides that “no exceptional circumstances
whatsoever, whether a state of war or a threat of war, internal political
stability or any other public emergency, may be invoked as a justification for
enforced disappearance.” Whenever cases of disappearances
have been reported, police have always been quick to report it was not their
officers who were involved and unfortunately, no further action is taken to
confirm or arrest the persons involved. The international convention against
disappearance states in Article 3: “Each State Party shall take appropriate measures
to investigate enforced disappearance by persons or groups of persons acting
without the authorisation, support or acquiescence of the State and to bring
those responsible to justice.” Judging from the results of police
investigations into enforced disappearances, one can deduce that Kenya has clearly
failed to implement Article 3 of the convention. As a nation, Kenya must be
committed to ending enforced disappearances and discovering about those
disappeared so far. To do this, the setting up of a judicial inquiry to
investigate all disappearances becomes crucial. As a people, we must exorcise
the demon of disappearances and confront it head on. Being a country with one
of the best constitutions in the world, we must live up to the tenets of our
Bill of Rights and respect our laws. The current generation cannot allow a
section of our population to continue to suffer one of the worst forms of human
rights violations – disappearances. Whether today or tomorrow, those behind
enforced disappearances will account and be held responsible for their
misdeeds. They must.  Hussein Khalid is the executive director, Haki Africa 