Research in universities is progressing at a slow pace owing to limited funding, University and Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga says. “Universities have two primary roles, teach and conduct research. Our universities have a chance to generate a lot of funds if they focus on quality research, but the funds given for research are not enough,” Wasonga told the Star yesterday on the phone. The government funds institutions based on programmes taught and the number of students enrolled. Education CS Amina Mohamed has announced the government will increase research and innovation fund from Sh1.9 billion to Sh3 billion. The University of Nairobi has this year received the lion’s share of the Sh1.9 billion set aside for research. The institution in July received Sh537.95 million, the highest among private and public institutions of higher learning. Kenyatta University received Sh456.59 million, while Moi University got Sh302.12 million. According to the National Research Fund, public universities and their constituent colleges received 80.3 per cent of the total research funds. Private universities received 19.7 per cent. NRF data shows that 68 per cent of the funding for universities is from government and internal sources, compared to 32 per cent, which comes from industry, NGOs and other donors. Read: UoN tops list of universities' research funding In a list dominated by public universities, the highest ranked private university was Strathmore at seventh position after receiving Sh100 million. Mt Kenya University was second among private universities and ninth overall. Aga Khan University was ranked third and position 10 overall. A survey conducted by CPS International in July revealed that local universities lean more towards science-related topics. This was attributed to the fact that most of the funding comes from the government, which despite favouring science-related research also ends up limiting the scope of research for most universities. The study highlighted the funding gaps in universities’ research, citing that the minimum threshold for funding research at any university in Kenya is about Sh19.5 million. The research also revealed that county governments are not funding or assisting universities in their various study needs. The survey demonstrated that the availability of funds to respective universities has a great impact on the number of publications, citations and academic journal referrals for each university. Also Read: Crises loom as funding for older varsities slashed Click here for the latest political news