I know times are hard and people need to hustle. And yet: I would really appreciate it if the hustle could stay out of my personal space. On a recent Sunday morning, I left my gate, wearing yoga pants I like, listening to some bouncy house music, enjoying the sun. And march off to class, happy as a clam. Then, at the corner of the street, a young man holding a bunch of papers stops me, and I turn off the music: He's Joshua from Cytonn, sticking a business card in my face. This is, just to remind you, Sunday morning, about 10.30am. And I'm very obviously on my way to somewhere. So no, I will not discuss finances with Joshua from Cytonn at that point, on the street corner. Or, for that matter, ever. About a year ago, I divorced my Internet Service Provider, because the relationship wasn’t working anymore (And it was definitely not me, but him. You know the story: You meet your commitments every month, and what do you get back? Grief, delays, sunk costs, and unsatisfying communication). Around that time, both old and new ISP seemed intent on carpet bombing the neighbourhood. New ISP had a tent at the corner with a gaggle of young sales people, running a generator and playing loud music on an otherwise quiet Sunday. This is a residential neighbourhood, so what possessed them to think this was a good idea, I don’t know. Around that time, both old and new ISP also regularly sent more gaggles of youngers around the neighbourhood to hand out leaflets and flog their services. They used to hang out in a group before dispersing, so when I took the doggirl out for a walk around 7.30am - a time when I'm really not inclined to speak to anyone, even if I’m closely related to them - I'd be looking at three or four of them down the road looking back at me, wondering how I'd get past them without talking to any of them. I realise that these are probably all subcontractors, but still: Personal space, corporates. Mind it. PS: On dog walkies, I’ve also had many attempts by adherents of Christianity to recruit me. Do I love the lord, someone shouted from across the road. No idea, dude, never met him. Could someone share the gospel of Jesus Christ with me? No thank you very much with chips. Could someone take me to church? That’d be a no, too. You know who hasn't tried to recruit me on the neighbourhood streets? The allegedly recruiting homosexuals. As usual, they are being sensible adults and minding their own business.