Police have finally given one family of the five men shot dead in Dandora a burial permit. The police gave the family of Vincent Mandu, 29, who worked as a conductor with 2pac Matatu Sacco, the permit on Friday. Police gunned down five men on August 26 at Dandora Phase II dumpsite on claims they were peddling drugs and that they were armed. The police also said the men engaged them in a shootout. Witnesses told the Star the officers entered a makeshift shanty at the dumpsite where the five were and shot them after an argument. The shanty was razed. Last week, the families complained the police were denying them official gathering permits to enable them make funeral arrangements. “We are walking with books, appealling to friends and well-wishers to help us raise money for burying my husband,” Nazareth Adhiambo, the widow of Vincent Mandu, said. However, speaking to the Star yesterday, Nazareth said they were finally given the permit after hiring a lawyer to help pursue the case. “They eventually gave us the permit to gather and raise money to arrange for the funeral of my husband,” she said, adding “we had to go to Kinyago police station with a lawyer to help”. Nazareth said the police gave them strict rules allowing them to gather for only three hours as a condition for the permit. Even then, she said, CID officers have been visiting their residence and harassing those who turn up. “They even arrested the youth who are helping us collect money from neighbours and friends,” she said. Nazareth said outside the given three hours, they largely raise funds ‘underground’. James Omondi, the administrative officer at Dandora Community Justice Centre, a civil rights group which has been documenting the cases, said the organisation is at the tail end of documenting the cases and is exploring legal options. “We are meeting the families on Wednesday together with other rights groups to explore the legal options available in pursuing this cold-blood murder of innocent lives,” he said. Omondi said except Mandu’s family, all other families are still being denied gathering permits. Last week, the family of Alex Githuku, 34, one of the killed men, said they were forced to conduct underground funds drives, mainly over the phone to help foot the funeral bills.  punishment threats “The police told us to gather at our own risk,” said Jane Wamboi, 53, the mother of the victim. “They denied us a burial permit and threatened to mete out serious punishment on anyone gathering at my house in Dandora or showing sympathy to my family,” she added. Dandora police boss Geoffrey Mayek, however, said his office was not aware the families are facing any difficulty in getting burial permits. “In case of any challenge, let them come to my office, including tomorrow,” he told the Star on the phone last week. Police claim they recovered two pistols, 14 bullets, three mobile phones, one sack of bhang, a crowbar, 32 sachets of illicit liquor, a knife and four pairs of scissors. The family of Mandu plans to move the body to Samia, Busia county, on September 8 for burial.