IEBC has asked National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to withdraw a letter he issued declaring the Embakasi South Constituency seat vacant. According to IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati, the electoral agency has a court order barring it from holding the by-election. "The law requires that a by-election is conducted within 90 days of a notice vacancy by the Speaker," IEBC tweeted on Thursday. "In view of the court’s stay order, we have written to Hon. Muturi to ask that the writ on Embakasi South be withdrawn or suspended." Muturi on September 11 declared the seat vacant after the Court of Appeal in July quashed Wiper's Julius Mawathe’s August 2017 poll victory. He also declared the Ugenya parliamentary seat vacant. Read;Court overturns Julius Mawathe election after Sumra's appeal Also read: Court of Appeal overturns MP Julius Mawathe’s win Muturi invoked Section 101 of the Constitution which says the speaker shall, within 21 days after the occurrence of the vacancy, give notice in writing to the electoral agency. Maswathe's rival, Irshad Sumra of ODM won the appeal citing irregularities, illegalities, malpractices and noncompliance of the law. Sumra had previously lost his petition on March 2 following the High Court's decision to uphold Mawathe's poll victory. The electoral body, however, said it does not have stay orders for the Ugenya Constituency seat. Chebukati announced on Monday that the commission is commencing its preparations for the by-election. The seat fell vacant after the Court of Appeal on August 16 nullified Christopher Karan’s election win over irregularities during the elections. In March, the High Court ruled that Karan’s campaign was “perverted” and that the entire election in Ugenya was “compromised”. However, the Court of Appeal later dismissed Karan’s case challenging the High Court ruling. Former Ugenya MP David Ochieng who was challenging Karan's win, proceeded to the Court of Appeal where judge Hannah Okwengu said the election was validly nullified. Okwengu said the ODM party had engaged in a smear campaign against his predecessor Ochieng. Ochieng’ ran on the Movement for Democracy and Growth party after falling out with ODM whose flag was flown by Karan. Read:Tough race as Ugenya seat is declared vacant