Three legislators from Nyanza region yesterday urged DPP Noordin Haji and DCI chief George Kinoti to investigate and bring to book murderers of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay woman representative), Pamela Odhiambo (Migori woman representative) and nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga said the killing of the second year medical records student was cruel. Sharon was abducted alongside Nation Media Group journalist Barack Oduor and was found dead in Kodera Forest yesterday. She is said to have been seven months pregnant . "It’s alleged the killing of Sharon and her unborn child is linked to a senior Migori official. If indeed it is true, this is very unfortunate, shameful and unacceptable," Odhiambo said. Read: State pledges thorough probe into Sharon Otieno's murder “It is not right and fair to use money and positions to lure our young unsuspecting daughters to their death. A life has been cut off in a cruel manner, a career lost and an otherwise bright future turned into tears for the family.” She urged mothers to guard their daughters and follow up what goes on in their lives. "As a mother, I want to offer my condolences. Mothers, poleni sana. Whether you went to school or not, be as close to your daughter as possible and make sure they are protected regardless of their socioeconomic status," she said. Wanga condemned the incident and called on girls, especially students, to accept their humble backgrounds and focus on education rather than ‘sponsors’ — men or women who date young people in exchange for financial support. "Our girls, this must be a lesson to you. It doesn’t matter where you come from. Be contented with what you have and focus," she said. The second-term lawmaker demanded that  the authorities arrest and prosecute all the suspects mentioned relation to the murder. "It does not matter who you are. Nobody deserves to take a life. We want the real person behind this matter arrested and charged with the murder of Sharon," she said. Nyamunga appealed to Noordin  and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to move swiftly and arrest those behind the abduction and murder of the student. "For the first time let the stones be turned. We have been treated to years of investigators promising not to leave any stone unturned," she said. Read: 'Leave sponsors alone', Gladys Wanga tells girls after death of Sharon Otieno Click here for the latest political news