Did Raila Odinga come to the
rescue of Nairobi governor Mike Sonko who was facing imminent impeachment? Some
MCAs were heard discussing along City Hall corridors how their party boss ‘forgave’ the governor. In reward, it is reported that the MCAs could be headed to the Coast for
a ‘bonding’ session. The MCAs had been plotting
since Monday to remove Sonko. An MCA said they were fed up with
the governor's 'unbecoming habit' of threatening, recording and setting them up
with anti-corruption detectives who have pounced on a number of City Hall staff
and an MCA. ***** What exactly is happening at the Kenya
Forest Service? A small bird yesterday whispered to Corridors that
only Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, PS Susan Mochache, KFS board chairman Peter
Kinyua and acting chief conservator Monica Kalenda are set to preside over a
graduation ceremony at Londiani college in Kericho county. This has never
happened since the establishment KFS as heads of departments and support staff
have been attending such occasions. Not even lunch will be served during
the short and low profile ceremony. Is KFS broke or are these austerity
measures? ***** A manager of a parastatal currently under
investigation is in panic. Reason? The man, who has recently acquired massive
wealth and built a multimillion-shilling house months after appointment, has been
dishing out money to brokers and his ‘informers’ to know when he is likely to
be nabbed by investigators. So paranoid is the manager that he has been sending
his aide with his mobile phone in opposite directions on Fridays to avoid possible
arrest. Detectives have the last two months been summoning and interrogating
employees in the parastatal and are expected to prefer charges against some
senior officials. ***** Something is going on between a former senior official
in the Ministry of ICT and a politician from Western. The two have been spotted
on several occasions at city hotels and those in the know suspect they
could be scheming to cover up past misdeeds.The former official is
said to be on the radar of EACC and DCI for creating fake companies and accounts which he used to siphon public money. ***** Click here for
the latest political news