Migori governor Okoth Obado is on the spot for the third week running after it emerged yesterday that detectives are pursuing what is believed to be suspicious transfers of county funds to his children abroad. The Star has also established that asset recovery agencies have frozen the bank accounts of Obado's wife, Hellen Adhiambo Odie, five businessmen and three companies believed to be proxies or associated with the county boss. In documents filed in court, EACC says major Migori county suppliers who are alleged to be Obado's proxies made huge international transfers to, among others, Obado's children in Australia, Hong Kong and China. How Muturi, Duale tricks helped Uhuru Finance Bill to pass The contentious Finance Bill 2018 was finally adopted by Parliament on Thursday, due largely to shrewd moves by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and Majority leader Aden Duale. Sensing that members were preparing to shoot down the bill, Muturi ingeniously ordered a fresh vote before Duale chipped in with a cunning move to rally MPs out of the chamber. At least 233 MPs were required to vote against the bill to shoot it down. Duale ensured there was a lack of quorum. The two leaders had been asked by President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the bill was passed in an arduous test on their leadership. Plans to impeach Sonko still on Plans to impeach Nairobi governor Mike Sonko are on course unless he meets the demands of the county assembly. MCAs have accused the county chief of using the Pumwani Hospital infant deaths to divert public attention from the 14 days he was given to fix county problems. They expressed concerns about frequent reshuffling and suspension of senior officials. They also accused Sonko of being reluctant to have another deputy after Polycarp Igathe resigned in January. SANG: Why Parliament is dead When we adopted the 2010 Constitution, many did not realise that we had fundamentally altered the nature and character of Parliament. We surreptitiously moved from the traditional Westminsterian tradition to Congressionalism, which emphasizes doing Parliamentary business through committees. The current style of Parliament was born in 2013, when we were first able to implement Chapter 8 of the Constitution (Articles 93-128), which establishes Parliament. But there was something wrong from the word go. When the baby was born, it recorded a poor Apgar score and it declined further, five years down the line, to the point we wonder whether it is still viable. Why the ‘weeping stone’ of Kakamega sheds tears Three kilometres south of Kakamega town and a few metres off the busy Kisumu-Kakamega highway stands the 131 foot or 40 metre sacred Crying Stone of Ilesi. To the Luhya tribe of Kakamega, the stone will forever be a sacred and a revered part of their everyday lives because it is believed to have supernatural powers. Whether you call it fiction, superstition, myth or belief, the people of Ilesi believe the stone does shed tears.