Sharon’s baby was mine, Obado admits Migori governor Okoth Obado has admitted to the police that he had a relationship with murdered Rongo University student Sharon Otieno and that the pregnancy was his. According to police officers who have seen his statement, the governor reportedly said he had told Sharon to keep the pregnancy and was ready to take care of her and the baby. Sharon, according to the police, had even asked to be bought a house in Nairobi. MPs’ CVs reveal most educated and least schooled At least a third of MPs lack bachelor's degrees. Details that have been made public show a peculiar mad dash for post-secondary qualifications between 2012 and 2017. This means that up to 116 MPs have either a diploma or a certificate. The academic qualifications of the 349 members of the National Assembly published on Parliament’s official website show some lawmakers with certificates enrolled for and graduated with bachelor's degrees. The law that required MPs to have a degree was shelved in 2017 and will come into force in 2022. Where is Senate's Ruaraka land report? A month after a Senate committee tabled its report on controversial Ruaraka land, it is yet to be scheduled for debate in the House, raising concerns among senators. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments committee tabled the explosive report on August 9, but sources in the Senate have told the Star that "some external forces could be trying to frustrate debate on the report". "It is a concern that a month after the report was tabled, it is yet to be debated. The public is waiting for the next action," the source told the Star in confidence. Climate shocks to blame for food crisis Kenya has been named among countries affected by climate shocks leading to food crisis. A UN report on the State of Food Security and Nutrition says drought and floods have contributed to hunger in Kenya and Africa. Food insecurity, inadequate access to nutrient-rich foods, high disease prevalence and poor sanitation are among factors that prompt malnutrition. Northern Kenyan has been cited as a region with severe malnutrition due to prolonged drought. Kenya ranked behind Rwanda in WB debt management study Poor debt management and fiscal policies have seen Kenya trail Rwanda and Senegal in latest World Bank policy and institution assessment rankings. In a report titled Assessing Africa's Policies and Institutions released on Wednesday, Kenya scored 3.7 points, just 0.3 points behind Rwanda which scored four points. “In Kenya, the score was pulled down by weak capacity of the debt management office of the National Treasury and its inability to follow the Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy of 2017-2020,” the report states. BIG READ: Streetlight vandals in Homa Bay hinder push for 24-hour economy Major town centres in Homa Bay county used to be a no-go zone by 8 in the evening. Mama mbogas and boda boda operators were forced to close their businesses early due to insecurity. Residents, business people and visitors were mugged in the darkness. Boda boda operators were killed and their motorcycles stolen. Small enterprises operating at night had to make do with small tin lamps. Then came “Okonyo Welo” (Save a Visitor), a solar streetlighting project initiated by the Homa Bay government in 2014 to light up major streets and market centres. Over 800 high solar floodlight masts were earmarked for installation in 285 major market centres, in a Sh240million project that Governor Cyprian Awiti said aimed for a 24-hour economy. So far, the county has installed 745 solar lights. But of late, the project has become a cash cow for criminals, who cash in at the expense of residents’ security and economic growth.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Partly cloudy; Showers late at night. Low 13ºC. High 25ºC. Winds E at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 30%. MOMBASA: Light morning rain. Low 22ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 70%. KISUMU: Partly cloudy; Showers late at night. Low 18ºC. High 29ºC. Winds SW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40%.