The courts cannot save impeached speaker Beatrice Elachi, county assembly majority leader Abdi Guyo has said. Speaking at City Hall on Friday, he said the courts cannot impose the speaker on the MCAs. “I don’t think it is right. If 98 per cent of members don’t have confidence in you as a person of integrity, you should just excuse yourself and look for other things to do instead of trying to use courts to impose yourself on people who do not have confidence on you. I don’t think it is right,” Guyo said. “I don’t want to speak for everyone, but if Elachi uses the right channel instead of the courts and look for other ways of making up with members, they might [re]consider. But I don’t think the route of court will assist her.” Guyo said Waithaka MCA Anthony Kiragu, who moved the impeachment motion, convinced the House why he wanted the speaker removed. As a result, 112 MCAs signed the petition and 103 voted to remove her from office. “As an MCAs who is representing Matopeni ward, I was convinced by the mover of the motion and the grounds which were put forward by him,” Guyo said. “I decided to vote for the impeachment as an individual not as a majority leader.” The Majority leader said the issues raised against Elachi were serious. “The members had their Kamkunji to discuss those matters and the speaker did not take time to come and resolve those issues with members,” Guyo said. Elachi, a former nominated senator, was elected by the MCAs on September 6, last year as the first woman speaker of the Nairobi county assembly. “When we voted for Elachi, the handshake was not there. As members cutting across the divide from Jubilee to Nasa, we voted for madam Elachi in one round with 92 votes. Jubilee had 66 votes, which could not have made her speaker,” Guyo said. He said Elachi’s Senate background made her feel superior to the MCAs. “She came from the Senate as a majority whip and I think she came with that insinuation that maybe she was superior than the MCAs,” Guyo said. “So those notions and disregarding members’ views on how to manage the affairs of this county assembly led to her impeachment.”