Garissa
women representative Annab Gure has dismissed rumours that the polio jabs
are unsafe to children. Gure instead urged mothers to present their
children under 5 for the 5 days vaccination exercise that kicked off on
Saturday. The regional campaign was launched by health CS Sicily Kariuki at the
Garissa University grounds. Addressing
mothers at the outskirts of Garissa town Gure further moved to demystify the
notion that the vaccine was part of a family planning campaign. “It
is unfortunate that our people especially in the rural areas still hold to the
notion that polio was synonymous with family planning. This is not true,” Gure
said. “I
want to appeal to my fellow mothers to take their children under 5 for vaccination
because it was safe and meant for the good of our people.  Ignore these unfounded romours about the jab
because this is coming from our detractors who are keen to see the exercise
fail," she added. The
women rep said that there is need for all the relevant stakeholders to sustain
the campaign. she said that statistics of past vaccination exercise especially in rural area show that the number of children being vaccinated is lower than those in urban area.this she partly blamed on the romours being fed to the them who in turn believe in them. On
Saturday while launching the exercise, Kariuki yesterday urged IGAD members to
closely work together to eradicate polio that continues to be a threat to the
promotion of health in the member countries. The launch brought together
representatives from WHO, UNICEF and IGAD. The
CS said that despite the gains made globally, countries within the horn of
Africa have experienced repeated polio outbreaks. This
she under nutrition, low population immunity and displacement of persons was
partly to blame adding that massive movement across the porous borders in the
region presents one of the most significant challenges in stopping polio virus
transmission. Garissa
governor Ali Korane called for joint collaboration from member states saying
that the county’s proximity to Somalia whose health sector collapsed due to
persistent insecurity has frustrated efforts to eradicate polio. “The
presence of Al-Shabaab in Somalia who opposed to polio vaccination has also
hampered the exercise. This is why it is important that we work towards
achieving lasting peace in Somalia,” Korane said.  