Health officials in Nairobi have differed with Governor Mike Sonko's take on the sorry state of affairs at the Pumwani Maternity Hospital. Veska Kangogo admitted, at a press conference held at the facility over the discovery of bodies of 11 infants, that the facility has infrastructural challenges. The acting Health executive said the hospital lacks cold storage facilities to preserve bodies and ambulances, a situation she said the county is keen on changing. Related: Pumwani nurses air woes after death of 12 babies She said the room where the bodies of 11 infants were found is designated for the purpose of holding them in wait for transport to the mortuary. "It was at the designated room where the infants were found. They are always put in a polythene bag as was the case." Kangogo added that the bodies are normally taken to the mortuary on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. She said the hospital has put measures for a weekly review of prenatal and maternal deaths. Dr Nelly Bosire, a gynecologist at Pumwani, said there are plans for the hospital to have a maternal ICU and Prenatal ICU to prevent infant deaths. She said the facility receives 60 to 100 mothers daily adding the county has put up measures that will see mothers not losing their children. "We will start carrying out Kangaroo mother care and the introduction of breastfeeding banks so that infants don't die for lack of milk," she said. Also read: KMPDU to Sonko: 'Keep politics out of Pumwani deaths, recall doctors' The hospital has maintained that none of the children, highlighted during the governors' raid, were a case of emergency mishaps. The managers said the deaths were normal and called for patience with the DCI, medical board, and Health ministry probe into the incident. Health chief officer Mahat Jimale said the county will work to restore sanity at Pumwani, which is a preferred hospital for mothers across the country. "I demystify claims that some bodies are not from the hospital. The truth is that we can account for every child found yesterday with the tagging and notifications of deaths." Mahat said that out of 11 deaths that happened between September 11 to 17, there were successful 244 deliveries. "Out of the 11 deaths, fresh new births were four which had low kilograms and no heart rates. Two died out of obstructed labour," he said. He added that two were macerated stillbirths, two were prenatal deaths, while the 11th was brought out when already dead." On Monday, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko discovered the bodies of infants stuffed in boxes at the hospital. He suspended the hospital's top management officials and ordered the board dissolved. See: [VIDEO] Sonko suspends Pumwani boss after 12 babies die in machine glitch Click here for the latest political news