China is still determined to
reform and wants to work with all parties to build an open world
economy, Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Sunday,
reiterating Beijing's message amid a bitter trade war with
Washington. The two countries have been rolling out a series of tariffs
on each other's exports as US President Donald Trump's
administration seeks to tackle a range of issues from the large
trade imbalance with China to forced technology transfers. China has criticised the United States for resorting to
protectionist and unilateral measures and says it will keep
opening up its economy, providing a fair and transparent
environment for foreign businesses. Meeting UN Secretary-General António Guterres in Beijing
ahead of a major China-Africa summit, Xi made no direct mention
of the trade tensions with the United States, referring instead
to "unilateralism and protectionism rearing its head". "China's determination to fully deepen reforms will not
change," China's Foreign Ministry paraphrased Xi as telling
Guterres. "We are willing to use practical actions to drive all
parties to jointly adhere to trade liberalisation and
facilitation and build an open world economy," Xi added. The ministry's statement did not elaborate. US and Chinese officials ended two days of talks last
month without a major breakthrough as their trade war escalated
with the activation of a further round of tariffs on $16 billion
worth of each other's goods. The two countries have now targeted $50 billion of each
other's goods and threatened duties on most of the rest of their
bilateral trade, raising concerns that the conflict could dent
global economic growth. Trump administration officials have been divided over how
hard to press Beijing, but the White House appears to believe it
is winning the trade war as China's economy slows and its stock
markets falter. Economists estimate that every $100 billion of imports hit
by tariffs would reduce global trade by around 0.5 per cent. Also read: Uhuru arrives in Beijing, to hold talks with Xi Jinping More on this: Despite debt woes, Africa still sees China as best bet for financing Click here for the latest political news   