Nakuru deputy speaker Samuel Tonui and four others were yesterday charged in connection with the Njoro clashes. Tonui was charged alongside Njoro subcounty CDF chairman William Kipkemboi, assistant chief Joseph Rutto, and traders Joshua Kipchumba and Christopher Samoei. They appeared before senior principal magistrate Liz Gicheha. They were accused of promoting war-like activities that left six people dead between September 11 to 14 in Neissuit village. They denied the charges and through their lawyer Bernard Kipkoech prayed to be released on reasonable bond. Read:[VIDEO] Three dead in fresh tribal clashes in Njoro They were denied bond until Thursday, when the case will be mentioned for further directions. “My clients are presumed innocent until proven guilty and their constitutional right to bond stands,” Kipkoech said. The state objected to the prayer, saying investigations have not been finalised as police are seeking to obtain phone calls communication. The prosecution had requested 14 more days to allow investigations to be complete. Lawyer Kipkoech opposed the application, saying detaining the accused for 14 days was a violation of their right to liberty. The court allowed the prayer by the state and ordered the five be detained for four days at Nakuru Central police station. The magistrate also allowed an application to have Tonui and Kipchumba taken to Nakuru Level 5 Hospital for treatment. Two communities, which have lived in harmony for years, clashed in Nessuit area over occupation of land on the edges of Mau Forest. Read:Nakuru deputy speaker among six arrested over Njoro clashes The government is targetting to evict more than 40,000 settlers living in the forest as it seeks to restore the water tower. Those displaced are camping in schools and churches. The fighting has led to 12 people being admitted to hospital with arrow injuries. Most of the survivors were admitted to the Nakuru Level 5 Hospital. Leaders from the county said schools affected by the chaos were to be reopened on Monday. Nessuit, Ndoswa, Kapkaran, and Muserekwa primary schools were among the affected. Learning was also disrupted in Ogiek, Musee, Masibei, Tiritan, Tiritagoi, Lukikwei, Excel and Amani secondary schools. Last week, Governor Lee Kinyanjui asked the two communities involved in the conflict to each nominate five representatives for peace negotiations. He said the government will not allow loss of lives and property and asked residents to work with security officers to help arrest the perpetrators. The clashes in Nakuru came in the wake of a similar conflict in Maasai Mau, Narok county, where three people were killed in a conflict over occupation of land. Click here for the latest political news