Cross-border partnerships can be extremely valuable for
universities in Africa. They can provide new revenue streams for
institutions. It’s also a good way for institutions to improve their
reputations and develop capacity. Partnerships have a broader value,
too. They’re a good way to bolster multidisciplinary research that aims
to solve complex societal problems. But they aren’t simple to put together. Partnerships require proper
organisation and governance. They must also be relevant to all the
institutions and individuals involved. My colleagues and I wanted to know how universities in neighbouring
Kenya and Uganda are dealing with research partnerships. So we conducted
a study
at six universities – three in each country. We specifically examined
the construction and governance of research collaborations at these
institutions. Our findings suggest that there is no “one size fits all” strategy
for setting up such partnerships. Instead, each institution takes a
different approach, using various institutional and departmental
structures. Better, more standardised frameworks are needed especially
in Uganda if the country’s universities are to benefit from
transnational partnerships. It may learn from its neighbour in this regard. Kenya’s National
Research Fund is proving to be a good champion of such partnerships. How partnerships happen The first thing we wanted to know was how transnational partnerships
develop among Ugandan and Kenyan universities. This happens in several
ways, such as national calls for collaborative research or development
initiatives. Existing personal connections and informal encounters play a
fundamental, indispensable role in enabling the initiation and
development of sustainable partnerships. There is a problem, though. Simply put, you can have bright people
and great ideas – but without a solid policy framework these
collaborations just won’t work in the long term. Various studies have outlined
how important relevant, suitable policy frameworks are for successful
research management. This is increasingly true in the context of fierce
competition for scarce research funding. Policies also help to manage
the growing interdependence of research institutions in a globalised
world. Having a policy framework also allows for coherence, predictability,
consistency, and relevance in a university’s approach to external
partnerships. Our results suggest that Kenya is doing well to anchor its research and higher education partnerships in policy – at both the national and institutional levels. Uganda is lagging behind. It has several policies linked to research
collaboration at national level. But universities struggle to implement
them. None of the three Ugandan institutions we studied had partnership
policies. This meant they had no framework to govern research
collaborations. Collaborators and departments relied on ad hoc memoranda
of understanding and agreements. They implemented partnerships on a
project by project basis. Kenya also fared better than Uganda on the governance front. All
three Kenyan institutions had established structures and initiatives for
running research partnerships. These included international offices,
research and outreach units and administrative department units. The
universities also employed programme directors or coordinators. Some
used school or faculty committees to govern research partnerships. In Uganda, partnership activities are managed by individuals,
concerned departments, ad hoc departmental and university research
committees formed to implement particular projects. The universities
don’t have independent international or partnership offices. That
affects the sustainability of many partnership projects. They grind to a
halt or gradually fall apart when the collaborators aren’t able to
continue coordinating the projects. Research champions needed A lack of adequate funding appears to be the biggest hurdle to both
Ugandan and Kenyan universities initiating and implementing successful
research partnerships. In some cases, there is funding available but
universities and researchers don’t know about this. Many institutions
don’t keep up to date databases of research funding opportunities. Kenya’s government, meanwhile, is making steps towards increasing
funding for research projects. This has been facilitated by the recent
establishment of the Kenya National Research Fund. The fund is driving a renewed focus on research and innovation activities. It is also encouraging a greater number of both national and transnational partnerships that address national issues such as information technology, agriculture and food security, among others. In this way, Kenya is opening itself to sustainable partnerships with
similar organisations and institutions elsewhere in the world. By comparison, data suggests that less than 4%
of Uganda’s research projects have led to partnerships that address
national issues. Perhaps this is partly because Uganda doesn’t have a
national research fund or similar champion. Some positive signs There are some shifts in the right direction. The universities we
studied are beginning to develop relatively more formal organisational
structures, policy and regulatory frameworks to guide research
partnership and management practices. This might signal a focused move towards institutionalising
partnership initiatives. And that will help universities in Kenya and
Uganda to reap the benefits of transnational research collaboration. By Jackline Nyerere Senior Lecturer of Educational Leadership and Policy, Kenyatta University This article was first published in The Conversation.