This is a tough year for Kenya. Some of the loans procured by the government have come to call and must be paid. Out of our projected Sh1.9 trillion revenue collection, Sh878 billion will go towards servicing loans. That’s 34 per cent more than last year’s loan burden. Little will be left for development projects. Yet the Big Four agenda is here and needs financing from the same budget. The options are limited: with Sh5 trillion in loan obligations, more debt may not be the way to go. We are now at 57.1 per cent of GDP in loans. The Big Four need some Sh460 billion over and above the normal budgetary allocations. So, what will President Uhuru Kenyatta do? VAT is the easiest option to raise revenue from every Kenyan. Let me explain. VAT is preferred because it is dependent on every consumable product. It is hence an assured way of getting up to Sh5.7 billion every month in revenue and Sh71 billion annually. The added cost of goods will be effectively passed on to consumers and its ripple effect could be up to 35 per cent of living expenses. Back in 2013, the VAT law was amended to exempt petroleum products from VAT for three years. The extension ended in 2016 but because the next year would be a politically charged year, another two-year extension was applied. It ended last Friday, effectively activating the VAT law. The legal hurdle is that the VAT law was not amended on time, so it takes effect. The other is a financial hurdle. The projected revenue from VAT has already been budgeted for the Big Four agenda. Which begs the question: how did Parliament pass a budget with a deficit? What is the way out? Well, we must pay loans. Institutions in charge of the Big Four should be strengthened with more money. The projects can also be done in phases rather than all at once. Another urgent measure is to end corruption which gobbles up to 30 per cent of revenue. Give taxpayers value for their taxes or they scheme how to evade paying taxes. Click here for the latest political news