The government is between a rock and hard place over the implementation of
the 16 per cent Value Added Tax on fuel. On one hand it is grappling with public outrage over the tax while on the
other it not only risks losing a Sh150 billion IMF loan facility but the
Sh5.7 billion it expects to raise monthly from the tax too. The IMF will be calling in less than 10 days with good or bad news on
whether Kenya can access the loan aimed at cushioning our foreign exchange
reserves. Read: Treasury to raise Sh5.3 billion monthly through VAT on fuel The tax on fuel was one of the conditions for the country: to cut on
borrowing and raise revenues locally. On Monday, Equity Bank chief executive James Mwangi said the
postponement of the levy as is being advocated by a section of politicians will
only serve to widen Kenya’s revenue deficit by an extra Sh79 billion and
inflate its public debt. "A lot of wisdom will be required for the country to resolve the VAT on fuel
the right way. Kenyans need to put emotions aside and look at the long-term
benefits of the tax," Mwangi said. In March, IMF approved Kenya’s request for a 6-month extension of the
stand-by arrangement to allow additional time to complete the outstanding
reviews of its monetary policy. The international lender approved the $1.5 billion facility on March 14,
2016, for a period of 24 months. It is precautionary insurance that Kenya could
draw on should the economy be in distress. Although the facility was to expire on March 14, 2018, IMF revealed that the
credit had been suspended mid-last year before expiry date because Kenya had
failed to meet the agreed fiscal deficit reduction targets. Read: Hard times ahead as Rotich effects 16% VAT on fuel IMF CONDITIONS While applying for the facility, the Jubilee administration consistently
promised to shore up its domestic revenue collection, cut on recurrent expenditure,
lower the budget deficit and cut on debt exposure. In March, besides promising to effect 16 per cent VAT on fuel as a condition
to access the Sh150 billion insurance, the National Treasury and Central Bank
of Kenya (CBK) promised IMF that they will either remove or modify interest
rate caps and delay the implementation of some development projects. Although President Uhuru Kenyatta in July issued an executive directive
freezing all new government projects until the ongoing ones are completed, the
government is yet to scrap the interest cap law that limited lending rates at
four per cent above the CBK rate. IMF also wanted Kenya to cut its borrowing appetite. Even so, Kenya’s budget
deficit has been increasing, forcing the government to go on a borrowing spree
and further pushing public debt to the current Sh5 trillion from Sh1.62 trillion
in 2012. In February, IMF expressed concern over Kenya’s excessive borrowing in the
midst of a huge revenue deficit. Senior IMF representatives for Kenya Jan Mikkelsen, Ben Clements and Nike
Hobdari told the National Assembly’s Budget and Appropriations committee that
the debt which hit Sh4.6 trillion in November last year would be unmanageable
if borrowing continued. The government will this year spend Sh870.52 billion on debt repayments, a
half of Sh1.74 trillion KRA targets to collect from taxes. Early this year, global rating agency Moody’s downgraded Kenya’s credit
score to B2 from B1, citing pressure from rising debts. "Debt affordability is deteriorating as reflected by the increase in
government interest payments as a share of revenue to 19 per cent in Financial
Year 2017/18, from 13.7 per cent in Financial Year 2012/13," Moody’s reported. Read: Blow to Eurobond bid after Moody’s lowers Kenya’s rating See also: 'Lend to Kenya at your own risk', Moody's rating agency cautions Speaking on a local television station on Monday, Institute of Economic Affairs
chief executive Kwame Owino said Kenya’s debt burden of almost 60 per cent to
Gross Domestic Product is dangerous. He cautioned President Uhuru Kenyatta to resist the temptation of signing up
for more loans.  The President is in China, where he is expected to entered
more financial agreements. Last week, he met in Washington DC with US President
Donald Trump before returning to Nairobi to host British Premier Theresa May. Yet the government has failed to keep its promise on budget deficit
targets.  In financial year 2016/17 it had 9.1 per cent budget deficit
compared to a target of seven per cent. Last year, it had a budget deficit of 7.8 per cent from a target of 6.1 per
cent. This year, it has set an ambitious target of 5.7 per cent, lower than the
current 7.2 per cent. Projected spending has gone up from Sh1.6 trillion in 2013/14 to Sh2.29
trillion in 2017/18 and now to Sh3.1 trillion for 2018/19. Kenya also committed to cutting down on recurrent expenditure, promising to
adhere to the fiscal responsibility principle which requires 30:70 ratios of
development and recurrent expenditures in the total expenditure, respectively. This year, the country’s development budget of Sh625.1 billion is only 24
per cent of the total budget of Sh3.074 trillion. That
is below the 30 per cent threshold with recurrent at about 60 per cent and
transfers to counties 15 per cent. Watch: [VIDEO] Equity boss asks Kenyans to embrace fuel tax for better future ECONOMY EXPOSED Although the IMF review team that visited the country last month gave
positive sentiment about Kenya’s economic growth, it left without saying a word
on the new status of the facility. "Discussions focused on fiscal policies to achieve the authorities’ fiscal
deficit target of 5.7 per cent of GDP in financial year 2018/2019, interest
rate controls and structural reforms aiming to ensure the sustainability of
investment-driven, inclusive growth," said IMF. Loss of the IMF facility will have serious implications on the economy. "Without it, the Kenya shilling will be exposed and depreciate. This will
lead to a high import bill, forcing traders to hike prices of all commodities," said Kwame Owino, adding that debt repayment will be expensive and the country’s
creditworthiness will be downgraded. He added that the government needs to come up with solutions the country can
commit to in order to qualify for the International Monetary Fund precautionary
facility. "What will be different when the tax is reintroduced in 2020? They need
to provide alternative solutions to meet requirements," Owino said. Click here for the latest political news