Defending champions Samurai lost 6-9 to Space & Style in the opening match of the Kenya International 14 Goal tournament staged at the Nairobi Polo Club yesterday. Samurai’s captain, a five goaler Lance Watson admitted that the match was competitive but was optimistic they can still recover and retain the trophy in the four-team round-robin tournament come Sunday. The winning side comprised of handicap four Buster MacKenzie, Kenya’s top seed five goaler James Murray, Philou Salle 2 and Henry Limb 2.5, while Samurai is made up of Lance Watson 5, George McCorkel 3.5, Mbugua Ngugi 2.5 and team patron handicap 2/5 Raphael Nzomo. Leading by a goal ( 4-3 ) at the break, Samurai will have themselves to blame for shooting wide from open play. Watson is, however, not discouraged with the loss and he is ready to lead his side to a major comeback, starting today. “The scoreboard results was not the true reflection of on-pitch game but there is always a winner and a loser in any competition. The game was a neck-to-neck affair but we blew a number of chances to control the scoreboard. We still stand a chance to win and we are not leaving anything to chance,” intimated Watson. Salle, one of the Nairobi Polo Club’s veteran players, said having Buster and Murray in their camp helped balance the team, giving them an edge over Samurai. He said today and tomorrow’s matches are going to be different and better. “The opening game was tough but great teamwork and our ability to control, won the game for us.” “ We had a very good first match so we are going to build up on that tomorrow (today) and Sunday. We may make few changes in our positioning and re-strategise. The ensuing duels will be different, that’s for sure,” intimated Salle, who has played polo for over two decades. In the second match, White Cap (Chris MacKenzie 7, I Voorspuy 3.5, Kimoi Moi 2 and Joss Craig 1.5 ) narrowly lost 9-10 to Four Of A Kind (Gareth Evans 5, Craig Millar 3.5, Tarquin Gross 3 and Tiva Gross 2.5 ) in a watertight display. Samurai meet White Cap today, while Day One winners Space & Style face off in the other tie.