Nameless is ready to be a dad again with his wife of 13 years, Wahu, but he would neither confirm nor deny if she is pregnant. The couple have been blessed with two girls, Tumiso and Nyakio, and to show his love and appreciation to the mother of his kids, Nameless released a song for Wahu on their 13th anniversary. “Siwezi mind a boy now that I have two girls, but we are still under discussions,” he said. “Sometimes, pictures are taken and fans wanaona vitu zao and start suspecting she may be pregnant. Those pictures you see could be that she ‘ate’ a lot that day so her stomach was big. I am with her everyday but I have not realised, but I don’t mind another kid.” Asked to confirm if she is pregnant or not, Nameless laughed and said: “I don’t really know but I will talk to her and ask to confirm by myself. Being in the public, you know that you are the target for scandals. So we are careful with everything we do, especially because we have a family to protect. So we try balance and put family matters away from the media.” On their 13th anniversary, Nameless released a song called I am good, a true manifestation that real love does exist. “I had written the song sometime back, when in the studio. It was what I was feeling in my heart. I thought of how important family is although I did not have the pictures then, that is why I released it now.” Nameless said he has celebrated their anniversaries differently over the years. “Sometimes we travel just me and her either out of the country or even just in the country. Other times we decide to stay at home with our girls,” he said. “I remember there was a time I decided to take her to Arboretum, where we used to hang out when we were still in campus, just to remind her of where our love began.” The song means a lot to the Mathenges, and that is why he included every member in it. “We are so happy with our daughters and to me, that is what family is. So when doing the song, I decided to include them in the video.” The couple is considered one of those without scandals, with no backlash from their social media. “We know we have our own battles and we are not even perfect, but a lot of people are inspired by our marriage and so we have to be the best,” Nameless said. “We see a lot of goodwill and people wishing us well, so even with our struggles at times, we consider the people who look up on us.”