At least 17.4 million Kenyans are living below Sh92.4 per day, latest World Bank data on poverty rates shows. This is below the International Poverty Line set at Sh191.33 per person per day, using 2011 Purchasing Power Parity conversion factors. Neighbouring Tanzania has 20.7 million of its population living below Sh54.98, while 17.3 million Ugandans also live below the poverty line, spending Sh65.14. It means that these populations are unable... READ EACC seizes documents, computers from Kidero's office after 10-hour search Anti-graft detectives yesterday seized several documents and two desktop computers after a 10-hour search of former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero’s home and a private office. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission investigators raided the former city boss’s Muthaiga residence at 6 am and searched for six hours before moving to his private office at Eldama Park in Westlands. It is believed the officers sought documents to... READ Ruto gives Sh2 million to bail out Jirongo, Eugene offers car Deputy President William Ruto yesterday paid Sh2 million to bail out his friend Cyrus Jirongo. Jirongo was arrested on Tuesday for failing to pay a loan of Sh20 million owed to businessman Brian Yongo. On Wednesday, the registrar ordered Jirongo to deposit Sh5 million cash and a bond of the same amount to secure his release by 1pm yesterday or risk going to remand. Luhya leaders who included... READ Plight of girl, 12, subjected to FGM and thrice married off to old men Hellen Longoria (not her real name), a 12-year-old girl from Baringo county, has been to hell and back. The girl from Emobositit village, Tiaty subcounty, went through FGM and three early marriages before AIC Pastor David Kimeu and his wife Judy came to her rescue in September last year. ”I knew my life is back and I could soon go back to school to accomplish my dreams of becoming a teacher,” she said. Pastor Kimeu said... READ Iria hires plumbers to restore supply in war with water firm Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria is not relenting in his efforts to have the county take charge of water supply. He has taken his battle with Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) a notch higher by employing 150 plumbers to reconnect pipes. The firm had stopped flow to consumers. Iria said he will not allow the company to mistreat residents. He accused... READ  Your Weather NAIROBI: Partly cloudy - Day and Night. Low 13ºC. High 25ºC. Winds SE at 15 to 25 km/h. MOMBASA: Light morning rain; Generally clear at night. Low 21ºC. High 29ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 80%. KISUMU: Generally clear; Partly cloudy at night. Low 19ºC. High 31ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h.