Kenyans want justice for Sharon Otieno, the girl abducted with Nation journalist Barack Oduor who was found dead in Kodera forest on Wednesday. Homa Bay woman representative Gladys
Wanga led the call demanding that the government takes action against
those who not only executed but also ordered the killing. "The brutal murder of Sharon Otieno is deeply disturbing. Human life is
sacred, cannot be taken so recklessly. Also wishing my friend journalist
Barack Oduor a quick recovery," she said. The second year Medical Records student at Rongo University was pregnant. She added: "Those behind this heinous act must be brought to book, however high or mighty." More on this: Varsity student abducted with Nation journalist found dead in Kodera forest  ODM Director of communications Philip Etale said God will not let Justice be withdrawn. "Just how dangerous was Sharon Otieno to deserve death? Whoever did that must never be forgiven both on earth and Heaven. God doesn't allow anyone to kill another," he said. @ougomandela said: "Nothing! Absolutely Nothing! Justifies the killing of Sharon Otieno. If nothing is done and done real quick,then someone else will be killed again! Okoth Obado must be charged for murder and incarcerated for life!" "The murder of Sharon Otieno shows lack of imagination by the hitmen. When you murder a pregnant lady, the first suspect will be the father of her child if it's a love triangle," @ochiamos said. @McOdongoKevin said: "I thought young girls learnt from Mercy Keino’s death but I guess I was wrong." He added: "Sharon Otieno’s story is really painful, I don’t believe that was her fate. We know how this will go, Keino’s murderers are still roaming around free." "Let's demand justice for Sharon Otieno because nothing can justify murder; but it is also time we condemn this culture of ladies in campus dating their fathers, grandfathers and their ancestors, it doesn't and it won't end up well my sisters," @gichuru_eric said. @leemakwiny said: "Migori Governor Zachary Obado and his PA Michael Oyamo must be held directly responsible for the killing of Sharon Otieno... Obado must be arrested immediately he lands into Kenya from Rwanda." "What happened to sanctity of life? Sharon Otieno death shouldn't go unpunished.These governors are using their personal assistants to kill anyone they feel is a threat to their self proclaimed 'god' status," @Wamaeg said. Sharon's whereabouts remained unknown for a better part of Tuesday when the incident was reported. Police have arrested Michael Oyamo, the personal assistant of Migori Governor, as the key suspect. Homa Bay county commander Marius Tum said police officers were directed to the forest by a resident and found the girl's mutilated body. Details: Police probe abduction of Nation reporter Barack Oduor. Click here for the latest political news