Coach Dylan Kerr has challenged his Gor Mahia charges to seize the moment and impress a cluster of scouts expected to show up for their match against Everton on November 6. Former England and Liverpool skipper Steven Gerrard, who now serves as Scotland based Randers FC coach, is among the scouts expected to grace the eagerly awaited clash with the intention of signing East African talent. Gor will reignite their rivalry with the English side at Goodison Park in a televised match as they seek to avenge the 2-1 loss suffered in Tanzania last year at Taifa Stadium. Gor earned the rare happenstance to play the Merseyside-based club for the second time after retaining the SportPesa Super Cup in June, having beaten wh Tanzanian champions Simba 2-0 in the final. Kerr called upon his playing unit to fully grab the international chance and express themselves to the world for a potential move to overseas based clubs. “I am reliably informed that Gerrard will be among the top coaches who will attend the match and this is a challenge to my players to give their best and impress those who will attend the match. It is an opportunity for them to market themselves and the Kenyan football at large. Who knows, at least one or two may get new clubs abroad. I am confident this time round we will give a good account of ourselves and perhaps upset them at their backyard. Before then, I want to concentrate on winning the remaining six league matches.” The club’s striker Jacques Tuyisenge, who made history by scoring his side’s lone goal in the last year’s match, is confident of replicating the same this year. The Rwandese forward who has been nursing an ankle injury was optimistic he will have fully recovered prior to the match. He said: “I scored last year and I am looking forward for a repeat performance. I am confident before November, I will have recovered and in good shape. We thank our sponsors for the giving us an opportunity to market ourselves.” Meanwhile, SportPesa’s chief marketing officer, Kelvin Twissa pleaded with Kenyans and East African citizens who reside in England to turn up in large numbers and rally behind K’Ogalo. “I call upon Kenyans and East Africans who live in England to come and support Gor during the match. The tickets will be retailing at a reasonable price where adults will part with Sh650 while Sh130 for children.”