The one-laptop-per-child idea in Jubilee’s Digital Learning Programme could suffer a major hurdle if MPs approve the Sh5 billion budget cut proposal by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Statistics show that only about 19,000 out of a total 23,951 public primary schools countrywide have received tablets. This means that some 4,951 learning institutions could miss out on the digital gadgets should lawmakers slash the budget to just Sh6.9 billion. In the 2018/2019 budget, Sh11.9 billion was allocated for the Digital Literacy Programme to equip public primary schools with tablets as well as enhance capacity for teachers on ICT. The ambitious DLP unveiled in May 2016 started on a false, shifting from laptops as conceptualised in 2013 to a tablets projects due to what authorities said was cost implications. Read:Laptop project money redirected to Konza The initial target was to equip all up to 1.2 million Standard One learners in all public primary schools with laptops. This was supposed to entrench information and communication technology in the teaching and learning process. But with the reduction in the budget it means that up to one million pupils yearning to embrace tablets would have their dreams quashed if MPs approve the budget cut proposal. The project started to receive funding as early as 2013, with Sh17 billion being the initial funding for the project when the Jubilee administration rode to power. Read : Laptops to be updated with new content Provision of free laptops was the main campaign plunk for Jubilee and the platform upon which President Uhuru was elected in 2013. Uhuru’s budget cuts proposal in the first supplementary budget for this fiscal year will be tabled on the floor of the National Assembly in a special sitting today. In another big hurdle that could further thwart the Digital Learning programme, the President has also proposed a reduction in budget in the rural electrification and installation of transformers project. The President proposes a Sh1.6 billion budget cut in the ambitious progromme for the connection of public schools to electricity. Click here for the latest political news