I am watching the second season of Westworld, that TV series liberally peppered with fable-like snippets of dialogue which, though simple in wording, convey much deeper meanings. One such snatch of dialogue, delivered by this bandolier-wearing, Pancho Villa type bandito character, gave me pause. It went like this: ‘…when I was just a little boy, my parents took me to the circus. I wanted to see the elephants… These mighty creatures. They held them in place with a stake. They could tear a tree right out of the ground, and yet, a simple stake kept them in place. Well, I didn’t understand. And then, my father told me. He said the stakes were used when the elephants were just young, too small to pull them up, and the animals never tried to pull them up again.’ Profound and yet familiar, for we are so much like those elephants. Those tethering stakes in the story are what we call hang-ups, which stem, most of them anyway, from our childhood. Hang-ups, like the stakes, keep us in place and hold us back. We are, all of us, unbalanced in some way or other, even though many might not care to admit it. We’re too timid or too assertive. Too focused on material success or lackadaisical. We’re determined never to rely on anyone, running away from lovers who are kind to us, or we’re desperate for the attention of another to complete us. The list of emotional imbalances is endless, but whatever your hang-up, the one thing that is certain is hang-ups make you less able to exploit your talents, less able to lead a fulfilling life, and generally a less fun person to be around. And it is our childhoods, even the most gentle and kind, that leave us no option but to be anything else other than emotionally volatile creatures. I read somewhere that adulthood is only an extension of our experiences as a child. There’s truth in this sentiment, in that even though most of us are reluctant to examine our emotional pasts, unless a therapist is in the equation, we can tell, and see for ourselves, that our imbalances date back to childhood. This is because these imbalances reflect the feelings and the thinking of the children we once were. We can tell that having grown up surrounded by material instability, we had to overachieve when it came to money and social prestige. We see that hurt by a dismissive parent, or guardian, and we fell into patterns of emotional avoidance. A temperamental parent pushed us towards our present adult meekness. A busy, inattentive parent set us on the path to a personality that constantly seeks attention. There’s a poem by Philip Larkin that speaks to this. Titled, This be the verse, the opening verse goes: They screw you up, your mum and dad. They may not mean to, but they do. They fill you with the faults they had. And add some extra, just for you. That being said, there’s nothing stopping you from changing the script. We assume wrongly that because our hang-ups come from our childhoods, we’re tethered to them for good. We fail to realise that we’re no longer those small circus elephants held back by stakes, but mighty creatures now that can tear trees right out of the ground. It takes some doing, some patient inner exploration, but you can break free from hang-ups. So break free.