Three policewomen at a Nairobi police station have perfected the art of taking bribes, Corridors is informed. The cops based in a certain renown Room 4 at the station almost tore each other apart recently over a rape suspect’s bribe of Sh20,000 to secure his freedom after he was reported. The bosom buddies are reported to have fallen out and one is reportedly considering transferring from the station. Corridors wonders why the officers are not of interest to Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. ***** A first-term MP from Rift Valley has become the laughing stock of his colleagues due to the sexual escapades of his wife. The wife has slept with the MP's friends, her driver and even army officers in the neighbourhood. The MP confronted his wife's driver but a fight ensued leaving him with a hand in a cast. The cuckolded youthful MP has resorted to paying a lot of money to some people working with a mobile service provider to be tracking the movements of his wife. He has also bugged her car lest the wife carries any male passengers. The equally randy man seems to have met his match in his wife. How long the marriage will stand is everybody’s guess. ***** An embattled official of a parastatal situated in Nairobi's Upper Hill area who was recently charged with corruption has resorted to cat-and-mouse games. According to those in the know, the official has acquired an office space at a nearby building opposite his former office from where he is closely monitoring events. Corridors understands that the man has planted several spies at his former office as well as engaged parking boys to monitor everything. Last week, the man was reportedly spotted signing several documents at the nearby restaurant. ***** City residents are still shocked at the laxity of Nairobi City County health department officers. Several people have complained that two restaurants, one situated not far from Parliament and another one located near the National Transport and Safety Authority are said to be selling bad meat. Customers suspect it is game meat from Naivasha but no one is acting despite many complaints. Click here for
the latest political news