Amnesty International has called upon the Kenyan government to halt the ongoing crackdown on undocumented migrant workers. The rights group wants the hotline 0745660151 for residents to alert authorities of the presence of illegal migrants shut down. "This hotline should be immediately shut down. All those arrested in the crackdown should have their detention reviewed," Seif Magango of the agency said. The Amnesty Internationals' deputy director for East Africa it is extremely worrying that citizens are being encouraged to call a hotline to report cases of suspected undocumented migrants. He said that the authorities' action targeting irregular migrants has mostly affected refugees and asylum seekers. This came after hundreds of migrants, refugees, and asylum seekers were arrested around the country. The raids have intensified since August 27 when the Immigration Department set up the hotline number for citizens to report irregular migrants. "This approach is likely to ignite xenophobia against foreign workers, refugees and asylum seekers," Seif said. He wants the affected to presented before a tribunal to verify whether the state's action is lawful, necessary and proportionate. "All refugees and asylum seekers arrested in this crackdown should be released, as they cannot be deported," he added. On May 21, Kenyan authorities began a 60-day process of verifying work permits held by foreigners in the country. On August 24, Interior CS Interior Fred Matiang'i ordered the Immigration Department and security forces to arrest, detain and deport all irregular migrants by November 30. Various homes in Rongai, Mwiki, Pangani, Ngong, Kasarani, and Githurai have been raided following the directive. The raids have also been executed in Bungoma, Nyeri, Eldoret, and Nakuru. "Amnesty International's finding show people from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Somalia and South Sudan have been affected," Seif said. He condemned instances where people were picked up from their homes, places of worship, and the detention of those found without documents. "The Kenyan government must stop hounding people who have fled war and persecution in their home countries, but instead protect them." He said that students, citing a case of a South Sudanese with valid papers, have also been affected. More on this: Drug dealers 'marrying' Kenya girls to aid traffickin Click here for the latest political news 