Leaders from Ukambani have urged Nairobi governor Mike Sonko’s critics to leave him alone. They said on Saturday that Sonko deserves respect from across the country. The leaders cautioned the Nairobi assembly against distracting Sonko with impeachment threats, saying the MCAs will not succeed. They spoke during the third death anniversary of Sonko’s father Gideon Kivanguli at Kathumani Primary School in Mua, Machakos county. Those present included Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, MPs Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Stephen Mule (Matungulu), Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi), Charles Nguna (Mwingi West), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti), Woman representatives Irene Kasalu (Kitui), Joyce Kamene (Machakos) and Rose Museo (Makueni) among others. “Sonko is the only Jubilee leader from Ukambani. If you touch him, it means you are touching all Kambas. He should not be touched,” Mbai said. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta, Opposition chief Raila Odinga and Kalonzo to caution Jubilee, ODM and Wiper MCAs in Nairobi against an attempt to impeach Sonko. “Nobody has a monopoly on impeachment. If they impeach Sonko, we impeach someone,” Mbai said. The leaders said they will stand with the governor as Kambas. However, 60 Nairobi MCAs denied claims they intend to impeach the governor. They said they have a good working relationship with Sonko, and blamed the media for the impeachment reports Makau said Sonko is an exemplary leader who does not propagate negative ethnicity. He said the governor has united Kenyans, is generous, supports the poor, the less privileged in society and respects all, whatever their social status. “We do not want anybody to joke with Sonko, ‘utajiri si mali uko nayo bali yale unayotenda kwa watu [wealth is not the material things you have, but what you do for your people],” said Makau. Mbooni MP Michael Kisoi said Kambas will go to the streets if Sonko is touched. His Embakasi East counterpart Babu Owino said the MCAs should give Sonko time to serve Nairobi residents until his term ends. Former Nairobi mayor Joe Aketch said cartels want to finish Sonko.Makueni senator Mutula Kionzo Jnr said the governor’s impeachment would not go beyond the Senate. “They will not touch you. If it gets to the Senate, it will end there. I am the chief whip, they will do everything to impeach you but they will not succeed,” he said.   