Senators have blamed the high mortality rate at Pumwani Maternity Hospital on mismanagement. Johnson Sakaja, vice chair of the Senate Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations, said the facility's services are wanting. He expressed his surprise upon learning that the hospital lacks cooling facilities for preserving bodies. "It is unacceptable for dead babies to be wrapped in polythene bags. They deserve dignity," he said on Wednesday. Read: Pumwani dead infants saga: Maternity has no mortuary The committee was informed that systems and equipment had failed. The incinerator stopped working three months ago. "We have been told the cleaner sometimes finds babies' bodies inside garbage," Sakaja said. The Nairobi senator said the number of babies' dying at the hospital is alarming. He said the Senate will probe the deaths. The committee said it will inquire about how much money the county allocates the hospital. Senator John Kinyua, who is the chairman Devolution Committee, said they will get to the bottom of the matter. "The county government should take its work seriously," he said. Health committee chairman Michael Mbito backed calls for investigations into the Pumwani incident. Mbito said the Pumwani infant deaths should not be politicised. He said the hospital has a shortage of staff. On Tuesday, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Union accused Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko of politicising the matter. The governor has suspended four senior City Hall officers citing insubordination. Read: Nairobi health officers differ with Sonko on Pumwani crisis, cite systemic flaws Related: Pumwani saga: Sonko suspends Health executive, three officers for insubordination "It will be difficult to achieve the Jubilee government's Big Four agenda if governors are not working," Mbito said. Universal healthcare is one of the pillars of President Uhuru Kenyatta's development agenda. Mbito said the governor needs to shed more light on the matter. "We need to be sure funds are being spent well at the hospital," he said. Click here for the latest political news