When Joyce Njenga replaced her traditional open-fire hearth with
an energy-saving stove, she was pleased it lived up to its
promised efficiencies: using less firewood and halving cooking
times. But it also keeps her family warm in cold weather. "When I finish cooking in the kitchen, I carry the cooker to
the living room where my family keeps warm for the rest of the
evening," the mother-of-five said. And before bed, she puts water on the stove so a warm bath
is ready by the time the sun rises over Nguriunditu village in
central Kenya. More than 100,000 homes in Kenya use the stove - known
locally as jiko okoa, a Swahili phrase that means a cooker that
saves energy - for food preparation, said Joseph Njoroge, the
principal secretary at the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum. But a third of users have found an additional benefit from
it, he said: heating. And with the country's meteorological department warning in
June that the cold season could get chillier in the future due
to the effects of climate change, that number could rise. HEALTH IMPACT Burning wood, coal or kerosene indoors - as about 2.8
billion people worldwide do every day, the International Energy
Agency (IEA) says - can be highly dangerous. The associated
pollution kills about 2.8 million people each year, according to
a 2017 IEA report. The health burden, which includes strokes, heart disease,
breathing disorders and lung cancer, falls mainly on women and
young children, according to the World Health Organization. In order to tackle that, the UN Foundation in 2010
launched a worldwide program to tackle the problem of illness
and deaths from indoors cooking. That effort is run by the Global Alliance for Clean
Cookstoves project, which aimed to provide 100 million homes
with clean and efficient stoves and fuels by 2020. By 2017, the alliance said it had distributed about 81
million stoves worldwide - including in Kenya - that were clean
or efficient or both. Njenga's stove came from a different effort, the Muguga
Ecosystem Research Community Forest Association (MERCFA), a
community-based organisation. Simon Kamonde, who chairs MERCFA, said demand for the stoves
- which are funded by the African Development Bank in
partnership with the government - was high as they save energy
and have multiple uses. "It has a clay lining that prevents heat from escaping, uses
two firewood sticks at a time, is very quick to cook with, and
does not release a lot of smoke, making it ideal for warming in
modern homes," he said. More efficient stoves are healthier. A 2016 study in western
Kenya showed they produced fewer toxins than the traditional
cooking fire, set amid three large stones used to support a pot. Harmful small particulate matter dropped as much as 42
percent, while carbon monoxide emissions were down as much as 34
percent, the study found. However, the study found that the efficient stoves still
produced more than the WHO-recommended levels of small
particulate matter emissions. MERCFA's Kamonde said the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning
- a known issue with burning fuels such as firewood and charcoal
indoors - was not likely when using the jiko okoa, because its
design funnels more oxygen to the wood while it burns. MERCFA discourages the use of charcoal, which is more
polluting. In Njenga's village, more than 200 of 600 homes now use the
stove. Kamonde said MERCFA aims to distribute it to more than
5,000 homes in the county by the end of next year. Using the stoves also means fewer trees are felled in nearby
Muguga forest, where villagers traditionally source firewood,
which protects the environment, Kamonde said. "Within one year, a family that used about six trees per
month for firewood is now using two trees," he said. In Njenga's case, using the traditional three-stone hearth
required 600 kilograms of wood a month. Now she uses no more
than 100 kilograms, she said. BRISK BUSINESS In 2016 the government cut import duties on the stoves, many
of which are made abroad, from 25 percent to 10 percent, helping
small businesses that sell them, said Njoroge. "This has made the technology more affordable and enabled it
to be integrated into the market retail chain. Our long-term aim
is to ensure the cooker is manufactured locally so as to create
jobs," said Njoroge. Demand means brisk business for Joseph Kimani, a trader from
Githunguri village in central Kenya. He sells about 20 stoves a
week at Sh1,200 ($12) each, earning him $40
profit. He said even people with access to electricity prefer the
stove for preparing food and heating their home; they reserve
electricity for lighting and powering their television. "The uptake of the cooker is very good simply because it
uses very little firewood, saves money, (and) is safe to cook
with," he said. The risk of burns is much lower when compared with the
traditional three-stone fire, he said, because the flames are
contained entirely within the unit. Njenga said her daughter, who lives in the capital Nairobi,
was so impressed by the stove's efficiency that she now wanted
one "to keep her living room warm instead of paying high
electricity bills for her heater", the 57-year-old said. Other Kenyans remain cautious. Lucy Cianjoka, a 52-year-old
in Chera village in central Kenya, bought an energy-saving stove
in 2016, but only uses it in her kitchen to cook. She will not use it to warm the living room as she worries
about the smoke and the danger to children, she said. "I do not allow my children in the kitchen because anything
that produces fire and smoke is not to be trusted in terms of
safety," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Click here for the latest political news