A South Sudanese military court on
Thursday sentenced 10 soldiers to prison for the rape of foreign
aid workers and the murder of a journalist in an assault on a
hotel in Juba in 2016, and ordered the government to pay
compensation to the victims. The attack, one of the worst on aid workers in South Sudan's
civil war, took place on July 11, 2016, as President Salva
Kiir's troops won a three-day battle in the capital over
opposition forces loyal to ex-Vice President Riek Machar. Witness accounts said that armed men attacked the Terrain
Hotel for several hours. Victims phoned UN peacekeepers
stationed a mile away and begged for help, but none came, the
witnesses said. The military head of the UN peacekeeping mission, Kenyan
Lieutenant General Johnson Mogoa Kimani Ondieki, was fired over
the incident. Read: Ban Ki Moon sacks Kenyan Lt-General as head of UN mission in South Sudan The court case was widely seen as a test of will by the
government of President Salva Kiir to bring accountability in
the military that has long drawn accusations of widespread
rights violations and a culture of impunity. "The military court found that the accused here are guilty
for their direct responsibility in committing crimes," said the
head of the military court, Brigadier General Neath Almaz Juma,
when reading the verdict. Ten soldiers were handed sentences ranging from seven years
to life imprisonment. Eleven were on trial but one was set free
due to the lack of charges against him. Describing the incident, the manager of the Terrain Hotel,
Mike Woodward, told the court that "between 50 and 100" soldiers
arrived in the hotel in the afternoon of July 11 and began
looting an hour later. "Five women working with humanitarian organisations were
then raped. John Gatluak was shot at 6:15 p.m.," Woodward said,
referring to the South Sudanese journalist who was killed. An
American was also shot in the leg, he said. An American, an Italian and a Dutch were among the rape
victims. The court said the government must pay $4,000 to each of
them. It also ordered the government to pay 51 head of cattle to
the relatives of the local journalist who was killed in the
raid. The hotel owner is due to receive $2.2 million in
compensation for the destruction and looting of his property. South Sudan's war broke out in December 2013, two years
after it gained independence from Sudan, following a political
disagreement between Kiir and his former deputy Riek Machar. The violence, often fought along old ethnic rivalries, has
killed tens of thousands and uprooted nearly a quarter of the
country's population of 12 million. As the violence intensified and spread, both local and
international aid workers trying to deliver relief to the
displaced faced increasingly deadly risks. Nearly 100 aid
workers have been killed in the conflict since it started. Read: Furious Kenya pulls troops from South Sudan Click here for the latest political news  