Fresh from bagging the ITF Africa Junior Championships last week, fast-rising tennis sensation Angela Okutoyi sailed to the Britam Kenya Open quarter finals after beating compatriot Kitty Van Heyden 6-0,6-0 in the third round yesterday at Nairobi Club. The clinical Okutoyi made it to the girls’ last eight without dropping a game and she is expected to square it out with Madagascan Mialy Ranaivo in the quarters. Ranaivo overpowered Kenya’s Mary Wachira 6-2,6-0 to book a date with Okutoyi.  Joining Okutoyi in quarters was Kenya’s top seeded player Shufaa Changawa who saw off Rose Wanjala 6-0, 6-1 to set a quarter final date with Cynthia Cheruto who dumped out Ugandan Rossete Musoke 6-1,6-1. However, Shufaa is tipped to make it to semis after the 13-year-old Cheruto admitted that she can not match the prowess of the three-time winner of the tournament. She, however, noted that her intention is to pick at least three games in each set besides picking lessons from her experienced opponent. She said: “I know I can’t beat her (Shufaa) but my target is to get at least three games from either sets and learn from her. Making it to the last eight is a big achievement for me and I hope I will use the experience gained in this tournament in the junior events.” Meanwhile, the top Kenyan boys who were part of the historical win in the Davis Cup served off their second rounds with emphatic wins after enjoying a day rest courtesy of the Round One bye. Top seed Ismael Changawa booked a place in the third round with a 6-2,6-3 win against his sponsor and German national Christian Vater. Changawa conceded to be under pressure to play his sponsor but was happy to edge him out. “I was a bit frightened to face him since he is my sponsor but I had to show him why he invests in me. It was tough match especially in the second set which he approached with more vigour but I managed to shake off his resistance.” Changawa was joined in the third round by second seed Ibrahim Kibet who showed no mercy for 14-year-old Brandon Sagala whom he beat with similar sets of 6-3. Derrick Ominde also entered his name in the third round easily after his opponent Prince Nyakabau of Zimbabwe retired while trailing Ominde 5-1 in the opening set. Albert Njogu registered straight sets against compatriot Maxwell Ondiek while Petty Andanda was forced to sweat for his 6-3 and 7-6 ( 2 ) win over Isaya Etale. Experienced tennis coach Collins Oyugi led the casualties list after bowing 6-1, 6-1 to Abdoul Shakur of Burundi. Nixon Wekesa lost 6-1, 6-3 to Cuma Issa of Burundi while Humprey Acarpel fell 6-0, 6-1 to Frank Mehard of Tanzania.