Bungoma Speaker on Tuesday ordered that a committee be formed to probe claims by MCAs that the Governor Wycliffe Wangamati was using goons to intimidate them. Emmanuel Situma made the ruling after the ward representatives alleged threats by the said 'militia-like' groups over their criticism of the county chief's performance. The committee will be chaired by Mbakalu
MCA Bethwel Mwambu who moved the motion citing "the alarming rate at which staff close to the governor had threatened them". The ward representatives alleged that a senior county government staff leads the group of those who threaten them in the oversight process. But Bungoma communications director Tim Machi denied the claims saying he was not aware of such a group. "I am neither aware of the said militia nor are we privy to the discussion. We will only comment once it is brought officially to our attention," Machi said. In moving his motion, Mwambu told the House that several members have been attacked by the said group. "If we don’t wake up as a house and address this issue, I am afraid our lives are at stake," Mwambu said. He cited an incident on September 12 where Nominated MCA Luke Opwora was allegedly beaten up by guards at a Bungoma club. Opwora was accused of participating in demonstrations against the governor a day before. Read: Wangamati too bossy, angry MCAs complain Siboti MCA Simiyu Wamusai claimed he was on Sunday blocked by the "gang" from entering a church in the company of three other MCAs. "Were it not for the police this group had an intention to abduct us Mr Speaker," he said. Two weeks ago, the MCAs stormed into Wangamati's office demanding that he leaves. At least 42 out of 63 of them signed a petition to impeach the county boss  for failing to initiate development projects since he was elected. The impeachment motion was, however, suspended after the two parties met and resolved to dialogue over the thorny issues. Also read: Bungoma MCAs storm Wangamati's office, demand his exit for lack of projects Click here for the latest political news