Article 43 of the Constitution is very clear. It says every Kenyan has the right of access to quality and affordable healthcare, including reproductive health. This article was not put in the Constitution simply to give the government more responsibility. The responsibility has always been there. The only problem regarded how the responsibility was exercised. It should be remembered that for a long time, Kenya was the only country in Africa to have established a state-supported healthcare system for its civil servants. It was called the National Hospital Insurance Fund. Civil servants contributed a small portion of their salaries to a pooled fund every month so that they could receive some coverage of their health expenses whenever they were admitted into a hospital. Hence, NHIF dealt only with in-patient care of civil servants and parastatal employees. Let it also be noted that for out-patient care, government facilities gave subsidized services targeted at the lower classes in society. These services very often had tremendous shortcomings: Lack of adequately trained personnel, shortages of drugs and scarcity of the facilities in Kenya's rural areas. Eventually, NHIF became a statutory contribution for all employees in both public and private sectors. Deductions were made directly from individual salaries and neither employers nor government contributed to the fund. This was a big shortcoming in building a strong financial base for NHIF. The World Health Organization, as well as the International Labour Organization recommend that both employer and employee should contribute to such health insurance schemes. When the reformed Narc government was established, its major goals included "access to affordable and quality healthcare for all Kenyans". The first attempts in Parliament to introduce a comprehensive national health insurance scheme failed because the Bill passed by Parliament was not signed into law by the President. During the Coalition Government, what is now being implemented as Universal Health Coverage was not only inscribed in the 2010 Constitution, but also in an act of Parliament, which extended health coverage to both in-patient and out-patient services. It also went beyond health coverage conceived as a purely hospital affair. The concept now included a holistic view of health, including family health, primary health, public health and societal health. Societal health includes matters of environment, food and nutrition, as well as recreation. In the structure and functions of government, health is a function of devolved government. Devolved government is structured in such a way that for the implementation of Universal Health Coverage to succeed, village councils will have to play a vital role. This is because matters regarding health, including provision of clean and potable water, provision of food, environmental protection, and access roads, all touch on the livelihood of every village resident. Hence, when the county spends its developmental resources, sufficient and adequate attention must be paid to the village, as a key player in healthcare delivery. When doctors and nurses are trained, they will have to deal with three subjects, which are key to universal health care and delivery of health at the village level. These subjects are family health, primary health and public health. At the moment, the training of health workers does not seem to lay adequate emphasis on these subjects. But even more important, is the fact that village functions are starved of resources due to inadequate allocation for funds to county governments. In principle, and in line with Schedule Four of the Constitution, when the Commission for Revenue Allocation is allocating funds to both national and county governments, it should take note that resources must follow functions. But this principle seems to be paid inadequate attention by both the Treasury and the CRA. Herein lies the danger or the threat to the success of Universal Health Coverage. Given the fact that the national government has chosen health as part of the Big Four agenda, and further given the fact that this function is largely a county function, both branches of government need to realise that adequate resources will have to be put in development at the village level. For far too long, matters development at the village level, have been left entirely in the hands of the villagers, or have at times been outsourced to NGOs. But when things go wrong at the village level, we shall see villagers calling on the government for help, in utter despair. This is because the villagers have been socialized to know that in the final analysis, their government is their ultimate protection. Hence the cry that we often hear of "Serikali tusaidie" (Government help us!) comes from recognition that when all is said and done, at whatever level of life, the government holds the ultimate responsibility for the safety and livelihood of its citizens. I believe that it is in this spirit that we are now facing Universal Health Coverage. We want it to be felt in every village. That is why we are taking its holistic view. Both the national and the county governments must wake up to this reality, otherwise UHC will be implemented simply as a formality, and not as a gamechanger in the lives of our people. When villagers get to know that they have a responsibility to look after their water resources; when they take it into their hands to ensure that they live in a habitable environment, with play fields for their children, and when they go back to the old practice of kitchen gardens having varieties of vegetables for nutrition, then, Universal Health Coverage shall have arrived in the village. All this cannot be done without the county government fulfilling its responsibilities as enshrined in Schedule Four of the Constitution. And this is why four counties have been chosen to pilot UHC for a period of one year. These are Nyeri, Isiolo, Machakos and Kisumu. During this trial period, we want to know what current gaps in delivering UHC. After these gaps are filled will UHC be fulfilled? 