Concrete is just as useful and versatile today as it was when the Romans discovered how to make it 2,000 years ago. Early masons used the humble mix of cement, sand, stone and water to build impressive structures, such as the Pantheon (AD 126), which is still in use as a house of worship. With its stout granite columns and massive concrete dome, the Pantheon gives full meaning to “built to last”. Today, it is hard to imagine modern life without concrete. We use concrete for everything, from home foundations to kitchen counters. About five billion tonnes of concrete are used around the world each year, enough for close to 700kg for each person per year. Rakesh Shah, the managing director of Garden and Patio, explained, “Concrete is also a great material for creating smaller items, such as planters. It is super-sturdy but simple. We have 250 different kinds of planters, which vary in size and colour to suit any décor. The construction of inner and outer moulds form the finished product, which is great for adorning gardens and patios. “Concrete planters have many advantages over plastic or wood containers. They are strong and durable and will not rot, or become brittle with time. Because they are heavy, they are less likely to blow over in the wind, or get knocked down by children, pets or lawnmowers. The big ones are also ideal for larger plants and small trees that are not moved around in the yard. “Some of the concrete planters available at Garden and Patio are stained, others are painted to create a range of decorative effects. If left bare, concrete can develop an aged, mossy look for a more natural, classical appearance. Mosaic tiles can be fixed to the outer surface of a planter to add colour or create a customised effect. Smaller planters can be moulded to fit spaces like window sills, bathrooms, reception counters and kitchenwork tops. “Simple concrete pots are also an excellent way to update your back and front garden without spending a fortune, whilst also adding a new texture to it. Even without a garden, concrete planters can be used to add outdoor feeling to the aesthetics of a facility, or a home. “Concrete planter boxes, pots and vessels are versatile and easy to use, and with so many sizes available, you can transplant existing flowers and shrubs, or do a whole new update for every season. For people who like to move plants around a lot, having some great-looking planters that are easy to move makes more sense than growing them in the ground.”