It, therefore, came as something of a
surprise when, subsequent to the infamous Naivasha meeting in January 2010
between the Committee of Experts and the Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC)
on the Review of the Constitution, the decision on a presidential system
emerged. During their internal deliberations, the CoE
found the system of government to be one of three contentious issues they would
need to address. The PSC, having received the report and the Revised Harmonized
Draft Constitution, deliberated on, among other things, the merits and demerits
of presidential, parliamentary, and hybrid systems of government based on
proposals set out by the CKRC, Bomas, and Wako drafts. The ultimate result of
those deliberations was the 2010 Constitution. What remains unclear to this day,
however, is the rationale used to arrive at the preference for a presidential
system. Our dalliance with the presidential system has in a very short time produced a host of
undesirable results, as has been the case with other manifestations of this
system around the world. First of all, is the winner-takes-all aspect, which, in
a polarized society such as ours, is deeply problematic. Secondly, the nature
of electoral contest it produces tends to focus on a single individual, the
presidential candidate, thereby limiting deliberation on ideology, issues of
national concern, or on the scrutiny of lower level candidates. Indeed, the electoral
victories of populists such as Jacob Zuma and Donald Trump in South Africa and
the Unites States, respectively, could at least partly be attributed to this
phenomenon. Presidential systems also have a tendency
to promote ethnicity and patronage, further characterised by the wanton misuse
of public resources we have witnessed in recent years. Furthermore, this system
has, despite attempts at constitutional safeguards, served to empower the
executive arm of government at the expense of the legislature. The resultant
situation is a Parliament that is increasingly dysfunctional, due to the fact
that it is beholden to the Executive. From a legislative perspective, this has
proven to have a detrimental effect on the quality of legislation produced: Legislation
has tended to be self-serving, narrow in scope, poorly drafted, and therefore
ill-equipped to address the issues it seeks to resolve. Proponents of the parliamentary system, on the other hand, suggest that it is better
suited to countries that are ethnically, racially, religiously or ideologically
divided, such as ours. Parliamentary systems are also thought to be less
susceptible to endemic corruption as a result of strong watchdog committees and
political parties that must pay much greater attention to the caliber of their
candidates in order to make it to parliament and form government. Furthermore,
it is thought that the electoral process in parliamentary systems does not
generate the kind of tension and bitterness that is manifest in contests for a
single presidential position, where the stakes are particularly high.
Parliamentary systems also reduce the likelihood of unsuitable persons ascending
to the leadership of political parties, and thus being eligible to head
government. In light of the above, we must therefore
ask ourselves: How it is that we came to settle on the presidential system? It
would be extremely difficult to argue that it has served us well. It is also
noteworthy that the presidential model has not fared particularly well in
Nigeria or Sierra Leone. Thus, one would hope that we are now in a position to
learn from the various painful lessons we have been taught by this ‘mongrel’ of
a system, as affectionately described by Professor Anyang’ Nyong’o writing in
these pages on diverse occasions. History demonstrates, and we ourselves have
first-hand experience of the fact that presidential systems have a tendency
towards conflict and marginalisation of smaller minorities. This has been the
case in Kenya since Independence. In our diverse, multi-ethnic, yet polarized
society, we may be well advised to place our collective energies in a system
that embraces and nurtures our diversity. If it is stability and prosperity we
seek, we can learn ample lessons on parliamentary democracy from India, New
Zealand and indeed, Britain. While it would be grossly inaccurate to
describe either system of government as better than the other, perhaps the most
important consideration is the question of context. It is incumbent upon us to
consider which system is best suited to our unique situation, as a result of
our history, our culture, and circumstances. This is a national discussion we
must hold sooner, rather than later.   The
writer is a governance expert