Accountants want the government to re-negotiate debt repayment by stretching the debt tenure. The Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya said the extension would help stabilize the current Sh5.04 trillion public debt and reduce current tax pressure imposed on Kenyans. “Although, the bulk of Kenya’s external public debt carries concessional terms with recent commercial borrowing entailing significant repayment needs in 2019 and 2024 (2014 sovereign bond issuance) we need to ensure that public debt remains stable,” ICPAK chairman Julius Mwatu said while opening a new ICPAK office in Nyeri on Friday last week. The accountants urged the government to consider Public Private Partnership and implementation of budget monitoring reports as primary alternatives to reduce external debt financing. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law the Finance Bill 2018 that creates new revenue raising measures to meet budget requirements. Among the new measures is the 8 per cent Value Added Tax on Petroleum products expected to generate Sh71 billion in revenue. ICPAK said these levies will have far and wide ramifications to the economy, including rising inflation, increase in the cost of basic commodities and travel, loss of jobs and low growth of the economy due to reduced investment. “Essential outcomes for debt instruments must be well articulated and demonstrated, that is, economic growth status before and after the intervention, significant change in poverty levels and increasing financial inflows,” Mwatu said. He said such facts will help to gauge whether the debt that was borrowed served the purpose for which it was intended or failed. The institute further called on the government to reduce spending in non-priority areas as an austerity measure to contain expenditure. Some of the proposed areas include streamlining allowances and rationalizing salaries to cushion public wage bill sustainability. ICPAK also wants the Salaries and Renumeration Commission to cap and issue fresh guidance on foreign and domestic travels.Other proposed areas to cut expenditure include Ministries, Departments and Agencies that consistently under-spend and whose absorption rates of development funds are below 50 per cent. Last week Treasury announced a Sh55.1 billion cut in government expenditure for the current financial year, in response to a public uproar over high spending and taxation. The national government budget was reduced from Sh3.026 trillion to Sh2.97 trillion, while recurrent spending was trimmed from Sh1.072 trillion to Sh1.06 trillion, saving Sh11.7 billion. Development budget suffered a major cut of 5.1 per cent, despite the International Monetary Fund setting the threshold at 30 per cent of the total budget. Treasury cut it from Sh677.2 billion to Sh642.8 billion, saving Sh34.3 billion.   