President Kenyatta arrived in Washington, DC, to find
two things dominating discussion in the Trump White House. There was a newly
signed trade pact to replace North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) that
became effective in 1994 under President Bill Clinton, and the controversy over
Trump’s treatment of the late Senator John McCain. On the latter, Trump yet again proved he has the
inordinate power to annoy everyone. Trump refused to accord the rightful honour
to McCain, a man who ran twice for the presidency and also a war hero.
Apparently even in death Trump still held grudges against him. John Cassidy
writing in The New Yorker this week
has described Trump as a ‘small, petty man…a liar and a crook…’ McCain had
strongly criticized nearly everything Trump did. He described the Helsinki
summit between Trump and Russia’s Vladimir Putin earlier in the year as “one of
the most disgraceful performances by an American President in memory.” When
McCain died, Trump only sent a cold tweet and then did the unthinkable by
ordering that the half-mast American flag atop the White House, which had been
lowered in honour of McCain, be raised to its normal state. It was into this
controversy that Uhuru walked into. But Trump would not care less.  TRADE NOT AID President Kenyatta went to the US essentially to sign
deals that would increase the American footprint in Kenya. I for one will be
looking forward to the 473km dual carriageway from Mombasa to Nairobi, which
will be constructed by Bechtel of America. Another is the $238 million that is
going to Kipeto Energy and Twiga Foods. These are essentially private sector
deals with very little government involvement and are not increasing our national
debt. In short, it is trade not aid. And that is the new US strategy to
counteract Chinese influence. At the end of the day, it is serving the interest
of America, which is playing catchup with China. It means that while the US slept,
China was setting up shop in Africa and using predatory government debt to fund
infrastructure. But while America is finally waking up and smelling Africa’s
coffee, there is still far too much that is skewed against Africa in its
dealings with America. The US has effectively killed the textile industry by
dumping second hand clothes in Kenya. The leather industry is on its knees and
these are some of the issues that must be re-considered. While America’s path
of working with the private sector is very welcome, it is not clear if Kenya
can safely trust Trump. He cannot be trusted and indeed if you look deeper, you
will begin to see why Kenya can’t sleep with both eyes closed. Although analysts have stated that America has had
its eye on Kenya for a while, there was something that was not quite right
about the whole visit. Geopolitically, Kenya has been at the frontline in the
fight against the al Shabaab  and in that
it is essentially fighting America’s wars. Why Uhuru? President Kenyatta has
been the darling of Western powers for a while now, and has once before
travelled to the White House. The last time though, it was more of an
invitation. This last one was more like he was being summoned to the White
House. It was rushed, hushed and the body language was not at all cordial. Trump
has the ability of abruptly spoiling whatever starts as a good and noble thing.
He met with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and quickly shattered that feel-good post-summit friendship between
the two rival nations. He went to England and ended up insulting and
embarrassing his host Theresa May. On both occasions, he had said some really
good things about the two leaders. In short, can’t trust Trump’s smile, or even
his handshake. There are far too many conflicts going on in his mind that he simply
cannot be trusted. Some people already believe Uhuru was invited to the White
House partly to satisfy Trump’s desire to minimize Obama’s legacy. You must
know Trump remains an unrepentant birther — those people who still believe Obama
is Kenyan at best and British at worst, never American.  BIRTHER MENTALITY You remember an American birther who came to ‘visit’
George Obama, the youngest and poorest sibling of Obama, at the onset of his
presidency. He came with money to give the man described by foreign press as
the ‘slumdog’ half-brother of Obama who lived in Nairobi’s dirty Huruma estate.
This was in sharp contrast to President Obama, who prior to moving into the
White House, was living in a posh $1.6 million mansion in Chicago. The birthers did not come all the way to Huruma because
they loved or even knew George. They did so just to spite President Obama. Such
is birther mentality. These people will in fact go to great lengths to prove a lie
and to make people believe it. A typical birther is essentially a Fascist. Trump
is a true Fascist and exhibits everything in classical Fascism – from the
‘tribe mentality’ to propaganda peddling and tokenism. Uhuru was offered some goodies
but the visit seemed more of a message to Obama and can be seen as part of
Trump’s relentless war against the Obama legacy. He needs to position himself
as having done more for Kenya than Obama, and we will not be surprised if this
comes up in one of his polemic tirades against Obama’s legacy. Trump needed to
hand over something to Uhuru, in the same way the American birther had visited
George to give him money. Trump is a serial and habitual liar. This month, the
head of the Washington Post’s
fact-checking team Glenn Kessler has determined that from the start of the
Trump presidency early to August this year, the US President has made 4,229
false or misleading claims, making that an average of 7.6 lies every single day
of his presidency! What a liar! Despite unashamedly lying to the American people and
the world, Trump’s job approval ratings have remained largely intact. He is now
in the middle of a legal conundrum involving payments he made to silence two
women he was romantically involved with – Stormy Daniels and Playboy model
Karen MacDougal. His lawyer, Michael Cohen, has already taken a ‘guilty’ plea
in what has turned out to be a massive PR disaster for the White House. But
despite all these, a recent poll suggested that his job approval ratings still
remain high. The answer to this is that Trump has made a firm Fascist grip on
America. Here is why.  GETTING AWAY WITH LIES Someone has suggested that Trump has herded America
and those who support him, into a ‘tribal’ mentality. This is when you create
fear in a certain group and tell them that those outside the group want to harm
them. This makes members of that group impervious to reason and truth. Everyone
else is bad except those in the group. And he has convinced his ‘tribe’ that America
has been desecrated by the rest of the world and blames that on poor former leadership
(read Obama). Trump hates Muslims, Migrants (Mexicans) and the Media (Trump’s
3Ms). He has probably instituted some of the worst measures against immigration
that saw children yanked out of their mothers’ hands just because they were
trying to enter America. He once outrageously claimed that he had seen Muslims
in New Jersey celebrating following the 9/11 attack, an assertion that he had
no basis in fact or evidence. He has condemned mainstream American media as
‘fake news’, dismissing any negative coverage of his actions. America is,
therefore, besieged by this tribal mentality, which is why his approval remains
uncharacteristically high and might just go on to win the mid-term elections,
and even a second term.  RISE OF FASCISM IN AMERICA America is fast hurtling into Fascism. In fact, there
are those who firmly believe that Trump can now be described in the same terms
as Benito Mussolini and other Fascist leaders of the 20th Century.
Those with this mind believe that unchecked, Trump may just be the catalyst for
a major international conflict in the very foreseeable future. When he came to
power under the slogan ‘Making America Great Again’, no one saw the Fascism in
that slogan and he quickly played into the minds of those who felt America had
become weak under Obama. This slogan has now become an ultranationalist, far-right
statement and has morphed into paranoid protectionism and outright authoritarianism.
And the world is scared. His rubbishing of independent media with his mantra
of ‘fake news’, is nothing but classic Fascism. He has antagonised every friend
of America from the G7 to the EU, from Germany to Britain. He withdrew America
from the UN Human Rights Council, which America had taken part in establishing.
He trashed the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Paris Climate Agreement and even
withdrew America from UNESCO, blaming it on fickle perceptions of bias against
Israel. Then he unilaterally withdrew from the Iran Nuclear Deal, causing
jitters around the world and helping spike the price of oil. His actions have unwittingly
lent a supporting hand to white supremacists and he has caused anger among the
African-Americans by declining their invitation to speak at the NAACP
conventions two years in a row, while sparing no effort to bar Muslim
immigration to America.  MAKING RUSSIA GREAT At the Helsinki summit, Trump emerged with an egg on
his face after meeting and seemingly losing his nerve in front of America’s
arch-nemesis Vladimir Putin. The US President made remarks that cast aspersions
on the abilities of the American intelligence community (America’s defense
against Russia) and seemed to believe the fox’s word that it did not have the
capacity to eat the chicken. He returned to America and flew right into a
political asteroid field forcing him to withdraw some of his remarks. But that
was the least of the storms that he has raised. Earlier this year, he openly backed
the separation of children from their ‘illegal’ immigrant parents before later
backtracking on it after he came under sustained pressure from everyone,
including his wife Melania. Blaming other people and even nations for certain
unpleasant realities at home present is only classic Fascist propaganda.  WHY KENYA SHOULD BE CAREFUL In short, America has a really bad President and it
shows in his every tweet and every speech and every action. With such a
mercurial approach to leadership, you have no friend. This is why Kenya must be
careful. While development initiatives and programmes are most welcome, we
cannot begin to imagine that we have a friend in America under Donald Trump. In
fact, with friends like him, nobody needs any enemies. 