Struggling Thika United resuscitated their dwindling dream to remain in the SportPesa Premier League with a rare 1-0 win over champions Gor Mahia at the Thika Sub-County Stadium yesterday. Michael Odongo’s 62nd minute goal proved the difference between the two sides as Thika survived a late scare by Gor to gather steam in their race to avoid the drop. It was the first victory for interim manager, Oliver Ruto since his elevation to the helm almost a month ago and the former goalkeeper trainer will ask his playing unit to replicate the same in their remaining five league matches which separate them and a looming journey down to the National Super League. The loss was Gor’s third straight after previous 5-3 and 2-1 defeats to Kariobangi Sharks and USM Alger in the SportPesa Shield Cup and the Caf Confederations Cup respectively. The initial losses were heavily linked to fatigue but they will have themselves to blame for the Thika loss after failing to turn up for training in the past one week in protest over unpaid allowances and salaries. Meanwhile, Wazito could be doing their final preparations to return to the National Super League after another attempt to remain in the top flight was foiled by Ulinzi Stars, who gunned them 1-0 at Kericho Green Stadium. Enosh Ochieng was the hero for the soldiers as he netted the lone goal of the match barely three minutes into the game, beating Wazito’s experienced gloveman Martin Musalia with a hard-drilled left foot volley just inches off the box. The hard-to-take loss for Frank Ouna’s side left them second from bottom with 27 points, four behind Chemelil Sugar and will have a task of surmounting the drop from the remaining four league matches to Zoo Kericho, Kariobangi Sharks, Bandari and Sony Sugar. Elsewhere, Moses Mudavadi’s brace inspired Kakamega Homeboyz to a slim 3-2 win over Nzoia Sugar at Bukhungu Stadium. The budding forward netted in the 27th and 81st minutes of the game to add on to Keiphas Mutuu’s third minute opener, goals which reduced Collins Wakhungu and Brian Otieno 18th and 44th minute goals to mere consolations. Vihiga United rallied from a goal down to settle for a one-all draw with Sony Sugar in Awendo. Meshack Karani threw Sony ahead in the 58th minute but his goal would stand for only two minutes as Dennis Wafula responded for Vihiga to have a share of the spoils.