Police in Bungoma county are investigating four girls and two boys aged between 14 and 18 who were arrested for renting a house to engage in sex. Chief Joseph Cheng’oli said, “We nabbed them when they had just cooked, eaten and were in the process of lovemaking. We caught them offguard.” A Nyumba Kumi agent said some were naked while others were in inner wear. The six, who were arrested on Friday evening, are being held at Bungoma police station. They allegedly rented a house near a secondary school in Kanduyi constituency, where they had been staying for a while. “The form one to three students are believed to be aged between 14 and 18 and have been living as couples during the night, but students during the day,” Cheng’oli said. “We arrested them and informed the school administration, which will inform their parents or guardians.” Cheng’oli said the police are carrying on with investigations to establish how long they have rented the house. They will be taken to Bungoma County Referral Hospital for tests. The chief was tipped off by a Nyumba Kumi officer who had also been informed by a resident of the goings-on. monitor children “They were holed up in a rented house after leaving school. We are looking for the landlord to help us unravel the puzzle,” Cheng’oli said. “I am warning landlords to stop renting houses to high school male and female students whom they suspect are living together; it can result in early pregnancy or sexually transmitted infections because the majority of them engage in unprotected sex.” The suspects were said to proceed home at night after engaging in sex and tell their parents they had been busy in school. “I’m calling on teachers, parents and guardians to monitor their students and children. Some of them think they are braver and they can end up ruining their lives if not taken care of,” Cheng’oli said. The chief said four of the suspects go to the same school, while two are from a neighbouring institution. “Necessary action will be taken against them once the medical reports are out, including being arraigned in court. Currently they are in police custody,” Cheng’oli said.