The National Assembly will start probing claims that some MPs were bribed with Sh10,000-30,000 to water down the contraband sugar report. Clerk Michael Sialai yesterday said the Powers and Privileges committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi will hold a sitting tomorrow to determine the individuals to appear before it to provide information. Muturi, Aden Duale (Majority leader) and John Mbadi (Minority leader) were accused by Kieni MP Kanini Kega of killing the report. They dismissed the claims. Legislators rejected it on August 9. Kanini co-chaired the joint committee on Trade and Agriculture that authored the report. Read: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report Sialai said the meeting will consider the “persons of interest, especially those who made the allegations, to provide information before the committee”. “Names of some individuals will be presented before the committee for consideration,” he said. Sialai said a day will be set for the individuals to testify. The committee intends to take advantage of the current recess to finalise its probe and report. Despite claims of widespread bribery in the sugar probe, no MP has owned up to receiving the money. Some have said they were approached. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said MPs were bribed. He is ready to appear before any investigative body to expose the culprits. The first-term MP, a member of the Powers and Privileges committee, said he is ready to testify against Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi. He accused Gedi of leading the “bribery campaign”. Gedi admitted to lobbying members to defeat the sugar report but denied claims she dished out money. Kiambu woman rep Gathoni Wamuchomba and Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara recounted how MPs were approached to reject the report. Wamuchomba said some MPs were bribed in Parliament’s toilets. “They told us the money was not our mothers’ and that we were being too arrogant. They went to the toilets and corridors to dish it out,” she said in Kiandutu slums, Thika. Kihara said some received the cash before the report was tabled. She said one MP from Nakuru county approached her and informed her that Jubilee had decided to defeat the report. More: Sugar bribe dished out in toilet – MP Click here for
the latest political news