The file of a 17-year-old boy who was allegedly shot dead by officers from Mariakani police station in July has been forwarded to the DPP. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said in its report, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority has faulted the police for the reckless shooting of Katana Kazungu. But the MP who has seen the report declined to give names of the cops who could possibly be charged. The deceased was a Class 7 pupil at Ndatani Primary School. He was allegedly shot dead by police officers who were trailing a truck. The family said Katana was not a criminal as claimed by police. Watch: [VIDEO] Family demands justice for son shot dead by police in Kaloleni Kazungu’s father, Fondo, told reporters his son had returned from a funeral when he was called by friends to help push a truck that was stuck in the mud following a downpour. The truck was transporting stones from a nearby quarry. Since his burial, IPOA has dug deeper to unravel the killing and deliver justice to the family. On Sunday, MP Katana and Muslims for Human Rights executive director Hassan Abdille asked DPP Noordin Haji to speedily prosecute the culpable officers. The duo spoke at a Muhuri legal aid clinic in Mombasa. “We thank IPOA for acting swiftly. Those involved in killings must be punished,” Katana said. Abdille noted Kenya is sliding back to the 2013-14 year when police killings were rampant and cases went unresolved. “It is not about condemning police but our life must be respected. You can’t just kill out of suspicion of criminality and radicalisation,” the Muhuri boss said. Abdille said the key role of police is to protect lives and property, not to kill. The law enforcers need to earn lost public trust. Abdille said police reforms announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta should be in mind, not in uniform. “The process must be serious. Uniform is good in branding but let’s check on the mentality of the officers wearing it,” he said. Three teenagers were reportedly killed by police in Utange, Kisauni, two weeks ago. Kenga Ramadhan, 19, Juma Kitsau, 18, and Bilal Masoud, 17, were shot dead after allegedly being rounded up by police. County police commander Johnston Ipara on Friday denied claims there is a hit squad targeting specific criminals. He said the three were in a group of over 10 people hiding behind the Utange primary perimeter wall with an intention to commit a crime. He said the suspects charged at the police before they were shot. “In defense, the officers were able to neutralise the three. The rest managed to escape,” Ipara said. He said two knives, a panga and a bag containing clothes suspected to have been stolen were recovered. But families of the deceased said they had no idea why their sons were killed. “I have never known my son to be a criminal. He has never been arrested. Why was he killed?” Mejuma Ndaro, Bilal’s mother, asked. More: Lobby accuses cops for 803 extra judicial killings Click here for the latest political news 