Anti-corruption officials have directed the Nairobi County Assembly to surrender numerous documents to assist in investigations of financial irregularities. The documents cover the 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19 financial year.s Acting clerk Nancy Kimutai is to furnish the commission with the list of all local and foreign trips MCAs and assembly staff. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission deputy director for investigations Humphrey Mahiva said the list should include countries, specific conference facilities visited and payments made to specific MCAs and the staff during the trips. The commission has also asked for the approved budget and procurement and a list of all pre-qualified suppliers and contractors in three financial years. A contract between Kensum Enterprise and Nairobi county to renovate the assembly chambers and all payment documents must be submitted. UNETHICAL CONDUCT The EACC letter was sent on Friday but the clerk received it on Monday. MCAs moved into the new chambers in August 2016, after it was refurbished for Sh200 million. The new chamber can accommodate at last 140 people. It has modern communication facilities, a public gallery and speaker’s gallery. Last week, the EACC summoned 13 MCAs over alleged unethical conduct after they stormed Speaker Beatrice Elachi’s office, attempting to forcefully eject her after he impeachment. Some 103 MCAs voted to remove her from office, two voted against while two others abstained. The MCAs removed her for causing ‘great embarrassment’ to the assembly. A court stayed the impeachment. However, the 13 MCAs had challenged the EACC summonses. They claimed that as a public body, EACC had allowed itself to be used illegally to intimidate and violate their rights to freely participate in assembly proceedings. “It is clear that MCAs have established a prima facie case against the EACC for investigation on them for participating in the county assembly’s proceedings in violation of the Powers & Privileges Act,” their lawyer Prof Tom Ojienda said. Last month, EACC detectives interrogated 19 members of the Labour committee over bribery allegations. They were questioned after a leaked audio recording suggested they had been bribed to alter a report. In June 2018, Speaker Elachi said she wrote to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations after she observed malpractices, including illegal procurement by the office of the clerk. Last month, DPP Noordin Haji directed the DCI to arrest assembly clerk Jacob Ngwele and four other senior county officials. They were charged with unlawful acquisition of public property at the assembly but were each released on Sh300,000 bail.