Globetrotting and foreign stays are much more expensive today than before. Some of the primary reasons are hefty airfares, high tariff on hotel and travel arrangements, and food. But, does that mean that you have to lock up your travelling aspirations and desires in a cupboard in some obscure corner of your mind? Absolutely not! You would just need to tweak your ways and habits a bit. For starters, get yourself the right travel card. You’ll not only save a lot but you can also enjoy privileges, which are otherwise reserved for the ultra-wealthy. Let’s see how travel/miles cards can save you more. Travel Is About Experiences. Gather More Such Memories While Paying Less With Your Card Would you believe us if we told you that you can fly from Singapore to Bali free of charge? Sounds like a fib? Let’s assure you that it’s not that difficult if you have enough miles on your card. With certain cards, you can earn 3 miles or more for eligible spends. Instead of sticking to a card that offers 1 mile per dollar, switch to a card that lets you earn at an accelerated rate and without worrying about impending expiry dates. Some of the other ways in which you can save more by using the right miles card are as follows: Use miles to book rooms in top hotels. Before you start believing otherwise, let’s clarify that miles earned on travel bookings, cab rides, or local/overseas retail spends, can be used for buying services other than booking air tickets. You may be able to book hotel rooms or redeem travel packages, depending on the terms and conditions of your card. With the right travel card, you might get to spend an extra night in a fabulous five-star property or enjoy a guided tour in a foreign locale for free. Now, who would dislike such privileges? Want to leave with an expensive memorabilia or souvenir? You might be able to get one for free! An exotic holiday usually never ends without purchase of souvenirs for friends and expensive gifts for family. With some travel cards, you can redeem the miles earned on your card for cash or retail vouchers with which you can buy luxury items. The right gift helps you make a powerful statement. It helps your friend know that you missed him/her while you were away on holiday. And it goes without saying that the right statement can help you get closer to him/her. Who says that money (or travel cards in this case) can’t buy you happiness? Missed your connecting flight? Don’t fret! Air travel is often unpredictable. It’s truer when you’re crisscrossing cities and countries in a short span of time. You may end up missing a connecting flight probably because the incoming flight carrying you couldn’t take off on time due to bad weather or technical issues. While the loss of time or inconvenience can’t be avoided altogether under such circumstances, you may still be able to save money by choosing a card that offers complimentary travel privileges. Good travel cards usually offer reimbursements for missed flights and travel disruptions. When you charge travel expenses to your card, you can enjoy peace of mind knowing that the money “invested” by you to buy the “perfect experience” is well-protected. You may also get reimbursed for delayed luggage arrival or loss of luggage. Save on foreign currency transactions. When you use a card for retail transactions overseas, you’ll usually have to pay a hefty foreign currency transaction charge. But, if you have the right miles card, you may get a full waiver on the bank’s administrative fee. The last thing you want is to pay US$5 for a burger which would normally cost you US$1 in your country! Although, remember that payment network fees and fees charged by foreign banks processing your payment are usually unavoidable. How to save money on food and beverages inside airports? Let travel cards come to your rescue! A good travel card usually offers you lounge access. It is not just about the convenience and comfort you enjoy but also about the money you can save because you’ll usually get free food and drinks as part of the package. It is common knowledge that shops and restaurants inside airports around the world charge more for everything. We’re not asking you to go hungry while waiting for connecting flights, merely trying to impress upon you the benefits of owning the right miles card with lounge access. Enjoy a flight upgrade or in-flight meal for free. With some cards, you may get airline fee credits on eligible spends. The benefit? You can earn free upgrades to higher ticket classes, enjoy free meals, or get a waiver on luggage charges or other airline administrative fees. These charges may seem insignificant in comparison to ticket prices and hotel reservation fees but if you’re someone who travels frequently, you’ll soon realise that such charges take a toll on your finances. A good travel card offers you more value by protecting you from these incremental costs. Need to cancel a trip but can’t do so because you’re worried about the loss? It won’t be an issue with the right card! When you charge travel expenses to your card, you may not be in a position to factor in certain uncertainties. What if you fall ill on the day of travel or a sudden emergency forces you to pull out at the last moment? Some cards offer you protection against trip cancellation. While there may be a minimum spend criterion or other preconditions, it’s probably better to pay a little more if it means peace of mind and protection. Why a Travel Card Is a Friend and Saviour? A real friend may not wish you on Friendship Day or send you a teddy bear on Hug Day. But, you can rely on him/her to support you unconditionally or come to your aid whenever required. A travel card is such a friend. The benefits and savings may not always be apparent. But, when you continue to use one for a long time, you’ll save more than you can ever imagine. Every single time you save money on this card, you may not feel – “Oh! I have saved enough to enjoy a luxury beach holiday in the Caribbean.” But, one fine morning you might wake up and voila, you realise that your wish has actually come true! You may just discover that you have accumulated enough miles on your card to book a free stay in a luxury property or travel to and from an exotic location free of charge. 