ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has criticised Deputy President William Ruto over his generosity during harambees across the country. He said “no Kenyan wants to be poor for government officials to come and give them money through harambees”. “People must know that you do not become a serious leader by walking around with huge sums of money to dish out to poor people,” Mudavadi said. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to be careful not to leave a legacy of a “begging country”. He said former President Mwai Kibaki left a legacy of a working nation. Mudavadi spoke on Saturday during the burial of Brenda Wamalwa in Sichirai village, Lurambi subcounty. Mudavadi said every Kenyan deserves to have their tax used prudently. He said Kenyans want their children to go to school, not to get freebies. Mudavadi stepped up his drive to consolidate Western. He attended four funerals on the same day in Vihiga and Kakamega counties. Mudavadi suggested VAT be reduced to 10 or 12 perc ent. He said a litre of petrol reaches the Port of Mombasa at Sh57 and it was unfair for the government to levy “more than 100 per cent taxes on the fuel by the time it reaches the consumer”. He said that high appetite for commercial loans and “reckless spending” by the Jubilee administration has pushed the country into an economic crisis. Mudavadi recently said the increased VAT on fuel products “is meant to pay for stolen funds at the energy sector”. “The government is taxing poverty to pay for stolen funds. It is worse when Kenyans are being taxed heavily to pay for corruption.” But on Sunday, Ruto rubbished Mudavadi’s sentiments, saying the government requires additional resources to propel the country’s development agenda. Ruto spoke at a fundraiser in Gikondi, Nyeri. Last week, during an interview on KTN, Mudavadi urged Uhuru to adequately equip agencies fighting corruption. He said the momentum in the anti-graft war is impressive, but must be escalated on all fronts. The ANC leader said that for the EACC, Directorate of Criminal Investigations, police and Judiciary to work well, they need to be motivated.