Paul Ngei, then Minister for Marketing and Cooperatives, was
involved in a maize scandal that caused a national maize shortage. A
Commission of Maize Inquiry, the first of its kind in independent Kenya, found
that Ngei's wife, Emma, was getting preferential treatment for her business through
which she bought maize directly from farmers, which was illegal. The report was promptly shelved and never heard of again
as Ngei worked his way back to Cabinet, from which he had been suspended when
the scandal broke. This laid the foundation for a curse that still bedevils the
country, as senior politicians and powerful individuals grab, steal, embezzle
or outright extort, get caught, only for them to be suspended, arrested for
“investigations,” and nothing more happens. The one difference between this incident and the
corruption of today is the astounding sums of money involved. In the Ngei case,
Sh33,000 was involved — yes, a lot of money back then but nothing compared to
amounts being looted today. About 14 years ago, the then Britain envoy to Kenya,
Sir Edward Clay, lamented that corrupt ministers were “eating like gluttons”
and “vomiting on the shoes” of foreign donors — a crude but apt description of
what was then seen to be Kenya reaching the height of corruption. It is a
miracle the country has withstood the onslaught this far: But for how much
longer? As Clay noted in his famous speech in 2004, highlighting
and condemning corruption, Kenya is not a rich country in terms of large oil
deposits, diamonds or some other buffer, which might featherbed a thoroughgoing
culture of corruption. Rather, what we chiefly have is our people — their intelligence,
work ethic, education, entrepreneurial culture and other skills —  who give us the potential to regain our diminishing
economic fortunes and leadership role in the region or the continent for that
matter. Sir Clay warned that those assets will be lost if they are
not managed, rewarded well and properly led such that one day we may wake up at
the “end of this gigantic looting spree” to find Kenya's potential is all
behind us, becoming a land of lost opportunity. Well, the gigantic looting spree never stopped and has, in
fact, gotten worse. This begs the question, for how much longer can this
pandemic be allowed to continue before all hope is lost and we become an also
has been country? We might as well reckon with the fact as a country, we’re
no better off being self-governing than we were under colonial rule and that’s
not to say colonial rule and its atrocities is anything we deserved. Indeed, there’s truth in what Professor Niall Ferguson of
Harvard has noted. That most sub-Saharan governments since independence have
managed to treat their populations significantly worse than the British did. “For
all its imperfections, the Colonial Civil Service was not corrupt. When money
was sent to build railways or schools, British officials did not simply pocket
it.” This is so true but compare that with the procurement
scandals that have plagued Kenya and literally brought it down to its knees.  There’s scramble now to avoid a revolt among Kenyans
over the 16 per cent VAT law that would have been implemented with no qualms
had the looters not stolen everything, leaving Kenyans pay more for their cost
of living. To paraphrase the good Harvard professor, it serves as a
worthwhile reminder that exploitation did not cease with independence. The
colonists had their condemnable faults but African governments have often been
more exploitative and worse for economic growth. Kenya is no exception. It’s about time Kenyans shed tribal and partisan nonsense
and let’s all (not just the opposition) demand good governance, accountability
and action to reign in this mega corruption, which is suffocating the country.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the
United States 