Ethiopia has been
lauded by experts from China's ruling Communist Party as a
"model country" in Beijing's $126 billion Belt and Road
initiative to build rail, road and sea links tying China to
Eurasia and Africa. But as the Horn of Africa nation of 100 million people faces
debt distress, there are signs that China, a major creditor, is
slowing financing to Ethiopia as doubts grow over the
profitability of some infrastructure projects there. "The intensifying repayment risks from the Ethiopian
government's debt reaching 59 percent of GDP is worrying
investors," China's mission to the African Union in Addis Ababa
said on its website in July. It said that Chinese investment in Ethiopia country was
cooling and that the China Export and Credit Insurance Corp was
reducing the scale of its investment there. Against a backdrop of rising worry over African indebtedness
to China, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed will visit Beijing for the
Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), which starts on
Monday. He is due to meet Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang and is
expected to court investment from Chinese firms into Ethiopia's
agro-industrial and pharmaceutical businesses, China's Xinhua
news agency said. Ethiopia has been a top destination for Chinese loans in
Africa, despite its lack of natural resources, with state policy
banks extending it more than $12.1 billion since 2000, according
to the China Africa Research Initiative (CARI) at the Johns
Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington
(SAIS). More on this: Despite debt woes, Africa still sees China as best bet for financing The country's ruling EPRDF coalition, in power since ousting
a military junta in 1991, aims for Ethiopia to reach middle
income status by 2025 and is pursuing ambitious
manufacturing-led industrialisation that has involved building
roads, a railway, and industrial parks - as well as mounting
debt. Ethiopian Central Bank Governor Yinager Dessie told Reuters
in July that the government hopes to reduce its debt with China,
which he said holds most of Ethiopia's bilateral foreign debt. "We will have some discussions in the months ahead. I don't
exactly know where that discussion will take us in terms of
seeing or looking for diversified options for debt repayment,"
Dessie said. RAILWAY BLUES China's concern over the profitability of some of the
transport projects it is backing in landlocked Ethiopia has
focused on a standard-guage railway connecting Addis Ababa to
the port of Djibouti. "The sustainability of the projects is weak," Zhao Lei, a
professor at the Central Party School in Beijing, wrote in the
party-run Guangming Daily in June, pointing to a Chinese-funded
light railway around the capital Addis Ababa and the
Ethiopia-Djibouti rail project. He said there had been "insufficient consideration of the
additional infrastructure and the service and maintenance". The main section of the railway opened in 2016, but Chinese
financing for a northern extension, from Woldia to Mekele, has
suffered multiple delays and the full funding package from the
Chinese Export and Import Bank has not been released yet,
according to Tang Xiaoyang, a professor at Tsinghua University
in Beijing who does fieldwork in Ethiopia. The main concern causing delays is the economic
sustainability and feasibility of the project, he said. China's ExIm bank and the China Communications Construction
Company did not respond to faxed requests for comment. "ExIm has become more risk-averse for new projects," said
Yunnan Chen, a researcher at the China Africa Research
Initiative at SAIS. Ethiopia is likely hoping for a breakthrough on the project
at the China-Africa forum, she said. "These breakthroughs are a part of FOCAC where the publicity
of the event makes it a good opportunity for African countries
like Ethiopia to get pledges from China." Also read: Amid US trade war, China's Xi Jinping reiterates reform commitment Click here for the latest political news