The family of slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno has asked leaders not politicise her death. "Let politicians go slow on this matter because it’s hurting the family. We are bereaved, give us peace to mourn," family spokesman Joshua Okong’o said. He told the Star political remarks caused the death of his sister Debora Ogweno. Okong'o, who is an elder brother of Sharon's mother Melida Auma, said politicians are likely to meddle in the investigations. Ogweno, 44, fainted and died at their home in Kokuro village in Awendo, Migori, on Friday. Okong'o said she was not sick. She fainted after hearing the comments politicians were making about her niece's death, he said. “Debora died of trauma from what was being said about Sharon. Her body was taken to Rapcom mortuary in Awendo town,” Okong’o said. Sharon, 26, who was seven months pregnant, was abducted on Monday alongside Nation journalist Barack Oduor from a hotel in Rongo. More on this read: Police to question Obado on Sharon See: Sharon died from excessive bleeding, may have been raped – autopsy The journalist, however, managed to escape by jumping out of a moving vehicle. He sought help from a nearby homestead. Sharon’s body was discovered two days later on Wednesday near Kodera Forest. Oduor told reporters they were lured into the abduction by Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s personal assistant Michael Juma Oyamo who is currently in custody. Oyamo is expected to appear in a Homa Bay court on Monday. The abductors are still at large. Obado has denied any involvement in the scandal. On Friday, preliminary postmortem results showed Sharon was murdered. The autopsy results released by Government Pathologist Johansen Oduor indicated Sharon died from excessive bleeding after being stabbed eight times. "She was stabbed four times in the back, three times in the neck and on the left side of her belly which also killed the unborn baby," Oduor said. Family lawyer Peter Kaluma and Homa Bay MP Peter said they will not bury sharon before action is taken against suspects. Her body was moved to Kirindo private mortuary in Mbita, Suba North. During the autopsy, lawyer Cliff Omabeta who represented Obado, was barred from accessing the morgue at Rachuonyo Level 4 Hospital in Oyugis. At the same time, detectives from Nairobi have taken over Investigations from their counterparts in Homa Bay. The team will report to Nyanza regional DCI commander and the DCI headquarters in Nairobi. Homa Bay DCI commander Daniel Wachira said they will only be involved if their assistance is required. “My office has handed over the probe to the new team," he told journalists on Saturday. Click here for the latest political news