With President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive ending leasing of houses for police, a senior jubilee politician is staring at a serious loss. The politician who has been on a spree buying and putting up apartments will have to look for new tenants. In one of his apartment blocks located in the outskirts of Nairobi where a one bedroom house goes for below Sh12,000 in monthly rent, the politician had to throw out the tenants when he bagged the police housing deal where the same one houses were fetching him Sh28,000 each in a month despite their ran down state. The police however had no choice but stay where their bosses had settled for. ** The war on contrabands seems far from over. A little bird has whispered to Corridors that several foreigners living in Lavington are still bringing contraband goods into the country. Those in the know say the foreigners have strong local connections and are in Kenya as missionaries who are engaged in the importation of contraband goods and money laundering. A source privy to the information says the 'missionaries' have opened a number of proxy companies which they use to trade and divert aid money. Recently, the foreigners diverted several containers of second hand clothes they were given to distribute as aid from South Korea and started selling them. It is said they are also engaged in importation of contraband phones which have flooded Nairobi's downtown shops. ** Is the Kenya Railways Corporation's pension scheme about to lose a prime piece of land in Nairobi's upper hill area? The land measuring two-acres is said to have attracted several grabbers who are scheming on how to seize the plot as former railways employees wallow in abject poverty. A little bird has whispered to Corridors that two businessmen in the catering industry have colluded with some of the top managers of the Railways Pension Scheme to transfer the land. It is said the managers are divided over the land located behind Don Bosco Catholic Church and next to the Jaramogi Oginga Foundation. Those in the know say the plan was to set up a restaurant then use it as a way to grab the land since the scheme is not getting any money from it. Several pensioners want relevant authorities to intervene and save the plot. Part of the scheme management is reported to be eagerly waiting for its share once the sale of the land goes through. Click here for the latest political news       