You will soon be able to purchase goods
and pay for services using tokens if recommendations
by the blockchain task force are implemented. “Tokens are like bonga points given by mobile operators
or loyalty points given at the supermarkets, it can
be converted to coins and used to buy goods of your
choice,” Distributed Ledgers and Artifi cial Intelligence
taskforce chairman Bitange Ndemo said. Ndemo advised that the government should tokenise
the economy to deal with increasing rates of corruption
and uncertainties. The taskforce was appointed in March to establish
whether the country is ready for Blockchain technology. Block-chain is a digital database that helps to identify
and track digital transactions and sharing the information
across a distributed network of computer. If the economy is tokenised, it means that government
will stop printing hard money and instead adopt
digital currency. Speaking during the ICT ministry stakeholders
meeting with the Private sector, Ndemo said Kenya
needs a digital currency equivalent to a Fiat. Fiat is a currency without a fundamental value that
has been established as money, often by government
regulation unlike a digital currency like Bitcoin that is
unregulated. “We must begin to tokenise the economy by giving
incentives to young people to do things which they are
paid through tokens that can be converted to Fiat currency,”
Ndemo said. He said that adoption of tokens would help reduce
unemployment levels. While the taskforce proposed formulation of a Central
Bank Digital Currency to operate in fixed nominal
terms and as a valid legal tender in July, Ndemo said
they have shelved the idea for a moment. “We are not very enthusiastic at the moment, of
course it will come, but we fi rst want people to understand
use of tokens.”
Addressing stakeholders in the same meeting, ICT Ps
Jerome Ochieng said the government will facilitate relevant
policies to help regulate recommendations from
the taskforce. Other recommendations include introduction of a
government certifier to authenticate goods before being
released to the market. This would mean elimination of middle men, and
having only the certifier to verify originality of the
product and the blockchain system to help in tracing
the product from the farm to the shelf. The system will off er transparency and openness
needed to reassure consumers that the food they eat is
exactly what the label says it is.   