A Lamu woman in labour for three days has died from loss of blood following a failed ‘divine delivery’ at her home in Mkunguni village. Kendi Kiecha’s relatives refused to take her to hospital because it is against their religious beliefs. The 29-year-old died on her way to hospital on Sunday evening after police broke into the locked house where relatives prayed. Neighbours said Kiecha went into labour on Friday but was kept at home as the family chanted and danced. The relatives said they were confident the Holy Spirit would safely help Kiecha deliver her baby. The family called for church members from a far as Kilifi to pray. The woman was a member of Kanisa la Mungu or Church of God. It forbids members from getting medical treatment or taking prescription drugs. They are to pray and wait for God’s healing. But Kiecha’s health deteriorated during the prolonged labour. A woman is said to have pulled out the baby, resulting in haemorrhage that killed her. Read:Teen dies after ‘religious’ parents shun hospital The infant also died. Lamu county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said police will arrest those found culpable. “Church members sang, chanted and danced as they called on God and the Holy Spirit to intervene. It is unacceptable because the woman was in obvious pain and ought to have been taken to hospital,” said Lilian Malika. She is a child protection and gender-based violence officer in Lamu. “The head of the baby was sticking out but there seemed to be a complication because there was no further development,” Malika said. Kanyiri said police were dispatched after they received reports from neighbours and pleas to help. He said Kiecha’s death was caused by neglect based on “funny religious beliefs.” “She belonged to a church that doesn’t believe in medical treatment but prayers,” Kanyiri said. The family had locked the door and police were forced to break in to rescue the woman, while relaties prayed and danced. “The officers were taking her to hospital when she died as she waited to crossover to the Lamu Hospital at the Mokowe jetty,” Kanyiri said. Click here for the latest political news