The contentious Finance Bill 2018 was fi nally adopted by Parliament on Thursday, due largely to shrewd moves by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and Majority leader Aden Duale. Sensing that members were preparing to shoot down the bill, Muturi ingeniously ordered a fresh vote before Duale chipped in with a cunning move to rally MPs out of the chamber. At least 233 MPs were required to vote against the bill to shoot it down. Duale ensured there was a lack of quorum. The two leaders had been asked by President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the bill was passed in an arduous test on their leadership. Their jobs were on the line if they failed to deliver a resounding victory for the President as they did in 2015. Read: Chaos as MPs lose fight against fuel tax The speaker doesn’t take a vote but given he was backed by the ruling party during his reelection, Muturi had little choice. The stakes were high as the President had planned to sign the Bill into law on Friday, before leaving for New York to attend the United Nations General Assembly. The burden was on the House leadership to execute the mission. Uhuru assented to the Bill on Friday morning. Aware of the acid test he was facing, Duale used strong-arm tactics to push the Bill through. The vocal and assertive Garissa Township lawmaker had set the tempo for the debate from Tuesday, when he played a vicious mind-game over the actual number of MPs who attended the State House meeting. “The parliamentary group meeting was attended by over 181 MPs from the Jubilee Party and its affiliates,” Duale said after the State House meeting, which was perceived as a strategy to intimidate those opposed to the Bill. Sources said less than 100 MPs attended the meeting. “We have agreed to support the President’s memorandum on the Finance Bill, 2018 and the supplementary budget estimates,” Duale said. The import of the remark was to rubbish a claim by VAT opponents who said they had a list of 300 MPs who had signed up against the Bill. Read: Zero! Zero! MPs shout in opposition to amended Bill staging 8% fuel tax Legal duel Aware of the pressure from the anti-VAT brigade, Duale hatched a plot to deny the opponents the requisite two-thirds majority necessary to overturn the President’s reservations. Immediately, temporary speaker Soipan Tuya called for division, Duale signalled some of the backers of the Bill to walk out of the chambers. A count afterwards showed there were only 215 lawmakers in the House. In what may offer ground for a legal duel in court, Tuya put the question without first establishing the quorum of the House. Standing Orders also bar MPs from walking out of the chambers when a House count is being done. Some MPs flouted that law on Thursday. “Whenever the Speaker or the Chairperson, as the case may be, is engaged in counting the House or the Committee respectively, the doors shall remain unlocked but no Member shall be allowed to leave the Chamber, except a party whip who may be permitted to seek members required to raise a quorum,” the Standing Order number 35 reads. “It is a matter I raised on the floor of the House. It was a contravention of Standing Orders to allow MPs to walk out when the counting was on,” said Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang’. Kajwang’ was the figure-head of the MPs who opposed the Bill and caused a standoff in the House. Another matter likely to pop up in court is whether a quorum established earlier when the House session began can be affected by walkouts in the middle of proceedings. MPs opposed to the Bill said they had quorum when Tuya took over and that there was no need for the speaker to order a count when debate got to the VAT section of the Bill. But it was the decision by Muturi to order a fresh vote, trashing the initial count based on a technical error, that served the killer punch. The error showed there were 352 members in the House, well above the maximum 349 MPs. “My work as the Majority leader is not to ensure that there is a two-thirds majority to defeat the president’s memorandum,” Duale told the Star yesterday. “My work actually is to frustrate those numbers and ensure they don’t meet the threshold.” Details: Uhuru cuts VAT, opts to tighten spending Click here for the latest political news