The brutal murder of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno has taken centre stage in the campaigns for the Migori senator by-election on October 8. Sharon and Nation journalists Barrack Oduor were abducted on Monday. Oduor jumped from a moving car and escaped, but Sharon's body was found on Wednesday near Kodera Forest in Homa Bay. Migori governor Okoth Obado has been linked to the death, but he denies being involved. His personal assistant Michael Oyamo was arrested over the incident and will appear in in court Monday. Politics in Migori are often marred by violence and sometimes death. “We have a straightforward team lead by ODM, the other team is headed by those of Kodera Forest. We will stand to help Migori write better headlines in media unlike what we are seeing,” ODM candidate Ochilo Ayacko said. He was addressing ODM officials at Rakwaro centre in centre constituency on Friday. Related: Sharon died from excessive bleeding, may have been raped – autopsy Ayacko lost to Obado in the race for governor during the August 8, 2017, General Election. ODM gave Ayacko a direct ticket to vie for the Senate seat, a move that was strongly opposed by Obado. Politicians and social media users have branded the people opposed to the party position as "Team Kodera Forest". On Monday during a funds drive in aid of Ayacko's campaign in Nairobi, ODM leader Raila Odinga led a minute silence in honour of Sharon. Women Representative Pamela Odhiambo said it was prudent for ODM to give Ayacko a direct ticket to end bad blood with Obado. But said, it is absurd “evils spirits of jealousy against others have been hatched in Kodera Forest.” On Friday, Odhiambo planned a demonstration in Migori town to force speedy investigations into the murder. However, it was pushed to Monday. “We changed the date after police told us Deputy President William Ruto was in the county so they couldn’t offer security,” she said. Suba MP and ODM chairman John Mbadi said as the party supports the demo. On Saturday Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said they have arrested two more suspects over Sharon's murder. Click here for the latest political news