Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has ordered immediate suspension of demolition of illegal structures in slums. Sonko on Saturday said the directive follows various complains from Nairobi residents on how the county is ruining the livelihoods. Speaking during his father's third Anniversary in Machakos county, Sonko said the teams in charge of demolition should give the affected families alternative structures before demolitions proceed. Today over the death of my father, I hereby direct the lands CEC, Director in charge of inspectorate and the county secretary to immediately stop the demolitions. I can no longer persevere seeing my people crying and wailing over destruction of property," he said. "Mimi nimeguruma kama simba wa Nairobi na haki ya Mungu kama kuna demolition itaendele bila approval ya ofisi yangu, nyinyi watatu mtaenda nyumbani," he added. (I have roared like the Nairobi Lion and if any demolition will be undertaken without the approval of my office, the three of you will be fired). Sonko maintained going forward both the regeneration team and the county teams conducting demolitions across the county will have to seek a direct approval from his office. Read: [VIDEO] Battles as Nairobi officers demolish illegal structures in Lavington "70 percent of Nairobians are poor and depend on some of these structures for livelihood. They voted for me as the governor and Uhuru as the president because they had hopes that we shall make their lives better. Instead everyday we are turning them poor," he said. Sonko said if the demolitions are not conducted in a proper manner, the city is likely going to turn to a crime zone as many youth are being rendered jobless. More than 2,000 structures demolished, there are fears that the now
unemployed traders, especially the youth, may seek other options to get
income, resorting to crime or drug abuse. In his manifesto, Sonko clearly outlined how unemployment and crime
go hand in hand. “With high unemployment comes the desperate drift into
crime. For those who don’t drift into crime, many are left without legal
protection and are constantly harassed and even killed in crime-related
incidents,” the manifesto reads. The governor however maintained that demolitions of buildings and structures sitting on riparian lands and road reserves will proceed. He said that is impunity on environment and his administration in partnership with president Uhuru are committed to ensure Nairobi restores its glory. He also warned investors who have taken advantage of loopholes within his administration to loot saying those found will not be spared. "Kama wewe umeiba shamba ukajenga nyumba yako na hutaki ibomolewe, tupe shamba lingine tuwachane na mali yako. Kama umeiba hospitali, tujengee hospitali nyingine tuwachane na yako," he said. Sonko further maintained that hawkers and boda boda riders will be driven out of the CBD at all cost. He said teams will be moving across the county to asses where modern structures will be erected for the hawkers. Read: Explainer: What’s driving the demolition of 4,000 buildings in Nairobi Also See: Nairobi drives hawkers, boda boda riders out of congested CBD Click here for the latest political news