Hundreds of mourners on Saturday
rejected food offered by the Kilifi county government during the funeral of a slain
boda boda rider who was knocked down by an inspectorate vehicle. The locals of Mtangani, Malindi town told the family to "return the food to where it
came from" claiming it would not be fair to receive an offer from the same county that led to the death of their kin. The death of Tony Musa, 20, sparked protests at the Malindi sub-county hospital amid claims of negligence by doctors who were attending to him. Musa was killed by a county inspectorate
vehicle which was chasing a matatu at Airport area on the Malindi Mombasa
road on August 28. Read: Protesters cite neglect after boda boda rider dies at Malindi hospital His family members and the Kilifi county boda boda association
gave the county government 21 days to compensate the family or face the courts. On Thursday, the county government offered foodstuff,
including 300 kilos of rice, two bags of maize, cooking oil, wheat flour
and Sh100,000 to help the family meet funeral expenses. The residents shouted down Alfred Ngalla , a family member, as he announced the county's contribution towards Musa's burial. The lot said they
did not want to hear anything about the county donation and asked
Ngalla to return the food. It was not clear when they would return the same and whether
the money offered shall also be returned. Ngalla called on the Director of Public Prosecution to
investigate the matter and ensure action is taken against those who failed to perform
their duties. "We are weak Kenyans and need justice because of death
caused by negligence of the hospital," he said. Joseph Mwangu of the boda boda association said it was not the first time the county vehicle knocked a
boda boda rider. Earlier in the year, he said the same county inspectorate
vehicle knocked and injured a woman who was in a boda boda and seriously
injured her. "To date, the woman is still having injuries and has not
received any support. We want the DPP to investigate this matter and ensure the
family gets justice," he said. Health executive Omar Anisa had dismissed the
allegations of negligence claiming the doctors did their part in an attempt to save Musa's life after the accident. Click here for the latest political news 