President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday unveiled new uniforms for police officers. "These uniform will enhance visibility of the officers. Tungependa tuone hiyo uniform..." Uhuru said during the re-organisation of the Kenya Police. The uniforms which are blue in colour were paraded at the Kenya School of Government. The officers wearing the uniforms marched to the podium to showcase the new uniforms. "IG Joseph Boinnet should implement these changes with immediate effect. The Treasury should also operationalise financial provisions with immediate effect," he said. The President also asked the Treasury to aid in the additional funding for officers to effect the new housing with effect from December 1. "Kenyans are funding these changes so that you can serve them better," he added. Uhuru said he is reorganising the command to ensure effective service by the Police Service. The President further abolished Administration Police regional commander, Kenya police regional commander, DCI regional commander and District administrations police commander Others are; County coordinating commander, Kenya police county commander, AP county commander, DCI county commander, AP sub-county commander,  DCI sub-county commander and AP service ward commander. The Star has seen the new outlay which will drastically change the command and structure of policing in the country with the AP getting clearly defined roles. The AP will be merged with the Anti-Stock Theft Unit (ASTU). According to the changes, a majority of the AP officers will be absorbed into the Kenya Police Service. The few that will remain will have their duties redefined. They will mainly revolve around providing security to government buildings and facilities such as SGR, the ports of entry and other critical facilities. AP camps and chief’s camps where a majority of the APs are stationed will be gazetted as police stations. The regular police, DCI and APs housed in the same facilities will be under a single command. Details of changes:  Regular police, AP to ‘merge’ in changes On July 27, Uhuru gave Matiang'i 30 days to produce a strategy on how to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the National Police Service. Uhuru also asked Matiang'i and Boinnet to address the persistent housing problem and report back. “I have directed Matiang'i and Boinnet to provide me with a comprehensive policy framework and strategy," Uhuru said via Twitter. Read: APs REJECT KIMAIYO PLAN TO MERGE WITH POLICE Click here for the latest political news