Let me join fellow Kenyans in congratulating Eliud Kipchoge and Gladys Cherono and the entire team for gifting Kenya a double victory in the 45th edition of the Berlin Marathon. Their victories have not only cemented their status as iconic sports personalities globally, but also confirmed Kenya’s place as the home of marathoners. By setting a new world record, Kipchoge has proven his position as the greatest marathoner of all time and by winning the Berlin Marathon for the third time, Cherono has sealed her spot in Berlin Marathon history. As the Chairman of the Sports Committee in the Council of Governors, I express my pride following their achievement as do Kenyans all over the country who were undoubtedly rooting for them. As the curtain falls on this successful outing, it offers the two levels of government - county and the national government - an opportunity to reflect on the opportunities and if indeed we have given sports enough attention. It is worth noting that Kenya is a great sporting nation, and has the potential to even grow stronger if solid management of sports is provided by the national and county governments. Counties and the national government should work hand in hand to develop sports facilities in villages so that the sporting talents of our youth is harnessed. Counties have tried their best to allocate resources to the development of play grounds, construction of stadia, some are developing sports academies and this is the way to go in nurturing talent. The other aspect that the two tiers of government should do is to come up with a strategy on how to reward winners. This might involve the establishment of a sports fund. In recent months, we have noted with concern the rising cases of doping. The trend is worrying. As a matter of agency, the Ministry of Sports should collaborate with counties to weed out foreign managers and those who call themselves coaches who could be out to spoil and tarnish the names of our great sportsmen and women. The Kericho Governor and Council of Governors Sports Committee chairman spoke to The Star  Click here for the latest political news 