Gor Mahia captain Haroun Shakava has dismissed reports that he was locked out of his apartment, owing to unpaid rent for the month of August. Shakava denied being bailed out by well wishers who are reported to have cleared his August and September arrears after his employer delayed in remitting the players salaries and allowances. A picture doing rounds on social media had shown the burly defender with some fans affiliated to the club’s Dandora Sharp Corner branch which raised approximately Sh42 000 to purportedly clear his alleged Sh28 000 monthly rent. The league winning skipper termed the reports as mere rumours and said: “I have been reading online that I have been locked out of my house and consequently missed training sessions and matches as a result of.” "I have also read that it took the intervention of well wishers to clear my August and September rent, which is untrue. I pay Sh14, 000 a month and I can confirm that I have never delayed in paying rent neither have I ever sought financial help to clear it. The report came as a shock to my family, who have been supportive in my career and I would have sought their help if I had such a challenge." The former Kakamega Homeboyz centre half challenged the management of the club to assemble quality players for the forthcoming Caf Champions League. Gor is set to kick off their continental title chase in December and Shakava has urged the management to focus on shipping in players who match the calibre of the tournament. K’ogalo is yet to fully replace the dependable duo of Meddie Kagere and Godfrey Walusimbi, who decamped mid season after getting better deals in Tanzania and South Africa respectively. He said: "Locally, we have dominated and won the league with less rivalry from the other 17 teams. We shift our attention to the Caf Champions League where I call upon the management to bring in quality players to compliment those who are already in camp so that we can conquer the continent." Click here for the latest political news