Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang’ata on Saturday solemnised his marriage to his wife Mary Wambui in a colourful wedding graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The wedding was held at Gathinja Catholic Church in Kahuhia constituency, Murang'a county. The couple picked nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura and his wife Mukami as the best couple for their yellow-themed wedding. Speaking to Word Is, Kang'ata said, "I met my wife in 2007, when she was a form four student at Mugoiri girls. She was a frequent visitor to her aunt in the area who was a secretary. "After she finished high school, we started dating while I was still a young lawyer in a law firm called Gacheru and Company, in Murang'a county." The couple started living together while she was still in university and had a customary marriage after she became pregnant while in third year. Kang'ata was excited by the President's presence. "It is rare that he attend weddings, so I don't take that for granted. I was also happy for Murang'a people because they also got some benefits from my wedding. As a gift for my wedding, the President gave goodies worth Sh5 million to the people of Gathinja Day School, a bus to the neighbouring Mukang'u Day School and promised to tarmac a road for them as well." The senator's journey in politics began while he was still young. "Even before I met my wife, I was a councillor at 22 years, and in 2013 I became an MP," he said. His journey while growing up was not so smooth, as his parents did not have a guaranteed source of income. "My father was a mechanic and could not raise enough money to educate or even give us a good lifestyle. We lived in a wooden house that was a bit small, despite the fact that we were eight siblings. "The best thing about me is that I was very bright in school and managed to scoop good grades to join university." Kang’ata was honouring his ailing father's wish to do a church wedding. "Although my parents are very sick, they are very proud of me and the far I have come. My father has a terminal illness that we have decided not to even disclose to him, while my mum is diabetic and also suffering from heart attack. She is immobilised and can't move on her own. They are under medication and we are wishing them well," he said. Kang'ata was once a DJ, and most of his county people know him for that. "While in university I was suspended after opposing the parallel degree programme. I became a DJ just to keep me going while out of school. I used to be called DJ Nyutu in Murang'a for two years," he said. "After Kibaki came to power, he ordered that all students who were suspended from the institution be taken back. That is how I went back to University on Nairobi and finished my degree in Law." His wife Wambui is an accountant and the two have three children: Rita, Euna and Etan.