Shoppers have been cautioned against online purchases following an increase in fake digital retail sites. The regulator said in the last one week there has been a spike in online shopping frauds. The Communications Authority says various websites and mobile applications being launched are fake and operated by crooks out to rip off unsuspecting shoppers. “Majority of the users encounter online shopping frauds through social media platforms such as but not limited to Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Telegram, and customised blog sites and websites,” said CA director general Francis Wangusi. The fraudsters entice unsuspecting buyers through deals via email, SMS, social media pages or phone calls. They also request for a registration fee for the goods or services. Wangusi cautioned shoppers to look out for sites without a registered business location and contact, unavailable customer care help-lines, suspicious mobile numbers as well as impersonation of government agencies and those offering financial services. Google’s Consumer Connected Study 2017 highlights that Facebook, Instagram and Twitter contributed to 15 per cent of online shopping in Kenya. Similarly, Nielsen Consumer Confidence and Spending Intentions survey released in March indicated that one out of every four consumers in Kenya browse for products and services online. As a result, online shopping now accounts for 36 per cent of sales in the retail sector. Consumers seeking speed and efficiency are increasingly ordering goods online, thanks to high internet penetration. Communication Authority data shows internet penetration currently stands at 36.1 million subscriptions of which 35.7 million are mobile data subscriptions. Between January and March, there were 7.9 million cyber threats of which the National Kenya Computer Incident Response Team Coordination Centre validated 3,488 cases to be critical and therefore requiring intervention. This was a 415.2 per cent increase from the 677 cyber threats detected during the October-December period. The authority advised against sending money to numbers of individuals posing as representatives of online stores until they had verified the retailer’s authenticity. “Report such websites and mobile applications to the helplines of known genuine online stores as well as the National (KE-CIRT/CC),” Wangusi said.