West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo was yesterday questioned by the EACC in Eldoret. He was expected to explain why deputy governor Nicholas Atudonyang has been drawing a salary and allowances for six months yet he is based in the United States. On Saturday, Atudonyang’s long professional sojourn in the US sparked off protests. Students gave him a week to show up and work or resign from the post. Atudonyang practices in Texas. However, he is also supposed to be the county Health executive although he is hardly ever in Kenya. Deputy governor Atudonyang spends a large part of his time in the US. Atudonyang is said to be a neurosurgeon practising in Allen, Texas. Lonyangapuo and several senior officials of the county were summoned to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission offices where they were questioned for more than three hours. Read:Absentee Pokot deputy governor told to return to county or resign The county boss admitted he had been summoned but denied Atudonyang had been paid allowances, including night outs, to stay in the US. Residents wrote to the EACC over the absence of the deputy governor, saying he was illegally being paid allowances, air travel and salaries, yet he does not perform his duties in the county. Explanations Lonyangapuo said, “I have provided all the required information to them and explained why the deputy governor has been away. “I did extend his stay in the US where he has been working on behalf of the county to source for medical equipment and other support programmes.” A group of student leaders said it is morally wrong for the deputy governor to treat his Kenyan job with disdain. Speaking at the Jeevanjee Gardens, Nairobi, the students accused Atudonyang of drawing a salary for work not done. Lonyangapuo said the deputy governor had only been paid his salary of about Sh600,000 monthly, but no other allowances or benefits were extended to him. The governor said Atudonyang will arrive in the country tomorrow with medical equipment worth more than Sh200 million sourced from various groups in the US. Lonyangapuo said he provided evidence to prove no allowances were paid to the deputy governor while he was in Texas. “If you compare what he has brought and the salary he had been receiving then there are no questions to ask.” A consignment of equipment in three 40ft containers have arrived at the Port of Mombasa headed for West Pokot. Donations Lonyangapuo said the equipment are many and those that will not be used by the county will be given to other hospitals, including the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Read:Varsity students call for absentee West Pokot deputy governor's resignation The governor blamed his rivals in the former administration of undermining his leadership with false allegations. “I have asked the EACC to summon them so they can explain and give evidence of their claims.” The governor said he is happy with Atudonyang’s work, adding that, “the people of West Pokot have said they will do everything possible to ensure we remain at the helm for even 50 years if possible”. EACC deputy director in charge of North Rift Jackson Mue confirmed they questioned the county officials over the matter under investigations. Click here for the latest political news