A Senate committee has recommended that the anti-corruption agency investigate Sh1.6 billion stalled projects in West Pokot county. The Public Accounts and Investments Committee on Thursday heard that the county has accumulated debts and pending bills amounting to more than Sh530 million. Governor John Lonyangapuo was grilled by the committee at the Uasin Gishu county assembly. He said there may have been massive plundering of public money during former governor Simon Kachapin’s tenure. The Auditor General’s 2014-15 report stated that most projects were illegally implemented and money paid before completion. The National Construction Authority inspected most of the projects and found that they were poorly done and due procedure was not followed. The projects in question include construction of an Agricultural Training College for Sh421 million. Lonyangapuo said although much of the work is done, it is shoddy and the project has stalled. He said the contractor was overpaid by more than Sh52 million. The project was developed near a river and is now waterlogged. “I was left with the mess which I’m still trying to deal with,” Lonyangapuo said. Committee chairman Moses Kajwang’ said, “Your county now seems to be home to white elephant projects and it’s amazing how public resources were blatantly plundered. We will recommend to the EACC and other agencies to take up this matter.” ‘very criminal’ Another project is the governor’s official residence, which was to cost Sh133 million. Some Sh66 million has already been paid for the residence, despite it having stalled. The county set out to build Chester Teachers’ Training College for Sh37 million in Pokot Central without involving the national government as required by law. Lonyangapuo said the workmanship is poor as the contractor lacks capacity. The senators said Kachapin is unfit to hold public office. He was appointed Education Chief Administrative Secretary after he lost to Lonyangapuo in last year’s election. “What the officials in West Pokot committed were criminal offences and they should be prosecuted and the money recovered from them,” Senator Kimani Wamatangi said. The committee heard that Sh209 million was allegedly illegally sunk into construction of a tourist hotel near Kacheliba. The project was not registered as required and stalled before completion. Wamatangi said plunder of public resources is unacceptable. “The former governor must be held responsible. Everything done here is against the law and very criminal,” he said.