Former Nacada chairman John Mututho has said staff stole alcoholic drinks awareness funds amounting to more than Sh12.8 million. He told trial magistrate Felix Kombo of the Milimani Anti-Corruption Court the reason he blew the whistle was not for personal reasons, but because he believed “there was a problem.” Mututho said a formal report had been made and eyebrows raised on the management of the fund. He said the running of the fund was subject to regulations, a role perceived to be Nacada’s. Led in his evidence in chief by senior state counsel Joseph Riungu, the witness said the fund arose from the Alcoholic Drinks Control Act, popularly known as the ‘Mututho laws’, which he was instrumental in establishing. “Provision No 13 expressly outlines what Nacada can do, provide secretarial services, including technical evaluation of proposals received for funding,” Mututho said. He explained to a defence lawyer who was suggesting he meddled in business that did not concern him. The former chairman said the CEO irregularly procured the consultant and that the alleged disbursement of funds to civil society groups had been fraudulent. He said he engaged in a fact-finding mission in Mombasa where a CBO was paid Sh3 million to run the awareness campaign. “Some of these civil society groups were non-existent,” Mututho said. He said he believed the monies were stolen by staff in collusion with the alleged civil society groups, adding that he had “nothing personal” against CEO William Okedi after a lawyer suggested he may have fixed the former chief executive because of “bad blood.” “Our working relationship was cordial,” he said, adding that in the whistle blowing he believed a fraud had occurred and was doing what he had to do in getting involved in the anti-corruption investigations. Mututho said procurement was done before reporting back to the respective authority in whose docket the fund was embedded. “Nacada officers through the CEO irregularly procured the consultant,” he said. 