Still on Migori, residents were on Monday left in shock at Homa Bay law courts when the court gave limited access to Governor Okoth Obado’s Personal Assistant Michael Oyamo, to talk to a confident before he was returned behind bars. Instead of calling for any of his family or lawyers, Oyamo demanded that he has a word with a female blogger notorious for online wars with local politicians. The blogger doesn't have any job defined in Migori county government but is a common figure in the county offices and sometimes even goes round in the county's official vehicles. She is known to be abusive on social media. She was once beaten by goons at a funeral for abusing a politician. What left people shocked is the nature of information she was given by Oyamo who was on Wednesday detained for another 14 days over the brutal murder of university student Sharon Otieno. Nyeri MCAs were overheard saying that they will in future be boycotting Deputy President William Ruto's events. They are unhappy that they are not allowed to address the gatherings or even recognised at times. They want to be accorded equal treatment with MPs and other elected leaders and be given a chance to address or greet the congregations. Only host MCA (from that particular ward) is usually allowed to address the gatherings making the rest feel like attending the events is a waste of time. ** Is some powerful politician unhappy with the rising star of Makueni Governor Prof. Kivutha Kibwana? Well, it is emerging that the regions reigning political supremo is feeling jittery with Prof Kivutha Kibwana's rising star and his teaming up with former pro- reform colleagues. The once vocal politician is quietly and subtly conniving with MCA's and other party networks to plant doubt in the Professor's leadership capabilities. ** Migori town residents have called on government anti-graft agencies to check on recent lighting project in the area. Residents complain that a project which was to light highway towards Migori town has 'stalled' at Kakrao center, only 5Kms to Migori town on busy Kisii-Migori highway before branching towards the rural home of senior government officer. The officer who openly boasts of serious connections in the government is also building a mall just before Migori town which is surrounded with lights meant for streets leaving the area in total darkness. Residents who complained at a recent function graced by Kenya Power officials were shocked when they were told to go slow with their ‘activism.’ Click here for the latest political news