Three embattled officials of a government institution  are reported to be so  determined to see the that the institution collapses. Those is the know have told corridors that the suspended officials are determined
to ensure the remaining officials do not succeed.  Our mole has whispered further that the team  was last week spotted at a popular Nairobi restaurant meeting
several people. The mole says despite being out of office, “the top officials have  been meeting several people with disputes and signing for
them crucial documents which they backdate”.  It is said that the officials went with institution's crucial items including rubber stumps, seals and other  documents. ***** A sitting MP from Luo Nyanza region is unhappy man. Reason? The  MP was overheard asking his colleagues during the recently
convened Nyanza Development Forum  During the forum on Saturday night at the Panafric Hotel in Nairobi that some leaders were not committed to developing their region. It is reported that  only a handful of participants
from the Counties of Siaya, Kisumu and Migori turned up. No one from
Homabay showed.  The conveners of the forum who included former MP
Shem Ochuodho had no otherwise but to contend with the low
turnout. Only Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyongo sent his finance CEC Nerry
Achar.  All the governors from Luo Nyanza had been invited but it’s
reported they deliberately skipped the meeting which was called to discuss
the positive impacts of the Uhuru-Raila handshake and how to
utilize the handshake and develop Luo Nyanza. ***** A CEO of a parastatal, his chairman, a aide of a senior government official and a legislator with a position in Parliament are a worried lot after reports emerged that they could be arrested this week by anti corruption sleuths. It is said that already they have been contacted that they are separately  under investigations for various corruption allegations. Since the politician was informed of the impeding arrest, he has seen maintain low profile unlike of him. The man who is position himself for a bigger political position is said to have been trying day and night to have the powers that be to intervene but seems his goose  is cooked as he was told to "take your own cross". ***** A powerful politician is growing paranoid due to political pressures and his ever growing number of enemies. The honcho is taking every necessary precaution to safeguard himself and his family. Sources close to him claim that the mheshimiwa would not eat food anywhere unless it is pre-approved and the chefs vetted by his security team. Click here for
the latest political news