Award-winning actress Nyce Wanjeri, alias Shiro of Auntie Boss, will no longer be in the programme, as her three-year contract has expired. Shiro posted on her social media platforms: "For 15 seasons, that is almost 200 episodes on NTV, Auntie Boss has been my home. I have been humbled to work with an amazing production house that is Moonbeam and their very abled selection of cast and crew. I have been blessed and lucky so far, but that beautiful journey that started three or so years ago is soon coming to an end." Word Is reached out to Nyce and she explained the contract expired in July, and due to what she termed "contractual differences" with the team, she decided not to renew. "I cannot exactly say I left the show, as opposed to saying we hit a contractual wall. The details of that I can't get into due to legal implications," Nyce said. "But also, it was time for me to move on to the next level of my career as a brand, beyond Shiro of Auntie Boss. My contract with Auntie boss ended in July of 2017, after we finished shooting all required episodes. And I just did not have a contract renewal this year due to the existing contractual differences." Nyce, who acted as the stubborn house help, has risen to be among the top female actors in the country after winning best TV comedian at the Africa Magic Viewer's Choice Awards in Nigeria, beating popular names in the industry in Africa. She has been hitting greater heights, getting endorsements with different companies. And now she will be battling with five other nominees, including Ghanaian actors Chris Attoh, Adjetey Anang and South African beauty Pearl Thusi, for 'Best Lead Role in Film (non-Nigerian)' in the upcoming NEA Awards 2018, which will take place on November 10. "I can't begin to explain how happy it makes me! It validates all I have been doing for these many years, and I thank God for Auntie Boss, which has brought me to this point," she said. Shiro urged fans to keep supporting her as she will still be in local programmes. "Keep following me, you shall see very soon. Entertaining is in my blood and I must continue till I have no more strength in me," she said. "As far as other shows are concerned, I am open to any other productions that I can join for the sake of entertaining Kenyans."