Two weeks since senators resumed sittings after a short recess, pressure is mounting on the legislators to pass crucial Bills with constitutional timelines. Senators resumed sittings last week on Tuesday and they are expected to consider at least eight Bills, some of which lapsed in the 11th Parliament but were republished in this 12th Parliament. Some of the Bills that have been passed by the National Assembly and referred to the Senate are the Energy Bill, Petroleum Exploration Bill, Roads Bill, Irrigation Bill, Land Index Bill and Public Private Sector Bill. The Roads Bill provides for the classification, management, construction and maintenance of public roads. Read: Senators resume sittings amid push to pass crucial Bills It also seeks to establish the Kenya National Highways Authority, Kenya National Urban Roads Authority and Kenya National Secondary Roads Authority, their functions and powers. Majority Leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale called on the Senate to expedite the passage of the Bills, blaming it for laxity that resulted in the Bills lapsing in the last Parliament. “The slow manner in which Senate is moving to process and pass the Bills is worrying. There are several Bills pending in the Senate, which are very crucial to counties. The core function of Senate is to take care of the interest of the counties,” he told the Star. The legislator for Garissa Township constituency noted that some of the Bills are constitutional and time-bound and might create a constitutional crisis if delayed. “We are in this situation because Senate has preoccupied itself with some functions that do not fall under its mandate. Time is running out; some of these Bills are of benefit to the counties and could address some of the issues the country is undergoing in terms of electricity bills and irrigation matters. Senate should wake up,” Duale said. “If the Petroleum Exploration Bill had been passed by senators and signed into law by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the problems in Turkana and other parts of the country would not have been witnessed.” Read: Senators convene special sitting to pass County Allocation of Revenue Bill Click here for the latest political news