 These were the
instructions given to the Hebrew midwives by King Herod of Egypt when he
ordered the execution of all male children two years old and under in Bethlehem
to avoid the loss of his throne to a newborn King of the Jews. From this account, we
gather that the massacre of the innocents is as old as creation. And as if to
confirm that there is nothing new under the sun, as the Good Book says, this
week we had our own rendition of infanticide, if the accounts by the Nairobi governor
Mike Sonko pass the smell test. It was alleged that during an unannounced visit
by the governor, 11 corpses wrapped in polythene bags, stuffed in boxes and
hidden inside a store were uncovered. The governor alleged the
cause of death was due to negligence by the hospital’s management, but the
latter laid the blame on systemic failures such as lack of a mortuary,
insufficient personnel, equipment and budget to efficiently manage the
hospital. The jury on this infanticide is still out, as the investigations by
the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are ongoing. Nevertheless, one human
death is one too many regardless of the findings. But the more salient
question we ought to interrogate is, why is healthcare a government business? To answer this question,
we should first ponder where we shop for groceries, clothing, or electronics. And
more importantly, if we are content with the services we receive, our purchases
and the prices we pay for them. This is the marvel of the free market. By
leaving these sectors to private market forces, it creates an iterative
competition amongst service providers, which in turn incentivises creativity
and innovation, improves service delivery, reduces prices, and ultimately leads
to mass consumption. And with every iteration, consumers enjoy unprecedented
advancements at affordable prices. So, can healthcare be
left to private market forces? Most people get horrified at this suggestion
because they surmise that healthcare is a human right, and therefore expect the
State to fulfill this right. But is healthcare a human right? The simple answer
is NO. Allow me to explain. Firstly, let us define a
right. Rights describe a relationship between a rights-holder and a
duty-bearer. If someone has a right, it implies that others have a corollary
duty. This nature of corollary duty is what distinguishes a positive from a
negative right. For the latter, the corollary duty is to refrain from doing
something to someone else, for example, do not kill or do not interfere with
one’s freedom of speech. For the former, the corollary duty is one of action,
where the duty-bearers are required to act affirmatively, for example, to
provide protection or ensure food security. Human rights are said to
be absolute. So are negative rights. For instance, it can be deduced that in
2012, all the Liechtenstein citizens enjoyed absolute negative rights on their
right to life, because there was not a single murder that year. Conversely, positive
rights are not absolute because they conflict given that scarcity is a fact of
life. For instance, the Kenya Renal Association states that there are 29 kidney
specialists against four million chronic kidney patients. If all these patients
require surgery at the same time, they would be denied their positive rights
because of the ratio of specialists to patients. Hence, their right would not
be absolute and consequently not qualify as a human right, if the latter is
deemed to be absolute. Secondly, everyone wants
good healthcare services but as in the case of the dialysis patients, there is
only so much to go around. Scarcity leads to high prices. And when prices are
high, the demand for the commodity or service is low. Therefore, in a bid to
make profits, entrepreneurs find more affordable ways to provide the same goods
and services.  The more people become
involved in providing these services, the less scarce they become and the lower
the prices drop. Eventually more and more consumers are able to afford these
services or commodities. The smartphone is one such example. Thirdly, when we buy
goods and services with our own money, we are very careful about how much we
spend and how we spend it. We shop around to maximise quality while minimising
costs. This causes the businesses that are competing for our limited money to
constantly seek more efficient ways of producing superior products and services
at lower prices, to secure our market loyalty. Conversely, people don’t behave as
prudently when they don’t bear the full cost of their purchases. And this applies
to governments. They use other people’s money to pay for health and hence they
do not worry about efficiency or cost. Third party payers distort the market
because the bill payer and the patient are different entities. Anything that is free or
priced below market level will be over consumed. And this is the case of our
healthcare services. Subsidised healthcare has encouraged consumption beyond
that which can be reasonably provided at the artificially induced low price
because the manpower available is not commensurate with the increase in the
number of consumers seeking the free services. Consequently, consumers end up
indirectly paying the true, higher cost which is lack of, poor and/or delayed
services. Fourthly, critics of
applying the free market philosophy to healthcare claim that this only benefits
the rich while denying access by the poor. But the question they neglect is
that when healthcare is provided by the State, the poor pay a double price for
them because they are taxed to pay doctors, nurses, equipment, drugs and a
whole government bureaucracy to administer healthcare. If the poor can afford
this, yet receive inferior services in return, then why not get government out
of the way as the middle man, and have everyone pay directly to hospitals run
by the free market where they will have the leverage to demand better services? Finally my unsolicited
advice to us all is, what you receive without working for, another person works
without receiving it. The State cannot give you anything they did not first
take away from someone else, or from yourself.  Health care and education are too important NOT to be left to the free
market.” - Kevin D. Williamson, 