Sharon Otieno’s parents sobbed uncontrollably as Migori governor Okoth Obado stood stoically in the dock to deny murdering their daughter who was pregnant with his son. Melida Auma and Douglas Otieno were as much the centre of attraction as the accused. Their presence in court to witness Obado being charged was testament to both the huge public outrage and sympathy the gruesome murder has generated. Back at home, the case has split the politically charged county further. The Otienos arrived before 8am and sat in the third row behind the benches usually occupied by advocates. Auma wore a white dress and a black jacket. She was supported by two women. Read:EACC freezes Obado accounts over graft She and her husband had travelled overnight to Nairobi from their home in Migori in the quest for justice for their daughter. Sharon was seven months’ pregnant. Obado acknowledged paternity. Auma occasionally broke down and her visibly pained husband would often take out his handkerchief and wipe away her tears. The court teemed with lawyers exchanging greetings, giving the air of an ordinary setting — until Obado was brought into the dock to plead to the charges at around 9am. It wasn’t until 11.25am that he did, seaming pensive as Justice Jesse Lessit read out the charges. For the first time, the parents saw the accused killer at close range. He is accused of murder, aiding, abetting and financing the crime. Obado looked every bit the impressive executive, wearing a navy blue suit, a white shirt and and blue and white striped tie. He stared straight ahead as his name was mentioned in the same sentence as murder. Read:Obado ate sukuma wiki for three days However, missing was his wife, Hellen, who had accompanied the governor a week ago to a press conference to deny killing Sharon. Sharon must have confided in her most trusted friend — her mother — the secrets of her love life and her intimate relationship with Migori county’s most powerful man. Perhaps it was the memories of Sharon’s heartrending stories and escapades with the governor that plagued her as she gazed upward before breaking down at the sight of the county boss. With the tragic turn of events that ended not just in the horrific murder of her 26-year-old daughter but also termination of foetus, Auma had to ponder how she would raise Sharon’s three surviving children without a mother’s love. Click here for the latest political news