North Korea's Kim Jong Un wants to
realise denuclearisation during US President Donald Trump's
first term - giving a timeline for the first time - and has
agreed to a third summit with his South Korean counterpart,
Seoul officials said. Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in will meet in
Pyongyang on Sept. 18-20 and will discuss "practical measures"
toward denuclearisation, Moon's national security adviser, Chung
Eui-yong, said on Thursday after meeting Kim a day earlier. The summit could in turn provide renewed momentum to talks
over denuclearlisation between North Korea and the United
States, after Trump cancelled a visit to the North by his
secretary of state last month citing a lack of progress. Kim told South Korean officials his faith in Trump was
"unchanged" and he wanted denuclearisation and an end to hostile
relations with the United States within Trump's first term in
office, ending in early 2021, Chung said. "He particularly emphasised that he has never said anything
negative about President Trump," Chung said. The remarks represent Kim's first timeline for dismantling
North Korea's nuclear weapons programme. North Korea has said in previous, failed talks over the
years that it could consider giving up its nuclear programme if
the United States provided security guarantees by removing its
troops from South Korea and withdrawing its so-called nuclear
umbrella of deterrence from South Korea and Japan. US officials involved in negotiations have said North
Korea has refused to even start discussions about defining
"denuclearisation" or other key terms such as "verifiable" and
"irreversible", and have insisted the United States must first
agree to take simultaneous steps to reduce economic pressure. Chung said Kim had stressed the need for the United States
to reciprocate North Korea's initial moves, which have included
dismantling a nuclear test site and a missile engine facility. The US Embassy in Seoul on Thursday said it had no
information to share on the matter. FRUSTRATION North Korea's official KCNA news agency said Kim told Chung
and other envoys that it was his "fixed stand" to turn the
Korean peninsula into "the cradle of peace without nuclear
weapons and free from nuclear threat". Chung said Kim showed "frustration over the doubt raised by
some parts of the international community about his willingness
to denuclearise, and asked us to convey his message to the
United States". "He said he would appreciate that such good faith is
accepted with good faith," Chung said. "He expressed his strong
will to carry out more proactive measures toward
denuclearisation if action is taken in response to the North's
preemptive steps." The two Koreas also plan to open an inter-Korean liaison
office before the third summit in the North's border city of
Kaesong, staffed by officials from both sides to facilitate
consultation, Chung said. WHO GOES FIRST? Kim and Trump held a landmark summit in Singapore in June,
in which they agreed to work toward complete denuclearisation.
But negotiations have made little headway, while signs North
Korea has maintained work on its weapons have emerged. In this year's talks, North Korea and the United States have
been at odds over whether denuclearisation or declaring an end
to the 1950-53 Korean War should come first. The war ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty, meaning
US-led UN forces, including South Korea, are technically
still at war with the North. North Korea has long sought a formal end to the war but US
officials have said an end-of-war declaration could weaken North
Korea's incentive for denuclearisation, and raise questions
about the 28,500 US troops stationed in South Korea, a legacy
of the three-year war. US officials also say they have already made concessions,
such as halting joint military exercises with South Korea. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visited Pyongyang in
July, after which North Korea accused him of making "unilateral
and gangster-like demands for denuclearisation" while showing
little interest in ending the war. The United States, however, has said it is committed to
building a peace mechanism if North Korea denuclearises. "Looks like Kim is trying to wash away worries that talks
could stall or fail, knowing well that Washington is losing
patience," said Koh Yu-hwan, a professor of North Korean Studies
at Dongguk University in Seoul. "Kim also made it clear that he needs some kind of proof
Trump has abandoned the US' hostile policy before moving
toward denuclearisation. Kim is trying to prove his sincerity." Click here for the latest political news  