President Uhuru Kenyatta has expressed the need to protect the family unit, saying it is an important cog in ensuring a stable and prosperous nation. The President said no significant development could be realized in the country in the absence of strong families. “The foundation of a society is the family unit. We cannot achieve anything without strong family bonds which also contribute to the unity of the nation,” said President Uhuru. The President spoke at St. Anns Gathinja Catholic Church in Kiharu Constituency, Murang’a County, during a wedding ceremony of Senator Francis Irungu Kang’ata and Mary Wambui. The Head of State congratulated the newly married senator, saying the decision to settle down in marriage set a good example for the youth. “We are all here to witness our senator getting married. I thank him for deciding to settle down in marriage. This demonstrates a good example worthy to be emulated by other young leaders,” said the President. The Head of State wished the newly married couple God’s blessings and a happy marriage as they continue to serve Kenyans. “Let us build and protect our families. This will enable us bring up upright children who will be able to lead this nation in future,” he said. The President said by fighting corruption, the Government would be able to deliver quality services to wananchi as it remains focused on its transformative agenda. “We are going to ensure all public resources are protected and accounted for by those given the mandate to serve in public offices,” President Uhuru said. He said his government will continue improving road infrastructure in the country and assured the residents of Murang’a that the upgrading of the Murang’a-Gatheru-Wanjegi-Waithaga road to bitumen standards will start soon. Led by Governor Mwangi Wa Iria and Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, political leaders among them MPs – both from the Senate and the National Assembly – assured President Kenyatta of their support in achieving the Big 4 agenda. The bridegroom, Senator Kang’ata, thanked the President, leaders and wananchi for gracing his wedding saying it is a great honour to him and his bride. Click here for the latest political news 