The Communications Authority will take over licensing of SIM-card registration agents unless their operations are streamlined. CA director-general, Francis Wangusi said mobile telephone companies have three months to put things in order. The regulator is seeking details of the agents company registration, number of outlets, contacts and locations in which they operate. The move is due to an existing weakness among agents in enforcing the controls required by law. “It is evident that operators are not in control of the agents...we are looking at giving the agents licenses to be able to regulate them within our rules,” he said in an interview. Currently, agents are only working for operators and all they know is their relationships with the operators as far as their contracts are concerned. The third quarter sector statistics report from the authority shows that there are currently 202,244 mobile agents in the country. However, not all are involved in SIM-card registration. Safaricom leads with 156,534 agents. Airtel and Telkom follow with 31,240 and 8,342 agents respectively. The regulator plans to invoke its powers to ban and blacklist any agents who do not comply with the provision of the Kenya Information and Communications (Registration of SIM-Cards) regulations, 2015. CA said all operators must ensure that agents verify identification documents with the Integrated Population Registration System before registering new subscribers. Most records in the operators’ databases appear to have been populated from other secondary sources, said Wangusi. Others were found to have multiple registrations with different identity details, with potential use for criminal purposes. On Wednesday, CA gave all mobile phone companies until Friday to regularise numbers that are in the data base but lack full or proper documentation. “We have given them until the end of this week to comply. We have also told them we will make an audit on the level of compliance in three months.” said Wangusi.