Confusion over the command structure in the traffic department has continued deepening months after President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered the National Transport and Safety Authority to relinquish their function. National Police Service Commission chairman Johnston Kavuludi and Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu were yesterday quizzed by MPs over rampant cases of road accidents due to clear command structure in the department. On September 6, the National Assembly Transport committee heard that police officers manning roads are no longer answerable to Traffic Commandant Samuel Kimaru after the department was restructured. Kavuludi told the committee chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing that Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet is responsible for distribution of officers in the country. Read:FULL LIST: 53 senior police officers promoted, spokesman Charles Owino gets top rank “When the IG does his job as an independent person in the distribution of police officers, what we approve is the aspect of proper determination on who goes to perform that function,” he said. Kavuludi maintained the commission only vets and determines the suitability of officers serving in the police service. “I cannot answer to the issue of coordination of officers in the traffic department because that relates top distribution of officers in the service. We have removed officers who have been found unsuitable to be in the service,” Kavuludi said. Transport Chief Administrative Secretary Chris Obure said they complied with President Uhuru’s directive by handing over road safety equipment to the Traffic police department. “As a ministry, we have statistics on all blackspots and number of accidents that occur in the country. We handed over the function to police as directed by the President,” Obure said. Read:{SPEECH} Changes aimed at streamlining police operations - Uhuru The lawmakers, led by Pkosing, however, lashed out at Ntutu who said he was appearing on behalf of Boinnet.Pkosing said the committee conducted a survey between July and August and established that 507 people had died and 899 others injured in road accidents. “At least two people die daily on our roads yet the IG cannot appear before this committee to shed light. This is a serious matter and we are not in a public relations exercise,” Pkosing said. Other top officials who appeared before the committee include Kimaru, director of operations Henry Barmao, NTSA director general Francis Meja and NPSC CEO Joseph Onyango. The traffic department was recently scrapped, meaning any police officer could be deployed to man traffic. The reporting structure of the traffic department was overhauled and police station commanders given powers to deal with all traffic matters in their area of command. Click here for the latest political news           