The government is seeking to recruit an advisor to the Public Debt Management Office (PDMO) located at Treasury. Eligible candidate will be expected to review institutional distribution, planning and managerial framework of the PDMO. The position was advertised on Tuesday in local daily papers. The advisor will implement on-going alignments and separation of roles, risk mitigation and intended key reforms in the PDMO and timely reporting of donor funds disbursement. He/she will update database, record and dissemination of debt information to support a more proactive investor relation functions. "The objective of this assignment is to provide technical advisory services to the public debt management office, to review the current distribution of transactions among the departments of the PDMO and their execution against international best practices," read part of the advert. The advisor will then make recommendations to the national treasury on the transformative path to improve institutional form and operational efficiency. Treasury CS Henry Rotich has been on the spot with a section of MPs calling for his impeachment on grounds that he has failed to manage the finance docket. Read:Too much borrowing ‘a heavy burden’ for the poor taxpayer Early this year IMF had warned that Kenya risked losing investors and its economic gains if it does not contain the runaway debt burden. The International Monetary Fund officials told a parliamentary committee that the country’s excessive borrowing amid huge revenue deficit for the economy was worrying. Read: We are concerned about Kenya's debt burden, IMF tells MPs Related: Kenyans owe Sh100,000 each in public debt But President Uhuru Kenyatta denied claims that Kenya is sinking under too much debt following his recent investment meetings with World leaders. The head of State said the government is not borrowing money for recurrent expenditure or to pay salaries but to grow the economy and create more opportunity. "I am committed in this and my partner in this endeavour Raila Odinga is also equally committed with the recognizing that politics is just about opposing ideas and not creating enmities," he said. See:Uhuru plunging Kenya into a financial crisis, says Mudavadi