A war of words has erupted between Kalenjin and Masaai lawmakers over the Narok clashes. One person has died as 26 have been hospitalised following clashes in Olposimoru at the border of Nakuru and Narok counties. Hundreds of residents have been displaced and 50 houses were torched. Three Rift Valley MPs want Narok senator Ledama Olekina, Narok North MP Moitalel Kenta and former Nairobi speaker Alex Magelo investigated over a spate of violence that has rocked Narok and Nakurui counties. The MPs - Nelson Koech (Belgut), Hillary Kosgei (Kipkelion West) and Kipsengeret Koros (Soin-Sigowet) - also want President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack Environment CS Keriako Tobiko over what they claim is “open bias” on the issue. The lawmakers claimed the clashes along the border of Narok and Nakuru counties is politically instigated. They accused the three MPs of inciting members of their community against Kalenjins. Read:Man arrested for killing a boy in Narok clashes “On July 27, Masaai leaders organised a rally and gave the government a 14-day ultimatum to remove some community from Mau or they would do it themselves,” Kosgei said. Koech said, “As an immediate measure, let me beseech the Government to stop any eviction or threat of eviction.” But in a quick rejoinder, Moitalel dismissed claims of incitement claiming they only supported government’s eviction programme contrary to the claims by the Rift Valley lawmakers. He accused the MPs of creating unnecessary tension to stop the ongoing Mau eviction urging the government not to stop the exercise. “Eviction from Mau is unstoppable. It is actually those three MPs from Rift Valley that should be investigated. They don’t come from Narok so what is their interest in Mau?” Kenta said. The government has beefed up security in Olposimoru. Peter Kimutai, a resident in Olenguruone, said the reemergence of clashes in Olposimoru started after assailants allegedly killed a man with arrows, sparking outrage. OCPD Joseph Kisombe said the man is believed to have been following his stolen cows. Angered by the action, a section of the villagers mobilised themselves and trailed the animals deep into Olposumoru but were accosted during the mission leaving several with arrow wounds. Also read: Fresh violence in Maasai Mau Forest claims two lives Click here for the latest political news  