After beating St .Joseph Youth 3-1 over the weekend at Afraha, high flying National Super League outfit FC Talanta hope to extend their winning streak when they confront Modern Coast Rangers today at Camp Toyoyo. Talanta, who were staring at relegation at the start of the second leg, have recently registered back-to-back wins which have unhooked them from the jaws of relegation and catapulted them to 12th on the log with 37 points. They are hoping to break into the top ten when they face the Coast-based club who currently perched 10th with 39 points. Talanta, under the stewardship of experienced tactician Abdalla Juma, will be boosted by the return of lanky striker Emmanuel Mogaka who missed the St Joseph tie, thanks to a knee injury suffered last week in a mid week duel against Kibera Black Stars. Mogaka boasts of six league goals to his name thus far and his return is set to boost the club’s striking front which has recently been scoring at will besides enriching his overall goal tally. The club held their final training session ahead of the game yesterday at Kasarani Stadium although Juma heavily protested the decision by Football Kenya Federation to serve them with a late notice of the match date. He, however, expressed optimism that they will bag the three points which will steer them to the top ten. He said: “I am not happy with the league body for communicating to us the date of the match as we had prepared for our next match against GFE 105 on Friday. I fear the fixture congestion will bring fatigue on our side and dent our superb form. However, I am confident the boys will deliver and make it to the top ten.” A win for Talanta will see them scale to ninth with 40 points while three points for the visiting team will aid them rise a place high to ninth with 42 points toppling Kenya Police. The match will later pave way for Kibera Black Stars who are lined to play league debutants Green Commandos. Kibera have faded to 13th with 37 points while the students are placed 16th with 25 points.