At least nine people died in Nyandarua and Makueni counties yesterday as heavy rains continue to pound parts of the country. In Nyandarua, seven people drowned when their car was washed away by floods on the Maraigushu-Githabai road. The victims included three women.Reports said police and residents had to wait for more than two hours for the water levels to subside before retrieving the bodies.Njabini police boss Eliud Monari said the accident was caused by the rains. He said they recovered all the bodies and the wrecked vehicle. Related: Makueni cop, his brother drown after floodwaters sweep away car In Makueni, a woman and her daughter died after a dam that supplies water to Wote town overflowed in the morning.Makueni police boss Bosita Omukolongolo said the two died when their house in Kamunyolo village was swept away by the water. “They were asleep when the dam overflowed and swept them a distance from their home. The husband survived the floods by climbing a tree. He was rescued and taken to Makueni Level 4 Hospital,” Bosita said.Many roads have also been rendered impassable. The Sultan Hamud road is among the worst-hit by the floods. As evident in images captured in an amateur video, some of the heavy trucks on the road were left almost completely submerged. Only their roofs were visible.Motorists and passengers could be seen sitting on the rooftops of the vehicles, while pedestrians struggled to wade through the floodwaters.The Kenya National Highways Authority yesterday issued an alert to motorists plying the Nairobi–Mombasa (A8 ) highway, saying a section of the road at Sultan Hamud was flooded.Kenha corporate communication assistant director Charles Njogu advised the motorists to use the Machakos–Wote–Makindu road until the water levels at Sultan Hamud go down.Meanwhile, Makueni county commissioner Maalim Mohammed said 15 people have been killed by floods since the rains started. On Friday last week, weather officials issued a warning of heavy downpour throughout the weekend and spreading into this week. More: Heavy rains return in April, Met warns of more flooding Click here for the latest political news