Kenyan anti Female Genital Mutilation activist Nice Nailantei Leng’ete is among the top 100 most influential person’s of 2018 on TIME’s annual list of the world’s most influential people. Time magazine unveiled its annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world on Thursday, including record numbers of 45 women and 45 people under the age of 40. Leng’ete, who is 27, hails from the Maasai community and has been challenging the social norms of the male-dominated community in her quest to end FGM viewed as a cultural practice in the community. She ran away from her home at the age of 8-years to avoid being subjected to FGM and finish school. In her quest she advocates to eliminate the practice and replace it with alternative rites of passage for girls that maintain the cultural celebration of the transition to womanhood without FGM. “I personally have seen too many women and girls, too many friends, have their dreams taken away from them. Harmful practices have impacted their lives, and they can never get those days back. And this needs to change,” she said. “I’ll continue to fight until no Maasai girl has to undergo FGM/C. I will continue to demand that girls can grow into women without being circumcised. Every young girl in Kenya can become the woman of her dreams. I am, for sure.” She added. The 2018 list features some of the world’s most significant artists, leaders, scientists, activists and entrepreneurs selected by the magazine's editors. Among other Africans on the list include South African comedian Trevor Noah, andZimbabwean politician Emmerson Mnangagwa. This year’s list goes to record for having the highest number of women since the launch of TIME 100 first published in 1999. The
2018 list features some of the world’s most significant artists,
leaders, scientists, activists and entrepreneurs selected by the
magazine's editors. Among
other Africans on the list include South African comedian Trevor Noah
and Emmerson Mnangagwa Zimbabwean politician serving as the third and
current President of Zimbabwe 