Human rights lobby groups in Mombasa spent too much energy talking about extrajudicial killings but have forgotten the drugs issue which equally kills many youths, Nyali MP Mohamed Ali has said. Ali on Saturday challenged the rights lobby groups to speak out more aggressively against the drugs menace. “Apart from defending other rights, we want you to start hearing your voice over drugs,” Ali said. He spoke during the official launch of the Nyali NG-CDF Bursary Fund in Kongowea where he issued Sh25 million worth of bursaries to about 3,000 secondary, college and university students from the constituency. He asked MPs, MCAs and other elected and nominated leaders to start talking against drugs abuse. “This is our agenda. Our children are dying. We do small time politics yet the drugs continue to kill our children,” Ali said. Read: Joho-branded car, heroin seized in Mombasa swoop on drug barons The first-time MP said he is rolling up his sleeves ready to fight the drug lords in Mombasa. “When I start the war, do not cry, mothers. Step aside so I can bring your children back to you. If you are afraid of dying, I am not. Let me do it,” Ali said. He said human rights lobby groups must stand up and defend the poor, who he said are mostly the victims of drug abuse. The former journalist said the lobby groups must also speak boldly and aggressively about the infrastructure in the county. “You lobby groups must stand up and be the voice of the voiceless,” he said. He also hit out at fellow politicians at the Coast saying they do not address long-term issues affecting the education of children in the region but instead dwell on showbiz and public relation stunts in political rallies. “Coast politicians have the habit of gifting children Sh1,000, Sh2,000 or Sh200 on daises but do not pay for those children school fees,” he said. He refuted claims he is not on the ground saying Nyali is a big constituency and he has been crisscrossing it He said through his lobbying in Parliament, Mombasa will get a Level Six hospital to complement the Coast General Hospital. Also read; 96,752 Mombasa residents are addicted to drugs, says Shahbal  Click here for the latest political news  