Kenneth Stanley Njindo Matiba answered his trumpet’=s call last Sunday. A charming gentleman of many firsts, he was one of the three first indigenous Permanent Secretaries at Independence, the first Black CEO of Kenya Breweries Ltd, first local chairman of the Kenya Football Federation and first Cabinet minister to resign in protest against the powerful and feared President Daniel Moi. He is also said to have returned one of Kenya’s highest honours, the Elder of the Burning Spear. An alumnus of the prestigious Alliance High School, class of 1951, he was the only boy who reported to school wearing a spanking new pair of shoes, which were swiftly confiscated by headmaster Carey Francis. The rest, including Prof Joseph Mungai, Aaron Kandie, Philip Gachoka, Simeon Mbae, former Vice President Josephat Karanja and Jason Kimbui (the father of this writer), amongst others, arrived barefoot. Whilst at the Ministry of Education, he worked very closely with Moi, then an assistant minister. It was here that Moi learnt Matiba’s capabilities first hand and their friendship continued for many years. The plaque that stands at the currently dilapidated Safari Beach Hotel is testimony to this, as the hotel was opened by none other than Moi. Moi was never comfortable around the highly ambitious and effective Matiba. He reluctantly appointed him to the Cabinet after he had trounced Moi’s compatriot, Dr Julius Gikonyo Kiano, in the Mbiri parliamentary race. Moi, in his usual divide-and-rule style, maintained links with Kiano and often sent him to rattle Matiba at constituency level. When Matiba stumbled on a plot to rig him out in the controversial 1988 presidential and parliamentary election, he was so flabbergasted that he handed in his resignation to Moi in December 1989. He had been dissuaded by close friends from resigning earlier. In those days, nobody resigned from Moi’s government and that, combined with returning the EBS, was viewed as a serious personal affront. Matiba returned to his private business but the dreaded Special Branch, a then National Intelligence Unit, trailed his every move. This irked Matiba in no small measure. On May 3, 1990, Matiba and Charles Rubia called a press-conference at the Hilton Hotel, where they passed a motion of no confidence in single-party rule and called for repeal of Section 2A of the Constitution. At the time, the statement was earthshaking. To state that Kanu panicked would be an understatement. Most dictatorships and monarchies expect and guard against revolution from the proletariat. This was different: The bourgeoisie or rank-and-file insiders were pushing for revolution. Matiba and Rubia, just like the biblical Moses, had decided to leave the bourgeoisie comfort zone of the palace and join the citizens in the trenches! Their financial muscle and the prospects of what they could achieve shook the Kanu government to the core. Matiba had earlier made the tactical error of telling Moi to his face that he had never tried anything and failed. As the Ameru of Kalithiria say, “You don’t show a cow the rope when you intend to lead it to slaughter!” On July 5, 1990, the two men were arrested and detained without trial. The rest is history as the health of both elderly men deteriorated rapidly under horrendous prison conditions, and it was by the grace of God that they came away with their lives. Despite his poor health, he ran for President in 1992, coming a credible second to Moi, Had Mwai Kibaki not run as a spoiler, matters may have been different. Running a campaign solely on personal resources took a toll on his business; his prestigious Hillcrest Schools and his flagship Alliance Hotels went under receivership. However, he will be remembered as perhaps one man who took on Moi and lived to tell the tale. He is survived by his widow Edith, sons Raymond and Gitau and daughters Susan, Ivy and Julie. Fare thee well to Kenya’s mighty drum major of our Second Liberation. 