The rise in the number of unreported child defilement cases in Lamu is a growing concern. Often, the cases are swept under the carpet and many parents opt for out-of-court settlements The perpetrator usually give the parents a few coins to buy their silence. Not much thought is given to the psychological trauma the child suffers, or how he or she will turn out as they develop into an adult. It's an unfair situation that has led to human rights groups, religious leaders, opinion makers and political leaders rising up with one voice to speak for the young children whose innocence is stolen in a most cruel manner. Young girls and boys alike are preyed on by paedophiles, who have grown more brazen as they go unpunished with each child they molest. Most perpetrators are usually family members or people who are known to their victims. The highest number of child defilement cases are reported in Lamu island, Tchundwa, Kiunga, Hindi, Mpeketoni and Witu. In all these areas, the number of molested girls is higher than that of boys.  ACTIVISM FOR CHILDREN Muslims for Human Rights Organisation (Muhuri), the Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya (CIPK) and religious and area leaders have taken it upon themselves to lift the lid on child abuse. According to Muhuri, more than 10 children are defiled in Lamu town every month. A similar number of cases goes unreported as parents opt for out-of-court arrangements with the culprits or turn a blind eye to their children's abuse. Muhuri field officer Ummulkher Salim says its unfortunate that any parent would gang up with their child's molester and accept any form of ‘payment’ instead of informing the police. She says its unsettling for a parent to pretend the abuse didn’t happen and carry on with life, while the defiled child is left to nurse lifelong psychological scars. Salim says says parents ought to be the first cheerleaders and defenders of their children’s rights, freedoms and feelings “Parents should stand up and be the number one champions of the rights of their children. Don't take any money from any child defiler, instead report them so the law can teach them a lesson," she says. "No amount of money can save your child the years of anguish that they will have to go through because of such an incident and your failure as a parent to do anything about it. It's unfair and selfish. Don't wait for things to look bad before you talk.” Habib Ali, a field assistant officer at Muhuri, believes sweeping child abuse cases under the carpet is to blame for the spike in the crime. Some parents do not pursue justice for their children because they lack the finances. Ali says Muhuri is paying for all child defilement cases in Lamu to encourage parents to seek justice. “As an organisation, we have already raised the red flag and even decided to sponsor such cases in order to ensure the culprits face the law and justice is served for the affected children. Someone needs to stand up for these kids, otherwise the future is very bleak,” he says. The CIPK Lamu branch chairperson, Abubakar Shekuwe, says it is not only cowardly but selfish of any parent to accept money in return for an injustice committed against their children. Parents have a duty to protect their children against situations or people who can cause them harm, he says. Shekuwe says parents also have a duty to instil proper values in their children. “Parents must protect their children from all danger but in cases where the child has already been defiled, it is always proper to find out who the culprit is and report the matter to the police immediately. Then take the child hospital and also obtain the medical report that will help pursue justice for the child,” he says. “You have no right whatsoever to sit on your child’s abuse just because you are their parents. It's the worst thing any parent can do to their children. You will have killed their future just like that. Speak out and save you child." Shekuwe says no religion or culture should condone child sexual abuse. He urges the community, religious and political leaders alike to condemn it in the strongest terms possible. Religious leaders have a duty to ensure their entire congregations are taught to respect and protect children, he says. “This habit of leaving such matter to schools and the law must stop. It all starts here in the mosques or churches. We must strive to teach the truth about child rights so that we have no such incidents taking place in Lamu." Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo has been at the front line championing the rights of abused children in Lamu. She says it’s the duty and responsibility of all leaders to wipe out child sexual abuse and protect the rights of children. “It’s a tough chain that must be broken for the sake of the children. It's the worst cycle that can ever exist anywhere. It's like society is ganging up against kids. We must speak out and condemn such acts to create a society that is both safe and productive for our children to thrive,” Obbo says.  CHILD WELFARE Lamu county children’s welfare officer Maxwell Titima says his office is liaising with every available stakeholder to safeguard the future of Lamu's children from. He says children's constitution rights must be respected by all. Titima says his office has and continues to handle numerous child sexual abuse cases, but parents are a major hindrance as they remain silent. “As an office it becomes hard for us to pursue justice for the child when we have no idea they have been defiled in the first place. But we are making effort in finding out such cases from the community immediately they occur so that we ensure the child gets justice," he says. Titima says his office has and will continue to institute legal measures against parents and guardians who do not report their children's abuse to the authorities. “You have no right whatsoever to decide what's good for the child. That’s the work of the law and the Constitution. And so if we find out, we also deal with you for obstructing justice for that child."  MARAGA WARNING In February 2017 Chief Justice David Maraga toured Lamu and warned residents against hiding or resolving child defilement cases out of court. He urged residents to promptly report the cases to the police for timely arrest and prosecution of the culprits. “As the Judiciary, we are urging people to try and resolve small issues at home. But I wish to make it clear that child defilement cases are never to be addressed or resolved at home but in a court of law. We need such culprits jailed,” he said. Maraga urged the police in Lamu and all those concerned to be on high alert. In 2016, a madrassa teacher called Jafar Musa Sadiq, 35, fled after he indecently assaulted nine children. He is yet to be apprehended. On December 13, 2017, an 80-year-old man defiled a nine-year-old girl in Hindi and infected her with HIV. The man fled and has never been prosecuted. In February this year, a 15-year-old girl was raped by a GSU officer known to her in Kiunga and her parents allegedly accepted Sh20,000 to keep silent. He is yet to be arrested.