Heavy rains may worsen flooding in many parts of Kenya this weekend. Floods caused by the seasonal downpour have already killed five people in the last week and caused travel disruption. Head of meteorological services Peter Ambenje said heavy rains will spread over most of the country until Tuesday. The worst-affected areas will be counties around Lake Victoria, the Coast and North Western counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu. Northeastern counties of Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will also experience rains this weekend. Others are highlands west of the Rift Valley, Central and South Rift Valley which include Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho and Bomet counties. Central Highlands (including Nairobi) and the Southeast lowlands such as Kitui and Voi will also have rains. “Several parts of the country are expected to continue receiving rainfall,” Ambenje said in the forecast, which ends on Tuesday. The rains are expected in the morning and afternoon except in Central Kenya where mornings will be cloudy with a possibility of rain over few places giving way to sunny intervals. In the past week, several parts of Northern Kenya have experienced flooding. losses Last Sunday, hundreds of passengers were stranded for hours at Kainuk Bridge along the border of West Pokot and Turkana counties. The passengers using the Kitale-Lodwar highway were unable to cross the Kainuk bridge due to raging floods. The floods almost swept away a lorry and swamped the bridge, forcing the passengers to wait in the cold for the waters to recede. According to some passengers, the volume of water kept increasing as the heavy rains continue to pound the area. The bridge has been repaired two times by Kenha, most recently in November last year. Lorry driver Paul Ndung’u, who was caught up in the snarl-up, said he will incur a Sh30,000 loss. He said his goods will go bad. Pastoralists and fishermen in Turkana were also warned of possible floods as heavy rains continue pounding the region. Disaster management executive Charles Lokyoto last week issued a public advisory to pastoralists to avoid grazing along riverbeds. “During this heavy rainfall, the heavy floods might turn to the dry riverbeds and kill livestock and even the pastoralists,” he said. Most of the seasonal rivers like Tarach, Natira, Kalemngorok and Kosipir are already flooded. Kawalase, the seasonal river in Turkana Central and Kalemngorok in South are the most dangerous drifts during the rainy season. “In 2017, pastoralists lost nearly 3,000 in Turkana North and Loima, the alerts are meant to reduce such lose to occur in future,” he said. Also Read: Heavy rains return in April, Met warns of more flooding