The government has published a bill seeking to exempt some food products from being taxed in bid to improve the cost of living and realise food security. This means that if adopted, Kenyans are going to pay less for these products while farmers are likely to see a reduction in waste of fruits and food produced in the country. “The Bill seeks to amend the Value Added Tax Act to move some items from zero rate to exempt in order to limit zero rating to exports,” leader of Majority in Parliament Aden Duale said in the memorandum of objectives section of the bill. Some of the food products proposed for exemption include unprocessed milk and Maize seed, meat and edible meat offals, Fish and crustaceans, oil seeds and oleaginous fruits, sugarcane, and muluscs. This comes as the UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that one third of the food produced in the world for human consumption (approx. 1.3 billion tonnes) gets lost or wasted. Others are edible vegetables and certain roots and tubers of, edible fruits and nuts, peal of citrus fruits or melon and cereals. More to exempting tax on food products, the government also wants seeds such as those of cotton, mustard, sesamum, sunflower, and the low erucic acid and colza. Also proposed for exemption is the supply or importation of the bovine semen, fish eggs, animal semen other than bovine and groundnuts that are not roasted or cooked, in shell. Food security and Nutrition is one of the Big four Agendas the government intends to fulfill in the next five years. It for instance, wants to increase maize production from 40 million bags to 67 million bags in 2022, rice from 125,000 metric tonnes to 400,000 and potatoes from 1.6 million tonnes to 2.5 million tonnes By so doing, the state is targeting to lower the cost of food as a percentage of income from current 47 per cent to 25 per cent by 2022. It also wants to raise agricultural exports from 16 to 50 per cent, increase agricultural SMEs to a million from current 200,000 and create 4.5 million jobs from the sector from current 500,000 A outlined in the bill, income tax of agricultural boards and authorities has also bee proposed for exemption. Some of the boards listed include the Kenya Dairy Board, Tea,Pyrethrum, Sisal,Canning Crops, central agriculture , national irrigation , and Pig industry boards. The authorities are the pineapple,horticultural crops, and the Kenya Tea Development authorities.