Officers from the Anti-Dopping Agency of Kenya, CID and the Pharmacy and Poisons Board raided a chemist in Eldoret suspected to be selling banned drugs and substances to athletes. CEO of ADAK Japhter Rugut said several other chemists in the region were under investigations. he warned those found engaging in the illegal business will be arrested and prosecuted. Rugut said an athlete had confessed that he was injected with a banned performance-enhancing substance known as EPO from the Eldo-Sako chemist in the town. The owners of the chemist Samwel Kosgey was arrested for investigations. “We have an athlete who admitted that he was injected with the substance to enhance performance at this chemist and it became necessary to find out what happens in this pharmacy and that is why we are here,” Rugut said. Read: Anti-doping agency targets federations in war against enhancers He said such substances were illegal and also a health risk to the athletes and that under the Anti-Dopping Act the ADAK had powers to deal with such issues. “We are compiling evidence on other chemists and once we get full details we will move and stage raids,” Rugut said. Rugut said the athletes consuming such banned substances face criminal charges along with those involved in selling them. “According to provisions in the Anti-Dopping Act anyone found culpable faces a possible jail term of three years or a fine of sh3 million,” he said. He said relevant agencies will deal with the criminal aspects in such cases. “For ADAK we want to establish where the athlete got the substances as he stated and we are following up such cases in other areas,” he said, Denis Otieno who is an inspector with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board said they were mandated to protect public health through ensuring that the drugs dispensed to the public are licensed and meet the required standards. A week ago Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said he would team up with other government agencies to crack down on those selling banned drugs and substances to athletes and other youth. Also read: State withdraws doping charges against Italian sports agent Federico Rosa  Click here for the latest political news