A new ferry - MV Safari - is expected in Kenya by August. This is after the Appeal court allowed completion of construction in Turkey. The ferry was to arrive in November last year, but the High Court in August suspended its construction until a case challenging its procurement was determined. The Court of Appeal, however, overturned the decision. High Court judge Eric Ogola, however, allowed the docking and launching of another ferry - MV Jambo - which was also constructed in Turkey. The total cost of the vessels is Sh2 billion. But in a judgement by appellate judge Alnasir Visram, he said the High Court erred in suspending the construction without merit and meeting the threshold.  DAMAGES Visram said the bone of contention was the termination of a contract by KFS to Bonriz Surveyors Marine Insurance to offer consultancy services for the ferries. The contract was terminated by the management after it discovered the company had presented wrong information which was used to award the tender. Visram said Bonriz should have filed for damages instead of filing to stop the entire project. “It is not logical to issue injunction orders on the grounds given by Bornriz. I therefore set aside orders temporarily stopping the construction,” he said.  SAFETY CONCERNS Visram said the fight between Bonriz and KFS should not affect thousands of commuters using the channel every day. About 300,000 commuters and 6,000 vehicles use the channel every day. Visram said the government stood to make losses after spending an extra Sh290 million to fast track the construction of the additional ferry due to high demand at the channel. Visram dismissed claims MV Safari’s safety could not be guaranteed considering MV Jambo’s was in doubt. He said the safety of MV Safari could not be determined by the failure of another ferry, which, infact, the High Court had allowed to be used. Visram said the court erred in implying the safety was in doubt yet it had not been inspected by experts. On April 8, Parliament gave KFS a clean bill of health despite reports saying the management had failed to properly manage the ferries at the Likoni crossing channel.