President Donald Trump was the most unpopular politician to ever win the US presidency in modern polling. It was, therefore, vital and a no brainer for him to do whatever he could to broaden his support base once he took office — something that was easily doable because his popularity was so low to begin with, it wouldn’t have taken much to shore it up. Unfortunately for him, however, there’s no sign this has happened more than a year into his accidental presidency. Some consider that to be a good thing for who knows how much lower he would sink the country were he to implement the kind of policies most favoured by extremists in the Republican Party, who helped get him elected. While Trump is the accidental President, his inability to increase his support beyond the core nativists and others who comprise about 40 per cent of the electorate is itself not an accident but a function of who Trump is — not presidential material. As one observer has put it, Trump in many ways remains “The unpresident” — seemingly lacking in traits that the nation used to prize such as honesty, empathy, forgiveness, a spirit of conciliation, humility, sharing the values of everyday people, self-deprecation and a sense of humour. Instead, he emphasises bluster and narcissism. His presidency seems to be a reality show based on pride, preening and his immense ego, designed to call attention to the man in charge and crush his adversaries. Polls have consistently backed this as more than just an observation as they show millions of Americans don’t look up to Trump, and they don’t want their children to emulate him in terms of character and values. As an assistant director for one of the polls put it, “Only 27 per cent of American voters say they are proud to have Donald Trump as President, while 53 per cent say they are embarrassed – a 2-1 negative.” Trump’s unpopularity is music to Democrats’ ears, and they can’t wait to use it to hound many Republicans out of office come this November, when Americans go to the polls again.Democrats say they’re sure of regaining control of the House and possibly both Houses of Congress. In either case, they plan on using their majority to hound Trump out of office via impeachment or ensure that during the the remaining two years in office he would be impotent. Trump has no one but himself to blame for the sorry state of his presidency, especially his inability to unite the country and expand his base. President Uhuru Kenyatta faces the same challenge since his swearing-in for the second term after what what opposition leaders led by Raila Odinga termed as a sham election. However, regardless of how he became President, Uhuru is the head of state and has all the instruments of power to effect as much success and progress for the country as any good and effective President would — or to inflict her with pain and suffering just as you get from any failed President democratically elected or otherwise. Put another way, and a lesson Trump has failed to learn in the US — one we hope doesn’t elude Uhuru — what matters in the final analysis is not much how or by what margin one becomes President. Rather, what matters is one’s conduct as President and, in particular, one’s ability to use the presidency to unite the country. Their efforts alone, if done in good faith with demonstrable evidence of reaching out, would, in the end, win over some but not all of their opponents and their supporters, while along the way having the desired effect of unifying the country as much as possible. Uhuru’s handshake with Raila was a good gesture and is a step in the right direction. We now should see the fruits of the handshake and that is nothing less than a united country, economic revitalization and dismantling of electoral theft tools that keep rearing their ugly heads every five years.   Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States