Barack Muluka will continue serving as the ANC secretary general. The High Court stayed the decision by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal that annulled his appointment on Thursday. Justice Lucy Njuguna ordered the parties to appear for hearing on April 19. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi moved to the High Court to appeal a decision by PPDT that annulled the appointment of Muluka as the party secretary general. In an application filed through lawyer Dan Ameyo, Mudavadi, Kelvin Lunani, Margaret Ndanyi and Muluka wanted the court to grant an interim order of stay of the PPDT orders pending hearing of the application. “The application filed is urgent and the appellants are likely to suffer injustice and irreparable loss should the respondents proceed to execute the orders of the PPDT,” the affidavit reads. Read:Barrack Muluka, Osotsi in war of words over ANC secretary general job In the application, Mudavadi says ANC members Angela Gathoni, Ibrahim Memba and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi brought the case prematurely before the tribunal. He says they did not exhaust the internal dispute resolution mechanisms prescribed by the Political Parties Act of 2011. They raised a preliminary objection against the premature institution of the petition before the tribunal but it was dismissed. “The tribunal was furnished with sufficient evidence that former secretary general voluntarily resigned from office ... and due procedure was followed in the appointment of the current secretary general,” Ameyo says. They allege the tribunal determined the case in favour of the respondents, utterly disregarding their overwhelming evidence. Ameyo says as a consequence of one sided decision of the tribunal, they are likely to suffer injustice if the court does not intervene. On Thursday PPDT chairman Kyalo Mbobu, members Hassan Abdi and Desma Nungo said the decision by ANC to appoint Muluka was irregular, null and void. The tribunal ruled that the resignation of Ososti was not voluntary as claimed by the party, and there was no vacancy for the position. Also Read: Barrack Muluka appointed ANC secretary general, Mudavadi happy Click here for the latest political news   