Opinion is divided over a move by elected leaders from Kisii and Nyamira counties to unite the Omogusii ahead of the 2022 election. While politicians support the initiative, political analysts warn it will fail. The proponents have ignored key segments of the community, the analysts say. More than 10 MPs over the Easter holidays held four functions in the two counties and pledged to unite the community. They included Kisii community spokesman Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Sam Ongeri (Kisii senator), Richard Tong’i (Nyaribari Masaba) and Samuel Arama (Nakuru West). Others were Okong’o Omogeni (Nyamira senator), Innocent Obiri (Bobasi), Bomachoge Chache’s Alfah Miruka, Nyamira Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi, West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi and Kitutu Masaba’s Shadrack Mose. They began their meetings on Saturday at Gatuta SDA Church in Kitutu Masaba. They legislators were hosted by Mose. They proceeded to Nyakoiba SDA Church in Bomachoge Chache, where area MP Miruka hosted them. On Sunday, the legislators called on Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama at his home and then left for Nyangena PAG Church in Joash Nyamoko’s North Mugirango constituency, where they raised funds to build the church. They concluded their activities at Borabu MP Ben Momanyi’s home. Momanyi had a homecoming rally to celebrate his appointment to the Parliamentary Service Commission. Throughout the tour, unity was the clarion call. But political analysts say the quest is destined to fail because a similar pattern was used in the previous attempts that did not bear fruit. “The talk of Omogusii unity is tired. We always hear about unity after elections or before elections then everything fizzles out,” lawyer Edward Begi said yesterday.  PROCESS NOT INCLUSIVE Before last year’s General Election, the quest to have the community unite failed as two factions emerged — one around Kisii Governor James Ongwae and another around then-Kisii Senator Chris Obure. The Obure wing supported President Uhuru Kenyatta, while the Ongwae team backed NASA chief Raila Odinga. One commentator said the new initiative will only suceeed if all players are brought on board. The conveners must involve members of the community from the grasssroots, University lecturer and political analyst David Omato said yesterday. “A politician-driven process will definitely ground. Let them bring together elders, religious leaders, businessmen, professionals and youth to chart the way forward for the community,” he said. Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong’era said they are out to ensure the community is united to make it easy to achieve development. “With 1.5 million votes in our two counties and outside, we are a formidable force. We cannot be ignored. As leaders, we are not focussing on our stomachs but development,” she said. Nyamoko said even though the initiative was started by MPs, the region’s two governors Nyagarama (Nyamira) and Ongwae (Kisii) should also join in. “We shall not disappoint our people. We have made a conscious decision to work together for the sake of our people,” the Jubilee Party lawmaker said.  COMMUNITY SPOKESMAN Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi backed the initiative. “As a community, we need to speak with one voice. We should also sit down and find out where the rain started beating us,” he said. The community must move forward in one direction to boost its bargaining power in the 2022 election. “We should regroup and chart our destiny. We cannot be bystanders anymore,” the Wiper MP said. Arati defended himself against claims he imposed himself as the community’s spokesman. “This thing [spokesmanship] started from here in Nyamira. I’m asking Prof Ongeri not to panic. We must have generational change in our politics,” the youthful legislator said. Ongeri urged the community to actively participate in the next national census scheduled for next year. “We should be number four in terms of numbers. We cannot be ignored,” the veteran politician said.