Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion wants Northeastern to train and recruit its own teachers. He said the Ministry of Education should ensure the region has teachers. Sossion said no teacher should be compelled to work in a hostile environment, or in areas they are not prepared to go to. His remarks come as schools are scheduled to reopen next week for second term. “The mass exodus of teachers from these areas is a clear indication of a bad staffing norm adopted by the government that cannot work. According to Unesco standards, a community should be assisted to train its own teachers,” Sossion said. This would ensure that the ILO-Unesco requirement that all children have access to universal education is met, he said.  LOWER PASS MARK Sossion said the union has written to Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed requesting for the cut off mark for those to train in teaching be reduced to D+. He said it is not easy to perform well in such a hostile environment. Sossion said by doing so, only local teachers who understand the culture of the people get employed in schools in the region. “The TSC has a role of ensuring they attract and retain the best teachers. The commission and the ministry should work together and mobilise local communities, including mobile clans and pastoralists, to adopt this plan,” he added. Sossion said mass exodus of teachers from counties in North eastern such as Garissa and Mandera started in 2015. He said that should have been a wake up call for the government to come up with a permanent solution instead of forcing teachers from other areas to work in hostile conditions. Teachers have been fleeing the region because of frequent attacks from the militant group al Shaabab. The terrorists have been targeting professionals from other counties working in the region. Some have already been transferred while others are still awaiting to know their fate.  'YOU CAN'T PUSH ME OUT' Last week, Sossion said effective management of insecurity in Northeastern holds the key to the unending cycle of mass teacher transfers from the region. “This phenomenon is not new. It started in 2015. We need a lasting solution because this is a cyclic thing. Why don’t we have non-local teachers in Northeastern?” Sossion asked the Parliamentary Committee on Education. Meanwhile, Sossion has told the people demonstrating and demanding his removal as the union’s secretary general to stop wasting their time. He said the solutions for the problems they are facing cannot be found on the streets. “There is a clear procedure of removing an elected official. Knut won’t be managed through the streets,” he said. His critics wants him to step down after being nominated MP.