Some 85 million people across the Commonwealth are blind or have very poor vision. Many millions more have less than perfect eyesight. But we have the means to change that. Thanks to developments in science and technology, four out of five people who are blind do not need to be: Simple, tried and tested solutions exist to prevent or treat many types of blindness. For many with impaired vision, all that is needed is an eye test and a pair of glasses. Good eyesight transforms lives, releasing potential to learn, to work, and to live life to the full. It boosts productivity and reduces social care costs. Vision is in many ways the golden thread running through the Sustainable Development Goals. It can help reduce poverty, and deliver quality education, decent work and gender equality. The WHO Global Action Plan Towards Universal Eye Health, approved by all WHO member states in 2013, sets a target of a reduction of 25 per cent in avoidable blindness over 2010 levels, by 2019. It focuses on planning, work force development and partnerships. It’s estimated that the global cost of vision loss is at least $3 trillion (Sh300 trillion) per year, which includes $168 billion (Sh16.8 trillion) in lost productivity alone. Women are disproportionately affected. It is estimated that 55 per cent of people who are blind or visually impaired are women. About 89 per cent of visually impaired people live in middle and low income countries. The investment required worldwide to develop eye health systems to eliminate avoidable blindness and treat long-term chronic eye disease is a fraction of that. The effect of uncorrected poor vision on education and life chances of children and young people is severe. Studies show that quality vision care is the most cost-effective intervention for improving child welfare, and leads to large increases in learning and school performance. Right across the Commonwealth, bold and imaginative steps are being taken to preserve, correct and restore eyesight. In many places where trachoma is still endemic, it is being tackled with vigour. This includes our work right here in Kenya. If these efforts are sustained and broadened, the goal of total elimination is within reach. Cataracts are responsible for over half of all blindness globally. Here in Kenya, cataract surgery has been added to national health insurance provisions. As the Commonwealth population grows and ages, more is needed. Without action now, the number of people affected is set to triple by 2050. A range of approaches is needed to address eye health in this diverse setting. The knowledge gained will be valuable in tackling avoidable blindness and poor vision globally. Commonwealth heads of government meet in the UK this month. They can commit to eye health for all, within universal health coverage. Each can commit to take action towards this before they meet again in 2020. Tackling low vision and avoidable blindness releases the potential of those affected, raising educational attainment and enabling individuals — including those who would otherwise be engaged in caring for them — to make a full contribution to the economy, breaking the cycle of poverty and disability and reducing the welfare burden. Ahead of the meeting, The Fred Hollows Foundation has joined with The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust, Sightsavers, Peek Vision, Clearly and the International Coalition for Trachoma Control for the first time together under the banner ‘Vision for the Commonwealth’. The aim is to raise awareness and unite governments, advocates, service providers and supporters to bring vision to everyone, everywhere. We have the tools. We know that they work. Now is the time to act. The Commonwealth can lead the world in bringing vision to everyone, everywhere.    