Siaya on spot for failing to observe the ethnic composition of employment Siaya county government has been put on the spot for contravening section 65 (1) of the county government Act 2012 that allows the employment of 30 percent from other communities. This is according to a report by the committee of public accounts and investments committee that revealed the county executive draws 84 percent of its employees from the dominant community. The report noted that the county public service board has failed to ensure that at least thirty percent of vacant entry-level posts in the county are filled by candidates from other communities. The committee led by William Kinyanyi further noted that the county also contravened the National Cohesion and Integration Act, 2008 by failing to promote national unity. The finding by the committee comes at a time when Nasa leaders Raila Odinga who hails from Siaya is mooting for unity across the country. Raila initiated the move on March 9th after the famous handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta after the bruising 2017 general elections campaigns that almost plunged the country into chaos. The committee recommended that going forward the board should ensure the 30 percent representative from other communities is attained. They asked the board to consider the few applicants from the neighboring counties living in Siaya if they want to achieve the 30 percent representative. However, responding to the concern the Siaya public service board led by Joe Donde agreed with the finding but regretted that no applications are received from without the dominant community. The board said even with the employment of other community in the county they receive overwhelming requests for transfers to counties of origin. They added that they don’t understand why some of the communities living in Siaya are not comfortable working in the county even after living there before employment. The board also noted that expect for cosmopolitan counties it’s very difficult to attain the 30 percent representative population in employment as envisaged in the law. The board, however, encouraged candidates from other communities living in Siaya not shy away from applying for any advertised jobs for consideration. “The ethnic composition envisaged in the law can only be achieved by none Cosmopolitan County like Siaya if other community living in Siaya will be free to work in the county,” the report said. Siaya County is dominated by Luo with few Luhyas, Somalis, Kikuyus, Kalenjins, and Kisiis who are in formal employment by the national government. The few in informal employment are usually forced to flue during every election period hence making it difficult for them to settle in the county due to fair of their security and their business.