Jobless youth in Runyenjes are making hundreds daily selling termites to area residents. Area residents have embraced termites as a delicacy mostly making it as Ugali accompaniment. Termites come from the ground when it rains but one has to make a dark trapping structure for them to come out in quantity. David Mugendi, a youth who has taken advantage of the rains and turned into a termite harvester, said that they are now selling a glass at Sh 30. "We use sticks that are bent into an oval structure and cover them with banana leaves and blanket to make a trapping structure," said Mugendi. He said that they come out once it rains. However, Mugendi noted that there has to be thunderstorms for them to come out in plenty. "If there are no thunderstorms, we beat the ground with sticks," he said. Joseph Nthiga, another youth said that they are making more than Sh 500 a day. "Elderly women are our customers, they even call us for orders and it is proving to be a booming business," said Nthiga. The youth are now calling upon their fellow youth to venture into termite harvesting during this rainy season instead of staying in doors. Mugendi and Nthiga say that they walk around different villages within Runyenjes constituency that are said to be rich in termites. "We walk from place to place in search of the insects, once we identify where they are we ask for permission from the land owners if they are found to be in ones land," they said. They said they then pitch camp outside Runyenjes bus park where they sell the termites to those travelling to different places. They said that they have not done this for long since they had not known that area residents can buy the insects. "I never thought any one would buy termites until when i read somewhere that termites are a delicacy, we tried it and we are making money out of it," said Mugendi. Margaret Mukami said that termites make a good accompaniment to any meal. She said that they are natural and have no side effects since they are not prone to any chemicals. "They are good and easy to make, you just fry them and you are good to go, my children like them with rice and ugali," she said.  