The Kamba Community Unity Forum has endorsed Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's 2022 presidential bid. The leaders, comprising of elected governors, senators, MPs, MCAs, professionals and religious leaders from Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties, gave Kalonzo the way forward to reach out to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. Speaking at the forum held at Koma in Matungulu, Machakos County on Monday, the leaders said the community has resolved to have unity of purpose. Read: Kamba leaders meet to chart Kalonzo's future in Nasa after Uhuru-Raila pact More: Kalonzo to run for President in 2022 with or without NASA, says Mwingi Central MP They said the community has been looked down upon by other communities across the country for long period of time. Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana said no principal in the NASA coalition is more superior than the others. "This meeting has decided and given Kalonzo the permission to meet anybody including Uhuru and Ruto, " said Kibwana. The leaders said Kalonzo's engagement with the presidency should help alleviate poverty in Ukambani. Former Machakos senator Johnston Muthama said Kalonzo is ripe for presidency and anyone thinking of challenging him in the ballot will miserably flop. More on this: Ukambani leaders revisit MOU, want Kalonzo to vie in 2022 Kitui governor Charity Ngilu asked elected leaders from the region to start saving funds in readiness to support Kalonzo's presidential campaigns. Ngilu said she will join the Wiper party. "I have intentions of joining Wiper, the party could have baptized me today if the leaders were ready, " Ngilu said. "Ukambani leaders should not be worried since I am now working closely with Wiper party," she added. The Kitui governor told Kalonzo to take the Ukambani leadership mantle. The meeting resolved that Makueni, Machakos and Kitui Counties form South Eastern Economic bloc so as to improve the region's economy and end poverty among the residents. "Our people are playing with our resources, this meeting should come out with clear strategies on how we can get our people out of poverty," Ngilu said. "We must now consolidate ourselves into the bloc as Kambas, we need to guard our resources to ensure they help our people," Ngilu said. Related: Ban on sand, charcoal trade to stay – Ngilu Also read: Kitui charcoal ban: Kalonzo defends Ngilu in incitement probe She said Kamba leaders should not wait for people from other regions to take help to Ukambani. Ngilu said the leaders had started planning to support Kalonzo's presidency. She said the three counties should deliver 3.5 million votes for Kalonzo in 2022. Former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti said Kalonzo will positively change the country's economy just like former president Mwai Kibaki if he becomes president. In response, Kalonzo said Wiper is going to re-brand. "We are going to re-brand, I propose that since we insist in unity and sovereignty of our people as Kenyans we re-brand," Kalonzo said, adding that he will call for a Wiper delegates conference for the re-brand. "Our clarion call as Wiper will be 'One Kenya' (OK) movement. It is just a thought, this is what I have been dreaming," he added. The NASA co-principal said he is willing to heed the leaders' call of rallying for presidency in 2022 elections. He said it is going to be a new beginning not only in Ukambani but the country as a whole. Opinion: The Kalonzo Musyoka Succession begins now  Click here for the latest political news