Embu teachers have opposed their Nairobi and Kiambu colleagues who are demanding for Secretary General Wilson Sossion’s resignation arguing they are being political and tribal. Led by the KNUT Embu executive Secretary Josphat Kathumi the teachers said the Kiambu and Nairobi teachers who are demanding for Sossion's resignation are ill-advised. Speaking to the star on phone Kathumi said Sossion is in Parliament as a representative of workers and that he was nominated to represent their special interests and that the constitution provides for the same. He said that the Kenya constitution talks of representation in parliament of interest groups in the country like the youth, the persons with disabilities and also workers and that Sossion is in the national assembly on behalf of all workers in the country. “So when some branches are calling for resignation of the Secretary General they are misplaced and don’t know what they are doing. They should know that the presence of Sossion in the national assembly is strength to the trade unions,” he said. Kathui said that when Sossion is in Parliament it is a plus to the workers of Kenya and that instead of fighting him teachers and other workers should make sure that they protect him and seek nomination of more union officials to the august house to protect their rights. Kathumi said Sossion has been articulating the interest of teachers and other workers very well since he was nominated by the National Super Alliance (NASA) to Parliament. “Those calling themselves Mt Kenya teachers calling for resignation of Sossion are being tribal. The question is if he was nominated by Jubilee would the same people be calling for his resignation?” he posed He said it does not matter what party Sossion went to parliament on but that what matters is that he is there to fight for the welfare of the workers. Kathumi said the only thing Sossion should be advised to do is to work with the government of the day and put political differences against Jubilee aside and continue articulating issues relating to the workers in the best way. “Am calling upon my brothers and sisters from Mt Kenya who are calling for resignation of Sossion to know that his being in parliament is a plus to the workers of this republic of Kenya,” said Kathumi. He was reacting to the incidents which took place a week ago when some teachers staged a protest in Nairobi calling for the resignation of Sossion. The teachers drawn from Nairobi and Kiambu counties, camped outside Knut offices and demanded that Sossion be replaced by Hesbon Otieno his deputy. They accused him of mismanaging Knut funds and being illegally in office as he was sacked as a primary school teacher by the Teachers Service Commission last year after his nomination as an MP. 