The Kamba Community Unity Forum yesterday endorsed Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s 2022 presidential bid. The leaders comprising governors, senators, MPs, MCAs, professionals and religious leaders from Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties, gave Kalonzo the go-ahead to reach out to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. The leaders said the community has resolved to have unity of purpose. They spoke in Koma, Machakos county.  The leaders said the community has for a long time been looked down upon by others. Read: Mutua dismisses Kamba leaders’ forum, calls for 'genuine' unity meeting Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana said no principal in NASA is more superior to the other. “This meeting has decided and given Kalonzo the permission to meet anybody, including Uhuru and Ruto,” he said. The leaders said Kalonzo’s engagement with the presidency should help alleviate poverty in Ukambani. Former Machakos Senator Johnston Muthama said Kalonzo is ripe for the presidency and anyone thinking of challenging him in the ballot will miserably flop. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu asked elected leaders from the region to start saving funds in readiness to support Kalonzo’s presidential campaigns. Ngilu said she will join Wiper.  “I have intentions of joining Wiper, the party could have baptised me today if the leaders were ready,” she said. “Ukambani leaders should not be worried since I’m now working closely with Wiper.” Ngilu told Kalonzo to take the Ukambani leadership.  The meeting resolved that Makueni, Machakos and Kitui counties form the South Eastern Economic Bloc to improve the region’s economy and fight poverty.  “Our people are playing with our resources. This meeting should come out with clear strategies on how we can get our people out of poverty,” Ngilu said. “We must consolidate into a bloc as Kambas. We need to guard our resources to ensure they help our people,” Ngilu said. She said Kamba leaders should not wait for people from other regions to take help to Ukambani. Ngilu said the leaders have started planning to support Kalonzo’s presidency.  She said the three counties should deliver to Kalonzo 3.5 million votes in 2022. Read also: Kalonzo is the known Ukambani kingpin, not Mutua, leaders sayFormer Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti said Kalonzo has the ability to change the country’s economy if he becomes President, just like former President Mwai Kibaki did. In response, Kalonzo said Wiper is going to rebrand.  “We are going to rebrand, I propose that since we insist on unity and sovereignty of our people as Kenyans we rebrand,” the Wiper leader said. Kalonzo said he will call for a Wiper delegates conference for the rebranding.  “Our clarion call as Wiper will be ‘One Kenya’ (OK Movement). It is just a thought. This is what I have been dreaming,” he said. The NASA co-principal said he is willing to heed the leaders call of running for the presidency in 2022. Kalonzo said it is going to be a new beginning not only in Ukambani, but the country as a whole. In December last year, Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi said Wiper will support Kalonzo as its presidential candidate in 2022, with or without NASA. He said the party does not care whether Kalonzo will have the blessing and support of ODM leader Raila Odinga.Mulyungi told ODM to stop dictating what happens in NASA if it does not want Wiper to leave the alliance.He said ODM had taken up all top leadership seats in House committees and this has angered its affiliates.“Kalonzo has asked for this seat for a long time. We’ll support him to be the flagbearer in a coalition that will be formed. If there will be no coalition, Kalonzo is man enough to run alone. He will win. All Kambas will definitely support him — even those who defected — as there will be no option,” he said.Mulyungi said he had a premonition that NASA was headed for a major split if swift action was not taken to end internal grumblings.  Click here for the latest political news