Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi has told female Muslim students at a medical training college they can wear their hijabs. Students at the Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) in Mwingi had complained they are being asked to change their hijabs. Most of them wear them long, which the administration says is against the rules. But the students say the rulebook does not specify what hijab design is preferred. Mulyungi said no student will be thrown out over the hijab. The lawmaker said if the students are not breaking any rules, they should be allowed to stay in school. On Friday, the students told journalists they have not been allowed in class since the administration said they are violating college rules. There has been a standoff between the Muslim students and the administration for a month. The deputy principal said the girls will not sit their exams until they wear the correct uniform. Students’ representative Abdullahi Hassan said, “Why us, yet all female Muslim KMTC students cover their hair?” It is an Islamic requirement for girls and women to cover their hair. “Asking us to remove the hijab is a violation of our right,” Hassan said. Hassan, training to be a nurse, said they have reported the matter but the deputy principal will still not let them in. “We want KMTC to clarify why we are being locked out of school and what hijab we should have on. The deputy says our veils are too long,” he said, adding that they are discriminated against, especially during a security search at the gate.  THOROUGHLY SEARCHED They are thoroughly searched, while non-Muslim students walk in freely. On Friday, KMTC board chairman Philip Kaloki said there would be a meeting at the institution this week. In 2016, the Court of Appeal ruled that students in public schools should be allowed to wear religious items of clothing in addition to their specified school uniforms. In a landmark decision, a three-judge bench ruled that students deserved to obey their religious requirements in accordance with their constitutional rights, which must be respected and protected. Appellate Judges Philip Waki, Roselyne Nambuye and Patrick Kiage advised the Education CS to facilitate urgent consultations and formulate appropriate regulations “for the better protection of the fundamental right to freedom of religion and belief under the Constitution and equality and freedom from discrimination for all pupils and students in Kenya’s educational system”. The Appellate court warned sponsors of public schools against imposing harsh, rigid and discriminatory conditions on students from religious backgrounds.