It is full daggers drawn at the IEBC. Moles tell us that after initially disagreeing with their colleagues over the suspension of CEO Ezra Chiloba, vice chairperson Consolota Maina hastily beat a retreat. Why? Corridors is informed that two commissioners reportedly warned her against issuing statements against the suspension or else they will expose stuff against them at the right time! Talk of blackmail! That Ababu Namwamba is effectively the assistant minister in the ministry of foreign affairs is not news. What is news is the way staff at the ministry have received him. Senior staff have whispered to Corridors that they are having difficulties working with the former Budalangi MP because of what they describe as petty issues. It is not clear what specifically the staff are finding hard, but those who have so far dealt with him say the former politician has been making extremely peculiar demands. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet has some interesting members. Word has it that a new CS recently surprised Western residents when he accompanied DP William Ruto during his countryside tours after he pledged to use his ministry to end problems they have been facing. The service the soft-spoken CS promised to offer the residents, however, did not exist. Similarly, the problem he wanted to resolve had been fully addressed in the 1960s and 70s. This left many wondering if the CS had was simply dreaming or imagining the problems facing the region. A former MP in Nairobi’s Eastlands area has caused a storm on social media and the locality. The fellow who is now an MD of an aviation firm that is doing well at JKIA and other major airports has been boasting to all and sundry that he performed well during his tenure. He has been posting on Facebook all the projects he has ever carried out and completed. Recently, some of the constituents were heard saying that they really regret he was not on the ballot. A chief officer from Bungoma county is the talk of the town. The officer recently insulted a contractor who was following up on his payments. The contractor delivered goods and services two years ago and has not been paid to date. When asked, the officer told him he will not be paid anytime soon because the money was re-budgeted for a trip by MCAs. The officer told the contractor she was under instructions not to pay him. Well, some contractors are now asking Governor Wycliffe Wangamati to process their payments and sack the chief officer who has belittled them before they move to court to seek settlement of their debts.