The Embu government and private macadamia processors have started a programme to promote nut farming by distributing seedlings to farmers. The project was launched yesterday at the county headquarters by Governor Martin Wambora. Farmers will get a free seedling for every one purchased. Wambora said the aim is to make farmers responsible for their seedlings since they will have spent their own money to buy them, unlike when they get them for free. He said the partnership will improve production and the quality of nuts, leading to more profits for the farmers. Wambora released at least 5,000 macadamia seedlings that will be distributed to miraa farmers. The governor said the initiative will enable the farmers to diversify to other crops. Wambora urged farmers to grow avocado, cassava and mangoes, as these fetch good prices at the international market. Newton Njeru, an agronomist with Privamnut, said the partnership will enable farmers to reap big since they will deal directly with the processors. He said middlemen oppress farmers. Farmer Wilson Ndwiga said their continued reliance on maize and bean farming has not been beneficial. He said the nuts will put more money in their pockets. Wambora said a policy on macadamia will soon be tabled at the county assembly to protect farmers. In 2015, the governor said Embu does not fully benefit from macadamia farming, despite being the country’s largest producer. Wambora said his administration had come up with a policy to make macadamia farming profitable. He said macadamia is on huge demand locally and internationally. Macadamia farming, the governor said, faced problems because of market liberalisation. In February last year, Wambora said police officers in Embu colluded with unscrupulous brokers to block macadamia buyers who were offering good prices to local farmers. He said the middlemen bought the nuts at throwaway prices. Wambora termed the practice retrogressive and said he would take stringent measures to stop it so farmers get the best price for their produce. He told farmers the county government would support them to get the highest value possible for their produce. Wambora said the county would encourage farmers to sell to whoever offers them the best price, whether they are Chinese investors or local processing industries. “I am here for farmers to get the best value possible,” he said.