Enforcement of the law regarding the mandatory retirement age limit of 60 must be universally applied to all cadres of the public service workforce without exception, the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) has said. The government in February issued a directive scrapping the age and term limits for Chief Executive Officers of state corporations. The removal of term limits was made on February 27 through a circular issued by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and titled ‘Terms of Service for State Corporation’s Chief Executive Officers’ Under the current regime, depending on the relevant Act creating the corporations, CEOs serve for a between three and five years and are eligible for re-appointment for a second term depending on their performance. Chairman Julius Mwatu said that the directive defeats the rationale for the establishment of a mandatory retirement age limit by law that was meant to bring in fresh thinking and promote accountability in the civil service. He said that the directive effectively gives the CEOs of state corporations the latitude to be re-appointed as many times as the appointing authority deems fit and work beyond the mandatory retirement age of 60. “The intent to have top civil servants serve for life is tantamount to abrogating the guiding principles of succession management and inclusivity of human resource in civil service,” he said in Kakamega. The directive is bound to perpetuate stagnation and slow career development for the young professionals who form the biggest segment of public service workforce, he said. The chairman said that enforcement of the law requiring public servants to retire at age 60 will provide an opportunity for effective succession plan and complement the wisdom of old with the innovativeness and the versatility of the youth for a prosperous nation. He said that the directive should be withdrawn to avert the tragedy of looming economic, political, cultural and social consequences. Mwatu said the institute, however concurs with the government’s justification of scrapping the term limit and age to tap into the wisdom and experience of the senior technical cadres with critical skills and competencies.  