A guide to Kenya’s most prestigious day in horse racing. On Sunday April 22, the starting flag will drop, the gates will spring open and the thunderous gallop of majestic horses will echo like an excited heartbeat; starting from the grandstand, around the turn, to the back straight and around the famous cemetery bend onto the home straight; where the rhythm from the track matches the applause from the grandstand – a thrilling sprint to the finish line. The Kenya Derby is, traditionally, the most prestigious day in the horse racing calendar. Elite three-year-old horses compete for prize money and top placement in one of the day’s six races along Ngong Racecourse’s historic 2,400-meter track. Horse racing can be intimidating; it is steeped in tradition and formality, here is your step-by-step guide to the Kenya Derby – and how to look the part. NGONG RACECOURSE Ngong Racecourse, operated by the Jockey Club of Kenya, is the only thoroughbred racing venue in Kenya. It is located along the Ngong Road near the Lenana School and next to the Nairobi Business Park, beside Ngong Forest. TIME There will be six races starting at 11am. The racing should be over by 5pm. ARRIVAL Consider taking a taxi or using your preferred ride-sharing app; especially if you plan on taking advantage of the offerings at one of the many bars set up for the day. If you are driving, there is plenty of secure parking available within close proximity of the two main entrances. Pro-tip: Make a note of where you leave your car, so you can find it on your way out. TICKETS Access the racecourse through either of the two main entrances; tickets are available at both gates and cost Sh200 for adults and Sh50 for children under 12 years. This allows access to the grandstand – with unobstructed views of the homestretch and the finish line. Pro-tip: Arrive early to get the best seats. DRESS CODE While a dress code is not strictly enforced at the Kenya Derby, it is an opportunity to dress up and be a part of the day’s elegant vibe. Pro-tip: Traditionally, men wear a jacket and women wear a hat or fascinator. BETTING Totes, or betting stations, are available for live wagers. Odds are determined by the number of bets cast for a particular horse to win a race, or pari-mutuel wagering. Betting veterans still rely on a visual inspection of the horses on display in the winner’s circle before the race; often looking for how calm or nervous they appear. The minimum wager is Sh40, with bets increasing in Sh10 increments. Ngong Racecourse uses totes exclusively, which makes betting much more exciting and dynamic. Pro-tip: Use the first couple of races to experiment and learn the various betting techniques – you will get the hang of it. EATING & DRINKING Food vendors, with a variety of culinary options and price points, will be available on the day. Many of the city’s most reputable restaurant and bar operators will set up food stands for the event, all located behind the grandstand. Pro-tip: We anticipate perfect weather – stay hydrated! ENTERTAINMENT Jazz musician Eddie Grey will be performing and there will be more entertainment for the whole family. Click here for the latest political news