The controversial Ekeza Sacco was shut down for failure to run independently from another firm, Gakuyo Real Estate. It was also closed for operating in at least three counties, despite only being authorised to run in Nairobi’s Starehe subcounty. Commissioner for Cooperative Development Mary Mungai has revealed in fresh court filings Ekeza had recruited 62,000 members, contrary to its own bylaws, which stated it targetted 338 individuals. She said bylaws restricted its membership to employees of Gakuyo Real Estate, a firm owned by David Ngari. But as at last yearit had recruited 62,000 individuals drawn from the general public, the filings said . Details: Ekeza Sacco challenges deregistration Of its total membership, 5,000 individuals are based in the diaspora. Ekeza Sacco was only authorised to operate in Starehe subcounty, but had opened offices in Murang’a, Nyeri, Kiambu, Nakuru and Mombasa counties by bthe time it was shut down last month. It had also unveiled plans to open four new branches. Ekeza has sued the commissioner for Cooperative Development for shutting it down before giving it an opportunity to respond to the alleged breaches. Read: Sacco bill will save depositors from pyramid schemes At the time of its closure, Ekeza had collected more than Sh2 billion in savings and issued out more than Sh2 billion in loans. Mungai, in her response, says she twice sent a notice of intention to cancel registration to Ekeza. But a response from the sacco was not forthcoming, leaving closure as the only option, she said. “Following numerous complaints by members who were not able to access loans and refunds of their deposits, I decided to carry out an impromptu inspection of the society. As a result of the inspection, it was found Ekeza Sacco and Gakuyo Real Estate did not have different branded offices, management structure and bookkeeping, including a members register as also evidenced by a management letter from the external auditor,” Mungai said. “The society was deregistered for failing to adhere to requirementsset out by the Cooperatives Act.” Ekeza in its suit said it has not received any notice of intention to cancel registration from the Commissioner. The firm yesterday told Justice Pauline Nyamweya its accounts having been frozen, it has been unable to pay staff and wants the court to issue an order suspending Mungai’s decision to deregister it. Also Read: Your money is safe, Ekeza sacco tells members after closure on fraud claims  Click here for the latest political news