Dropping sweet wrappers or cigarette butts will land you in a serious trouble with the city inspectorate, Environment CEC Larry Wambua has said. He said those found culpable of the acts will be fined Sh5,000 fine or sentenced to six months in jail as City Hall moves to enforce waste management laws. "Dumping huge solid wastes will attract Sh100,000 fine that is applicable every time you repeat the act or one year behind bars," he said. Wambua made his remarks on Saturday at the Michuki Park during a tree planting drive that was presided over by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko. NIC Bank, Green belt Movement, Royal Media Services, Junior Achievement among other entities teamed up with the government to plant over 1,000 trees at the park. Wambua said those who fail to show where they have been dumping their waste will also be taken to task to explain the same. "We will need to know if you are giving waste to the registered companies. If you fail to show us, it will attract fine of Sh100,000 or one year in jail." He said the waste management problems in the city are historical and date back to the 1990s. The Michuki park was preserved in honuor of former Environment Mininter John Michuki for his efforts towards protecting Nairobi River. The river has, however lost its glory, with heaps of waste floating and raw sewage draining into it. At least 50 million trees are expected will be planted as part of the ongoing national campaign dubbed "changethestory". Tobiko, on his part, challenged the private sector to join hands saying the government alone cannot do much in the plan to increase the country's forest cover. He said the Kenya Defence Forces needs two million seedlings to restore Kibiko, Thogotho, and Ololua forests. "The Kenya Forest Service has one million seedlings against 25 million that we need to plant during the national tree planting day that will be officiated by the president," Tobiko said. He said all seedlings that will be donated will be handled transparently,accounted for and acknowledged during the planting. Nairobi CECs Charles Kerich (Lands), Hitan Majevda (Health), Janet Ouko (Education), Mohammed Dagane (Roads), Emmah Mukuhi (ICT) among others were present. Over 1,000 trees were planted during the drive. NIC bank group Manager John Gachora said there has been serious forests degradation a move that has led to drought and floods. "Each individual need 10 trees to survive, we need to plant trees," he said. Gachora said each account opened in the next one month, they will donate a tree. He challenged other cooperates to join the efforts adding that they will work with KDF to have tree nursery in one million trees. According to the Green Belt Movement, Kenya has 2.4 per cent of closed canopy forest. Somalia has 11 per cent canopy, Uganda (21%),Tanzania (37%) and Rwanda (12%). Kenya has 3.5 per cent of woodland canopy bring the total forest cover to 7 per cent. Read: As government roars, nobody knows extent of Kenya's forest cover Also read: Kenya forest cover increased to 4.22million hectares in 2017, KNBS reports Click here for the latest political news