Kajiado police have arrested five men for allegedly beating up a woman who escaped her abusive relationship. Mashuuru OCPD Paul Cheruiyot said the suspects will be charged with assaulting and grievously harming Agnes Parkire, 22, and her mother. “There are claims that they beat her up after she escaped from her matrimonial home and sought refuge in her mother’s
house in Oldarpoi area,” Cheruiyot said on Wednesday. He dismissed claims that Parkire was a minor in primary school, saying she had lived with her husband for five years. There had been reports that the runaway was a class six pupil of Megumi Primary School. “She
has a four year-old child with the man who has been abusing her. Her father
died years back. The mother has been defending her child
from outright abuse," the OCPD said. “The woman told me the man paid pride prize for the girl but her in-laws sold all the cows after her husband died." Parkire
claimed her husband had been assaulting her since her father died. “He beats me every day without any reason. I had to make the decision
to go back home and spend the rest of my life with my mother,” she said in a message sent to a friend. Police said the five men ganged up and went to the mother's home where the attack took place. The
woman’s neighbour, Peter Seki, said on Wednesday that the in-laws
became violent after she asked them for a refund of the dowry. “They
beat her like a snake. We have never seen such in this village.
We are happy that police have taken up the matter. We know some
elders are trying to sweet-talk the woman so that she withdraws the case
but we are against that,” he said. Police said several elders who are related to Parkire's parents approached them to seek an out-of-court settlement. “I am not going to allow that to happen because this is a criminal offence. The law is very clear; you cannot beat up people and expect lenience," Cheruiyot said. The women were issued with P3 forms on Monday so they could visit a doctor for examinations. Mashuuru Deputy County Commissioner Stephen Nyakundi said police will pursue the matter to its conclusion. Click here for the latest political news