A Court of Appeal judge yesterday recused herself from hearing a case on Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s academic papers. Justice Wanjiru Karanja said she could not be among the three judges set to hear the appeal since she was Joho’s neighbour. Joho had sued the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Inspector General of Police and the DCI for harassment and threats. He wants the court to bar his probing, arrest or prosecution. In October last year, Justice Erick Ogola ruled in his favour, on grounds that the investigations were meant to discredit the governor. He said the investigations were ill-timed. The DPP later appealed Ogola’s decision to shield Joho from investigations if found culpable of forging his academic papers.  'INFLUENCED BY PRESIDENT' However, the hearing of the appeal has been thrown in a limbo following the withdrawal of Karanja.The president of the Court of Appeal is now expected to appoint a third judge to join Judges Alvisram Nassir and Martha Koome for the hearing. During his lengthy judgment, Ogola said the probe on Joho’s papers was influenced by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s utterances. The judge referred to the President’s use of the Kiswahili word “tutakunyorosha” (we will teach you a lesson) in the wake of the quarrel between the Head of State and the governor and said investigating agencies thought Uhuru had given them the cue to descend on Joho. “The state agencies coming after Joho...seem to be nyorosha-ing (disciplining) him,” Ogola said. In March last year, detectives at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations said they were almost finalising the probe into how Joho gained entry into the UoN.  SCHOOL DEFENDS JOHO The officers were interested in a result slip issued in Joho’s name, claiming he sat for his KCSE at Serani High School in 1992. The school defended him. Ogola questioned the timing of the investigation, considering Joho faced similar opposition before the 2013 General Election. But Mombasa deputy DPP Alexander Muteti said the judge misdirected himself by considering the status of Joho as the governor. He said the judge ought to have considered him as a normal citizen, thus avoiding to arrive at the wrong decision in law. Muteti accused the judge of misdirecting himself by declaring that the DPP, DCI, IG and AG launched the investigations on directions of the President. He said Ogola misconstrued the purpose of the investigations as being geared towards stopping the governor from defending his seat in August 8, 2017, General Election. Muteti said the High Court erred in accusing the DPP and Kenya Revenue Authority for swinging into action against Joho without proper evidence. He said Ogola misconstrued the purpose of the investigations as being geared towards stopping the governor from defending his seat.