Loud ululations from anxious spectators and players rent the air as hosts Royal Nairobi wrestled the coveted Tannahill Shield title from perennial rivals Muthaiga. The hosts, handled by club resident pro, Charan Thethy, ended Kenya’s most prestigious inter-club tournament in emphatic fashion beating Muthaiga by two points to recapture the trophy they lost last season. It was such a tight affair but fears that the hosts would lose out evaporated once the last group of players came into the 18th hole. “Tannahill is an absolutely fantastic event and we have really been looking forward to the competition. Obviously we have wanted to enjoy the event, but also push for the best result possible. After losing the title to Muthaiga last year, we always wanted to go an extra mile and I’m glad we have recaptured the Shield,” said Charan. Mombasa, buoyed by national team player David Nduva, Allan Dainty and George Munyao gave a good account of themselves on the day. It was another bad day at the office for Limuru, who fielded a solid team comprising of Dennis Maara, three-times Goty champion John Karichu, Francis Kimani, Paul Muchangi, George Maara, John Githu, Anthony Gichuki, Kevin Muchiri, David Irimu and Ian Mundia only for the title to elude them for the 67th year. Vetlab took five points off Muthaiga while Limuru drew four-all with Vet. Windsor, coached by David Opati survived the relegation axe after finishing second last with 17 points. Karen, who managed a paltry nine points came in last and have since been relegated. Mombasa beat Windsor 6-2 while Royal and Muthaiga drew 4-4 in a tense match. Sigona beat Karen 5-3. Western Kenya took maximum points after beating Karen 8-0. Limuru and Mombasa drew 4-4. The match of the day was an encounter pitting Muthaiga and hosts Royal. Muthaiga’s Bavnish Chandaria and Neer Chandaria beat Jatinder S, Thethy and Joseph Kogo 2-0. Muthaiga’s John Gitonga and Mutahi Kibugu beat Royal’s Dennis Saikwa and Kevin Juma 2-0. The pair of Sandhu and Bhatti of Royal beat Muthaiga duo of Anthony Irungu and Zubair Khan. Royal’s No Ciera and Joshua Ichangi beat Evans Vitisia and Rajeah Bhabra of Muthaiga 2-0. For the first time in the history.