Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has asked the national government to speed up the compensation of over 200 families whose lands will be used for expansion of Malindi Airport. The MP said the government, if not ready to compensate the families, should allow the landowners continue using the parcels until that time when the project will kick off. Jumwa met the affected families on Sunday afternoon after they complained to her that the delay in compensation had affected their livelihoods after waiting for over a year. As per the agreement with the Kenya Airports Authority, those affected are not supposed to continue with any structural developments since valuation was already done. The MP said residents wondered why the National Lands Commission, National Treasury and Ministry of Transport and Communication are not clear on the compensation. "If NLC and Treasury are facing hurdles, they should allow those affected to develop the area other than subject them to a situation where they do not see any future," Jumwa said. Last year, the government allocated Sh300 million for compensating the first group of families within Kwa Chocha south. Reports indicate that the first group of residents signed the awards and have since been compensated while the second group, which is protesting, has not signed the awards. The MP assured the residents that she would follow up the matter and ensure they are compensated and if not be allowed to develop the area until when KAA will be ready. She further clarified that no one is opposed to the airport expansion adding that residents only want their compensating so that they can leave the area. "If the government is not ready, they should not block the people from developing the area," the legislator said. Wahuda Duncan, Kwa Chocha village elder, said they wrote a letter to Deputy President William Ruto seeking his intervention so that they are compensated before the end of April. President Uhuru Kenyatta, during a past tour of the region, said those affected by the airport expansion must be paid. "It is now one year and people have not received money. Some houses are leaking while others collapsed yet we cannot develop them," Wahuda said. Charles Charo, the committee chairman, said some residents lost rental incomes as tenants vacated due to the uncertainty over their stay at the premises. Click here for latest political news  