A
section of local divorcees in Garissa town yesterday expanded their empowerment
group to cater for married women facing challenges from men who cannot provide
for their families. Upendo
Women Empowerment Group which was formed five years ago has 40 active members who
engage in economic activities such as making washing bleaches, shampoos,
detergents and even tomato sauce to provide for their families. The
group has also incorporated widows and women with disabilities with similar
challenges. The group’s chair lady Madina Hussein said
they decided to pull their resources together through member’s monthly
contributions where they started a soap and detergent making business. In
the Somali community who are predominantly Muslims,men are allowed to
marry up to four wives. “This
has contributed to raising number of divorcees because a man with already four
wives will be forced to divorce one in order to marry another. This has brought
suffering and poverty to many of them,” Madina said. “With
the little income we buy raw materials from Nairobi and mix them to produce detergents
and other products. This helps us generate income for our families,” Madina
said. The
group has opened up a shop in the heart of the town to serve as stocking place
for their products while other women will hawk them in the estates within the
town or restaurants and lodges, she said. In
the Somali community who are predominantly Muslims faithful men are allowed to
marry up to four wives. “This
has contributed to raising number of divorcees because a man with already four
wives will be forced to divorce one in order to marry another. This has brought
suffering and poverty to many of them,” Madina added. Although
their business is yet to pick up, Madina said they face a range of challenges
including illiteracy since 90 percent of the group members never stepped their
foot in a classroom. The
chairlady appealed to the Garissa
County government to
prioritize women groups in awarding tenders. Madina
said the group members still require capacity building programs that will
enable theme get funding government institutions and programmes among them
women enterprise and Uwezo funds. The
group also encouraged the local community to embrace home made products to
promote their business. “Members
of the group can now send their children to school and put food on the table on
their own,” she noted. 