At least 120,000 children will get the malaria vaccine Mosqurix in October, the Health ministry has said. The pilot roll-out will assess the feasibility of delivering four doses in real- life settings, and assess the vaccine’s potential to reduce child deaths. Head of malaria control Ejersa Waqo said yesterday another control group of 120,000 children will get placebo, to generate more insight into the vaccine’s effectiveness. Both groups of children will still need to take the usual malaria control precautions such as sleeping under mosquito nets. Read: Why Kenyan kids will get malaria vaccine The pilot will be complete by 2020, but researchers will continue monitoring feasibility and safety until 2022.  The results will help Kenya decide whether to adopt the vaccine and make it part of routine immunisation. Dr Waqo spoke in Nairobi during a meeting organised by the Health ministry ahead of next week’s World Malaria Day. He said treated mosquito nets and residual spraying are among the major interventions being used to reduce prevalence. “The overall malaria prevalence in the country dropped from 11 per cent in 2010 to eight per cent in 2015,” he said. less than optimal Three major donors are partnering to provide Sh5 billion for the first phase of the vaccine pilot, which will also take place in Ghana and Malawi. Mosquirix, also called RTS,S, was first conceived in the 1980s and has undergone all clinical trials, returning less than optimal results. During the trials, the vaccine was seen to prevent four out of 10 malaria cases in children who received all four doses for over four years. Its effectiveness diminishes over time and it disappears fastest in children who are most exposed to malarial mosquito bites. However, because no defence against malaria is perfect, the vaccine is being considered an addition to the existing defences. Health CS Sicily Kariuki yesterday said Kenya will decide whether to adopt the vaccine after the pilots. “The activities are scheduled to start later this year. We look forward to the outcomes of the pilot to further inform in-country policy,” she said in a speech read by Dr Patrick Amoth, a senior deputy director of medical services. Kariuki said the country needs to do more to realise its targets to eliminate malaria. “We, for instance, aim to have 80 per cent of populations at risk of malaria use appropriate interventions, including bed nets. Kenya has only achieved to put 52 per cent of these populations under interventions,” she said. More: Kids in malaria-prone zones to get 4-dosed vaccine next year in WHO pilot project  Click here for the latest political news