Sports gaming firm, SportPesa eased their way back to the local football market after signing a three-year deal worth Sh682 million with four football entities. Kenya Premier League (KPL), Football Kenya Federation (FKF), Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards reaped big as the firm resolved to reinstate their financial support to local football. The bookmaker pulled out of the Kenyan market in January, protesting the government’s move to impose high taxes on gaming firms and lotteries. The firm signed a deal worth Sh259, 712, 000 with KPL and consequently regained the naming rights of the league which they had lost at the beginning of the 2018 season. The move will see the league body reinstate the grants for the clubs which ply their trade in the top flight. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) will receive Sh69.4 million to organize and run the newly created SportPesa Shield Cup which was initially referred to as Gotv Cup. Kenya Premier League sides and the country’s most successful clubs Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards will bank Sh198,607,000 and 156,406,405 respectively. However, Kenya Rugby Union, Boxing Association of Kenya and National Super League side Nakuru All Stars were left out of the new deal. Speaking during the unveiling of the new partnerships, the firm’s chief executive officer, Ronald Karauri expressed the their commitment in developing local football. He said: “We are extremely excited to be able to partner with these four powerful industry players. As we have always maintained, developing local football talent is a key vision for our company. Partnerships mean a lot to us as they enable us to tangibly impact communities and leave a lasting legacy. The journey of Qatar 2022 continues and we are honoured to be part of that journey.” Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier, who doubles up as the KPL Chairman thanked the firm for their financial intervention. “I thank SportPesa profusely for coming back despite the heavy taxation. It has been a difficult time at KPL involving 18 clubs thus we’ve to appreciate despite the reduction in amounts. At Gor Mahia, we call upon more corporate to come to our rescue now that we are in the Confederation Cup group stages and the budget is so high.”