A plot has been hatched to kick out Kenya Ferry Service MD Bakari Gowa. Engineering department and some coast MPs are allegedly behind the conspiracy. On Saturday, a member of the KFS board told one of the MPs in the National transport committee that a section of Coast legislators are seeking the ouster of Gowa. But Coast Parliamentary Group chair Suleiman Dori dismissed the reports saying no politician would want Gowa removed. Gowa is accused of employing threats, intimidation, victimization and sacking staff "without apparent reason". He is at “fault” for failing to effect salary increment and hire more manpower. He had been issued with a two-week ultimatum by engineering staff to act on their grievances. The deadline is today, Tuesday. The staff have threatened to kick him out like his predecessor if time-limit elapses without tangible results. And there is no progress, they say. A letter from engineering and maintenance staff addressed to the chairman of Board of Directors Ramadhan Kajembe claims the group can't work with Gowa. The letter that called for "solutions within the shortest time possible" or there will be "more problems" is copied to PS transport and county commissioner. The department has no confidence with the MD and his advisors, the letter says. "The department can no longer work with the MD since he plays a big role in sabotaging our work by failing to provide necessary resources and support. Instead, he is managing by threats, intimidation, victimization and even sacking," the undated letter partly reads. The group cites "unfair" dismissal of Leonard Mwajare, Salim Mwabaka, Mwinga Gonzi, Idi Komora and Alidi Baro. There are also claims of suspension with Victor Mwanzia, Laban Chelang'at, Mwololo Nzesi and Eustace Munyala being victims. Reports of interdiction of another 11 are also rife. “The department demands all those sacked and charged with proper reasons be reinstated with immediate effect and staff should not work under fear of intimidation and victimization," the letter says. On Monday Gowa denied victimizing or intimidating any staff. He said the content of the letter was discussed at meeting on Friday attended by Kajembe. “Most of the issues they raised were not part of the discussion… issues of staff were discussed. Sabotage and intimidation are not attached to the MD and were not discussed,” he said. He said besides Mwajare who has a disciplinary case, none has been suspended. The MD said the sacked were removed before he took over. "Disciplinary processes are on. If those people are found culpable, they will be sacked,” he stated. During the Friday’s meeting, a source disclosed, Kajembe asked the staff to pardon Gowa and find a workable formula. They refused. Gowa took over from embattled Musa Musa two years ago after his sack. The Star can authoritatively report Gowa is being pushed out in a Musa-like style. Musa was fired due to deterioration of ferry services on the Likoni channel. Staff said they could not stand Musa's arrogance. And before his dismissal, there were frequent breakdowns largely seen as sabotage. Passengers and motorists were delayed for up to four hours. Stampede was the order of the day. Rush hours were even worse. Police numerously fired in the air to cool irate commuters who had queued for long. Such tactics are being employed now. Two of six ferries were in operation last week. But when the National Assembly Transport committee visited on Saturday, four were working. A gathering of engineers held March 26 and attended by 52 members resolved to push Gowa out. Later, three other meetings between engineering staff and the management took place. Chief engineer Athman Washenga representing Gowa in some. The assemblies were chaotic, stormy and tense. "The last meeting was hostile and it had to be called off," a source who attended said. On Saturday, National Assembly transport committee was at the ferry for a fact-finding mission. Dori, Msambweni MP, accompanied them. “Those are false reports,” he said in a text message to the Star on Monday in response to reports some MPs want Gowa sacked. Dori has been saying Coast MPs ought to protect their own. Gowa is a native. The transport committee on Saturday gave Gowa a thumb up, effectively giving him a lifeline on the job. Committee chair David Pkosing said the KFS is being targeted for political reasons. “Take politics outside of ferry. These people only want to install fear,” he said. “We found a very good system. This is against the political backdrop we were hearing. Let us not bring politics into people’s lives,” he said.“We want to confirm to the people of Kenya that whatever you hear, those are just stories and politics." Click here for the latest political news