Africa lightweight champion Nick Okoth made an early exit from the Commonwealth Games after sustaining head injuries in the preliminary round here in Gold Coast. The fight lasted only one minute and seven seconds. Okoth suffered severe head injuries after colliding with Michael Alexander of Trinidad and Tobago and hard to receive six stitches. “I am very disappointed but that’s sport. You lose some, you win some,” said Okoth, adding that he had a lot of hope in this year’s Games but God had different plans. “This is very painful. I have really cried but there is very little I can do about it,” he noted, adding: “I was very inspired this morning especially after my wife, who is my adviser, called me to give me tips.” He said he had kicked off the fight well and had his targets in place but the accident blew it up all. “I was already on the attack and I wanted to tackle the man with style and precision but before I knew it, we collided and phew! I had this deep cut, which could not allow me to continue. For now I can only look into the future with confidence because it wasn’t my day. It is really painful but this is not the end because we have other competitions ahead,” he reiterated. Coach Patrick Maina was equally disappointed, saying Okoth was among his medal bets. “We had worked together towards this fight and I felt deep pain when he sustained the injury,” said Maina. He, however, noted that it was not all lost because he still has good fights going forward. “Tomorrow (today) I have three fights and I expect all my boxers to sail through,” he added. He cited the fight between Kenya’s Edwin Owuor and Selemani Kidunda of neighbouring Tanzania as the most interesting. “You know Kenyan coach, Musa Benjamin, handles Tanzania and he has coached both boxers. This means that he has tips about our boxers but we intend to take the fight a notch higher. I know my boxer is stronger and we will see how it pans out,” he added. He described the fight between Kenya’s Hassan Shaffi and Nambia’s Matias Hamunyela as very tricky but was hopeful that the Kenyan will prevail. Similarly, he expects Elly Ocholla’s fight against Forrest Scot of Scotland to be a tough one too. Click here for the latest political news