The controversial payment of Sh3.3 billion to a private firm for acquisition of prime land has taken a new twist after two city public schools defended their ownership of the land. Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School yesterday told the National Assembly Lands committee that they rightfully own the 13.8 acres and nobody should claim its ownership. The committee, which toured the two schools near the General Service Unit headquarters, heard that the government set aside the land as a public utility in 1966. John Njogu, who served as board of management chairman of Ruaraka High School for 18 years, said the institution’s 7.5 acres were acquired in 1981 through the initiative of former Nairobi Mayor Andrew Ngumba. “For all those years, I’ve never seen anybody or institution claim ownership of this land until recently when this saga emerged. This land belongs to the school,” he told the team led by Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South). Current board of management chairperson Nafula Kuria said the school acquired an allotment letter in 1999 after paying Sh3,066 to the Lands commissioner. Read:2 primary schools' land grabbed by developers The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has barred the government from paying Whispers Palms Estate Limited until investigations are completed. On January 29, the government, through the Education ministry led by then-CS Fred Matiang’i, authorised payment of Sh1.5 billion to the firm for land LR No 7879/4 as compensation. In a letter dated March 11 last year, Matiang’i told the National Lands Commission to initiate the compensation process and ensure the two schools acquired title deeds. “We note that payment of Sh1.5 billion to Whispering Palms Estate Limited on January 30 on behalf of Afrison Export Import Limited and Huelands Limited was part of payment,” the letter read. “As we continue with investigations, we wish to advise your commission not to make further payments until the investigations are completed.” But the firm, through a letter dated August 17, 2016, claimed it is the registered owner of the land, having acquired it in 1981. See:Thika pupils protest brazen attempt to grab school land Click here for the latest political news  