Two Pokot chiefs were beaten and injured by bandits while trying to recover stolen cattle at Makany village in Tiaty Sub-county, Baringo County on Monday. Orus Location Chief Josephine Lopuo Kakuko and Kokwototo sub-location assistant chief Daniel Ng’eleyo were assaulted during a local baraza today at 10am. Tiaty East Sub-county Commissioner Reuben Ratemo said the chiefs were in the process of negotiating with the bandits to return some 45 head of cattle stolen last week from Rumuruti in Lakipia County. “All of a sudden some pokot youths armed with sticks emerged from the bush beating them” said Ratemo adding that the administrators’ were currently admitted at Chemoling’ot Health Centre. He said police are currently pursuing the culprits whom he said were well known by the residents. “But meanwhile we are keen about the safety of our chiefs” he said. The Sub-county Commissioner called on the locals to stop taking the law in their hands saying their threats shall not stop the government from pursuing the stolen animals and push to restore peace in the region. He urged the elders and the residents to help convince the youths to return back the livestock stolen from the neighboring communities so as to make peace. The incident also happens a week after the suspected armed pokot bandits attacked Kasiela in Baringo South Sub-county stealing 100 head of cattle, although Ratemo said they were all recovered. However, Tiaty Member of Parliament (MP) William Kamket condemned the incident urging the government to deploy National Police Reservists (NPR) to the constituency. “We don’t have a single NPR in pokot while our neighboring communities have, this is a clear show of discrimination” said Kamket. On Saturday, Banditry Kapenguria Member of Parliament (MP) Samuel Moroto said it is not the passion of pokots to attack and raid their neighbors but it is poverty that pushes them to kill and steal other people’s livestock. Moroto accuses the government for retaliating ongoing cattle raids in North rift region by shooting down over 5,000 cattle head of cattle, only source of livelihood for the Pokot community. “Pokot are always accused falsely for attacking and staling from the neighbouring pastoral communities, though it is not their fault but the rage of poverty that forces them to carry out the up-evil” Said Moroto. He was addressing the homecoming ceremony of Tiaty Member of Parliament (MP) William Kamket on Saturday. His statement comes amid ongoing deadly bandits attacks along the borders of Kapedo, Kerio valley, Elgeyo/Makwakwet, Baringo North and Baringo South.