Busia leaders have opposed the planned construction of an SGR port in Kisumu, warning it will ruin Malaba and the economy of the region. Engineer Vincent Sidai, Teso North MP Oku Kaunya and Busia woman representative Florence Mutua said on Sunday there is a plot to have all inland port services handled in Kisumu and relegate Malaba to a transit-only point. They said the move will undermine trade in the border town. The leaders spoke at St Thomas ACK Church, Amagoro, during a fundraiser for Katakwa Diocese Mothers’ Union. “This means we shall have no business in Malaba. It is very unfair. Malaba is a big border town. We don’t want to see trains just pass with goods,” Sidai said. “We have jobless youth. If all work will remain in Kisumu, what shall we do here? We want the national government to tell us what facilities will be in Malaba when the SGR reaches here.” Kaunya and Mutua said they will petition the government to rescind the plan. Malaba could become a ghost town, they warned. An inland dry port in Malaba will create jobs for the youth, boost the region’s economy and transform residents’ lives, Kaunya said. “You are aware of the one stop border posts. The laws put by the East African Community member states saw the clearance of goods relocated to Uganda. Kenyan clearing agents lost jobs and there was a drastic drop in business in Malaba and Busia,” the legislator said. He warned they will not allow a repeat of another decision that will leave the towns in ruins. “Plans for an export processing zone and trailer parks in Malaba and Busia towns were mooted three years ago. We need these to be fast-tracked so our people benefit from the SGR and trailers,” Kaunya said. The leaders promised to fight for residents and ensure the SGR helps consolidate the market position of Malaba and Busia towns as leading business hubs in East Africa. Last year, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho expressed similar concerns when he opposed the government’s plan to build an inland dry port in Naivasha. He said this would kill container freight business in Mombasa and lead to massive job losses. The Kenya Ports Authority has transferred clearance of upcountry-bound goods from the port of Mombasa to Nairobi’s Embakasi station. Joho said the Naivasha project and the expanded Embakasi inland container depot would destroy the economy of Mombasa and its environs, rendering 10,000 people jobless.