Last year was marred by workers in various sectors going on strike to demand salary increase. Health and education were the hardest hit, as doctors, nurses, clinical officers and lecturers boycotting work. The strikes left devastating effects in their wake, in terms of lives lost and wasted study time. And while others have since resumed duties, lecturers are still giving students sleepless nights with their absence. Moreover, about 100,000 Kenyans lost their jobs last year after several companies closed shop or downsized. This added to worrying statistics of a country already grappling with high unemployment, especially among the youth. DOCTORS MAKE HISTORY Some 6,000 doctors took to the streets last year in what was the longest strike by medical practitioners in Kenyan history. The doctors staged the strike from December 5, 2016, to push for a 300 per cent salary increase and improve facilities in public hospitals. They also wanted the employment of more doctors and rationalisation of work schedules based on their 2013 collective bargaining agreement, which the government refused to recognise. The standoff between union officials and the government left a sector so critical to the livelihoods of millions of Kenyans on the brink of collapse. KMPDU officials, led by secretary general Ouma Oluga, were jailed for a month for refusing to call off the strike. Oluga told the Star the strike was consequential in that it saw the government enter an agreement with the doctors for the first time. He said the solidarity expressed by doctors and the general public was so overwhelming that it changed the way the government and industrial courts relate with trade unions. “For many years, we have lacked bodies that can advocate for the health sector. The existing NGOs focus on specific areas, and most of the time they are compromised, but the strike brought the limelight on the health sector,” he said. However, Oluga wished they did not have to abandon their duties. “Striking is an outdated way to demand for workers’ welfare. We need to look for alternative ways to advocate for various sectors, like seeking Parliament interventions and international communities,” he said. Oluga said strikes are a result of lack of dialogue, which in the end hurt the economy. “The government of the day will tend to use command-control structure to silence workers, which in the long run hurts the employer-employee relationship,” he said. Work is not just about money or good pay but dignity, Oluga said. “Beyond giving a minimum wage, Kenyans need a pay that will help them cater for basic needs under a conducive environment. Most of the time across the sectors, workers have been persevering under harsh conditions,” he said. A deal to sign a new CBA within 60 days was reached on March 15 between the KMPDU, Council of Governors and Health ministry. This brought to an end the 100 days of suffering that left dozens of patients dead. NURSES, LECTURERS JOIN FRAY On June 5, nurses went on strike to demand for extraneous allowances of Sh5,000, risk allowances of Sh15,400 and uniform allowance of Sh50,000 up from Sh10,000. The work boycott paralysed health services in county hospitals for five months until November 2, when a deal was reached. Seth Panyako, secretary general of the Kenya National Union of Nurses, expressed regret over the strike and apologised to Kenyans. “It was not our intention to have them suffer due to a nearly collapsed health care system when the nurses were on strike. We wish that such a thing will not happen in the near future,” Panyako said. Just like during the doctors’ strike, patients seeking health services from public hospitals were left in bad shape, as there was no one to attend to them after treatment. Panyako urged the government to continue engaging them in negotiations to avert protracted strikes in future. Third in the series of strikes in 2017 was lecturers, who have been on strike a record three times in one academic year. The dons were pushing for the full implementation of their 2013-17 CBA. The Sh54 billion CBA has dragged on since July 2013, when its implementation was initially scheduled to begin. The lecturers went on strike again for two weeks in July, after the government failed to disburse a balance of Sh5.2 billion by end of June. The amount was released later that month. On November 1, the lecturers went on strike for the third time, saying the Sh10 billion had been used to clear arrears dating back to July 2013. All public universities, save for five, had reverted to paying salaries based on the 2010 CBA. Some 38 days later, a deal was reached on December 9 and the strike called off after the dons signed a return-to-work formula with the universities councils. The strikes, coupled by two elections and precipitated by student unrest, interrupted learning in public universities, leading to the closure of some institutions. On March 1, the university dons went on strike again over the failure by government to table a counter-offer to the 2017-21 CBA. Constantine Wasonga, secretary general of the Universities Academic Staff Union, has since warned of a protracted battle with the government over the CBA. Wasonga and his KUSU counterpart Charles Mukhwaya said they are prepared to stay on strike for as long as it takes until a deal is reached. The tough stance comes even as Education CS Amina Mohamed reiterates the government’s position that it is working on a permanent solution to the stalemate. The strike enters its 60th day today, disrupting studies in 31 public universities and affecting about 600,000 students. CLINICAL OFFICERS Last but not least on the strikes that rocked 2017 is the clinical officers’ work boycott. Clinical officers went on strike in September for three weeks, which was halted on October 5 after they agreed to talk with the Council of Governors over their grievances. They were protesting the job evaluation system used by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission to peg their salaries. George Gibore, secretary general of the Kenyan Union of Clinical Officers, said their agreement to resume work should not be construed to mean they are in agreement with their job cadre by the SRC. “We are not going back to work because we are happy but because this is the beginning of having our issues addressed,” Gibore said, adding that the agreement was meant to protect union members from victimisation when they resume duty. Their grievances were to be resolved within 60 days from the date of the agreement. They include the re-designation of all clinical officers into job groups approved in their revised scheme and the signing of a recognition agreement. It remains to be seen whether 2018 is going to be a better year in terms of the relationship between the country’s workforce and the various arms of government responsible for their welfare. Union officials, starting from Cotu, have defended workers, saying strike is the only way they can express their frustrations with employers. Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli says it is not that workers love to strike but they are forced to down tools when the employer pushes them to the wall. The Cotu boss says most negotiations have not borne fruits due to poor dialogue mechanism between the Labour and Public Service ministries and affected employees. Atwoli said in many cases, dialogue has collapsed because the government failed in providing arbitration process. Public Service CS Margaret Kobia said parties to a trade issue or a CBA should maintain talks with each other, as most of the unions almost always decry historical issues on deals that were negotiated several years in the past. She said adopting a policy to keep in touch and keep dialogue going would enable parties to update each other and manage everyone’s expectations. “Designated working groups, for example comprising representatives of both parties, might hold the key to ensuring cordial and mutually beneficial results for all, and perhaps then strikes would not have to occur,” the CS said. “Of course we must remain awake to the possibility that some actors may wish to use labour disputes to achieve partisan political ends, but with continued engagement and good faith, these issues can be handled.” JOB LOSSES Last year was also characterised by massive job losses in various sectors. About 100,000 Kenyans lost their jobs after several companies shut down or retrenched staff to remain afloat. Kobia said many factors were to blame for this, including the automation that has affected banks or even fraud, as has been seen with some companies. She said there is very little the state can do to help businesses be successful, especially if they are facing serious operational risks, such as those presented by people and technology. “The businesses themselves must ensure they retain risk management professionals to help identify and mitigate these risks. To get ahead of technology-led redundancy, what needs to be done is for the average worker to ensure they continuously update their knowledge and skills and commitment to life-long learning,” Kobia said. Last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced an 18 per cent increase on the minimum wage bill. Unfortunately, most employers did not implement the directive. Kobia said there are some employers who may find that such an increase might jeorpadise their capacity to remain a going concern. She said their intention as government is not to run anyone out of business. “There is a school of thought that posits that if you increase the price of something, demand will decrease automatically, and labour is not exempt. When minimum wage is increased, employers tend to hire less and you can find at times workers being required to do the work of two people, which leads to even further unemployment,” she said. She said this is particularly detrimental when you consider low-skilled, high-risk workers who tend to be the youth. A company may not be keen to give an inexperienced graduate a chance when the company has to pay him or her as much as skilled workers due to the minimum wage requirements. Kobia said perhaps this calls for some flexibility and a more complex solution, as opposed to a one-size-fits-all policy prescription on minimum wage. She said employers are also in competition with each other, and good employees will always go to better-paying employers, potentially leading to a virtuous cycle of higher wages. The CS said paying better is actually a competitive advantage, which is what they ultimately want. “Our focus must remain, as it is, building a highly trained, professional, hardworking, conscientious, skilled pool of labour that can work anywhere. A workforce that is professionally trained so they do work to international standards,’’ she said. Kobia said most Kenyans are currently good in finance, logistics as well as operations management, which will see global humanitarian agencies bringing their headquarters in the country to benefit from that talent pool. As Kenya joins the world in marking the International Labour Day today, the CS said her expectation for the day is tied to the mandate of her docket. She said she hopes for some relief for working mothers, especially single mothers, equal to the minimum wage they pay their domestic workers.