Indian logistics firm Pankaj Transport has been temporarily stopped from enforcing a $4.5 million (Sh450 million) court award against French logistics giant Bollore, which followed a botched sugar transport deal in 2012. High Court judge Grace Nzioka has ordered Bollore to deposit half the amount (Sh225 million) in joint interest earning account before April 20, 2018 and provide a bank guarantee for the balance, as a condition for stopping enforcement as it appeals the suit it lost. Pankaj had rejected Bollore's proposal of a payment guarantee from either Jubilee Insurance or a reputable foreign bank as it challenges an earlier judgment that ordered it to pay Pankaj Sh450 million. The Indian firm argued that the guarantee would force it to pursue its award from a third party in the event that Bollore's appeal fails. But Justice Nzioka has ruled that depositing half the amount in an interest earning account in the name of the two firms is a middle ground for the warring logistics firms. Pankaj contracted Bollore in 2012 to transport 32.2 tonnes of sugar from Mombasa to Kampala. The sugar had been bought by several Ugandan firms that were seeking to curb a biting shortage and beat a tax exemption deadline. Bollore said it was forced to transport the sugar via rail after torrential rains washed away sections of the road. The French firm added that the rains also caused power outages which interfered with the Kenya Revenue Authority's clearance processes, and ultimately slowing down its transit of the sugar to Kampala. “It is therefore clear that, the issue is not the provisions, but the type of security that will serve the interest of both parties, and in doing the best that I can, in the given circumstances, I find that, it will be in the interest of justice to order that half of the decretal sum be deposited in a joint interest earning account as aforesaid and Bollore provide a bank guarantee for the other 50 per cent of the decretal sum.” “In default of compliance with the order of deposit and/or provision of the bank gGuarantee and within the stipulated period, Pankaj will be at liberty to levy and/or proceed with execution for the decretal sum forthwith and without further reference to the Court,” Justice Nzioka ruled. Kakira Sugar, Felistar Uganda, VGR World and World Point Uganda purchased the sugar from India’s Rika Global Services. Rika then hired Indian freighter Pankaj which in turn subcontracted the delivery to Bollore. Pankaj moved to court in 2014, claiming that Rika withheld payment for transporting the sugar owing to the delays, forcing it to sue Bollore. The Indian firm added that the Ugandan sugar firms threatened to sue it because the delays saw them miss out on the tax exemptions. Another judge, Eric Ogola, last year ruled that Bollore failed to prove its claims of rains causing delays and ordered it to pay the Sh450 million claimed by Pankaj.