The Kenyan diaspora is sending more money to their families back home than ever before. These monthly ‘remittances’ — as they’re referred to by experts — topped Sh20 billion in December 2017, according to Central Bank of Kenya data compiled on its website. A friend from my primary school days in Kenya asked me the other day, “Why do you diasporas send so much money to Kenya every month?” My reaction was rather casual and nonchalant, “To support our beloved nucleus and extended families back home in paying school fees, medical expenses and food supplies. What is wrong with being compassionate and family oriented?” Sending money to Kenya usually is associated with providing support to families to buy food, pay school fees and bills. However, some diasporas send money for the purchase of land and possibly putting a home as an investment. The goal being that in the retirement age, they can return home to a nice house. However, this has come at a price. Some family members back in Kenya never buy land or build houses, but spend the money. Horror stories are told of diasporas sending money home but no investments are ever made. This begs the question, why do so many diasporas continue to send money for these projects, despite the danger of losing everything? To answer these questions, one should first consider the alternatives. In the US, investment opportunities are many and diverse. For example, buying shares in stock markets. There are more than six large stock exchanges in the Unites States, with many brokers who offer online services and physical offices that provide advice and invest people’s cash. One can invest in commercial banks’ traditional fixed deposits or certificate of deposits as they called here in the USA. There are also bonds, unit trusts, mutual funds and many investment instruments in the marketplaces. Of all these, the commercial bank investments are the most available and easier to do for an ordinary Kenyan. Unfortunately the bank products offer low returns. For example, the best CD for one year offers a meagre 2.75 per cent return, while the majority of commercial banks offer less than 1.5 per cent. The stock markets give better returns, but these require more sophisticated investors, typically a broker or agent. Besides, the stock markets are volatile and complex. There are more than 3,000 companies (shares) compared to the Nairobi Security Exchange’s 100 or so companies. Therefore deciding which stock to buy and when to buy in the US is not easy task. One could ask for help, meaning they will need to engage a financial adviser, which comes with additional costs. It is therefore not a surprise that many a diaspora prefer to invest in Kenya through family members. It is easier and faster, despite the risk of the family member diverting the funds to other uses. It also makes sense, particularly when one looks at the returns on investments — in this case real estate and land. These two assets have shown increases in prices in the last few years that are staggering. Stories are told of places such as Ngong, where the price of land has risen from Sh1 million per acre to Sh8 million within just one year. Whether true or not, many diasporas look at the 1.5 per cent return after 12 months offered by a commercial bank and compare it to the possibilities back home and comfortably choose to send money home. This despite the danger the money may never be invested — the higher the risk, the higher the return. The ordinary Kenyan diaspora only wishes to enjoy the perceived economic boom back home, especially in the thriving real estate sector. Adjunct lecturer at Chicago State University, Faculty of Accounting and Finance Mchitavi@csu.edu , Twitter: #mchitavi