Embattled electoral commission CEO Ezra Chiloba did not give satisfactory answers when questioned over alleged malpractice on procurement of election material necessitating being sent on compulsory leave, the court was told yesterday. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said the commission was not satisfied with Chiloba’s response, hence the need to send him on compulsory leave. He paved way to conclude the audit after three commissioners voted against him. It was agreed that Chiloba goes on leave to ensure he does not tamper with the audit. “The applicant is the chief administrative officer of the IEBC. It would hinder the internal auditors from conducting the audit freely. In fact, it is his office that finances the internal auditors. How can such auditors conduct a transparent audit in the presence of their boss?” Chebukati said. Must read : Akombe exposes the rot inside IEBC “Further, owing to the fact that he is in charge of the entire department, should there be anything prejudicial to him, he is likely to tamper with such information and sabotage the process.” If after the audit Chiloba is found culpable, he will not return to work. If he is absolved he will resume work. Chebukati also said the allegations by Chiloba in his petition that he was not given a fair hearing is false.The chairman said he wrote to him asking for an explanation on the tender. The CEO is directly answerable to the commission in the carrying out of his functions and the commission is charged with the role of providing oversight to the secretary of the commission. Chebukati says all the five commissioners present agreed that there was need to expand the scope of the internal audit. The majority vote agreed Chiloba ought to be sent on compulsory leave to pave way. “There was a quorum of the commissioners when the decision to send the applicant on leave was made. The meeting was attended by five commissioners. They all voted on the issue,” Chebukati said. Also read: CEO Chiloba suspended, IEBC in chaos The chairman said even if the court agrees with Chiloba’s lies that the decision was reached at by only three commissioners after the alleged protests by the remaining two commissioners, the courts have held that quorum is not taken away through withdrawal of members. Through his lawyer Tom Ojienda, Chebukati wants the court to strike out Chiloba’s petition. Click here for the latest political news