Fresh from back-to-back final appearances in Vancouver and Hong Kong, Shujaa turn their attention to Commonwealth Games rugby Sevens as the program gets underway at Robina Stadium in Gold Coast, Australia today. Kenya open their campaign with a tricky tie against Canada at 3:15am in Pool ‘C’. The two sides clashed last week in Hong Kong with Kenya winning 31-12. Kenya also beat the Canadians 29-15 in Dubai in December. Next in the line for Kenya will be silver medallists from the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, New Zealand at 7:17 am. The All Blacks sevens outfit knocked out Kenya 19-7 four years ago in Glasgow and will be a formidable opponent for Innocent Simiyu’s charges in what is expected to be a bruising contest. Shujaa edged a second-string Kiwi outfit 21-12 in Hong Kong last week but they expect a stern test from the four-time gold medallists. The Kiwis beat Kenya 14-12 in Dubai in December and today’s match is expected to be close. Kenya’s final match will be against minnows Zambia at 1:27pm. Head coach Simiyu said the boys are relishing the challenge and are going for nothing short of a medal in the two-day tournament. “We have had good preparations since we arrived on Tuesday. The boys have adapted to the conditions and are in good spirit,” added Simiyu. The tactician said he expects a competitive contest against the three sides. “The margin of error is small. For us to qualify for the medal bracket, we must win all the three preliminary matches. Canada are physical and we have had close battles with them while New Zealand are a quality side with pedigree and a rich history in the sport. Zambia are an unknown quality and will want to prove a point,” he said. Simiyu will be banking on experienced players including skipper Oscar Ouma, Collins Injera, Andrew Amonde, Nelson Oyoo and Willy Ambaka to fire the team to the semis. Champions South Africa headline Pool ‘A’ alongside Scotland, Papua New Guinea and Malaysia. Pool ‘B’ will see England battle it out against Australia and Samoa while Pool ‘D’ has Olympic champions Fiji facing Wales, Uganda and Sri Lanka. Only the top team from each pool qualifies for the semifinals.