The Kikuyu have an old proverb that says: “KamÅ©hÅ©thia kaharÅ©rÅ©kagia mwatÅ©,” which literally translates: “A little idleness causes the ruin of the beehive.” While the literal translation may not sound as clever, the context in which the proverb is used is relevant. The Kikuyu loved keeping bees as a source of honey for their traditional brews that were consumed at various occasions throughout the year. The beekeepers used to hang beehives on the branches of forest trees, and it was their custom to visit them often to make sure they were all right. Failure to visit them regularly could result in a disastrous loss, where one would ultimately find the branch broken, the beehive fallen down and the contents spilt. When applying this concept, the Kikuyu used the proverb to encourage people to keep checking on their relations to ensure they remain intact. As Kenya moves into the future, it is perhaps important that Central Kenya seeks to apply this proverb. Of late, there have been discussions on who will succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in Central after he retires, and if he will still lead the community into retirement. It started out as whispers, then loud murmurs and now this has reached the point where it’s being discussed openly. At the moment, many in the region are satisfied with Uhuru being at the helm but as we approach his retirement, it is important the region keeps checking if the branches are still holding the beehive. I have been of the opinion that such discussions are premature since the Big Four plan must be supported and development prioritised. However, it would be naive not to look into the future, especially at a time when the region has been at the core of things for the last 15 years. Looking at the landscape in Central Kenya politics, it’s easy to see there is no succession plan, and there’s no one in line to succeed Uhuru, who is now focused on leaving a legacy. The succession in Mt Kenya was almost clear; as Mzee Jomo Kenyatta was leading, young leaders emerged and started preparing themselves for the future. At Independence, Kenya’s Third President Mwai Kibaki was a Permanent Secretary in Mzee’s first government and Moi elevated him to Vice President when he took over in 1978. But it would take 24 years for Central Kenya to ascend to the Presidency through Kibaki, due to lack of consolidated leadership. This is because they were all at ease paying homage to Moi, and they eventually started fighting among themselves, with Kenneth Matiba and Kibaki dividing votes in 1992 and again in 1997. However, during Kibaki’s second term, it was clear that Uhuru would be assuming the mantle of leadership. But there was some help towards this in the form of a united voice. In 2011, the Gema community came together for what came to be known as Limuru 1, where Uhuru was endorsed as the regional leader. In 2012, months to the election, Limuru 2 took place and this time Uhuru was endorsed as the region’s sole presidential candidate. And this is why Central Kenya must start planning for a ‘Limuru 3’, without upsetting the existing Jubilee plan. There is need to keep our beehives intact and in the right position if we are to collect any honey. Anyone stating that the region is not supposed to come together to plan for the future is not being honest about the reality on the ground. It will only be a matter of time before reality comes crashing down. In fact, no one question why Central Kenya should be meeting — whether in the dark or the open —to plan the future. The region has a stake in the leadership of this country and must be allowed to consolidate itself, even as it unites with the rest of the country.  Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda