There may be a reduction in rainfall amounts and intensity beginning Saturday, especially over Eastern. However, head of meteorological services Peter Ambenje warned more landslides may still occur because the soil is already saturated with rain and floodwaters. Yesterday, a landslide buried houses belonging to 30 families in Makueni and Red Cross volunteers are still searching for any casualties. Ambenje said localised heavy showers and thunderstorms will occur in many places until Friday, then the rains will reduce. “Floods may continue to occur during the first half of the forecast period, especially in low-lying and poorly drained areas that have already been receiving heavy rainfall,” he said in a seven-day forecast that ends on Monday. The storms will particularly be felt around Lake Victoria and most parts of the Rift Valley. These include the counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. “They are expected to experience morning rains over a few places between Tuesday and Saturday, while the last two mornings may be mainly sunny. Afternoon and evening showers are expected over several places between Tuesday and and Thursday, reducing to a few places thereafter,” Ambenje said. Nairobi and the entire central highlands including Nyandarua, Nyeri, Embu, Murang’a and Meru, will continue to experience morning rains throughout. “Evening showers are expected over several places between Tuesday and Friday reducing to few places thereafter,” Ambenje said. The coastal strip will have morning and early afternoon showers over a few places today, Saturday and Sunday, while the remaining days may be mainly sunny. Northeastern, which comprises the counties of Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo, will have morning rains over a few places today and tomorrow. The new forecast comes after a grim week marked by flood deaths in Naivasha and a landslide in Makueni. On Sunday, five people drowned after a vehicle carrying them was swept off by floods on Maraigushu-Githabai Road in Naivasha. Two others managed to escape. The group was on their way to collect a pump from Munyaka.