Mbeere South MP Geoffrey Kingangi has criticized the move by the government to suspend the resettlement of beneficiaries of the disputed Mwea settlement scheme. On April 17, Interior ministry’s spokesperson Mwenda Njoka via Twitter suspended the allocation exercise following a bloody confrontation between residents and police over land allocations. Seven squatters were injured Kingangi however, opposed the move saying the resettlement of the land’s beneficiaries should continue. He also called for a probe into the alleged allocation of huge tracts of land in the settlement scheme to rich politicians and senior government officers saying necessary action to be taken against them. Speaking to the Star on Phone Kingangi said the allocation of the land had been done in an open manner and that every squatter who was complaining of having been left out was considered and given land. He said the shooting was still ongoing and was sparked off by people with interest in the land. The MP said these people have hired some youth to attack the police with stones. Kingangi said one security officer was almost killed by the youth prompting police officers to fire in defense resulting to several people getting shot. He called out for investigations into the incident to establish what happened and have the necessary action be taken against the culprits. On the other hand Embu Council of Elders have supported the postponement of the resettlement exercise calling for fresh distribution of the land to the deserving persons. Nyangi ndiiriri Council of elders Chairman Aldrew Ireri called for establishment of a taskforce to uncover what messed the distribution of the land since independence. Ireri said the land has been allocated to different people over the years in aborted exercises adding that there has been several taskforces and investigation committees over the land whose reports have never been made public. Several beneficiaries of the land went to the Embu courts in a bid to block the suspension. By the time of going to the press they were still waiting for their lawyers to file the necessary papers in search of orders against the government. The suspension followed shooting of seven squatters by police who were escorting beneficiaries of the land to be shown by surveyors where they were located. The victims were shot critically at Mashamba area before being treated at Gategi whiterose Hospital and referred to other hospitals for advance treatment.