The apartment rental market posted the weakest annual returns dropping 7.5 per cent while semi-detached housing saw a 6.4 per cent gain in annual returns. This signals a higher leaning towards sharing a compound with other tenants rather than living in an apartment building. However so, apartments still control majority of the market taking up 63.4 per cent as at December 2017, this according to data by Hass Consult. Semi-detached Houses took up 18.1 per cent while Detached Houses took up 18.5 per cent of the market. “The rental market is characterized by a relatively high ratio of rental spending as a proportion of income, and so the sustained rental falls particularly in the apartment market late last year demonstrated the clear impact of consumer spending pressures as the government stall on expenditure swept liquidity from the market” head of development consulting and research Sakina Hassanali said. According to the report, there is a significant amount of opportunity for investors in Nairobi’s satellite towns which posted a 2.4 per cent increase in asking prices during the first quarter of 2018 compared to a marginal growth of 0.2 per cent for the suburbs. “There are possibilities for unlocking value in the satellite towns unlike Nairobi where prices remained relatively flat,” Hassanali said. She added that the slowdown in Nairobi prices driven by demand from developers unlike speculators in the satellite towns, reflects a subdued housing market that is yet to recover. Hassanali said plans for massive housing by the Nairobi County government that will see more efficient use of public land have the potential to shift pricing in the county. “Land in Nairobi contributes a significant portion of the unit cost of a house and by the county government offering developers of affordable housing free land, there is a likelihood of prices easing on the apartment market,” she said. In the three months to March according to the report, rent prices in Upperhill rose by 0.8 per cent with an average 2.5 per cent increase compared to the same period last year. Upperhill has remained the most expensive place to purchase land with an acre averaging at Sh555.6 million. The report showed land in Kilimani was the second most expensive after prices dropped 1.9 per cent to an average of Sh434.6 million an acre quarter-on-quarter, followed by Parklands at Sh414.7 million. An acre in Westlands averaged Sh409.5 million, while in Kileleshwa the asking price averaged Sh293.2 million.