About 10 ODM legislators are planning a motion for the impeachment of Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, Immigration boss Gordon Kihalangwa and IG Joseph Boinnet for disobeying court orders. Led by Alego Usonga's Samuel Atandi, they told the press on Saturday that nobody is above the law regardless of circumstances. Atandi said that now that the High Court confirmed the three violated the law, by failing to free and produce lawyer and NRMKe General Miguna Miguna, there is no need for them to be in office. "We cannot have law breakers in security dockets and expect them to maintain law and order. They better leave before we force them to leave," he said. The MP further said it is disheartening to see police harassing petty offenders  such as chang'aa brewers and falling to arrest "real offenders like Matiangi and company". Atandi and the others spoke at Nyasita Secondary School in Siaya during a funds drive at which Sh2.5 million was contributed. Saboti MP Caleb Khamisi said they will start by summoning the officials to Parliament, "to explain why they think they are above the law", before kicking them out of office for gross misconduct. Khamisi said they will also ensure Matiang'i, Kihalangwa and Boinnet don't get their salaries. "The Sh200,000 fine by the court will be implemented before we orchestrate their ouster," he said, adding that going forward, they will deal with high ranking government officials who have no regard for  the rule of law. "We will not fear them as we are not the kind of leaders who are ready to bend the law for personal gain." Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi said the government officials have two options - to resign or be forced out of office. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna, who is a lawyer, said the Cabinet Secretary, is the main stumbling block to the newly formed union between Nasa principal Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. "But we warn that he will go home before materialising his bad intentions," Sifuna said, and urged MPs to use their powers to "trim Matiang'i's rogue branches before they get out of hand". Related: Raila's party threatens to arrest 'criminals' Boinnet, Matiang'i and Kihalangwa Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch said the Minister must be held accountable for his actions just like any other public servant. "Everyone must respect the law. What Matiang'i and Boinnet are doing is setting a bad precedent - disregard for the rule of law," Oluoch said. The politicians asked the public to disregard any orders issued by Matiang'i and Boinnet. Justice George Odunga, in a ruling on Thursday, ordered the three officials to pay Sh200,000 each for contempt of court. Odunga said since the respondents are in charge of security, it will be difficult for their juniors to execute warrants of arrest. More on this: Justice Odunga fines Matiang'i, Boinnet Sh200,000 for contempt of court Also read: Matiang’i, Boinnet face jail after failing to produce Miguna Click here for the latest political news