There are already concerns that wananchi may yet again lose out on this golden opportunity to review the governance systems following the now- famous handshake. There have been such occasions in the history of this country, when citizens welcomed similar milestones only to discover they were duped. However, out of experience and past happenings, Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta have the grand opportunity to rewrite the history of this country by establishing framework for lasting peace, stability, economic development and national unity. Kenyans are looking up to them for renewed commitment to the Founding Fathers’ vision and national agenda. They hope that never again shall they stare at the risk of disintegration and hopelessness. They are optimistic of a reinvigorated economy and prosperity for all. They are eager to cross the Rubicon into life of dignity and equal opportunities. As Kenyans approached the October 26 repeat presidential election last year, there was widespread despondence and anxiety. When NASA announced they had pulled out of the race altogether, nobody knew the next course for the country. Once the results were announced and Uhuru declared the winner, Raila announced they did not recognise the process and the outcome. Violent protests immediately broke out in NASA strongholds. Property of unknown worth was destroyed and people displaced. The violence made it almost impossible to provide basic social services to the vulnerable, and women and children suffered the most. Businesses closed down and county local revenue bases were weakened. As the national government was still preparing to find funds to transfer to the counties, NASA counties could not raise local revenues to support their operations. The risk of social breakdown was imminent in the almost half of the country that did not support Jubilee. On the other hand, the government responded to NASA protests with a despotic heavy hand. Peaceful demonstrations were violently broken up by police and citizens suffered broken limbs and death. More worrying was the indiscriminate use of lethal force that led to deaths of innocent children at the hands of those charged with the responsibility of protecting them. Appeals were made to the Judiciary and the judges made pronouncements that sought to protect the citizens’ civil rights. However, the Executive, which has monopoly of brute force, ignored such orders with such contempt that smacked of dictatorship. On occasions that the Jubilee apparatchiks were unable to utilise the government police to push their brutal agenda, they resorted to informal militia to secure their interests. Mungiki reincarnated as the Nairobi Business Community and used crude methods and weapons, ostensibly to secure their business premises from the marauding NASA youths. While NASA protests met more than the full force and wrath of the law, the police turned a blind eye to the Nairobi Business Community’s criminal activities. The disdain for the justice system by the government and use of legitimate force as first choice for settlement of political disputes pushed Kenya to brink of despotism. Even as Judiciary was derided and scolded in public, the Chief Justice had the courage to follow the law and swear in UhuRuto on schedule. The presidency then took the next step to form the government but it was immediately clear the Cabinet was lopsided. The fear of exclusion and institutionalised discrimination set in. Kenyans from those regions perceived and considered to be NASA strongholds begun to sit on the edge. The possibility of being jettisoned from government jobs or being denied opportunity to serve in the public service was real. The threat of secession from the NASA politicians only helped to aggravate matters. Kenyans believe that where you do not see a familiar face in public office, it is unlikely to get just service. The absence of faces from the other regions considered opposition supporters created the impression of exclusion and discrimination from government. Many of the citizens from these regions thus felt neglected and saw no need to be loyal to the government. This gave rise to regional nationalism as was witnessed in the enthusiasm for the Peoples’ Assemblies and support for the partition of the country. The political instability created an unfavourable economic environment for businesses. The local businesses were recording unprecedented losses, while the international community found the country hostile for investment. There was industrial production decline and Kenya was thus staring at economic meltdown. Big businesses closed and some relocated altogether. Unemployment skyrocketed as staff were laid off and government agencies’ salaries fell in arrears. Conversely, the cost of living continued to rise, outstripping even the government subsidies on basic household commodities such as unga. The consequence of this was the disruption of development activities and economic growth. The threats and fears for the country not realising tangible benefits from the unity pact of Uhuru and Raila are neither exaggerated nor out of place. Historically, Kenya has had alliances formed for political purposes without much benefits to the ordinary people. Citizens have celebrated these alliances only to later discoverthey were for political expediency of the elite in their struggle for supremacy. The independence fallout between Jomo Kenyatta and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga led to marginalisation of many parts of the country. While their alliance in the run-up to Uhuru was hailed as a factor of unity, the latter government policies were discriminatory in terms of national resource distribution. Later, the Narc dream of a united country with unrivalled economic growth soon turned into a nightmare. Cries of betrayal between Mwai Kibaki and Raila threw the opportunity for national rebirth into disarray. The Nusu Mkate government was hailed as stable in terms of checks and balances, but the internal antagonism was its Achilles’ Heel. The regular brickbats and incessant squabbles could only manage a new Constitution as the gift to the citizens. Lastly, the first Jubilee government was weighed down by the ICC burden. It could not deliver on many of its promises, notable of which was the laptop project for primary school children. It is in this context that Kenyans see hope for a brighter future for the country in the unity of the two foremost protagonists of Kenyan politics. The handshake has calmed the volatile political waters almost instantly. While there are murmurs of inadequate consultations, the majority aver that the unity pact is more beneficial to the nation’s development. Uhuru and Raila are thus better advised to avoid the pitfalls of their forerunners in previous unity enterprises and instead bequeath the nation a better deal. The better deal is best captured in the Vision 2030 and the Big Four agenda. They should work together and with renewed vigour to deliver on this economic development plan for the sake of posterity. Under their stewardship, citizens should be able to enjoy universal healthcare, affordable housing, food security and better nutrition, and increased productivity in manufacturing. This will require that the two leaders reengineer the production processes so as to establish a vibrant economy with double-digit growth. It would also be important for them to take advantage of the goodwill and review our governance systems. The leadership should therefore create structures that would address the existing institutional and constitutional weaknesses. It is these governance system weaknesses that are responsible for the recurrent national legal malaise. Many Kenyans feel marginalised and appear disenfranchised while others have a sense of entitlement. The leadership of UhuRao should promote national unity, inclusivity and patriotism through pragmatism and practice of equity and social justice.  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst