It was recently reported there could be infighting over tenders at the IEBC between the commission and Secretariat. This lifted the lid of what could be happening in all these state institutions that handle huge budgets. IEBC infighting has occurred after every General Election, with blame games between officials at the commission. Politicians across the divide have raised concerns about some procurement decisions, especially those involving election equipment. So if guidelines for running the IEBC are not clear, then all stakeholders should be able to make proposals so Parliament can effect them. Confidence in procurement and any activity is essential, therefore, stakeholders must learn to approach election matters with maturity, without inciting their supporters. Some problems could have been avoided had the commission been in office in good time. Further, politicians should avoid unnecessary talk that can erode public confidence in key institutions like the IEBC. In the last election there was reckless talk that almost derailed the IEBC's poll preparations. The opposition said Jubilee had an upper hand in the conduct of the commission. Clearly, a lot must be done to ensure Kenyans, and more so candidates, have confidence in the umpire. The debate we now should have is whether we should have part-time commissioners, reduce their number or increase it. Another issue is where power should lie at the electoral agency. Should it be left as it is — commissioners exercising some power and the CEO having power over the Secretariat? There are several proposals to reform the IEBC. Parliament, through the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee that I chair, will listen to all stakeholders. We need a national debate on all these issues raised year in and year out about the IEBC. The truth is, however, that it's impossible to have a perfect commission. Even mature democracies encounter challenges; in our case, we need to build bridges. We do not have a mechanism to put in a place a team to nominate commissioners.These are some things my committee will examine. It's an emotive that needs a bipartisan approach. The writer, MP for Baringo North and chairman of Justice and Legal Affairs Comittee of the National Assembly, spoke to the Star