The 2017 Ibrahim Governance Report was released in Kigali this past weekend. There is progress on the continent. However, the progress is uneven. According to the report, the annual rate of progress in governance in 22 countries has slowed down or declined. Providing public services on the continent is in decline. Citizen confidence in the quality of health, security and education services is substantially eroded. The report notes that provision of private security, private education and private health is surging, filling the void left by decline in public services. The decline or collapse of public provision of basic services is now exacerbating inequality across the continent. Citizen dissatisfaction with quality of public service is cause for worry. For example, parents who send their children to poor quality public schools are unlikely to be motivated to keep them in school. More often, poor parents elect to withdraw children from school, pushing them into work or early marriage. The report also confirms what is now characterised as Africa’s jobless growth. According to the report, the percentage of population employed has only increased modestly, by 1.6 per cent between 2000 and 2017. This is equivalent to less than 0.1 per cent increase annually over the last 17 years. The decline of public services, especially in provision of education and health, also has the effect of undermining the capacity of Africa’s large youth population to compete and thrive in an increasingly globalised knowledge economy. The ability of Africa’s youth to contribute to development on the continent will depend on the quality of public services. Food security is both prevalent and persistent, with more than 164 million affected. Only five per cent of Africa’s agricultural land is irrigated, compared to 41 per cent in Asia. Countries with high levels of food insecurity in 2016 are also the largest and rapidly-growing economies in Africa. They include Ethiopia, Nigeria, South Africa and Kenya. Why does hunger still stalk the best-performing economies in Africa? But there is good news too. According to the report, child mortality is one of the most improved indicators on the continent. Similarly, infrastructure growth is accelerating, with 35 countries registering improvements in the past 10 years. However, about 51 per cent considered the handling of maintenance of roads and bridges as very bad or fairly bad. I think this is spot on. In Kenya, for example, one of the largest highways invariably morphs into raging streams and dangerous pools with every downpour. The dramatic transformation in Rwanda must not be viewed as a miracle or an unattainable ideal. Every African leader must be judged by the quality of public services, not just unbridled expansion of private sector. In her acceptance speech as the 2017 winner of the Mo Ibrahim Prize for Achievement in African Leadership, former Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf acknowledged that whilst progress on the continent was uneven, it was undisputedly evident. We have work to do. Alex O. Awiti is the director of the East Africa Institute   