Governor Kiraitu Murungi has scoffed at MCAs for slashing the Sh50 million allocation meant for the Meru Youth Service (MYS). Kiraitu said he will seek donor funding for his flagship project to proceed as planned at his initial cost of Sh100 million. "I have heard that they [slashed the allocation] but I am not discouraged. My dream to make a positive difference in our youths' lives must come true," he said at Meru School on Saturday when he commissioned the training of 900 youths. "I will look for international funding to ensure the project does not fail. There are people who have pledged to support it." On Thursday, Meru MCAs passed major amendments to the county’s Sh10.1 billion budget for 2018-19, deducting Sh91 million from the office of the Governor. They also deducted Sh176 million from the finance department and Sh10 million from the public service and environment dockets. They ward representatives scrapped the award of a Sh101.4 million tender to Meru Dairy Union, effectively doing away with Kiraitu’s flagship free milk programme. The Assembly also denied funding for the county Investment and Development Corporation and the Microfinance Corporation. More on this: Meru MCAs slash Kiraitu’s Sh10bn budget Kiraitu said the youths will be involved in community development initiatives once they acquire necessary kills. He said he will seek 1,000 hectares of land for farming by them and that those who partner in the MYS will share the income they generate. "You will be involved in community health sensitisation services. We want you to go door to door and educate people on the NHIF," he told them. "You will also be involved in the new programme of dust free urban areas and towns. Some of you will go for further training to be professional plumbers, electricians and masons. I want a MYS band to be entertaining us." The county boss noted that the goal is to liberate youths from dependency, poverty, apathy and hopelessness. "Many see Kenyan youths as a burden but I see them as a solution. Youths are the strength, power and hope of Meru," Kiraitu said. He added: "The greatest leader in the world was Jesus Christ. He died aged 33 but everyone knows and talks about him. The Governor noted the programme will take less than a year and hoped that in the end, youths' lives will be transformed in terms of leadership and economic empowerment. He announced that the county will host an international conference organised by the UN Habitat and the MYS from May 2 to 4. Many MCAs, however, absconded the commissioning as only three elected and two nominated ones were present. Click here for the latest political news