The Karachuonyo CDF in partnership with the Red Cross and an NGO on Thursday donated foodstuff to families affected by floods. At least 1,156 people have been displaced from their homes after River Miriu burst its banks following heavy rains. The floods have destroyed the homes of 194 families. Those displaced were camping at Osodo, Kobala and Kobuya primary schools, all in Wang'chieng ward. MP Adipo Okuome has raised concerns over possible outbreak of waterborne diseases. "We must now look for a permanent solution to perennial floods," Okuome said. He spoke after distributing maize, beans and other foodstuff at Kobuya Primary School. The victims also received blankets, mattresses and mosquito nets from Red Cross and God Will Provide International. "Many families have been left at risk of starvation because the floods destroyed more than 300 acres of crops. Some livestock were also swept away," Okuome said. Most of those living in the camps are women, children and elderly people according to Kennedy Ocholla, the man in charge of the camps. "Life has become unbearable because they cannot access clean water and good food," Ocholla said. “We are plan to construct houses for the worst affected families,” GWPI director Newton Ogada said. West Kenya regional manager for Red Cross Helen Cheruto said they will be visiting the camps to continue assisting the victims. According to Kennedy Ocholla who is in charge of the camps, the floods affected about 1156 people. On Thursday, Ocholla said the floods completely destroyed houses of more than 194 families. “Majority of people camping at the schools are women, children and old men. They suffered serious losses on their property due to floods,” Ocholla said. The floods occurred after river Miriu burst its banks and water spread in villages following heavy downpour. “Life has become unbearable to most of people here since the victims don’t have access to clean water and good food,” Ocholla said. He said the camping sites have fewer latrines which broadly affect their hygiene. Speaking when they distributed the aids area MP Adipo Okuome expressed fears over likelihood outbreak of water and airborne diseases in the camping site. “We’re giving them these items now but we are also organizing on how we would get permanent solution to floods in this area,” Okuome said. They donated more than 50 bags of maize and beans while Red Cross and the God Will Provide International distributed blankets, mattresses, mosquito nets and soaps. God Will Provide International director Newton Ogada said they have identified a family that will receive support for a house construction. “We plan work with others and construct houses to the worst affected families,” Ogada said. West Kenya regional manager for Red Cross Helen Cheruto said they will be visiting the camps and continue assisting the floods victims.