Raila Odinga wants Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to put his foot down so his promises to Nairobians are fulfilled. The Opposition leader told Sonko to be firm when the Governor paid him a courtesy call at Capitol Hill in Nairobi on Friday. The meeting took place at the request of the Governor, Raila's Spokesman Dennis Onyango said. In a statement to the media, Onyango said Sonko congratulated Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta for agreeing to work together and unite the country. He expressed support for the Building Bridges to a New Kenyan Nation initiative. Sonko and Raila discussed the state of the city, challenges in management and prospects. "Sonko pointed out that garbage management is the single biggest challenge for his administration but promised that he has taken measures to address it," the statement read.  Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko with Opposition leader Raila Odinga during their meeting at Capitol Hill in Nairobi, April 20, 2018. /EVANS OUMA The Governor said plans for setting up a recycling plant are at an advanced stage and that residents will be encouraged to collect garbage and sell it to the plant. Sonko also cited staffing as a problem, expressing fears that City Hall could be having hundreds of ghost workers whom he plans to weed out by introducing a biometric identification system. Raila then encouraged the Governor to be firm and relentless in his efforts to deliver services and thanked him for trying to bring all communities in Nairobi on board. He told Sonko to borrow a leaf from the Narc administration and grand coalition government. "A time comes when you just need to put your foot down. Identify a company and award tenders so the work can start," Raila said. He also asked the county boss to get proceedings of the 'Nairobi We Want Conference' from the archives and look into solutions for the city's problems. Related: Raila and Kibaki meet as handshake gains momentum The Jubilee Party county boss is leading the Nairobi Regeneration team alongside Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala. The team has set ambition targets for areas including transport, garbage collection, improve medical care. Read: We'll resign if we don't transform Nairobi, Sonko team tells Uhuru Also read: Uhuru asks team tasked to transform Nairobi to sort out garbage, traffic menace Click here for the latest political news