Deputy President William Ruto’s allies in Jubilee have promised to ensure Opposition chief Raila Odinga does not destabilise the 2022 succession plan. Ruto is lined up to take over after President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking in Eldoret town yesterday, Sirisia MP John Waluke said there are genuine fears about the succession plan after the March 9 handshake. “Those of us who back Ruto to be the next President look at Raila as a political enemy. We will not allow him to blow up Jubilee the way he did other parties in the past,” Waluke said. He said Ruto fought for Raila to be Prime Minister in the coalition government. “The NASA leader should pay back by supporting the DP in 2022,” Waluke said. The lawmaker said the DP has national support and will pick a running mate from Western. Speaking separately, Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said the Uhuru-Raila unity pact is welcome, but nobody should interfere with the succession plans. “Our focus is to have Jubilee implement its manifesto fully then have the DP take over in 2022,” Cherargei said. Waluke said Raila is pushing for Constitution changes to create positions in government for his allies. But ODM officials in Rift Valley have said Ruto should not be intimidated by the handshake or the effect it will have on his presidential ambitions. The 25 officials, led by Micah Kigen, said Uhuru and Raila are only interested in Kenya’s unity, not planning the 2022 succession. Kigen said Ruto’s allies should stop creating enmity with politicians perceived to be the DP’s enemies. “DP Ruto’s advisors should counsel him,” he said. Other officials, including Tom Murgor and Josephine Bett, said they support efforts to unite the country, but electoral reforms must be carried out. Kigen said Kenyans should support the “nation-healing” handshake by Uhuru and Raila. “It injected fresh hope into our battered nation,” he said. The lawmaker said in the run-up to the handshake, the country’s economy, social life and politics were disrupted. “Ruto should spare the country his obsession with succeeding Uhuru,” Kigen said.