Labour Cabinet Secretaty Amb. Ukur Yatani has called on University Academic Staff Union to call off the ongoing lecturers' strike and order its members to resume duties. In a statement to the media yesterday, Yatani welcomed the high court's Friday ruling by Justice Onesmus Makau ordering the lecturers to call off the strike and report back to work saying the industrial action is not protected. He also appealed to Inter Public Universities Councils Consultative Forum to table counter proposals as ordered by the court so as to allow the parties to negotiate the CBA for 2017-2021. "I urge the stakeholder ministries, ministry of Education, Finance, and Salaries and Remuneration Commission to play their role in assisting the university council fulfill its obligation ordered by court," he said. Read: Cops tear-gas striking dons at ministry Yatani said he has already appointed Hellen Apiyo as a conciliator to assist the parties in arriving at a lasting solution. "My office remains open to assist where necessary, should you call upon. I hope the second conciliation meeting slated for April 12 will commence in earnest, and hope the university council will have submitted their counter proposal by then," he said. The CS called on parties to shun away from threats or other acts which are likely to hinder the conciliation process. He urged workers and employers to embrace social dialogue, tripartite relations and rule of law as essential means to achieving mutual goals for social equity, economic progress and national development. The lecturers have however maintained they will continue with their strike having filed an appeal seeking to quash the high court orders. UASU Gecretary general Constantine Wasonga in a statement on Saturday said their appeal will be heard on April 9. Wasonga said the strike will go on as a way to ensure lecturers safeguard their negotiating position. The strike which began on March 1 enters its 40th day today. [VIDEO] Amina in the wrong ministry, strike will be longest ever, lecturers say Yatani told members to come to the negotiating table with an open mind and to negotiate with honest intend to resolve the impasse and conclude the CBA. "I appeal to the parties to move away from the hard stance approach to collective bargaining and adopt a mutual gain bargaining which will result in a win-win position and sustainable outcomes," Yatani said. Yatani noted that his ministry is remains committed to promoting industrial peace and harmony and to play a neutral role to ensure this is achieved. The lecturers have however maintained they will continue with their strike having filed an appeal seeking to quash the high court orders. UASU Gecretary general Constantine Wasonga in a statement on Saturday said their appeal will be heard on April 9. Wasonga said the strike will go on as a way to ensure lecturers safeguard their negotiating position. "The strike, therefore, continues pending the decision of the court. Our fight for the 2017-2021 CBA and dignity of dons continues," he said. The strike which began on March 1 enters its 40th day today. Some lecturers missed last month’s salary following the ongoing strike. Union leaders, however, said this will not deter dons’ resolve to push for the negotiation of the 2017-21 CBA. University Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga said members are not bothered by the withholding of salaries. Wasonga said some vice chancellors were demanding show cause letters from lecturers for participating in what they described as unprotected strike.He however told lecturers that it is their right to strike. The high court will today rule on an appeal filed by UASU on Friday on suspending an order requiring them to go back to work. Read: Amina blames lecturers’ union and strike for delayed CBA talks  Click here for the latest political news