Kenyans may soon get National Hospital Insurance Fund benefits within 30 days after registration, instead of waiting for the current two months. Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has asked the fund to cut the wait period by half because it disadvantages the poor. Currently, people in formal employment can access services 30 days after registration, while those in the informal sector must wait for 60 days. The fund will carry out an assessment, and make a decision on the CS’s proposal by end of April. “The wait period can be reduced to 30 days. I am in discussion with the Fund to relook the policy and make it comfortable going forward,” Kariuki told the parliamentary Health Committee yesterday. The CS said total NHIF coverage was key for Kenya to achieve universal health coverage. Most health insurance policies have long waiting periods after registration. This is meant to prevent people taking covers when they need insurance for medical procedures. “It also helps in the pooling of funds and preventing adverse selection, which poses a risk to sustainability of the Fund,” Kariuki said. The committee had summoned the CS to answer questions asked in Parliament by Tharaka Nithi Woman Representative Beatrice Nkatha, who complained the long activation period discouraged poor people. Kesses MP Swarup Mishra, who owns Mediheal Group of Hospitals, wondered if the sick are discriminated when they seek cover. NHIF chief executive officer Geoffrey Mwangi said people with pre-existing medical conditions could freely join the Fund and enjoy benefits after the activation period. relax penalties “This is a social health insurance so we don’t preclude pre-existing conditions of whichever nature. The member joins and receives services immediately as the scheme is designed,” he said. Members who stop premium payments must also pay penalties and receive services immediately, or they can just pay the principal amount and wait for 60 days to access the services. We are also looking at how we can relax penalties for people in the informal sector, Mwangi said. The penalties are usually designed to keep members on board and discourage them from defaulting to ensure the Fund has an assured stream of income. The Fund routinely announces an “amnesty” period for defaulting members to return without any charges. Chuka Igambang’ombe MP Patrick Munene said the policy of paying for a maximum 10 dialysis sessions in a month was unfair. “Whether or not it’s guided by actuarial studies, if people get less dialysis, they’ll lose their kidneys,” he said. Seme MP Dr James Nyikal said kidney transplant was cheaper compared to lifetime dialysis.