Kenya’s listed Pan-African advertising and public relations firm WPP Scangroup net profit slightly grew to 3.9 per cent in 2017 on effective costs management in line with the reduction in revenues. This was 10 basis points growth compared Sh460.4 million profits recorded in 2016 representing 3.8 per cent profit growth. The slow growth is attributed to low interest income and the closure of its operations in Gabon. Interest income declined due to the low interest rates in Kenya. The firm’s pretax profits for the year that ended December 31, 2017 was Sh696 million, a slight drop compared to Sh725.9 million and Sh875.3 million recorded in 2016 and 2015 respectively Group’s revenues declined by 14.7 per cent with Kenya accounting for 73 per cent of the total revenue. Revenues in other African markets declined due budget cutbacks from key clients because of their lower market performance. However, the group’s operating profits improved by 14.6 per cent from Sh360 million to Sh412 million attributable to costs management in line with the reduction in revenues. “We are confident that the measures taken during the last quarter of the financial year under review will boost our operating profits in the current financial year. Our year to date (YTD) performance is encouraging and the recent acquisition of Kantar TNS has the potential to grow our top and bottom-lines,’’ said WPP Scangroup chief executive Bharat Thakrar The company recently announced that it has reached agreement to acquire a majority stake in Kantar TNS, a leading market research agency, in several African countries. The deal gives WPP Scangroup a 70 per cent stake in Kantar TNS currently held by Russell Square Holdings BV and a further 10 per cent of the 30 per cent stake held by International Research and Marketing Group Holdings. The acquisition, which is subject to approval by the company’s shareholders and Kenya’s capital markets Authority, is expected to increase WPP Scangroup’s presence and capability in the region and enable it to build a leading position in market research business. In addition, the company has embarked on an exercise that will see the integration of its digital media services across all facets of communications services. Furthermore, the group has integrated its various divisions and deployed proprietary tools from its parent company – WPP – to serve its clients. It has recommended dividend payment of Sh 0.75 per share.