Several trunk roads will encounter temporary traffic interruptions during certain times of the day between April 23 to May 23 to allow the fixing of automatic traffic counters. Automatic traffic counters are normally identified as two rubber tubes laid across the road linked to a road side recorder box. These tubes can measure both speed and number of vehicle movements and in some cases the weight of vehicles passing over. Traffic counts can be used by local councils to identify which routes are used most, and to either improve that road or provide an alternative if there is an excessive amount of traffic. The exercise will be conducted by the Kenya National Highways Authority. “Installation works at the various locations will take place between the hours of 8am and 5pm,” KeNHA Director General Peter Mundinia said in a statement on Saturday. Related: KeNHA unveils plan for Sh5.1bn bypass to ease congestion in Eldoret Read also: KeNHA issues warning as heavy rains wreak havoc in Turkana Traffic interruptions on the Nairobi-Nakuru road will be experienced at Ngorika Ndogo on April 23 and 24. The Njoro-Narok road will experience the interruptions between April 24 and 25 around Egerton while interruptions on the Nakuru-Kabarak road will be felt around Miti Moja on the 25th and 26th of April. Between May 2nd and 4th, traffic interruptions will be at Sega on the Kisumu-Busia road while interruptions on the Narok-Bomet road will be experienced at Narok between May 7th and 9th. Motorists using the Thika-Garissa road on May 9 and 11 will experience slow traffic around Kivandeni while those plying the Meru-Embu road between May 14 and 16 while experience a slow down at Kawanjara. Interruptions on the Nairobi-Mombasa highway will be felt at Athi River between May 16 and 18 and again at Ikanga between May 21 and 23. In light of the above, motorists are advised to be cautious and observe all directional signs and barriers. They should also obey instructions from police officers on site to facilitate the safe and orderly flow of traffic. “Please be aware of any equipment when entering and leaving the site. Drive with caution when approaching the works locations,” Mundinia said in a statement on Saturday. “Kenya National Highways Authority regrets any inconveniences caused and thanks the public for its cooperation,” he added. More: KeNHA starts construction of four footbridges along Thika road  Click here for the latest political news