First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has underscored the need to preserve the diversity of the country’s rich cultural heritage, saying it enhances Kenya’s identity at the global arena. She said in promoting culture, focus must be placed on positive values that boost peace and harmony. The First Lady was speaking in Lodwar she braved a heavy downpour to preside over the official opening of the 4th Turkana Cultural and Tourism Festival. “Today also celebrates harmonious living.  Because blending communities together accords us the capacity to co-exist and foster better understanding among people – hopefully, to make us stronger,” the First Lady said. Speaking during the event, host Governor Josphat Nanok said the cultural event has helped restore peace and harmony between the Turkana people and their neighbours both within and beyond the country’s borders. “This event helps us to celebrate peace. It provides us with an opportunity to identify ourselves as one people,” he said. He said the county government in collaboration with the national government and other stakeholders want to use the event to rally the Turkana community around economic and social development. The governor disclosed that he decided to work with the national government immediately after the October fresh presidential election because he knew Kenyans had already made a decision on whom they wanted as their leaders. “We have decided to work with the national government to bring development to our people. We, as the Council of Governors, would want to resolve matters amicably,” he said. The three-day colourful event attracted various cultural dance troupes from Turkana and West Pokot, as well as Burundi refugees who performed the famous talking drums, among others. Also present were Governors Louis Lobong Lojore of Eastern Equatoria State of South Sudan and Minister of Karamojong Affairs in Uganda John Byabagambi. Others were Governors Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) and Alex Tolgos  (Elgeyo Marakwet). Click here for the latest political news