Nairobi county minority chief whip Peter Imwatok has raised concerns over the qualification of Mary Nyambura Maina as the new chief officer for finance. Nyambura was vetted on Wednesday by the County Assembly’s Finance, Budget and Appropriation committee. Imwatok,(Makongeni MCA) said they will protest her nomination as she is not qualified for the job. “We will tell Nairobians that the county is taking them for a ride,” Imwatok said. Read:Sonko sacks Makori, nominates Munene as finance executive He said during vetting, Nyambura admitted to lack the requisite experience in the department she is to head but promised to learn on the job. "If she has two years’ experience in accounting, how do we put her in charge of over 500 qualified economists and accountants?" he asked. Nyambura told the committee that only supervised two clerks at her current employment at Kenya Power. Read:Sonko caves in, accepts State House nominee for County Secretary Nairobi county is on the spot after it failed to reach its internal revenue collection by sh 600million in the first quarter of the FY 2017/18. Despite automation of revenue collection by 98 per cent, city hall raised Sh1.49 billion compared to Sh.2.04 billion generated in a similar period of FY 2016/17. During the vetting, Nyambura said she would increase revenue collection at City Hall by coming up with more modern ways of revenue collections including mobile and internet banking. She was taken to task to explain how she will preside over City Hall’s budget that recently passed a supplementary budget of Sh40 billion for this financial year. Imwatok said that it was clear that she had no idea of the basic financial and accounting terms such as trial balance, was not aware the debt the county has and even the financial statement of her employer. “How can we trust billions of shillings to someone who does not understand basic financial and accounting terms such as trial balance,” Imwatok said.  Click here for the latest political news