MPs yesterday called for electronic transfer of CDF bursaries to students accounts instead of cheques, citing unnecessary delays. Chairman of the National Assembly’s Special Funds Accounts Committee Kathuri Murungi said it was time the bursary award scheme was streamlined to allow electronic transfer of cash. “The current practice of issuing cheques causes a lot of delays that affect students,” Murungi said. He spoke in Kisumu as the team began auditing the use of special national government funds, including the Constituency Development Fund, in Kisumu. Murungi said they will ensure public funds are prudently spent on projects that benefit Kenyans. Members of the committee are in Kisumu for a two-day audit of CDF funds in Kisumu West, Kisumu East, Seme and Kisumu Central constituencies. Muhoroni, Nyakach and Nyando constituencies will be audited later. Speaking when the team paid a courtesy call on Governor Anyang Nyong’o, Murungi said they will ensure special funds are used for the benefit of the people. “We are here to make sure Kenyans get better services out of the money the national government gives to constituencies. Taxpayers must get value for their money,” Murungi said. He was accompanied by Justus Kizito (Shinyalu), Jared Okello (Nyando), Shakeel Shabbir (Kisumu East) among other lawmakers. The MPs asked constituencies fund managers to prepare accounts books in time to ease their work. Murungi said the audit will help constituencies establish projects to implement jointly to avoid double budgeting. He asked the public to attend the audit sessions. The team has the power to audit the Youth Enterprise Fund, Women Enterprise Fund, Uwezo Fund, Political Parties Fund, among other special funds under the national government. The committee has already audited CDF accounts in six constituencies in Nairobi. “We are happy that the fund is impacting positively on the lives of Kenyans in many ways,” Murungi said. The team assured governors of their support in the implementation of county developments projects. “The national and county governments must work jointly for the sake of development,” Murungi said.