Six people have died and hundreds displaced in Baringo county flashfloods. Samson Lekichek, 80, died at Eldume IDP camp in Baringo South subcounty on Wednesday. “We woke up to find his body in his tattered tent,” Mukutani assistant chief Wilson Oletapi said. The weatherman has predicted steady heavy rains to the end of June. The National Disaster Management department reports 300,000 people have been displaced by floods in the past three weeks. Lekichek was among the more than 800 people who fled Mukutani to find help in IDP camps after suspected armed Pokot bandits raided  their homes in March last year. “Although he was sick, we suspect he must have succumbed to pneumonia,” Oletapi said. Three days ago, the body of 50-year-old Charles Murgor was collected at Salabani village in Baringo South after River Perkerra burst its banks. He tried to cross the swollen river,  slipped, fell and drowned. Salabani chief Francis Kipirich said the floods were caused by rains that have battered the area since Sunday. In Baringo North, a 70-year-old man, Chelalwa Tojela, was swept away while trying to cross the treacherous River Baraa on Sunday. “His body was collected at Sibilo, about 8km away,” said resident Solomon Cherutoi. At the same time, a 27-year-old man drowned after strong currents of  River Saos in Salawa, Baringo Central, knocked him off his feet. Salawa chief Christopher Chemjor said the man was drunk. Elsewhere in Tiaty subcounty, the body of an unidentified man was found on the banks of River Nginyang’ on Thursday last week. In the same area, the body of a three-year-old boy was retrieved from a water pan. “Villagers washing clothes by the pan saw his body floating” Yuda Lositan,  a local woman said. The raging floods have displaced about 1,000 families, killed 130 goats and sheep and an unknown number of chickens. Among the villages affected by floods in Baringo South are Eldume, Salani, Ng’ambo and Sokotei. The torrents destroyed the Eldume footbridge, connecting El Ng’arua and Eldume villages. It destroyed more than 1,482 acres of crops in Murda and Perkerra irrigation schemes. “It has caused panic. The destruction may lead to poor yield,” says scheme chairman Dickson Lekeshio. The Baringo county government has said their disaster mitigation budget is too meagre to support the thousands of people affected. “The budget is too small to help the displaced people, not even buying them tents,” Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony said. The county cannot help because the Sh25 million set aside should cater for drought, floods and water scarcity. He appealed to the National Drought Management Authority and Kenya Red Cross to intervene and donate tents to the IDPs. Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula urged the county government to spend the disaster funds on the IDPs’ food needs and shelter. The national government relief food will soon be delivered. “I have written to the department of special programmes regarding the dire situation,” Wafula said.