The unity
pact between Opposition Chief Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta is not
aimed at creating the position of Prime Minister, William Ruto
has said. The Deputy President told
off politicians on Sunday, saying they were misinforming Kenyans about the deal and trying to mock voters. "Some leaders
have no understanding of our meeting with the Opposition. They think we are
meeting to secure jobs for individuals," he said, adding the goal is development. Ruto, in a
veiled reference to Raila, said making changes to create the
position of a powerful PM was unacceptable. He said some
politicians are planning to have the county run by an ex-executive PM elected by
MPs in a parliamentary sitting. The DP noted that parliamentarians can be compromised to elect leaders against the wishes of a majority of Kenyans. "Kenyans
have the capacity to elect their leaders so some people should not introduce plans
that will see a few individuals sit in a corner and decide leaders for
them," he said. He spoke during the homecoming ceremony for Trade Principal Secretary Chris
Kiptoo at Chepkosom Primary School in Uasin Gishu. Elgeyo
Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the handshake should not be used to
create unnecessary political offices. Murkomen
criticised the meeting between Raila and former President Daniel arap Moi in
Kabarak last week, saying it may have been "a 2022 presidential contest
disguised as a handshake". The Senate Majority leader, however, accused Baringo Senator Gideon Moi of stopping certain
political leaders from visiting his father. "Some of us want to go and greet our retired President but Gideon is
becoming a stumbling block. He decides who should visit Mzee
Moi." National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said politicians should not expect to use visits to Moi's home as a campaign tool for the 2022 election. He added that the unity deal will have little impact on the next presidential poll. Details: Visiting Moi won't help you in 2022, Duale tells 'excited' politicians Related: Uhuru, Raila, Moi talks fuel 2022 succession debate Click here for the latest political news