Two former Nyanza MPs, who lost their seats in August 2017, have asked voters in the region to back William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. The conversation was mooted by former MPs Netto Oyugi (Ndhiwa) and Sylvance Osele (Kabondo Kasipul) at a funeral in Kasipul on Saturday. They openly told mourners at the gathering that it was time "Nyanza returned the favour" by supporting Ruto the way he backed Raila Odinga in 2007. Netto said ODM should be strategic enough in its scheme for the 2022 vote and must not appear to be fighting everyone each and every time. "Ruto stood with Raila during the 2007 elections and afterward. That is the reason he was even taken to the International Criminal Court at the Hague." "In 2022, Raila should support Ruto's bid for the presidency. That is the best thing he can do after the handshake to ensure the county moves forward peacefully," he added. Netto said Nyanza leaders must rise and work with the Rift Valley if they have to prove that ODM is not 'a use and dump' party. "If we must criticise the DP, let us do it objectively on the basis of his development record but not on where he comes from or his background," he said. He hit out at ODM leaders who are criticising Ruto yet heaping praise on President Uhuru Kenyatta saying it negates the country's reconciliation process. Oslele said Luos must learn to make friends with everyone including their Kisii, Kalenjin, Masaais and even Kikuyu brothers. "The moment our leaders will open up the democratic space, Luos will begin to prosper. This should happen in each and every political outfit in the country," Osele said. He told off leaders from the region who are still "fighting" the government saying they should go back to their constituencies and initiate development projects. Those who still claim they are "fighting for Raila in Nairobi" should know that the fight ended with the handshake, the former legislator said. The remarks came in the wake of a feeling that the leaders who lost their seats owing to the sham ODM nominations may be planning to form a party. The details of the plan still remain scanty but a source privy to the plan said the lot wants to use the outfit as a bargaining chip when they reach out to the DP. Also read: All is well, Ruto says amid jitters over Raila Click here for the latest political news   