After mixed fortunes in the opening matches, more boxers take to the ring this morning amid hope of increasing Kenya’s medal chances.
Nick Abaka and Brian Agina will be on the stage today and have promised to keep the country’s hopes alive. Abaka takes on Zambia’s Kaonga Mbachi in the 81kg round of 16 while young Agina faces off with Pakistan’s Syed Muhammad Asif in another tricky pre-quarters affair.
Abaka, a light-heavy pugilist, is one of the four experienced boxers in the team even though all the other three — Elly Ajowi (heavy), Benson Gicharu (middle) and Nick Okoth (lightweight) — have already been show the door.
This means Abaka will have to work hard to save the older generation’s face.
Coach Patrick Maina believes Abaka has what it takes and will no doubt put Kenya’s medal chances back on track. However, he said they have tried looking for the records of his Zambian opponent to no avail.
“We really don’t know his opponent. We have tried looking for his videos but to no avail. We will use the first round to study him and if need be see if there will be need to change or maintain our tactics,” he said.
The tactician said they are in the same situation in as far as Agina’s fight is concerned. “We also don’t know Agina’s opponent and again, we will use the first round to tidy up things. However, I know Agina is focused and all will just depend on his tactics.”
Meanwhile, Elizabeth Andiege kicks off her medal campaign this morning in the women’s 75kg quarter finals against Nigeria’s Millicent Agboegbulem.
Like her male counterparts, Andiege will be seeking to leave a mark in the women’s category. Coach Maina said they have watched the Nigerian in her opening round and they know what she can do.
“The Nigerian uses straight punches and because of her height, she likes long-range jabs. We will try to counter that with short jabs because Andiege is very good in that.”
Maina said the Nigerian is very predictable and with proper psyche, she can be defeated. “Her style is jab, jab, right and that can be countered,” he added.