Low awareness and unfounded regulatory policies are hindering the growth of digital currencies in Kenya, Investment experts have said. The experts, led by Chartered Financial Analysts Society of East Africa President Patricia Kiwanuka were addressing journalist on Thursday during a stakeholders forum for the CFA society. “Take the time to understand, and research. Equities and bonds are not enough, the market will evolve and people will make money... cryptocurrencies are built on trust,” she said. She also said regulations were not a problem in East Africa  the issue is lack of knowledge of what is being regulated. Capital Markets Authority chief executive Paul Muthaura said they are working to leverage evolving technology to boost trade, build efficient registries and payment systems. “We will be starting a new strategic plan in July this year that will look fundamentally on how we can leverage on evolving technology enhance efficiency in the Capital Markets value chain,” he said. In January, Citibank estimated accumulated holdings of Bitcoin in the country at Sh163 billion. Bitcoin is the leading digital currency in the world. The lender warned that the economy would be greatly disrupted if the cryptocurrency would collapse today. The estimation placed Kenya fifth in the world among countries with the highest Bitcoin holder per capita, below Nigeria which ranked third and above South Africa which came sixth. The growth of investments in the digital currency comes despite multiple warnings from financial regulator Central Bank and the Capital Markets Authority. “We don’t really get bothered about what the regulators say, they also need knowledge to understand how the sector works in order to make informed decisions,” Nurucoin Kenya director of strategy John Kamara said. In his remarks on the future of Blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies Kamara said the regulators should stop worrying that digital currencies will overtake the Shilling. “Cryptocurrencies allows people to create more value within specific ecosystems, its main aim is not to replace currently leading currencies in the world but to create virtual currencies to be used in the virtual world,” he said. The experts praised CBK for championing implementation of Blockchain technology. In February, the government appointed an 11-member team to investigate Blockchain technology and its benefits. The technology, is a ledger database that makes it nearly impossible to erase stored records and is praised for its transparency.