IEBC chairman failed to appear before the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee on Wednesday, saying the commission has two by-elections to conduct. In a letter to the National Assembly, Wafula Chebukati sought a new date to face MPs over chaos at the troubled electoral agency. Addressing the media after reading the letter, committee boss William Cheptumo (Baringo North) said Chebukati was carrying out by-elections in Kwale and Nyeri counties. "We have received a letter communicating why he is unable to appear ... we are satisfied with it," he said. "[The letter states] why the three remaining commissioners are unable to appear before this committee. I agree that they should have communicated much earlier." Cheptumo said the National Assembly was in the process of changing the law to allow the appointment of new commissioners. "Those who resigned, I believe, did so on their own motion. The remaining commissioners are duly appointed in the framework of the law. Our concern is not on the resignation of the remaining," he said. On Monday, vice-chair Consolata Maina led fellow commissioners Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat in quitting as divisions at the IEBC boiled over. The other half - Chebukati and commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu - were left holding on. The commissioners have served for 14 months since their appointment in January 2017, eight months to the last elections. They have 58 months — four years and eight months of their fixed six-year term—  to go. Chebukati, Guliye and Molu want to be paid to leave office. One of the commissioners told the Star in confidence that although four of their colleagues resigned, they will only leave office after a negotiated package. If the government bows to their demands, it  will cost the taxpayer over Sh220 million to send them home. The chairman earns Sh1.4 million per month in salary and other allowances.  He will take home Sh81.2 million, exclusive of gratuity and other benefits. With a monthly salary of Sh1.2 million, Guliye and Molu will each pocket Sh69.6 million besides terminal emoluments. More on this: Chebukati Three want to be paid Sh220 million to resign Click here for the altest political news