Political tectonic plates in Kenya literally paused, and fundamentally shifted early last month after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga shook hands and committed to work together for the greater good. They opened up debate about what exactly was discussed and the implications on Kenya’s political formation and succession politics as we march towards 2022. The two released a well-authored document launching an initiative aimed at establishing a ‘united nation’ for all Kenyans; outlined the historical context of the situation in Kenya, including the ethnic antagonism and divisive political competition and the lack of a national ethos; committed to reject violence as a means of settling inter-communal scores. They identified corruption as an existential threat to Kenya that has been passed to the younger generation, and committed not to allow political affiliation to be used as a shield by those who practice it; committed to ensure a shared prosperity for all, including creating a conducive environment for innovation and investment; and, emphasised the importance of civil rights and the responsibilities that every leader and Kenyan bears. Their joint agreement coincided with discussions about Kenya’s debt levels and Eurobond Two; an admission by Treasury CS Henry Rotich that Kenya is in fact broke; a deal with the IMF that would see fuel prices rise; a damning Auditor General’s report indicating massive audit queries; and, the burial of Meru University student leader Evans ‘Kidero’ Njoroge, who died at th hands of the police. In their statement, they acknowledged ethnicity had reached unprecedented levels. However, I did not hear them own up that some of their closest political lieutenants and confidants were infamous for stoking ethnic hate and chauvinism that has perpetuated division in Kenya. It will be interesting to see how these individuals reinvent themselves as crusaders of peace and reconciliation.  SIMILAR AGREEMENTS Over Kenya’s history, similar agreements have been struck in the face of hotly contested elections, violent repression of dissent by state machinery and ethnic and political polarisation. In 1997, the Inter-Parties Parliamentary Group Forum between Kanu, DP, Ford Kenya, Ford Asili and Safina made political concessions on selection of the Electoral Commission of Kenya Commissioners; and some amendments touching on civil rights, such as the removing the provision that required planners to obtain a permit from the police before holding political meetings or rallies. The IPPG paved the way for the smooth running of the 2002 polls because all parties felt represented within the ECK. Ten years later in 2008, another crisis led to the National Accord, an agreement between PNU, the government side, and opposition ODM after the hotly contested 2007 election, which was marred by allegations of rigging. It opened old wounds and led to unprecedented ethnic clashes that caused over 1,000 deaths, thousands more injured and over a half a million internally displaced. Unlike the IPPG framework, ECK officials had been handpicked by President Mwai Kibaki, thus causing anxiety about their impartiality among other actors. Moreover, the promise of a new Constitution had been thwarted mainly because of tribal interests. Kibaki and Raila committed to stop the violence and restore fundamental rights, address the IDP crisis, promote reconciliation and find long-term measures and solutions in terms of constitutional, institutional and legal reforms, land reforms, electoral reforms, poverty, inequality, unemployment, transparency, accountability and impunity. Does this sound familiar? It should because Uhuru and Raila have committed to deal with the same issues after their handshake. Which begs the questions: Could it be that, since Independence, intra-elite struggles, interests and conflicts have controlled the national agenda with regard to fundamental issues such as civil rights, the exercise of state power and the distribution of the national cake? How do we ensure the truce between Uhuru and Raila is pro-Kenya and pro-people, as opposed to a power sharing time-out between long-time rivals with deep historical ties? It is noteworthy that Uhuru and Raila are the children of Kenya’s First President and Vice President, respectively. It is noteworthy that the 2010 Constitution sought to address these very issues, especially with regard to nationhood, inclusivity, judicial independence, elections, the rule of law, historical injustices, human rights, non-discrimination, leadership and integrity, accountability and transparency. The fresh push for dialogue between Uhuru and Raila is laudable. There has been a palpable sigh of relief all-over Kenya and in all sectors. Going forward, all Kenyans must hold Uhuru and Raila’s feet to the fire with regard to what they have set out to do. You fool me once, shame on you — you fool me twice, shame on me. The future and prosperity of Kenya depends on the genuineness of the parties, the scope, mandate, TORs, constitution and transparency of the coming discussions and; most importantly, Uhuru and Raila’s willingness to disappoint or ignore the partisan demands of their core constituencies, which include tribal hardliners.  Kiprono is a senior legal officer - ARTICLE 19 Eastern Africa