More than 15 Kisumu MCAs on Tuesday raised concerns over a con woman, disguising herself as the county director of education who was soliciting funds from them. Deputy speaker Erick Agola. Agola said he had received a text from a woman who identified herself as the County Director of Education requesting that he sends her lunch money. Following this revelation, several MCAs including the majority leader Kenneth and Ahero ward representative Ken Ooko told the Star that they had also received similar messages. The county education director Sabina Aroni however said that she had received complains from MCAs adding that this was not the first time that the person has used her name to solicit money from politicians. The MCAs want the Kisumu Criminal Investigative Officer boss Geoffrey Kathurima to investigate the matter and apprehend the culprit. This comes barely three weeks after an impersonation case rocked the national assembly. The alarm was raised in the assembly on Tuesday during a personal statement by lunch. Following this revelation, several MCAs including the majority leader Kenneth and Ahero ward representative Ken Ooko told the Star that they had also received similar messages. The county education director Sabina Aroni however said that she had received complains from Mcas that someone purporting to be her was soliciting funds from them. Aroni said this was not the first time that the person has used her name to solicit money from politicians. He said he ignored the message because it was from a strange number but the women continuouned to send the message and even called him to follow up on the same. Agola said Later he got a call from the same number saying 'Mheshimiwa I sent you a text requesting for lunch, can you honour it today," he said warning members that their was a con women out there trying to extort money from them. Agola added that since he was taking some letters from his ward to the county director office, he confirmed the same and was told their was no one working there with that name and number. Following this revelation, several MCAs including the majority leader Kenneth and Ahero ward representative Ken Ooko told the Star that they had also received similar messages. The message seen by journalist read "Good afternoon Mheshimiwa, I am Gladys, the county director of education, send me lunch ". The majority leader also told the Star that he received a similar text message from the same number on Tuesday with a similar request. He said the woman later called him and he refused to send her the number saying he dint know the number. "This impesonator is taking advantage of the male Mcas trying to fleece funds from them. The county education director Sabina Aroni however said that she had received complains from Mcas that someone purporting to be her was soliciting funds from them. Aroni said this was not the first time that the person has used her name to solicit money from politicians. She said earlier this year some Mps from the region also complained of receiving similar texts. 