The government has projected that close to 100,000 jobs will be created after the Sh1.5 billion East Africa Breweries Limited plant in Kisumu is complete. Industrialisation CS Adan Mohamed on Monday said he is pleased with the progress of the plant's construction since it's commissioning in June last year. "This an example of what Big Four can do in the manufacturing sector. I am aware that approximately 85 per cent of the people working here today are locals from this area." The Cabinet Secretary said the plant will take up raw materials from over 15,000 small scale farmers. "We will also have a significant number of distribution points to sell this product across the country. More than 5,000 people are expected to benefit from this investment." The plant, scheduled to be launched this year, will first produce Senator Keg - which is brewed using locally sourced sorghum, for the next few years. Later on, it will start producing other EABL brands such as Tusker. Also read: UK lauds EABL for 'fantastic' prospects of Sh15 billion Kisumu plant It is envisioned that once complete, the plant will have the capacity to produce one million hectolitres of Senator Keg. Jean Kiarie, EABL head of sustainability, reiterated the company’s commitment to boost economic development and growth of the Western region. "We are pleased with the progress made so far and we are confident that we will launch the brewery on schedule," she said. "It is a fitting showcase of how governments and businesses can work together successfully." Through the implementation of a ‘West for West’ strategy in the local sourcing of sorghum, majority of raw materials will be sourced from the region. Currently, East Africa Breweries Ltd is working with sorghum farmers from Migori, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya, and Busia. Adan also thanked Kisumu governor Anyang' Nyong'o for the support his county has given since the beginning of the construction. "The support from the community and the leadership in this county has been remarkable." "We look forward to the launch so that we can witness this transformational project take shape," Adan Mohamed said. Read: Nyong'o, EABL set up committee for Sh15bn Kisumu plant jobs Click here for the latest political news  