Three people died and more than 20 others were admitted to hospitals after taking illicit brews in Kabartonjo, Baringo county on Monday. Bartolimo assistant chief Nicolas Bowen yesterday confirmed the deaths of Isaiah Kemboi, Kandie Kiptui and Gideon Chemjor. The three lived in Kasiber, Kaptere and Kipsaraman villages respectively. Bowen said the trio succumbed to stomach pains and diarrhoea after consuming the alcohol believed to have been bought from a depot in Kabartonjo town. “We are not yet sure which poisonous brand they took. One died at home while the other two passed away in hospital," Bowen said. The bodies were taken to Kabarnet Hospital mortuary. The casualties were admitted at the same facility while others were taken to Kabartonjo Subcounty Hospital. County director of health Karishom Abakalwa some patients had been treated and discharged. Most complained of stomach pains, diarrhoea and headache. One victim temporarily lost eyesight. "His condition is getting better," Abakalwa said. Kaptere resident Eric Ng’etuny said the victims consumed bottles of "flying horse". The liquor is common in the area. “We're organising a major demonstration in Kabartonjo town to protest government's failure to eradicate illicit brews,” Ng'etuny said. He demanded an urgent crackdown on illicit brews, saying lives will still be lost if the situation was not contained. Saimo Kipsaram MCA John Aengwo condemned the tragedy, saying illicit brew had become a menace in the county. He asked police to launch a crackdown on illicit liquor, including busaa and chang'aa. “We cannot sit back and watch as our people die prematurely because of alcoholism,” Aengwo said. The tragedy happend barely a month after police in Baringo Central intercepted and destroyed 2,500 litres of illicit brews in a crackdown. Kabarnet OCS Gabriel Mulei said they will arrest busaa and chang'aa brewers. Last year, the former county commissioner Peter Okwanyo sacked five chiefs for failing to curb illicit brew menace in their locations in Marigat, Mogotio, Eldama-Ravine and Tiaty subcounties. Okwanyo put 11 others on notice, saying they were protecting brewers. County commissioner Henry Wafula has promised to continue with the war against illicit brews. “If Okwanyo sacked the chiefs for condoning alcoholism, then I am not any better,” Wafula said. adding that he will sack all the chiefs found drunk and aiding alcoholism to allow opportunity to hire the jobless youth.