The Kakamega government is ready to help revive ailing Mumias Sugar Company if the management and the national government allow, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said The county chief said the miller’s management has overlooked the county government’s help and only relies on the national government. In 2014, the county government disbursed Sh200 million to Mumias to assist pay cane farmers for their deliveries on time. The disbursement, however, turned controversial after it emerged the cash was transferred to a private company accounts, not the firm’s accounts. The national government, through the Treasury, has so far pumped in Sh3.7 billion in bailout cash. “We’re all aware that the factory is still in the woods even after the Jubilee government made some disbursements. They sidestepped stakeholders in deciding their priorities,” Oparanya said in Mumias on Friday. He said his government is committed to help the miller if invited. The county government will not force itself in the matter, Oparanya said. plan The county boss has been pushing for the national government to surrender to the county government the 20 per cent stake it has at the miller. “We will sit with the national government and the company management and make a clear plan on  how to help Mumias Sugar Company,” Oparanya said. The sugar company started re-milling in October last year after it had closed for more than six months due to financial difficulties. The miller, however, has not been able to sustain continuous milling due to lack of cane. Most farmers have abandoned sugarcane farming and ventured into alternative crops because of the miller’s incapability to pay promptly. Currently, the company management acknowledges it owes farmers Sh600 million, some dating back to 2016. During Sports CS Rashid Echesa’s homecoming on March 3, Deputy President William Ruto said the government has done a lot to help the miller, but the revival progress was not impressive. Ruto directed the company’s management to sit down with the county government and come up with a detailed framework on how the company will be revived, an idea Oparanya says is encouraging.