Tourism CS Najib Balala on Thursday denied claims that the introduction of consumptive utilization of wildlife will open up hunting in the country. Balala said Kenya is known globally as the champion of conservation, a trend that will be maintained at all cost. "All wildlife belongs to the government and the government is determined to keep the recognition of the industry world wide in the wildlife sector,"he said. Balala made the remarks at his NSSF office when he unveiled a ten member team to look into consumptive wildlife utilization in the country. His remarks come against concerns from conservationists who claim the move might open the window to spot hunting and poaching of endangered species. Read: Law on conservation of wildlife needs to be amended - Balala Balala who was accompanied by Tourism PS Margaret Mwakima gave the team the first 30 working days to do an interim report and final report after 60 working days. The task force will review policy and legislative framework relating to consumptive wildlife utilization including the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013. It will also look at the implications and impact of allowing consumptive utilization of wildlife. Other work include the review of the impact of relevant international conventions,treaties and on the implementation of consumptive wildlife utilization in Kenya. It will also identify international restriction (if any) that may impact on sustainable consumption wildlife utilization in Kenya among other work. Balala said Article 69(2) of the constitution 2010 mandates everyone to cooperate with state organs and other persons to protect, conserve the environment and ensure ecologically sustainable development and use of natural resources. Section 59(1) of Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013 says that utilisation and exploitation of wildlife resources by any party whether individual land owner or in a conservation area, and wherever else shall be practised in a manner that is sustainable. However, the manner, form, nature and style of the practice must be in conformity with the provisions of the relevant laws, including land use management and planning. Balala said the government expect nothing short of technical and professional advise from them. "Be independent, objective, give us the pros and cons not one side as we want technical and professional advice,"he said. The CS said they are cognizant that communities must be part and parcel of the protection of wildlife. Balala said the initiative will also look into ways of enhancing human-wildlife relations, livelihood support, job creation and food security. He said the government is evaluating what needs to be done in order to increase the number of tourist into the country. Balala said South Africa receives 10 million tourist per year, Tanzania 2.2 million, while Kenya was trailing at 1.4 million. "We need at least 5 million in 10 years. If we do not have numbers, it will not sustain the economy,"he warned. Balala has at the same time warned Murang'a residents against eating Monkey meat saying it risk spreading deadly diseases such HIV and Aids. The task force will bench mark from Tanzania, South Africa, Namibia and Botswana. Dr John Waithaka is the Chairperson of the task force. On his part, Waithaka said Kenya has lost a large number of wildlife hence the need to utilize available resources to conserve them. Waithaka promised that his team will provide an efficient, effective and credible report. Members of the task force are Laikipia Wildlife Forum Executive Director Dr Peter Hetz , Also read; Tourism festival launched African Rhino Specialist Group Deputy Chair,Dr Ben Okita, Africa Conservation Centre Patron, Dr. David Western and the Kenya Wildlife Service species expert Dr. Shadrack Ngene. Other Members are The Nature Conservancy Country Director Munira Bashir, Wildlife Conservation Director of Stephen Manegene,Kenya Private Sector Alliance CEO Caroline Kariuki and the International Union for Conservation of Nature Eastern and Southern Regional office Senior Adviser Dr. Holly Dublin. Joint Secretaries will be Lawyer Gladys Warigia and Solomon Kyalo from KWS. KWS in 1990 initiated a pilot wildlife-cropping programme to reduce wildlife-related costs and develop markets that would allow consumptive uses of wildlife to be economically viable. Previously, consumptive exploitation of Wildlife had led to severe declines forcing the government to place a ban on hunting/dealing in wildlife in 1977. The ban was (under Legal Notice No. 120 issued by Late President Jomo Kenyatta). However, landowners continued to pressurize KWS in the subsequent years, lobbying for consumptive use of wildlife and claiming that several species had increased beyond the carrying capacity of the lands.  Click here for the latest political news 