A cop attached to Ruaraka police station was shot dead in a robbery incident along Thika Road, Nairobi Police said Martin Korir of Ruaraka SPIV was on a matatu on his way home when the vehicle was carjacked by thugs on Friday night. Witnesses said the thugs took away the officer's gun after searching him and other passengers who had boarded the Thika-bound Neo Kenya bus. "It was then that one of the thugs stabbed the officer severally before shooting him in the neck using his own gun," a witness said. The officer was robbed of a Jericho pistol Serial No. 44338518 loaded with ten rounds of 9mm ammunition. The police, in a report, on Saturday said the incident occurred near Garden City mall. "On reaching the bumps at Garden City, two other passengers turned out to be robbers and ordered every one to lie down and surrender all their valuables." "They then started ransacking and robbing the passengers as the bus continued being driven along Thika Road," the report reads in part. "In the process two gunshots were heard in the middle of the bus and the thugs converged at that point asking if there was a police officer on board. "Then two more gunshots were heard and the thugs went on robbing passengers all the way to Ruiru Kimbo where the bus turned back towards Nairobi. The police report adds that one thug ordered that the bus be driven to Baba Dogo area. "It turned along Outering Road and slowed down at the National Concrete bridge underpass where the thugs alighted," the report states. As the bus approached Naivas supermarket, the person who was driving also alighted after passengers demanded that the bus be driven to a police station. The bus was then taken by another person, who then identified himself as the official driver, to GSU roundabout where it was established that Korir had been stabbed. Two other passengers were also injured and rushed to MSF clinic along Juja road in stable condition. The driver and conductor of the said bus were arrested for further investigations. The officers on board claim they did not see the official driver being removed from his seat. The deceased officer's body is at the Kenyatta University mortuary. More on this: Cop killed in Mt Elgon after sons attack father over plan to marry second wife Click here for the latest political news