The Presbyterian Church of East Africa plans to appeal a court order for it to demolish a church on land it has illegally occupied in Uthiru, Kiambu county.
It also wants to appeal the High Court order requiring it to pay former Nyeri Town MP Wanyiri Kihoro Sh4.5 million for illegally occupying the land for more than 30 years. The PCEA Uthiru church is built on the land.
The court on Monday gave the church 90 days to pull down structures on the half acre.
The court ruled on Tuesday in Kihoro’s lawsuit against PCEA for building a church on his land.
High Court judge Elijah Obaga also ordered the former Town Council of Kikuyu to pay Kihoro Sh2.5 million for court costs.
The court gave the church three months to remove all structures in the compound, including the church.
Kihoro sued the church for acquiring the land, which he said was bought by his late wife Wanjiru Kihoro.
Wanjiru was hurt in a plane crash in Busia on January 24, 2003. She died in October 2006 after being in coma for almost four years.
 The church had argued the land belonged to them long before Kihoro bought it. But the court said the church and the Town Council of Kikuyu were aware of the condition of Wanjiru as the registered owner of the property.
PCEA Uthiru Parish minister Rev Faith Rukwaro said the head office is planning to appeal the judgment.
“We will not sit back and watch as the church is demolished. Our headquarters is planning to do something and we urge our worshipers to remain calm but pray for the whole issue,” she said on Wednesday.
Worshiper Silvester Kariuki said through former councillor Kenneth Njoroge the Town Council of Kikuyu allocated lands to PCEA, the Orthodox and Catholic churches in 1978.
“Residents appealed to the council and asked to be allocated idle lands to build churches so people would not travel long distances to places of worship,” he said.
 Kariuki, like other residents, asked how Kihoro acquired the land and  urged the church to appeal the ruling.
Kabete MP James Githua has asked the Parliamentary Committee on Land to ensure all public lands have title deeds to avoid double allocations.
“Such cases are witnessed because of double land allocations. I will push the Parliamentary Committee on Land to ensure public institutions, churches and others have title deeds. They serve society,” the MP said yesterday.