The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Union has threatened a mass withdrawal of doctors and dentists over the government's move to import 100 Cuban doctors. Secretary general Ouma Oluga on Monday said the move is an unnecessary expenditure of taxpayers money. He said Kenyans cannot be assured of the quality and calibre of Cuban doctors being brought in to treat them. Oluga said its unfortunate the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board has relaxed in their mandate of advising the Ministry of Health on the required quality and standards of health services. "KMPDU is considering a mass withdrawal of doctors and dentists if the board continues to do little to protect the lives of millions of Kenyans who suffer irreparable damage in the hands of medical quacks," Oluga said. In a statement, Oluga said county governments and the Health ministry must stop victimising local specialists, "who even after the CBA was registered, have not been promoted to their correct job groups, have no housing, security and transport." He said this is a privilege that will be extended to the imported medics from Cuba yet denied to Kenyan doctors. Oluga said the move is potentially harmful to unsuspecting Kenyan public while weakening the Kenyan health system and demoralising Kenyan doctors. "The 100 doctors will cost the taxpayer Sh2 billion without additional expenses of security, transport, housing and food by the county government," he said. The SG claimed the Sh500 million set aside by the Malaria Control Program to clear bushes for 10 of the doctors can employ one million Kenyan youth. Oluga said the decision to import the doctors was done in haste and no regard to over 2,000 doctors, including 171 specialists available for employment and deployment in all the 47 counties. He said the country has done little to promote specialisation among doctors thus subjecting Kenyans to unwarranted travel to seek specialised health services at Kenyatta National Hospital and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. "The county governments continue to deny thousands of Kenyan doctors release letters and opportunity to further their studies in order to be specialists." "The decision to train 50 doctors in Cuba is insignificant when thousands are denied the chance to train locally and plug into the much-needed workforce shortage," Oluga said. The government through a bilateral arrangement with Cuban authorities is importing 100 doctors. In exchange, Kenya has announced that 50 Kenyan doctors will be heading to Cuba for specialisation training. Read: Kenya to import 100 doctors from Cuba, each county gets two Also read: 'Kenya doing badly': Government defends importation of Cuban doctors But Oluga said training and practice of medicine by doctors all over the world is standard, evidence-based, and professional. He said variations from country to country is determined by functionality and strength of healthcare system or health system challenges and socio-economic realities within a specific society. He said Kenyan doctors working in other developed countries have been hailed as the best trained, professional, and competent. "The process of movement of doctors from country to country must be done transparently, ethically and voluntarily adhering to the World Medical Association and the WHO's global code of practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel," Oluga said. Click here for the latest political news   