Three hundred families from Mkomani village in Kilifi are leaving in fear of eviction after their 'ancestral land' was put up for sale. The 198.5 acres have changed hands at least twice – notable dates being 1923 and 1995. On Saturday, the National Assembly lands committee visited the village and received memorandum from the locals. Chair of the committee Rachael Nyamai and her deputy Khatib Mwashetani promised justice will be delivered as per evidence adduced by antagonists. Locals want the title deed given to the current owner revoked and the land reverted to them. The committee was told that in 1923, Mwinyi Shimba registered the land as his, instead of the community after being entrusted by the latter. He died in 1930 and his son, Hassan Ali, took possession of the parcel which locals said was a freehold. “It was in 1995 that we learnt the land was not registered under the community’s name after an advert was published,” Daniel Marome, the secretary of Mnarani CBO told the committee. The community wanted to purchase the land, priced at Sh1 million however, District Commissioner Kosol Bett preferred the second buyer, Ali Abdulkadir. “Abdulkadir opted to sell the land to us at Sh350,000 per acre but we refused. How can he sell to us what it ours?”Banard Mwasaha, a member of the CBO asked. Nyamai said the purported owner has written to the Lands ministry to buy an acre at Sh500,000 and resettle locals. “If the villagers were ready to buy the land, I’m sure we will have an alternative plan to settle them. There will be another option for the investor, too,” the Lunga Lunga MP said. At the time, the sale price was Sh1 million. A buyer, Ali Abdulkadir as well as the community had the money at hand; posing a dilemma on where the ownership should go. Then deputy Provincial Commissioner Aggrey Mudinyo wrote to District Commissioner Kosol Bett advising that priority be given to the community who were over 800 members. The transaction would have been void if the DC and the Lands Control Board did not approve it. But the committee was told Bett preferred Abdulkadir and the deal was sealed. “Abdulkadir opted to sell the land to us at Sh350,000 per acre but we refused. How can he sell to us what it ours?”Banard Mwasaha, a member of the CBO asked. Nyamai said the purported owner has written to the Ministry of Lands to buy an acre at Sh500,000 and resettle locals. Mwashetani said Abdulkadir will be summoned to explain the case. “If the villagers were ready to buy the land, I’m sure we will have an alternative plan to settle them. There will be another option for the investor, too,” the Lunga Lunga MP said. Nyamai said the presented MoU will generate a report. Area MP Owen Baya said the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga should help the villagers secure a title deed. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said coast has had persistent land problem.