Kakamega Governor Wycliff e Oparanya wants ODM leader Raila Odinga to endorse his 2022 presidential bid when he visits Kakamega this month. The deputy ODM leader said Raila owes him support since he stood with the former PM since 2002. On Thursday Oparanya said he would find another way to ensure he is on the ballot should ODM fail to endorse him. He spoke in Malava subcounty, where he inspected de- velopment projects. Oparanya said he has rejected Deputy President William Ruto’s overtures to have him join his own 2022 campaign team. “Ruto asked me to join him, but I told him it was unworkable because we want the same seat,” he said. Oparanya and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho are Raila’s deputies in the Orange party and both have presidential ambitions. Raila is to deliver the keynote address during the Devolution Conference hosted in Kakamega from April 23-27. On March 9, the NASA chief and President Uhuru Kenyatta pledged to work together to unite Kenyans. On March 3, Oparanya asked Raila to retire from politics after four unsuccessful attempts at the presidency. “I met Raila recently and told him to stay at home and wait and see how things go,” he told mourners during the burial of former councillor Reuben Munanga in Shikutse village. The Star has reported that Raila could be named an AU special envoy, a continental statesman.This might signal his exit from active politics, or enhance is stature. On Tuesday, Oparanya met Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. The NASA principals sought his support for their Luhya unity bid. Mudavadi and Wetang’la plan to merge Ford Kenya and ANC to form one political party to push for the community’s interests. They say the party will produce a presidential candidate in 2022. Oparanya said he had stood with Raila since 2002 and it was time for him to return the favour. “Raila will be in Kakamega on April 25 and I want him to declare that he will support my bid for the top seat come 2022 because I am fi rmly in the race,” he said. Oparanya’s close allies say he is keen on registering a new political party for 2022 in case ODM does not assure him of the ticket. The former Butere legislator told Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to rally behind him and support his presidential bid. Mudavadi ran for President in 2013 and came third after Uhuru and Raila. Oparanya did not back his candidacy. Instead, he supported Raila and ran for governor on the ODM ticket. Th e county chief was reelected last year.