The University of Nairobi has suspended 46 members of staff, among them lecturers and professors, for participating in 'an illegal strike'. The lot, which also included subordinate staff, received their letters on Monday pending disciplinary action against them. The affected staff are members of the University Academic Staff Union and the Kenya University Staff Union (KUSU). Others are staff under the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers (KUDHEIHA). The lecturer's strike, which began on March 1, entered its 62nd day on Monday, April 30. Read: Striking lecturers miss March salaries over strike, not fazed Prof Isaac Mbeche, UoN acting Deputy VC (Administration and Finance), said the suspended staff will be paid half salary pending the determination of their cases. He said the disciplinary action may result in sackings at the end of the hearings if there is no adequate explanation by the affected staff. They face up to three-months suspension but have the right of appeal at the end of the disciplinary process. "Very many of our members obeyed the court order an returned to work. However, despite us writing to tell lecturers that they should not continue to be on strike, they defied." "Some of them have written back saying they will continue being on strike until their unions tell them to return to work. These are the ones we have suspended," Mbeche said. The suspended staff have been directed to be reporting to the university every Monday, Wednesday and Friday "to show that they are still around". A letter seen by the Star from one of the heads of departments gives a breakdown of the number of days lecturers have boycotted class and the cumulative lessons missed. "This is not going to be a collective responsibility. We are dealing with individuals. They have actually breached their terms of service," Mbeche said. In total, UoN has close to 6,000 teaching and non-teaching staff of which UASU members are 2,658, KUSU (2000) while KUDHEHIA has about 1,200. On April 6, the Labour Relations and Employment Court issued an order requiring lecturers to return to work. UASU immediately appealed the decision and continued with the strike. They are pushing the government through the Inter-Public Universities Academic Staff Union to table a counteroffer to their Sh38 billion. They want the money to be paid in three phases under the 2017-2021 CBA towards salary increments, car loans, mortgages, and medical insurance. On April 20, Education CS Amina Mohammed formed an inter-ministerial committee to come up with a counteroffer for the dons within a month. Click here for the latest political news