Once When devolution came into effect after the March 4, 2013, General Election, I was appointed to the Kiambu government as the Youth and Sports executive. For four years, I saw first hand the impact and effect of devolution, especially to mwananchi. Since we passed a new Constitution in 2010, the first point of contact between mwananchi and the government is usually the county government. Therefore wananchi tend to expect a lot from the counties, as they should. During my time in the Kiambu government, we faced teething problems as Kenyans worked hard to understand devolution. We had issues with flow of funding as well as setting up the right structures for the individual counties. However, over time, there was a flow and we managed to get a feel of the immediate needs of the residents and worked towards ensuring that their aspirations were met and lives transformed. This week Kenyans will focus on the fifth Devolution Conference in Kakamega, which remains an important calendar event for the country. It is a time to take stock of where we are as a country in regards to devolution. Here, county government officials exchange notes and share ideas as well as make it known to the national government what needs to be done to enhance the relationship between the two levels. During the conference, the county governments evaluate the challenges they are facing and put their heads together to seek solutions for the future. This year’s conference comes at a time when the country’s top leadership has agreed that Kenya’s future is more important than any one person. This means that the conference is important in pushing this agenda. Devolution has come a long way, but we must be cognisant of the fact that it is only five years old. The first years were marred with inefficiencies, a very steep learning curve and lengthy establishment of county structures. Some counties have become a haven of corruption, with others openly embracing it. Despite the growing pains, devolution has transformed Kenya and there are many milestones to be celebrated. Every county has its story to tell. Today, most counties have their own ambulances as well as properly equipped hospitals. This has made healthcare more accessible. In most, if not all counties, there are better markets as well as roads to access them. County bursaries are helping needier students access education and this is a major benefit of devolving resources. Some counties are building on their strengths to ensure that they produce something that they can sell to others. From fruit processing in Makueni to milk processing in Murang’a to smart dairy farming in Kakamega and enhanced mining in Kwale, the devolution success story is incredible. As the national government focuses on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ‘Big Four’ agenda, it is important for the county governments to work on modalities to align their plans to this. This is because the ‘Big Four’ focuses on the needs of every Kenyan — healthcare, jobs through manufacturing, food security and affordable housing. The county governments have plans to deliver on the same and the smart ones can ride on this national agenda and achieve more than they could do on their own. Before the next election, mwananchi expects counties to deliver and do everything possible to transform their counties. Those with efficient governments will become beacons of progress and development, while the inefficient ones will become dens of corruption and mismanagement. And as the officials gather in Kakamega, it is also an opportunity for the public to evaluate what their governments have done and what they want to see achieved in their counties. Every Kenyan has a duty to hold each and every county government responsible to serve residents effectively and provide the highest measure of service delivery. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda