The easing of political tensions following the meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta
and Opposition leader Raila Odinga has been described as conducive to business. Speaking to
the Star, Malaysian High Commissioner Loh Tiong said:
“Any investor who wants to invest in Kenya will first assess the political
situation in the country. Only once there is political stability will investors
be willing to put their money.” As to how the
Malaysian government will realign itself with President Uhuru’s Big Four
agenda, Loh said: “Food security, affordable healthcare, housing and
manufacturing are issues that are close to people’s hearts and can uplift their
livelihood, especially after the long electioneering period. “As far as I
am concerned, I will try my best to support by drawing the attention of our
business community to these agenda. This is our challenge, and I believe your
High Commission in Kuala Lumpur will be doing the same.” There is a lot
Kenya and Kenyans can learn from the Asian country. It made global headlines in
March 2014, when Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 disappeared while flying from
Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, China. Four months
later, in July, flight MH17, which was travelling from Amsterdam to Kuala
Lumpur, was shot down over eastern Ukraine, killing all 283 passengers and
15 crew on board. Airline chief
executive Peter Bellew recently told the BBC that although the carrier is still
making losses, it will become profitable again this year, and by next year, he
hopes it will return to the stock market. The resilience
Malaysia has shown manifests the country's character since gaining independence
on August 31, 1957. Kenya and Malaysia established diplomatic relations in 1965,
but Kenya established its High Commission in Kuala Lumpur in 1996, while
Malaysia reciprocated in 2005. The two countries belong to the Commonwealth. Malaysia has
had one of the best economic records in Asia, with its GDP growing at an
average of 6.5 per cent per annum for almost 50 years. This has helped expand science,
tourism, commerce and medical tourism. It is also one of the few
developing countries to heavily subsidise education and healthcare. STUDYING
IN MALAYSIA For instance,
as Kenya grapples with the education sector, Malaysians are entitled to free public
education up to secondary level, and public tertiary education fees are
subsidised by up to 90 per cent. Loh said
foreigners pay about a third of what they would have in other leading
destinations of learning, such as the US, the UK and Australia. “As far as
Malaysia is concerned, we have high-quality tertiary education and training
simply because like Kenya, we benefit from the British education system. Our
education award is recognised by Cambridge, and we attract many students from
Commonwealth countries,” Loh said. “We are also
attracting many students from Africa, including Nigeria. Number one, quality
and two, we have holiday campus. Third is affordability because we are talking
about paying a third of what you’d pay in Australia, the UK or the US.” Official
records indicate there are 580 Kenyan students in Malaysia. From 1991 to 2000,
the literacy rate in Malaysia for persons aged 10 to 64 increased from 88.6 per
cent to 93.5 per cent. Government-assisted schools provide free education for
children between ages six and 18. Loh said
through the South-South cooperation, the Malaysian Technical Cooperation
Programme, established in 1996, now has more than 365 Kenyan
participants. This programme offers short and long-term technical courses,
open to government officials, SMEs and the media. “This is
largely government-to-government, and it is free for developing countries to
help these people share their experiences and best practices. This ranges from
50-90 courses, which include, among others, environment, media, diplomacy and
administration. We also have scholarship for post graduates,” he said. The programme
encourages investing in human capital through skills transfer, since money can
be misappropriated, Loh adds. Other independent avenues students can use to access
education opportunities in Malaysia include Uniserv and StudyMalaysia. The TVET
system in Malaysia is divided into three streams: higher education, technical
and vocational education and vocational skills training. The Malaysian
government, according to Human Resource Minister Datuk Jaem, is targeting to
create about 1.5 million new jobs by 2020, with 60 per cent of them requiring
those with TVET training. Manufacturing
and jobs creation are priority areas for President Uhuru Kenyatta in his second
term, and he promised to create 1.3 million jobs if reelected. The Economic
Survey 2017 said technical training institutes increased by 13 from 49 in 2013
to 62 in 2016. Malaysia has
also extended its push for access to education in Kenya through MyCorps
voluntary group, established by the Youth ministry to help other countries in
various projects. “In Kenya, for
example, we have projects in Turkana and Kwale. Both projects are premised on
education. We have 12 Malaysian volunteers, who have been around for two
months. We have built two schools, refurbished wells for the communities and
brought economy to the people,” Loh said, adding that they are working with
NGOs. HEALTHCARE
AND TRADE As Kenya
struggles with healthcare, Malaysian medical services are regarded as among the
best in the world. The UNDP rates the Malaysian healthcare system as a model to
other developing countries. One of their success stories that Kenya can learn
from is research on malaria eradication. Admittedly,
and this is the case for Kenya, malaria control programmes operating in
elimination settings face substantial problems, particularly around mobile
migrant populations, access to remote areas and the diversity of vectors, with
varying biting and breeding behaviours. These challenges can be addressed
through subnational collaborations with commercial partners, as has been the
case in Sabah, a Malaysian state occupying the northern part of the island
of Borneo. The total
trade between the two countries had increased by more than double from $184.71
million in 2016 to $251.6 million in 2017. Despite these figures, however,
Malaysian exports to Kenya worth $244.10 million far exceeded their imports,
which stood at only $7.5 million. This large
trade gap needs to be narrowed but it presents a big problem because Kenya does
not produce the products that have a high demand in Malaysia, such as
electronics. But Loh said
trade and investments have been on the rise. Kenyan industries import crude
palm oil from Malaysia and Indonesia, the world’s leading producers, since it
is not locally available. Palm oil is
the most widely used vegetable oil globally, with half of all packaged products
sold in supermarkets containing the product. And some of the most popular
products from Malaysia are from the Sh500 million Golden Africa refinery based
in Athi River. Their oil brands include Aveena and Madina. Probase
Manufacturing is another Malaysian construction company based in Kenya, and it has
completed two 10km road projects in the Meru and Samburu counties. The Embu
government, however, in 2016 suspended the construction of the 12.2km Kibugu
road using the cheap Malaysian probase technology. OUTREACH
AND CULTURE For a long
time, diplomacy was largely seen as limited to boardrooms and to those in
expensive suits. However, countries are reaching out to communities through
their missions. The Malaysian mission has built water tanks, community car-wash
centres for recovering drug addicts and repaired water wells for communities in
Lodwar and Kwale. The biggest achievement is building a pre-school and nursery
in Kaya Bombo, Kwale, and two elementary schools in Lodwar and Turkana. In Kitui, the
Islamic Foundation of Malaysia has supplied seeds with the help of Kenya Red
Cross in an attempt to reach out to the poor. Cultural diplomacy is now
becoming a leading tool in international relations. This year,
Malaysia took over the chairmanship of Association of Southeast Asian Nations,
Nairobi Committee. Last year, the ANC — comprised of Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines and Thailand — jointly organised the Second ASEAN-Nairobi Festival
at the Hub Mall-Karen. The event entailed cultural performance by the four
ASEAN missions and fashion shows. They also sold popular ASEAN cuisines
and merchandise and the proceeds were donated to charity. Tariq Ramadan,
a Swiss Muslim academic and philosopher, said Malaysia is full of promise. Its
history and cultural and religious diversity make it a rich, compelling and
surprising land. It is these
strong areas that Kenya needs to emulate. But to achieve this, we need good
leadership and governance, an economic plan and industrial population, as Loh pointed
out.