Kikuyu elders have thrown their weight behind Kiambu woman rep Gathoni Wamuchomba's call to the community to embrace polygamy. The members of the Kiama Kia Maa council said the move will end rampant cases of men neglecting their children born out of wedlock. This emerged when the group held its national delegates conference in Naivasha on Saturday. The elders vowed to unite with other splinter groups in the council adding that they will move across the country to preach peace. In a joint communiqué, Kiama Kia Ma national chairman Kigochi Waimiri said time was ripe for the country to start taking about parenting with the seriousness it deserves. Waimiri described Wamuchomba's proposal as a step in the right direction if the country was to get rid of street children in major towns. The woman representative on April 2 said she wondered which crime the community's forefathers, who were polygamous, committed. "Let all able men to marry more than one wife and bring up children...go ahead and marry even five wives," she said in her constituency. See: [VIDEO] Embrace polygamy to bear more children, Wamuchomba tells Kiambu men He said the high number of street urchins, especially in Nairobi, is worrying further noting that the children have fathers who should take care of them. "I now call upon men from the Gikuyu community who are able to cater for the needs of more than one wife to marry. Through this, we shall also increase our population." At the same time, Waimiri said they will as elders, step in to end the alcoholism problem in Central Kenya. "We have resolved to work with the provincial administration and agencies involved in the fight against alcohol abuse in the region." "This is a very serious issue that we need to work together to ensure that the menace that is threatening a generation is wiped out," he said. The group’s secretary general Joseph King’ori said they will take up their rightful position at the National Council of Elders and at the Gikuyu Council of Elders. "We will pursue different approaches to support and facilitate implementation of President Uhuru Kenyatta's 'Big Four' pillars of development." The elders elected Uhuru's cousin Ngengi Muigai as the Kiama Kia Maa patron. Click here for the latest political news     