Voters at Makongeni Primary School polling station in Kwale county yesterday protested against delays in the Kinondo ward by-election. They complained voting dragged once it started yet they were only voting for one MCA seat. There are four candidates Hamisi Omar (ODM), Juma Maone (Jubilee), Abdallah Mambo (National Vision Party) and Kazole Chula (Dynamic Party of Kenya). The total number of registered voters is 11,014. There are 21 polling stations and 12 centres. A Kwale court nullified the election of then Kinondo MCA Juma Maone last December and ordered him to pay Sh 100,000 as expenses for the petition. tie Maone was awarded his certificate by IEBC while results from one polling station were still pending. When the results from Msambweni came in, Maone and his opponent Omar had tied with 2,600 votes each. Pweza filed a petition challenging the electoral agency’s declaration. He expressed confidence that he will win the by-election. Resident magistrate Doreen Mulekyo said the Jubilee politician’s election was flawed. She ordered the IEBC to plan a fresh election. demoralised At Makongeni, resident Halima Makame said she arrived at the polling station at 5.30am, but had not voted by mid-morning. “I wonder what they are doing inside there. They are taking too long. I am tired of standing on the queue,” she said. The Makongeni presiding officer said the voting centre was opened on time and voting started at 6am as expected. Omar voted at the station. He urged IEBC officials to speed up the process so voters did not become demoralised and go back home. Omar said the turnout was unsatisfactory. “Our people are for the most part impatient, and this being a working day, some voters came early so they could go to work afterwards,” he said, adding the process should have been hastened. smooth Omar urged voters to uphold peace as they await results. “I will welcome any decision by the people. If I am the winner, then I will work closely with the other aspirants and in case I lose, I will accept defeat,” he said. Voting at Mwambungo polling station went on smoothly.