A football match between Governors and Senators, and later Senators and MCAs - which curtain raised the 5th Devolution Conference - was a clear indication that the meeting was not going to be just like any other. The tone set at the beginning signified a break from the past where such events were only platforms for a serious talk on policies and ideologies, and for trading blame games. This year's occasion started off with clear indications that it would be a lively conference. Even by its attendance and list of speakers, you could tell the efficiency in its organisation, with the key focus on enhancing national dialogue. Unlike the past where the conference has been boycotted by, the 5th edition saw leaders from across the political divide attend in large numbers. And lively it was, based on the moments of hilarity witnessed from the official opening of the conference to the closing session. In the course of the three-day event, speaker after speaker spelled out their expectations and rallied the delegates towards a common course of nation-building while at the same time making light of current happenings in the country. One of the speakers who left the delegates in stitches is Anne Waiguru - Kirinyaga County Governor and vice chair of the Council of Governors. Seen by most as a serious, strong-willed and no-nonsense leader, even from her days as Devolution Cabinet Secretary, Waiguru brought out the humorous side of her that is rarely seen. She broke the ice on the first day of the conference with her chucklesome analogy on youth and women involvement (and the lack of it) on devolution debate. "There is an African proverb that says a man who hangs around a beautiful girl without speaking his intention ends up fetching water for guests at her wedding," she said amid laughter from the delegates. Waiguru added: "For many years, women and youth have been silent on matters devolution, instead of leaving the responsibly of agenda setting to others." "This year, we seek to open up a platform for women and the youth to speak out on matters that are pertinent to them." She said this is owing to the fact that the ultimate impact of devolution is felt at the grassroots and the two groups are the greatest beneficiaries. The Kirinyaga Governor also knitted her closing remarks cleverly in a manner that would make it possible to deliver her vote of thanks while still keeping the audience chortled. The first bit was her reference to the thrashing of governors by senators at the pre-conference football match, picking up specks of some hilarious observable facts. "Worth mentioning is the football matches played at the state-of-the-art Bukhungu Stadium. Other than the well-manicured playing turf and the meticulously designed terraces, we noticed one thing --- that suits and ties hide a lot of things." "Another thing we noticed was that as Governors we need to pull up our socks. Being beaten 5-0 by Senators is such an embarrassment, especially since these same Senators will still want us to appear before them to shed light on county expenditures for the next four years." "Fellow Governors, we need to pick one struggle; we cannot be beaten in the field and in boardrooms as well. "Having said that, there is a special group of leaders that I need to thank – the County Assemblies Forum MCAs. These leaders saved us the embarrassment of losing to Senators by beating them 1-0 in the subsequent match. That has really helped us save face. Because of them, we can go back to our counties with our heads held high," she joked. Waiguru also made light on the ongoing talk of Kakamega turning into a 24-hour economy. "While we’re at it, we also need to thank Governor Oparanya for providing an enabling environment for a 24-hour economy during this devolution conference. Like the Rt. Hon. Raila Odinga said yesterday, a lot can happen in a night time," she quipped leaving the audience in an uproarious laughter. The famous handshake between Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta did not escape the Governor’s attention either. "As a country, we cannot underestimate the power of the handshake. The unity talks and the eventual handshake between His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta and Hon Raila Odinga have sparked a sporadic wave of handshakes some that we never imagined would happen! And I will not name names," she stated. This was apparently in reference to her cordial conversations with the former prime minister when the latter addressed the conference. Raila and Waiguru had not been seeing eye-to-eye owing to the Opposition leader's campaign for accountability of NYS funds. Deputy President William Ruto was also not left out. In a veil reference to the Ndambiri talk, Ruto urged governors to keep their deputies busy to prevent them from falling prey to the devil’s "evil agenda". "And I am not making reference to anyone in particular; in fact, it is unlawful to watch any clip that has not been sanctioned by the Kenya Films Classification Board," he added. See: [VIDEO] The devil is a very bad man, Ruto says on Peter Ndambiri 'film' The hilarity on the closing ceremony over the debacles facing Deputy Governor Ndambiri was an extension of previous day jocular remarks by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, and Raila. "Yesterday, I declared a 24-hour economy in Kakamega and from what we are hearing it is working," Oparanya said leading to an explosion of laughter in the hall. Read: Cheeky jokes at devolution conference after Peter Ndambiri video The conference brought together over 6,000 delegates from national and county governments and development partners from across the world. Click here for the latest political news 