Supremacy wars between MPs and senators are being revived as they clash during their duplicate probing of government institutions. National Assembly members in three committees are angry with their Senate counterparts for “overstepping” their constitutional watchdog duties by conducting parallel inquiries into matters that do not fall under devolution. Accused of “overstepping” are the three Senate panels: the Public Accounts and Investment Committee chaired by Senator Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay), Health chaired by Senator Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia) and the Roads and Transportation groupchaired by Senator Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu). The Health Committee is accused of overstepping its mandate by probing the Kenyatta National Hospital brain surgery on the wrong patient. The Roads and Transportation Committee is accused of overstepping its boundaries by inquiring into the government rollout of NYS buses in Nairobi with Sh20 fares, far less than matatu fares. The PAC has been faulted for holding a parallel probe into controversial payment of Sh1.5 billion out of Sh3.3 billion in the Education ministry’s mandatory acquisition of 13.8 acres occupied by two schools in Nairobi. The committee is inquiring into compensation for land occupied by Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School since 1984 and 1987, respectively. National Assembly committees argue the inquiry into the two matters fall under their constitutional mandate because they are central government functions. The brewing discord among six committees of both Houses over holding public officers to account has led three chairpersons in National Assembly panels to seek intervention from Speaker Justin Muturi.  LAND PROBE The Kajwang-led team started its inquiry on Tuesday by questioning National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri. This was five days after the National Assembly’s Lands Committee chaired by Rachael Nyamai probed the NLC officials over the same issue. Nyamai, the Kitui South MP, told the Star she plans to petition the speaker when he returns from a foreign trip. “Let the Senate committee continue with the investigation as we wait for the National Assembly speaker to give us guidance,” she said. Swazuri, appearing before the Senate committee, told senators the Nyamai-led committee was also probing the matter and he was asked to provide information on April 12.