North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
has pledged to close the country's nuclear test site in May in
full view of the outside world, Seoul officials said on Sunday,
as US President Trump pressed for total denuclearisation ahead
of his own unprecedented meeting with Kim. On Friday, Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in vowed
"complete denuclearisation" of the Korean peninsula in the first
inter-Korean summit in more than a decade, but the declaration
did not include concrete steps to reach that goal. North Korea's state media had said before the summit that
Pyongyang would immediately suspend nuclear and missile tests,
scrap its nuclear test site and instead pursue economic growth
and peace. Kim told Moon that he would soon invite experts and
journalists from the United States and South Korea to
"transparently open to the international community" the
dismantling of the facilities, the Blue House said. "Kim said if the United States holds dialogue with the
North, they would realise that he's not the kind of person who
would fire a nuclear missile toward the South, over the Pacific
or targeting the United States," Moon's press secretary Yoon
Young-chan told a news briefing. "If the United States meets often and builds trust with us
and promises an end of war and non-aggression, why would we lead
a difficult life?" Yoon reported Kim as saying. Kim said there were two additional, larger tunnels that
remain "alive and well" at the Punggye-ri test site beyond the
existing one, which experts have said had collapsed after
repeated explosions, rendering much of the site useless. Kim's promise shows his willingness to "preemptively and
actively" respond to inspection efforts to be made as part of
the denuclearisation process, Yoon said. To facilitate future cross-border cooperation, Kim pledged
to scrap the unique time zone Pyongyang created in 2015. He said
the North would move its clocks forward 30 minutes to be in sync
with the South, nine hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time. Kim also reaffirmed that he would not use military force
against the South and raised the need for an institutional
mechanism to prevent unintended escalations, Yoon said. NEXT STEPS Late Saturday, US President Donald Trump told Moon in a
phone call that he was pleased the leaders of the two Koreas
reaffirmed the goal of complete denuclearisation during their
summit, Seoul officials said on Sunday. Moon and Trump agreed on the need for an early summit
between Trump and Kim, and explored two to three potential
locations, the Blue House said. A senior US official has said Singapore is being
considered as a possible venue for the Trump-Kim summit. "Trump said it was good news for not only the two Koreas but
the whole world that they affirmed the goal of realising a
nuclear-free Korean peninsula through a complete
denuclearisation," South Korea's presidential Blue House said.
"Trump was looking forward to talks with Kim and there would be
a very good result." Trump, who called the 75-minute chat "a long and very good
talk" on Twitter, said his summit with Kim would take place
sometime in the next three to four weeks. "It's going be a very important meeting, the
denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula," he said at a campaign
rally in Washington, Michigan, on Saturday. The White House said Trump and Moon during the call
"emphasised that a peaceful and prosperous future for North
Korea is contingent upon its complete, verifiable, and
irreversible denuclearisation." Trump had also informed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
that he would urge North Korea to promptly resolve its
abductions of Japanese citizens, the White House said. Most of the specific commitments outlined in the official
declaration signed by Kim and Moon focused on inter-Korean
relations and did not clear up the question of whether Pyongyang
is willing to give up its arsenal of nuclear weapons and
ballistic missiles. North Korea's state media on Saturday released the joint
statement as part of a multi-page spread with more than 60
photos from the visit, lauding Friday's summit as a turning
point for the peninsula. It made rare mentions of the denuclearisation discussion,
but did not go into detail, instead highlighting the broad
themes of peace, prosperity, and Korean unity. 'AMICABLE ATMOSPHERE' "At the talks both sides had a candid and open-hearted
exchange of views on the matters of mutual concern including the
issues of improving the North-South relations, ensuring peace on
the Korean Peninsula and the denuclearisation of the peninsula,"
KCNA said. It added that the night wrapped up with a dinner that had an
"amicable atmosphere overflowing with feelings of blood
relatives." The declaration earned guarded but optimistic praise from
world leaders, including Trump, who said on Friday that only
time would tell, but that he did not think Kim was "playing." "It's never gone this far. This enthusiasm for them wanting
to make a deal ... We are going to hopefully make a deal." Still, Trump said he would maintain pressure on North Korea
and "not repeat the mistakes of past administrations." In Sydney on Saturday, Australian Prime Minister Malcolm
Turnbull praised Trump's negotiations on North Korea and said he
helped bring the two Korean leaders together. "I have given him that credit because Donald Trump has taken
a very, very strong, hard line on the denuclearisation issue and
he has been able to bring in the support of the global community
and, in particular, China," Turnbull told a televised news
conference, referring to "overwhelming" economic ties between
China and North Korea. "What we've now got to do is not relent on the economic
pressure until that goal is achieved," he said. Australia will send a military aircraft to monitor North
Korean vessels suspected of transferring illicit goods in
defiance of UN sanctions, he said. Iran, facing a possible US exit from its nuclear deal with
world powers, welcomed the inter-Korean summit, but said
Washington was not a "qualified" partner in the negotiations. "Iran sees (the summit) as an important step in the right
direction that can contribute to lasting regional and global
peace and security," Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Bahram
Qasemi was quoted as saying by state media. "The US government is not a credible actor, doesn't comply
with its international obligations and doesn't qualify to take
part in arrangements between countries," Qasemi added. An editorial in the official China Daily on Saturday said
denuclearisation could end hostilities between the two sides and
"usher in a new era of development" on the peninsula, but noted
Friday's declaration lacked a plan for achieving the goal. "The denuclearisation of the peninsula, written into the
Panmunjom Declaration, is only a prospect with no specific plan.
That is because such specifics can be reached only between the
US and North Korea, and South Korea has only limited authority
to bargain," it said. Click here for the latest political news