An MP from Nyanza who has close ties with opposition chief Raila Odinga has been bragging to all who care to listen how he will be re-elected because of his connections with the ‘royal family’. The first time MP recently sent a message to his nemesis warning how he will again trounce him in the 2022 general elections. “Be connected, otherwise you will suffer the same fate, wembe ni ule ule in 2022,” the lawmaker wrote in an SMS to his rival. This followed a row at a funeral where there were attempts to block the incumbent from making a speech. Many are wondering how the MP is able to foresee his reelection four years in advance, barely seven months into his first term. ***** As relationship scandals continue to rock the 12th Parliament, two hot-blooded MPs from Mt Kenya are on a very slippery road. The man, a first time MP, recently dashed to Muthaiga Police station to complain about threats from a brother of a former powerful governor who alleges the female MP is his second wife. Our mole told Corridors that someone might have taken the photos of the lovebirds recently while on a trip to Nakuru. And, according to the mole, "The pictures are there and they are actually good." ***** Did a former governor aspirant from Nyanza lie about his academic background? Well, Corridors has learnt that the gubernatorial hopeful had 'mixed' dates of when he joined university and the year he claims to have graduated. The politician has been all over telling constituents how he graduated in 2014, but according to the papers he presented to the electoral body, he joined university in 2016 — which is two years after his purported graduation. His close supporters are now wondering how he miraculously graduated even before joining college. He is among politicians whose academic papers the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission detectives are probing after questions were raised when they were cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to run in last year's General Election. ***** A group of human rights activists were yesterday heard questioning the loud silence of religious leaders over the Miguna Miguna saga and apparent disregard of court orders by the Jubilee administration. The two activists - both contemplating going on a hunger strike over the Miguna saga - wondered how the men of cloth could be silent when the country's key pillar, the Judiciary, is under threat from the executive which they claimed has disobeyed a record 10 court orders in the last two weeks alone.