This government was re-elected on its development track record. Development can’t be achieved when the country’s top leaders all their time in offices. They must be at the grassroots to get the people's priorities right. What Deputy President William Ruto is doing is good for this country, as he is harnessing the synergy to push Jubilee’s big agenda. There is no better way for a leader to establish the needs of people at the grassroots than engaging its elected leadership. That is why the DP has been leading a strong appeal to elected leaders to work with other leaders in actualising the government’s Big Four. We can’t keep politicking all the time. We should stop reading too much into the DP's well-thought-out plan to spur economic growth at the grassroots. There is no politics when Ruto meets elected county leaders to get an update on government projects. The structured meetings enable leaders to freely interact and suggest how the government can do more to actualise specific programmes. The DP will continue touring all regions to help initiate projects. He should ignore those ignorantly criticising his tours because they have lost touch with reality. Central Kenya’s support for the DP is firm and unshakeable. This is what we have declared before and will continue affirming in the future. We have said before and I repeat that Jubilee’s 2022 arithmetic has not changed. Deputy President William Ruto remains Jubilee’s presidential candidate. Period. What Jubilee is doing now is laying a firm economic foundation for our 2022 politics. If we as Jubilee deliver on our campaign pledges, work harmoniously as a team and avoid negative energy, then definitely 2022 will not be an issue, as our case will have been made. It is important to stress that the DP is free to traverse Kenya to commission new development projects and initiate plans to improve livelihoods. The focus of the Jubilee administration now is the Big Four agenda. It is supposed turn around the economy so mama mboga can feel better doing business, knowing the economy is ring-fenced. I encourage my fellow leaders to emulate the President and Deputy President and work hard to secure the future of our children. The President has given us his economic road-map to a better future, we need to anchor our priorities within the Big Four. The writer is the Kikuyu MP and chair of the Budget committee