Deputy President William Ruto has postponed his visit to Murang'a High School amid controversy over parents' claims of extortion by the administration. Ruto was to preside over a fundraising on April 6 for the expansion of the school that has a population of 1,336 students. He was also to visit Kiairathe Secondary School in Kangema. Parents who sought anonymity informed the Star that the school’s board of management and the Parents Teachers Association met on Thursday to discuss the postponement of Ruto’s visit. They said the gathering ended in a limbo, with the administration contemplating postponing the occasion. “They have scheduled another meeting for next week to decide on the next course of action,” one said. Senator Irungu Kang’ata, who announced the postponement of the DP's visit, told the Star that the DP told him so in a meeting that week. “The Deputy President did not give any reasons as to why his visit had been cancelled,” Kang’ata said. Murang'a High shot to the limelight two weeks ago following allegations that the administration was charging parents a development fee of Sh40,000 for the fundraising. Parents complained that the amount was too high and accused the administration of planting the wealthy among them to pass a resolution for all of them to give this amount. Some who reached out to the media noted the school held a fundraising that was presided over by Ruto at Weston Hotel in Nairobi in 2015 and that about Sh40 million was raised. They claimed the administration charges them Sh10,000 per student for teacher motivation and Sh5,800 tuition, charges they said do not come with receipts. They added that they pay a total of Sh74,000 in school fees and that some were denied their children's certificates for not paying the money last year. A week ago, the school sent bulk messages informing parents that contributions towards the fundraising were not compulsory and that no punitive measures would be taken against those who would not contribute. But those who had not made contributions were earlier told to do so between March and March 24. Principal Willy Kuria said the school wants to raise Sh75 million to build extra classrooms, offices, dormitories, a multi- purpose hall and a resource centre with an ICT laboratory. Noting parents already raised Sh20 million, Kuria wondered why some were complaining yet the decision was made unanimously during an AGM last year. Last week, county Education director Victoria Mulili said a team of officials from the ministry was sent to the school to investigate the matter and that a report was being compiled. More on this: Murang’a Boys put under probe over Sh40,000 development fee Also read: Principals ask for Sh6.6 billion development funds Click here for the latest political news