It The ‘Miguna Miguna Affair’ is the stuff of espionage thrillers. For more than a week, the Affair has hogged headlines, with the relentless star loving it, even in captivity. From Toronto, Canada, to Nairobi, Kenya, and Dubai, UAE, the Affair has tested international law to the limit and undermined a shaky political truce. It was a diplomatic nightmare for Canada, whose citizen underwent inhumane torture in a foreign land; Kenya’s image as an intolerant dictatorship soared and the innocent UAE became the playground of spies. In classical Cold War espionage replayed, the thriller had spy agents, double agents, double-crossing, mistrust and betrayal, friends-turned-foes and lethal injections. The Star took a flight to Kenya 10 days ago courtesy of 10 court orders that the government produce him in court. He used his Canadian passport only because government disobeyed court orders quashing withdrawal of his passport, cancellation of his citizenship and deportation to Canada. To the National Resistance Movement ‘General’, he was a state guest with full diplomatic immunity, including protection of his entry passport from perforation by agents of a despotic government. After arrogantly stomping on court orders, government honchos decided the General was persona non grata. But they wouldn’t say so; instead they initiated entry requirements that would have him repudiate his Kenyan citizenship. This miffed the General to no end, leading to his view that Raila Odinga was complicit in his woes. What rattled him most was alleged plea by Raila that he sign entry visa application forms, which state honchos had discreetly planted as a ploy against his future Kenyan citizenship claim. He loudly wondered why Raila would support the scheme when the courts had ruled against the state termination of his citizenship. But that was before he was drugged and spirited to Dubai on March 28. Miguna’s foreboding gained validity with Raila’s silence. Raila chronicler Sarah Elderkin’s monologue all but said Miguna was responsible for and deserves the inhumane treatment, suggesting Raila is better off without him. The applause echoed through the Raila listening chamber in whose cross hairs was Senator James Orengo for suggesting Raila repudiate the handshake ceasefire. That Orengo would be targeted by fellow Raila apologists revealed for the first time that not only was the handshake in jeopardy, but also that the Affair was causing indigestion within the inner core of Raila’s political fortress. Customarily, battering Orengo has a ready scapegoat in alleged NIS operatives. Granted, Raila tried to ‘rescue Miguna from himself’ (a likely Sarah phrase) at the airport; instead he was humiliated and tossed around by police. A humbled Raila is seeking an elusive exit strategy from the handshake, which will come with collateral damage. Whoever he called fervently on the phone that Monday and who didn’t respond could only be ‘his brother’ President Uhuru Kenyatta. The sorry figure of Raila isolated by NASA colleagues, blamed by Miguna and left hanging out to dry by Uhuru left a lasting folklore image of the hare that split itself at the crossroads. He’s on the verge of losing his investment. Why would the man who swore-in (Elderkin denies) Raila be so mistreated by Uhuru’s hands? And why, unusually, hasn’t Raila spoken out after the airport embarrassment? The answer lies in undisclosed terms of engagement between Uhuru and Raila, and what Miguna might know. The handshake was the consummation of a deal, but justwhat was the real deal? Some read in the Affair a determination to prompt an Uhuru reneging. That Raila is being dared to throw a tantrum that dooms the deal. Others see in Raila’s uncommon silence one held hostage by threats to scuttle the deal. That he wouldn’t raise his voice beyond the phone conversation speaks volumes about a deal to which he’s prisoner, hence, his self-preservation. Yet others spot caution; maybe Miguna knows too much about the January 30 mock swearing-in and Raila is careful not to goad him into a rage. The sniping is left to his spinners to harangue Miguna, for now safely sequestered away from Kenyan soil, where his revelations could be earth-shaking.  kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com, 