Adult-film star Stormy Daniels' lawsuit
against US President Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Michael
Cohen, will be paused for 90 days, the federal judge in the case
ordered on Friday, saying that Cohen's constitutional rights
could be endangered if the lawsuit proceeds while he is under
criminal investigation. "The court finds that there is a large potential factual
overlap between the civil and criminal proceedings that would
heavily implicate Mr Cohen's Fifth Amendment rights," District
Judge James Otero wrote in the order, referring to the
Constitution's protection against self-incrimination. Cohen has admitted paying $130,000 to Daniels, whose real
name is Stephanie Clifford, to secure her silence about having
sex with Trump, which he denies. Cohen said the payment was
legal, and Daniels has sued to end her nondisclosure agreement. Daniels' lawyer Michael Avenatti promptly pledged to fight
the stay, writing on Twitter he would file an immediate appeal
to the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in
California, which could ultimately lead the Supreme Court to
weigh in. Cohen said earlier this week he would invoke the Fifth
Amendment and refuse to answer questions in the lawsuit after
the FBI raided his home, office and hotel room two weeks ago.
The amendment states no individual can be "compelled in any
criminal case to be a witness against himself." Cohen and the federal government have indicated the criminal
investigation and some seized documents relate to the hush-money
payment at the heart of the lawsuit, even though the probe's
precise subject has not been publicly disclosed, Otero wrote. He added Cohen will probably be indicted. "This is no simple criminal investigation; it is an
investigation into the personal attorney of a sitting President
regarding documents that might be subject to the attorney-client
privilege," Otero wrote. "Whether or not an indictment is
forthcoming, and the court thinks it likely based on these facts
alone, these unique circumstances counsel in favor of stay. Daniels had argued the lawsuit should proceed, with Cohen
invoking the Fifth Amendment only for specific questions that
might lead to self-incrimination. But Otero wrote that approach could lead to Cohen not
answering any questions, rendering a deposition useless. Read:  Trump lawyer admits paying porn star to shut up over alleged affair Also read: Porn star says she was threatened to keep silent on Trump Click here for the latest local political news