Hardly a week after being unveiled at Tusker, Robert Matano raked in maximum six points to jump-start the brewers in their pursuit of the Kenyan Premier League title. Tusker ensured six points in just a week after running over Sony 3-2 over the weekend, adding onto their victory against Wazito in Matano’s ‘third debut’. Prior to Matano’s arrival, Tusker had gone five consecutive matches without a win, prompting protests from their ardent followers and the subsequent sacking of former coach Sam Timbe. The result catapulted them two places up to 13th with 16 points — 11 points behind leaders Gor Mahia. At least, there seems to be light at the end of the tunnel with ‘The Lion’ obviously starting to scare away the opponents with his loud roar in his first week in charge. Boniface Muchiri was the hero against Sony as he came off the bench to score the winner in the final 10 minutes of the game. Timothy Otieno had given the brewers the lead barely seven minutes into the match with the former Gor Mahia star doubling the scores three minutes later. George Abege pulled one back for Sony from the spot in the 72nd minutes and sent his team on level terms through a powerful header four minutes later. However, Muchiri ensured victory for Matano’s charges late into the encounter. Matano’s feat is a reminder to his critics of his coaching credentials. Remember, it took his predecessor, Timbe 11 matches to win two matches. Gor Mahia, for the second consecutive match recorded a draw — this time against title rivals Mathare United in Machakos. The two sides registered a 2-2 draw, only five days after Gor posted a similar result against Chemelil away. But despite throwing away four points, Gor still lead the log with 27 points — three ahead of Mathare. Bandari moved to third with 22 points, thanks to their 2-1 win over Nakumatt at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Under the stewardship of Ken Odhiambo, who took over the mantle from Paul Nkata at the beginning of the season, the dockers have risen from the familiar mid-table ranks to title contenders. The coastal side boast of the meanest defence after conceding only eight goals in 13 encounters. Ulinzi Stars cemented their fourth place with a 2-0 win over Chemelil Sugar at Afraha while AFC Leopards warmed up for the forthcoming Mashemeji Derby with a two-all draw against Vihiga United to close the top five bracket with 20 points. Vihiga remain 14th with 13 points.