A civil society group wants the High court to
lift a ban on registration of Tuk Tuks which was imposed by the Mombasa county
government. In January, a letter from Governor
Hassan Joho to the transport department said the Tuk Tuks are
unmanageable hence should be banned. The letter said the three-wheeler
vehicles are causing congestion and pollution in the coastal town. The Commission for Human Rights and Justice want the order issued on January 11 by the county be
permanently stayed. They want the registration of new tuk tuks proceed as usual. The group says the suspension has destabilised and affected not only the owners of the three wheelers,
but also its users. Through lawyer Maurice Mkan, the organisation said the notice by the transport department was a breach
of the principle of natural justice. In the miscellaneous application filed
on April 30, CHRJ said the plan by the county was against rights to
administrative action as provided by the Constitution. The organisation further said it was non-procedural for the county to take such action and it amounted to
legal process. CHRJ further stated that the action
amounted to victimisation or discrimination against the users and
owners of the tuk tuks. In an affidavit, CHRJ director Julius
Ogogoh said the county went against its code of regulation and Constitution in executing its core mandate. Ogogoh said the organisation had made
frantic efforts to have the county reveal the reason behind the
suspension but in vain. He said the ban had affected the
commuters who highly depend on the mode of transport in their daily
business. Ogogoh further said the ban if effected
will render several youths jobless as mostly depend on the tuktuk for
their daily income. He also said the suspension will cause
a huge losses to owners who had taken loans in order to purchase the
tuktuks as they will not be able to operate them thus failure to
service their loans. At least 30,000 tuk tuk drivers and
10,000 owners have been registered by the Tuk Tuk association while
at least 8,000 have been registered by the county. Read: Taxify launches Tuk Tuk app for Mombasa riders Click here for the latest political news