Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. Previously the number was estimated to more than 50 million. Facebook Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer shared the higher number as part of a corporate blog post about steps the company was taking to restrict the personal data available to third-party app developers. Most of the 87 million people were in the United States, Schroepfer wrote in the blog post. The world’s largest social media company has been hammered by investors and faces anger from users, advertisers and lawmakers after a series of scandals about fake news stories, election-meddling and privacy. Read: Did Cambridge Analytica use Facebook data to shape UhuRuto campaign? Last month, Facebook acknowledged that personal information about millions of users wrongly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica, which worked on U.S. President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign. On March 20, the British data mining firm confirmed that it was behind the TNA and Jubilee presidential election campaigns in 2013 and 2017. In an undercover film broadcast on Channel 4 News in the UK, Cambridge Analytica Managing Director Mark Turnbull confirmed that the company had worked for Uhuru Kenyatta. “The Kenyatta campaign which we ran in 2013 and 2017,” he said in a secretly recorded meeting in a London hotel. “We have rebranded the party twice, we have written their manifesto, done two rounds of 50,000 surveys, huge amounts of analysis, research, messaging. Then we’d write all the speeches and we’d stage the whole thing so just about every element of his campaign,” he said. Cambridge Analytica is credited with helping President Trump to win the American presidential election last November and with helping the Leave side to win in the Brexit referendum in the UK last June. More on this: Cambridge Analytica confirms involvement in Kenyan elections Also read: Cambridge Analytica's Kenya election role 'must be investigated' - Nasa  Click here for latest political news