What Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko disclosed last the weekend is no news at all—that influential figures in Central Kenya have been meeting at night to scupper Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 ambitions. If you are surprised by the goings-on in Central Kenya, then you are a visitor in Jerusalem. Dig through the annals of history and you'll understand that Central Kenya politicians never support a politician who does not come from their region. A dozen or so leaders from this region have made it clear that they will scuttle Ruto’s ascent to power. Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo leads the pack. There is also former Jubilee nominated Senator Paul Njoroge, who defected to Kanu. These two told Ruto to his face that he should not count on automatic support from Central in his quest to occupy the House on the Hill. These are some of the few bold politicians who have spelt out in black and white what awaits Ruto in this vote-rich belt. Many others share this sentiment but they remain in the shadows for many reasons. They eat and drink with Ruto or his allies during the day, but come nightfall, they go behind his back and sharpen their knives to stab him. Just like one of the characters in Francis Imbuga's Betrayal in the City, Ruto’s allies could as well say, “It was better while we waited”. But this is not the time to whine while sitting on the edge. The DP understands this. Although some developments make him look like fish on dry land, Ruto has played his game well. Immediately after the Uhuru-Raila handshake on March 9, the DP started a charm-offensive meet-the-people tours. The historical handshake actually helped jump-start Ruto’s 2022 campaigns. The man from Sugoi has not rested since his boss and the opposition chief met. Raila Odinga has disclosed that Ruto was in the dark about the meeting until the last minute, when the Head of State called him to inform him that he was sitting with Raila cheek to cheek penning a deal. Ruto’s reaction was cool: “I welcome the Uhuru-Raila meeting.” But actions speak louder than words. A few days later, the DP hit the ground running, literally, to salvage his dreams, which many a political pundit believe are hanging precariously. He was at the Coast for three days and boy did he rattle and conquer King Hassan Joho’s territory! Politicians who would have skinned him alive five months ago were all singing his praises and predicting how their magic wands will get Ruto elected as the fifth President of the Republic of Kenya. Ruto has been meeting political movers and shakers to station reliable and effective leaders who can propel his dream. Who knows, he might have to fight for his survival alone. The DP has been to Rift Valley twice since the handshake. Although he knows the region is his for the taking, Ruto is no longer sure of where the political tectonic plates assaulting the region will deposit him. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi is said to be working closely with powerful Central Kenya politicians to strangle and skin Ruto’s dreams to the bare bones. The handshake is making things even more blurry. Will it boost or derail his ambitions? Ruto knows he is vulnerable and could be swept away by the raging political storms in Rift Valley and Central. In fact, no politician worth his salt is safe in our very unpredictable politics. That is why a smart politician does not rely on MoUs. They rely on their intuition. This is why the DP is stepping up his game by making new political allies and keeping existing ones close. Will Ruto’s efforts pay off? They will if he plays his cards well. Although some ODM MPs have assured him of their support, it is too early to take this promise to the bank. A lot of water will have flown under the bridge by 2022. Politicians would have been tossed downstream or under rocks. Few might remember anything about their dalliance with Ruto.   