Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka should position himself as the opposition leader, Mwingi professionals and business community coordinator Campbell Munyambu has said. He on Friday said there is a void following NASA chief Raila Odinga’s decision to unite with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Munyambu said Kalonzo should not to bank on Raila’s endorsement or support to become President. He said it is clear Raila is out to “politically emasculate” the other NASA top guns. “Raila is pursuing a selfish agenda which includes ruining the political ambitions of the other NASA leaders. It is time Kalonzo and the other two regrouped and dealt with the Raila threat as he does not mean well for Kenyans,” Munyambu said.  NETWORKS He accused ODM of being disinterested in the welfare of Kenyans. Munyambu described Raila as a traitor and a turncoat who abandoned Kenyans who had high hopes in good governance through NASA, only for him to have the “famous handshake” with Uhuru. Munyambu said Kalonzo’s political standing makes him capable of ascending to the presidency. “He should go out and make networks with other politicians ahead of 2022 elections and popularise his One Kenya Movement,” he said. Munyambu opposed the proposed amendment to the Constitution to create the position of Prime Minister. Munyambu described the proposal - which has received the backing of Kalonzo’s party - as a selfish move meant to create positions for “political rejects”. He said the only meaningful referendum would be one which helps ordinary Kenyans rather than a few individuals. “A referendum meant to create political positions for certain individuals is ill-motivated and will be rejected by Kenyans. We should be talking of increasing the number of counties for more devolved funds to reach the grassroots,” Munyambu said. Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday opposed Opposition chief Raila Odinga’s proposal of radical changes to the Constitution Ruto dismissed Raila’s push for a three-tier system of government saying the current devolved system is working and doesn’t need changes.