A doctor has said that cancer cases are on the rise in Kisii County because residents fail to go for early screening to know their status. Dr Bahaty Riogi who is a consultant surgeon at Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital (KTRH) said the facility books four cases of breast cancer every week. Riogi said that there is need for women to be sensitized on the importance of going for screening because it will be easy to contain the disease in its early stages. She was speaking at the Oasis Specialist Hospital during the launch of cancer care services. “There is need for residents to be sensitized on the importance of going for early cancer screening because the same will help them know their status,” Riogi said. “I am urging women to go for a breast cancer screening. I am advising them to do so because our facility has been receiving four booking every week,” she said. The Doctor said that the specialist Hospital is able now to offer services to offer services to Kisii and Nyamira residents but those from neigbouring counties. She noted that lack of early screening, has made many women visit for services when the problem is at the third or fourth stages. “I want to tell those who suffer from the disease that there is life after cancer,” said Riogi. The facility’s Administrator Maxwell Rabala said that Sh 50 million has been spent in equipping the facility with cancer machine. Group CEO Francis Ondieki said more  than  400  people underwent  free screening during the launch saying due to the high number they will be forced to extend the services to today (Saturday). “More than 400 people underwent free breast, prostate and cervical cancer screening during the launch of the cancer care service,” Ondieki. “Due to the overwhelming turnout, we have been compelled to extend the free exercise today (Saturday) enable more get checked,” he added. The CEO said that those who will be found positive will be put on medication immediately beginning next week. He said that availability of cancer equipment will safe residents from traveling to Eldoret or Nairobi to seek for cancer services,” County Executive in charge of Health Sarah Omache who graced the occasion, praised the facility for installing a cancer machine noting it will assist many. Omache urged cancer survivor to be ambassador in spreading the gospel that the disease is treatable when detected in advance. Ends…