Instead of looking for traffic offenders, police put aside their guns and batons on Tuesday to repair road and help motorists move smoothly in Kamandura. This followed the huge traffic jam in Kamandura on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway in Limuru. Traffic police from Tigoni on Tuesday had to make a temporary detour using rocks to fill in holes, easing the snarl-up. Led by base commander Johnbosco Mulei, they used stones and building materials left by the China Wu Yi contractor along the road to flatten a section between two lanes. Police diverted vehicles from Mai Mahiu to Nairobi to join the highway using the junction, instead of the usual Kamandura underpass. “Police have done a great job. We applaud them. We never thought they would do such a thing. We know them as serious people who look for traffic offenders. We thank them,” matatu driver Morgan Chege said. He said they found police at 11am, using jembes level the ground so vehicles could get underway. Chege also applauded youths for giving the police a hand in directing smooth traffic flow. He asked the base commander to assign two officers to control vehicles, since some drivers might overlap. “All vehicles from Mai Mahiu route were scrambling to join the highway at the area. There were holes and terraces. Vehicles moved slowly as motorists feared their vehicles would be ruined. No one rushed for fear of overturning. As a result, a huge jam build up on all lanes,” Chege said. Later the contractor upgrading James Gichuru Road up to Kamandura arrived with an earthmover, an exhauster and workers to assist police make the temporary detour. China Wu Yi company administrator Edison Wang said the problem was caused by the Friday night rains that flooded the underpass, causing some vehicles to get stuck. “No motorist risked going through the underpass. Police sought our help. We will also drain water from the underpass and create drainage since the area is like a bowl that holds water,” he said. Last week, construction of James Gichuru Road was disrupted as employees of the Chinese contractor boycotted work, demanding better pay. The road is being expanded into six lanes on each side for Sh16.3 billion — running up to Rironi area along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. Workers say they are paid Sh40 per hour and work from 8am to 6pm. From this, they pay the NHIF, the NSSF and PAYE. “The money we receive after all deductions is very little. There are those who work until 12pm from 8am. Some of us have families and we live in rented houses,” one worker said. China Wu Yi says it treats and pays the employees well in compliance with Kenya’s Labour laws. Police had earlier tear-gassed the more than 100 workers. The workers had demanded to speak with World Bank officials who had visited the site. They said they earn low salaries and their earlier efforts to seek pay rise were unsuccessful. The workers also demanded protective gear for their safety. Yesterday company geologist Ann Nyakio said the workers strike is over since they have talked and they are back to work.