Long a go, a hyena sneaked into a village and stole a sheep. Thereafter, people discovered a hyena had eaten their goats. Unforgiving, the people organised themselves to go after the offending hyena. But when the hyena, hiding somewhere not far from the village, saw these people, he took off. The people ran after him with a whole army of dogs. Not very far from the village, the hyena met a woman at her home and begged her to hide him from the chasing crowd, who he claimed were after him for nothing. Further, the hyena promised to reward her with a sheep if she successfully hid him. Overjoyed with the promised reward, the woman agreed to hide the hyena under her bed. Soon after the agreement between the woman and hyena, the crowd arrived at the homestead and asked whether she had seen the hyena. She said she had not seen the hyena. Although some men said they had seen the hyena run in the direction of her home, she denied seeing the hyena. The crowd decided to move on with their search, determined to catch him. When the crowd left, the hyena came from under the bed and thanked the woman profusely for saving him. But before the hyena left, he said he was sorry to tell the woman that since he was chased from his last catch before he had eaten enough of it, he was very hungry and would therefore need to eat the woman. The woman could not believe anybody could be this ungrateful and pleaded with the hyena not to eat him. Was this the gratitude the hyena promised? Still, the hyena pounced on the woman determined to eat her. But the woman held back the hyena’s front legs while screaming for help. Luckily, the crowd had not gone very far and they heard her screams. They decided to turn back and see what the problem was. When they arrived, they found the woman holding the hyena back by the front legs. The woman was, however, badly clawed and bleeding badly. Nevertheless, having lied to the crowd, the woman wished it were other people who had come to her rescue. The people were surprised to see the same hyena they were looking for, now attempting to kill the woman. She explained to the people that the hyena wanted to eat her, even after she had hidden him from them when they first enquired whether she had seen him. She admitted she hid him from them after he promised to reward her with a sheep. The woman could not believe the hyena she had saved could turn against her and even try to eat her. Worse, by hiding the hyena, the enemy of the people, just to get the reward of a sheep, she had turned the human crowd into her enemy. They had now decided not to save her from the hyena, arguing she deserved death for her betrayal of her fellow humans for a mere sheep. So, they let the hyena eat the woman and later killed the hyena. Unfortunately, this is not just the story of a thieving hyena. Many times, we too have been hearing the story of mega thieves who after they are arrested and taken to courts, their people defend, hide and protect them arguing they are their thieves, from their own ethnic communities. When communities defend their thieves, they are no different from the woman who hid the hyena from the people whose sheep he had eaten. Truth be told: There are many hyenas among us. Hyenas of corruption, hyenas of negative ethnicity, hyenas of dictatorship and hyenas of exploitation. When we hide these hyenas after they promise us sheep, may we remember that we are hiding animals that will end up eating us tomorrow.   Koigi is a political activist and former Subukia MP