Murang'a woman representative Sabina Chege has asked the police to arrest those who ignore flood and landslide warnings. The MP said some of those affected by Saturday landslides that killed five people had defied warnings to move from their homes. Chege was speaking at Mutitu polytechnic in Mathioya sub-county where 47 families of those displaced are being accommodated. She said such people are endangering their lives as the village still has fault lines that are susceptible to more landslides. "We should not sit back and allow people to put their lives at risk just because they want to take care of their cows," she said. Read: Three killed in Murang'a landslide after heavy rains Chege said the area is still receiving very high rainfall and those at risk, who are yet to leave their homes, could end up losing their lives. She pledged to facilitate those who want to move their property from homes with transport. "I have communicated with the Devolution ministry and the Special Programmes team to help relocate the families to a permanent area." She noted that the families are in dire need of clothing and sanitary towels. The county government has already provided them with beddings. "I am also trying to see if NYS can assist us with safari beds so that the families will not have to sleep on the floor until a permanent solution is found," Chege said. The families gave harrowing accounts of their near-death experience when the landslides occurred. Joseph Macharia said he sent his wife and five children to his parents home a few days before the calamity struck. This was after he noticed that a crack that had formed inside his house was widening. Macharia said that on that day, he sought shelter at his brother's home as he feared to sleep in his house. "We heard a loud thunder and on checking, we found that my entire farm had been swept away," the distraught man said. He said he did not salvage anything from his 2-acre farm which had coffee and foodstuffs. Also read: Death toll in Murang'a landlside rises to five Click here for the latest political news