Some people say every Kikuyu man and woman will spontaneously elect William Ruto as the next President come 2022. But this is an open falsehood. Though I am a Kikuyu, I will not automatically vote for DP Ruto or anyone else to be Kenya’s next President when next election comes. But while Ruto wants every Kikuyu to vote for him, just as he wants every Kalenjin to do because he is Kalenjin, I will not deny him my vote because he is a Kalenjin, and not Kikuyu like me. Nor will I vote for anybody merely because they are Kikuyu. I will only deny Ruto a vote because he is not fit to be President of Kenya for the following 10 reasons. First, the next President must be an individual who is totally committed to the elimination of corruption and negative ethnicity. But from his history, Ruto is not a leader of integrity, and cannot be relied upon to develop Kenya by eradicating graft. Second, from my knowledge, Ruto is not a patriot or a nationalist capable of sacrificing his personal interests to save the country from any danger or tragedy such as dictatorship. For me, the only reason Ruto pursues leadership is for wealth and power. As a youth, Ruto never did anything to save Kenya from one-party dictatorship. Three, despite public pronouncement, Ruto never fought for democracy and will not protect it as President because, philosophically, he does not believe in it. Instead, he believes in dictatorship and, therefore, fights to protect dictatorship as he did when he was in YK92. How can I, who has been a victim of dictatorship, vote for Ruto, who believes in tyranny? Four, Ruto wants me to vote for him, not because he qualifies to be a President who will protect my freedom and improve my life, but only because I am a Kikuyu and he is a Kalenjin. And the two communities are in a political coalition, not for the good of the two communities but aggrandisement of their leaders and economic elites. This to me is no reason to vote for him. Five, Ruto would also want me to vote for him, not because he qualifies but because he voted for Uhuru Kenyatta as President, and every Kikuyu, therefore, owes him a debt of gratitude for which he or she must pay or be shown the door out of the Rift Valley. Six, though a Kikuyu, I don’t owe Ruto a debt. I could only be indebted if he had ever voted for me or ever gave me anything. Nor can I be forced to vote for this man because I live in the Rift Valley, which is an integral part of Kenya. As it is, Ruto and Uhuru have never voted for me, nor have they done anything for me. Instead of Kikuyus owing Ruto a debt, it is Ruto who owes them. Seven, had the UhuRuto government transformed Kenya economically in the first term, I could have an excuse to vote for Ruto. Right now, when I look around, I see no transformation for which I can vote for him. The only transformation I see is Ruto’s personal transformation and enrichment. Should I, therefore, vote for Ruto’s further personal transformation instead of trying someone else who can transform Kenya? Eight, for Kenyans to give Ruto not just 10 years of vice-presidency but another 10 years of presidency, he and Uhuru need to have done so wonderfully that Kenya would have achieved half of Singapore’s development. As it is, it would be suicidal and crazy if Kenyans were to give Ruto 20 years of power. Nine, not even Ruto’s background as a hustler should persuade the so-called hustler nation or poor people to vote for him. He is no longer a hustler or poor person. If anything, he is already a trillionaire or double trillionaire, who, like other rich people, thrives on exploiting the poor. Ten, even Ruto’s early campaign for the presidency using government projects should not persuade any Kenyan to vote for him. And he is especially disqualified for the presidency because he is blamed for rigging so many people in the last election to create a political network that will ensure he is voted for come 2022.      