In late March, my colleague and I attended the Senate Budget and Finance Committee public hearings on Division of Revenue Bill 2018/2019. I left the meeting a worried man. It is common talk that there are those against devolution and for different reasons. But could it be that even those responsible for ensuring devolution works are also not as committal to it as we expect? Cases of massive misuse of public funds in Counties as well as duplication of roles could be an indication of this. In the meeting last week, I observed another aspect to the attack on devolution. For as the chairperson of the council of governors indicated, they had in the spirit of consensus accepted an amount for 2018/19 that is rather low by our analysis. That is four per cent growth (i.e. Sh12 billion) to the equitable share meant for County Governments as proposed in the Division of Revenue 2018 Bill. Our month on month average inflation rate (the diminishing value of money) for the last three years stood at 7.1 per cent. Thus, the amount should have grown by about Sh20 billion so as to maintain services at current costs, assuming no growth in the same. This was the minimum amount that CRA recommended as growth factor for allocation to counties. Thus, in actual terms means counties will receive less money in 2018/19 than they are receiving in 2017/2018. More fundamental than this, why are we using the lower basis of inflation as opposed to our national revenue growth which stands at about 13 per cent? This is even more concerning coming at the background of plans to reduce the allocations to counties in the 2017/18 financial year by Sh16-18 billion. Do we know the cost of functions? The Division of Revenue is a key law that provides the basis upon which the national revenue will be shared between the national and county governments. This is to be based on among others, the functions that each level of government is responsible for as outlined in schedule four of the Constitution of Kenya. The law requires that financing follows functions and in any case at least 15 per cent of the national revenue be allocated to County governments every year. Thus, depending on the cost of the functions that counties handle, they should receive a commensurate amount. The expectation of the drafters of the constitution was that we would undertake an analysis of how much we need to effectively perform functions at National and County level. The Transition Authority closed shop before they could deliver on this important task. Therefore, we settled to using historical costs that give the national government an upper hand. We are allocating resources without much clarity of how much it costs to perform the functions allocated to National and County Governments. It can be argued that by using these historical costs that were believed to be skewed then past inequities are advanced. Who then has the responsibility to get things right on our division of revenue discussions? It does appear that it depends on who you talk to and what their interests are. Five institutions are involved in the process with each using its own (unknown) criteria of what is equitable for national and county governments. They are the Commission on Revenue Allocation, The National Treasury, Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council, National Assembly and the Senate For the current DoR 2018/2019, CRA recommended Sh337.2 billion, Treasury proposed Sh314 billion, and IBEC agreed on Sh317 billion. The National Assembly Budget Committee tabled the DoR bill with a figure of Sh314 billion and we await to see what the Senate will produce. We have no credible explanation as to why these figures are varied. The reason given for a lower allocation to counties, though we consider it not fully justified, is that the treasury has revised the revenue expected in 2018/2019. If the sole reason for revenue shortfall in 2017/18 was the elections in the first half of the year, then it is not right to imagine a similar shortfall in a non-election year. More so when the competing political contenders have since made peace and there is a return to normalcy. Need for a guiding criterion In India, the Finance Commission, which is the equivalent of Kenya’s CRA, has power to set the allocation criteria that lasts for five years. The 14th commission allocated 42 per cent of the national sharable revenue to go to its states. Therefore, each year its easier for the states to predict the funding that they will get from the sharable revenue. In South Africa, the Division of Revenue discussion has a focus on sectors and conditional grants. Changes in sector data each year determine how much is allocated to the provinces. In Kenya what we need is a broad criteria and framework that all players operate within. This is while appreciating that this is a political process and some of the decisions can be subjective. The absence of some sort of criteria especially on the base factor will mean that this season will remain one of disputes and stand offs. In the past this has led to the bill being passed up to six months behind schedule. We must avoid this walk in the dark in future. Writer is the Country Manager at International Budget Partnership Kenya.   