Improving conditions for workers should be one of our priorities as a nation. This should clearly be seen in the reduction of work-related accidents, improving work methods and recognition of workers’ rights, according to the occupational safety and health legal instruments. The OSH is a multidisciplinary field concerned with safety, health and the welfare of working people. The OSH ensures limited or no workplace accidents, injuries or deaths. This can only be achieved through following the OSH laws. The Central Organisation of Trade Unions-Kenya has been involved in aggressive research to identify vulnerable industries that are prone to occupational hazards. These include lack of proper personal protective equipment, poor infrastructure and any other condition that is likely to cause accidents. Cotu (K) remains at the forefront in advocating elimination of all forms of child labour. We have championed workers’ rights through social dialogue, tripartite setups, and the community, and pushed for the implementation of a decent work agenda. We continue to advocate OSH at the workplace through implementation of the Occupation Safety Act of 2007, especially in sectors where young people are employed. Cotu (K) has a Youth Council, which has committees in the counties that are involved in OSH activities and have been trained to oversight implementation of the OSH Act 2007 in workplaces. The council fights for the rights of young and vulnerable workers to ensure that workplaces are conducive for young people to work. The youths are also spearheading Decent Work campaigns. The OSH data is collected through various channels, including engaging shop floor representatives to get first-hand information. We also gather information from the general public/workers and through training /advocacy sessions. The workers are engaged in educational programmes, hence seminars and practical activities, where they are enlightened on the risks they are exposed to and the solutions. They are also told the authority to approach on certain issues. These sessions are guided by the OSH regulations, the International Labour Organization convention on OSH, and Sustainable Development Goal number eight on decent work and economic growth. Workers should be given opportunities to participate in policymaking and engage in OSH training seminars. Data collection tools should also be improved. From our research, young people aged 18-24 are more likely to have serious accidents at work than older adults when exposed to poor working conditions. They thus develop occupational diseases at a young age or later in life. Young people who are new at the workplace lack physical and psychological maturity. We shall work together with our partners towards ending all forms of child labour by 2025 according to the SDG number 8.7 and Vision 2030. We are also working towards attaining the ILO Convention 182 on eliminating all forms of child labour, especially in counties that still have high percentages such as Busia. We continue to demand the localisation of ILO Convention 138 on minimum age for admission to employment and work in all our economic sectors. Further, Cotu (K) calls for a strengthening of the Directorate of Occupational Safety and Health, through the Ministry of Labour, by ensuring adequate budget allocation and recruitment of more officers whose number is critically low. Finally, Cotu (K) is calling upon the government to ratify ILO Convention 155 of 1981, which is the basis of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Secretary general, Cotu (K)