Anyone advertising sex-enhancer drugs to stimulate sexual performance would be jailed for a year under a proposed Bill. The Pharmacy and Poisons (Amendment) Bill 2018 tabled in National Assembly on Wednesday also bans advertising products claiming to cure numerous sexual transmitted infections, such as gonorrhea. It also bans advertising cures for cancer, epilepsy and other conditions. The amendments are promoted by Health Committee chairperson Sabina Chege. If signed into law, this will deal a blow to the runaway herbal and supplements business. Although they sell items that resemble drugs and suggest powerful results, supplement makers — unlike conventional drug makers — are not obligated to prove the effectiveness or safety of any of their products. “No person shall take part in the publications of any advertisement, referring to a drug, medicine, medical appliances or similar article in terms, which in the opinion of the board are considered to be extravagant and to bear little or no relation to the pharmacological properties and action of the ingredients or components thereof,” the amendments read. Read: Mutua bans adverts that have strong sex and alcohol appeal The amendments also state that you cannot advertise the products if you are unable to support their scientific functioning. Other diseases for which alleged cures cannot be advertised are TB, leprosy, diabetes, dropsy, goitre, heart diseases, blindness and smallpox. This may also make it illegal to advertise sexual toys in Kenya, depending on interpretation. Also banned is advertising of abortion-inducing drugs. Those convicted can be jailed for one year or fined Sh20,000. Repeat offenders can be fined Sh30,000 or jailed for two years, or both. While the all-natural message is often appealing, researchers say the supplements are often spiked and contain unregulated versions of the pharmaceuticals they are supposed to replace. The amendments also seek to expand the definition of “drug” to include herbal products that claim to have medicinal values. This means they will now be regulated by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. Also Read:Film board bans 'pornographic' Durex, Trust Condom ads Click here for the latest political news