There are fears of fresh attacks in Kapedo after suspected Turkana bandits fatally shot an 80-year old man in Ameyan, Tiaty subcounty, on Sunday. Lonyangatepa Lo’kyateta’s death brings the death toll to 20 Pokot resident killed in a year amid Turkana and Pokot tribal clashes in Kapedo on the border of Baringo and Turkana counties. “We just woke up in the morning and found the body of the old man. We suspect he could have been killed by the bandits at night before they fled,” Pokot resident Yuda Losutan said yesterday. No livestock were stolen. The murder has led to the indefinite closure of Ameyan open air market. Bandits broke into shops at the trading centre on Tuesday last week and stole solar panels and mobile phones. “We are now left wondering if they are the same ones who returned and killed the man,” Losutan said. He urged security agencies to investigate. Tension is high on the Kapedo border. Earlier reports indicated the Turkanas had voewed to push away Pokots living around Kapedo to Loruk, the border of Tiaty and Baringo North subcounty. The incident happens barely a year after suspected Turkana bandits attacked, killed six people and injured three in the same area in April 2017. The retaliatory attacks happen after suspected armed Pokot bandits killed a Turkana resident driving away an unidentified number of animals at Lokori, leading towards Lomelo in Turkana South. “We counted the number to over 20 people so far killed by the armed Turkana bandits and yet the government is yet to act to calm the situation,” Losutan said. During the same week, Turkana residents allegedly carried out a retaliatory attack, killing five Pokots at Ameyan shopping centre bordering Kapedo. Witness Lomudang Domonyang said the armed Turkana bandits went to Kapedo carrying guns in sacks and sprayed bullets indiscriminately, killing five and injuring three. One woman was left nursing gunshots injuries on her shoulder. She was taken to Chemolingot Hospital in Tiaty subcounty. Contacted for comment, Baringo police commander Smallest Munyanzi confirmed the incident saying investigations are ongoing. He urged residents to remain calm as the government works to repulse the bandits and restore normalcy. Last week, county commissioner Henry Wafula said the government plans to hire and train more national police reservists to beef up security in the volatile areas.