City Hall, in its characteristic style, is racing against time to clear clogged drainages and prevent flooding just as the long rains begin. As usual, Nairobi is ill-prepared. The Meteorological department says the long rains begin in earnest today. Nairobi is one of the regions that will receive downpours from this week. Perennial flooding is blamed on Old and dilapidated drainage and sewers, illegal dumping of waste and building and encroachment on riverbanks. Some drains and sewers were built in the 1950s and 1960s. The population has expanded more than sixfold since. Yesterday, City Hall said it has intensified work to restore the drainages and is clearing illegal structures built on riverbanks to prepare for the rains. Estates with ongoing drain repairs include Buruburu, Umoja, Kariobangi, South C, Kibera and those along Kangundo Road. Transport and Public Works execution Mohamed Dagane yesterday said the county is cleaning the drains, rehabilitating them and clearing illegal structures on riparian land. He said the city and the ministry of Transport and Infrastructure are replacing 300mm-diameter drains with 450mm-600mm diameter pipes in Umoja estate. The work is part of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project. Dagane said they are focussing on watercourses, especially along roads, so water can flow freely and not overflow. Residents say they fear the worst. Some say they have yet to see any major repairs since Mach 15, when many parts of the city were flooded. “It may be worse because this time it will be long rains. I have not seen any work here. We are worried,” Baba Dogo resident Tom Mutinda said. Dagane said construction of major outfalls and rehabilitation of drainage is underway on Catherine Ndereba Road, Lang’ata South Road, Kayole Spine Road, Paw Paw Road South C, Mai Mahiu Road, Kawangware Box Culverts along Macharia Road, Kawangware 46-Muslim Primary Road and in Jonathan Ng’eno Estate. On March 15, many roads were impassable and homes flooded. In 2015, more than 10 people were killed by floods in several parts of the capital city.