For many Baringo South residents, the death of MP Grace Kipchoim might have shattered their dreams of a better life. Kipchoim had their interests at heart and planned to transform their lives. But when death seemed inevitably so near, she made her last wish that CDF cash be used wisely to transform the lives of “my people”. The legislator died of colon cancer on Friday at Nairobi Hospital aged 49. She had been receiving treatment for about two years. She was reelected in last year’s August 8 polls while in a hospital bed, garnering 10,300 votes against 10,184 for her closest challenger Charles Kamuren. Winning in absentia sent a clear message to politicians from the constituency that she was highly revered by residents. Emerging tops in a contest that included other six candidates was no mean feat. She beat the odds to secure a second term. But for her, this marked another opportunity to be “my people’s servant”. Kipchoim’s personal assistant Mary Chepkong’a said her death was devastating, but added that her wish be accomplished in her honour. “It’s with profound shock that we lost her. We have to console her family and ourselves and ensure prudent use of county resources,” she said. Chepkong’a said Kipchoim must have sensed her death because on April 10, after a long time, she summoned the constituency office and Constituency Development Fund staff to the hospital and advised them to take care of her constituents. In her last words to the officials, she said, “Now that I’m so sick and cannot get out of my hospital bed, I send you back to go and make good use of the office resources to better the lives of my people of Baringo South.” Despite her illness, she was concerned about residents’ plight to a fault — sometimes to her own detriment, the former aide said. She deplored the suffering of schoolchildren as insecurity took toll on residents. The compassionate Kipchoim planned to fast-track issuance of land titles to Mochongoi residents. “She used to shed tears and cry for her people, especially when insecurity was getting out of hand as armed bandits from the neighbouring community staged frequent attacks,” Chepkong’a said. Water shortage was another problem the legislator planned to fix. Kipchoim’s sister Christen has been by her side in hospital. Yesterday she was overwhelmed in grief, only saying, “My sister had really been so sick.” Residents had been worried about Kipchoim’s condition. Even political rival Kamuren who was aggrieved with the election outcome decided not to move to court this time after he lost the petition he filed against her in 2013. “I decided to leave everything to God, although I was beaten up by police on Election Day before the vote” was rigged,” he had said.