UN Habitat executive
director Maimunah Sharif has denied reports that there is a plan to split split UN Habitat's functions and shift its global headquarters from Gigiri, Nairobi to Addis Ababa. The newly appointed
executive director confirmed that the UN General Assembly in December,
last year adopted a resolution to strengthen UN Habitat to ensure it
achieves its goal of promoting sustainable human settlement
development in the wake of global urbanisation. “To complement the
work of the open-ended working group, the new executive director of
UN Habitat, Madam Maimunah Mohd Sharif has embarked on efforts to
strengthen UN Habitat internally in ways that will build trust, to
improve further good governance in terms of competency,
accountability, transparency, efficiency, effectiveness and
credibility,” Sharif said in a statement. Read: Plans on to break UN Habitat office in Nairobi “I have made my commitment to the Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs Ambassador Monica Juma and the CS of Infrastructure James Macharia that UN-Habitat is ready to offer its expertise to support the government to achieve its Big Four agenda, in particular, the one of availing one million houses to low income groups,” the UN Habitat executive director held. Proposals by a UN panel appointed last year included the creation of a parallel agency that was to be named UN Urban. The panel suggested that the new agency be headquartered in New York, and that it deal with challenges of urbanisation. It also proposed that UN Habitat's headquarters be moved to Addis Ababa, to allow it exhaustively utilise United Nations Economic Commission for Africa's extensive research and analysis of regional issues. But Sharif has now stated that the push to improve UN Habitat is on course and that the agency has invited strategic partners to help it achieve its goals. “What this means is that UN-Habitat will continue to discharge its mandate from its Nairobi headquarters as a focal point in the UN system for human settlement issues including urbanisation,” Sharif added. “This will
increase the impact and scale of UN-Habitat’s work in building a
better quality of life for everyone in cities and other human
settlements and in mobilizing resources to facilitate this work, in
line with the New Urban Agenda and achievement of sustainable
development goals,” she added. Sharif added that UN
Habitat has reached out to Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma to find out
how it can help the government achieve its plan to provide one
million low cost houses, something that Uhuru has promised to do
before his second term expires in August 2022.  Click here for the latest political news 