Retired President Daniel arap Moi has asked leaders not to exaggerate small political misunderstandings. In a short clip of his talks with Opposition leader Raila Odinga, Moi tells him that only unity will spearhead Kenya's agenda. Raila notes that politicians have already started campaigning for the 2022 general election. "Hao washaaanza kuangalia 2022 (They are already looking at 2022) but I am asking them to put the country together first and speak in one voice," he says. Raila had refused to accept President Uhuru Kenyatta's legitimacy after last year's disputed election but later changed his mind. He said he agreed to a "painful handshake" for the sake of national healing, reconciliation, peace, unity and development. In his response to the ODM leader, the former President notes that Kenya can only move forward if leaders unite despite their political affiliations. "Don't create a mountain from small misunderstandings. You must be united and this must be led by [the President]," he says. Raila visited Moi at his Kabarak home on April 12, following his treatment at a hospital in Israel. He was with politicians including Mvita MP Abdulswamwad Shariff and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri. The ODM boss and the former President discussed the state of the nation during the visit that lasted more than an hour. Read: Raila visits Moi at his Kabarak home, talk on state of Kenyan nation In his response to visits to Moi's home, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said politicians should not expect to use this as a campaign tool for the 2022 election. Duale said the March 9 handshake between Raila and Uhuru will have little impact on the next presidential election. "Those visiting Mzee Moi are allowed to go and tell him 'pole (sorry)' because he served us for 24 years. But those who intend to be in the 2022 race ... you don't need such visits ... face we who are on the other side," he said. Details: Visiting Moi won't help you in 2022, Duale tells 'excited' politicians Click here for the latest political news