The battle on whether Court of Appeal Judge Mohammed Warsame will be vetted by Parliament has taken a new twist. A petitioner moved to court to stop his swearing in as a JSC member. This comes barely two weeks after the Law Society of Kenya sued Parliament for insisting on vetting Warsame after he was voted in by the Court of Appeal judges. Samuel Njuguna wants the court to restrain President Uhuru Kenyatta from appointing or swearing justice Warsame into office before he is approved by Parliament, pending hearing of the petition. He also wants Warsame barred from taking oath of office and assuming the position of the representative of the Court of Appeal in the JSC. Njuguna says it is necessary to stop Warsame’s appointment until the court gives an interpretation of the law applicable to the appointment of the JSC members of JSC. This will clear uncertainty in public institutions. “The failure and defiance by Warsame to go through approval by the National Assembly amounts to contravention, or a threatened contravention, of the Constitution,” the petition reads. Njuguna said it is necessary to ensure certainty of the law in respect to the Constitution, identification of nominees, approval and appointment to constitutional commissions to inspire Kenyans’ confidence in the commissions. The petitioner says while leadership in Parliament and the executive insists that the JSC nominees must go through parliamentary approval, JSC members say the parliamentary approval for JSC commissioners is unconstitutional. Njuguna says he is seeking the court’s interpretation of the law in relation to commissions’ establishment and composition. He adds that the JSC is not superior to other commissions and such a violation of the Constitution cannot be allowed. Njuguna said the approval by Parliament to vet Warsame should not be seen as a demeaning act,but promotion of inclusivity and national cohesion. Justice Roselyne Aburili issued temporary orders restraining Parliament from vetting or summoning Warsame until the case is heard.