The senior police officer who drowned together with his younger brother on the night of April 8 were buried on Saturday at Uvilani village in Makueni County. Charles Kyale Mwau and his younger brother Kimuyu Mwau drowned in river Kaluku on the Sultan Hamud-Kasikeu road while on their way home in Kasikeu, Mukaa sub-county. His brother worked for SGA security firm at the Safaricom headquarters. Read: Makueni cop, his brother drown after floodwaters sweep away car President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogized the former Commandant of Diplomatic Police Unit as a dedicated officer. "The country has lost a dedicated servant who was dedicated to his duties as a police officer," read part of the president's message. Uhuru's condolence message was read by Makueni county commissioner Maalim Mohammed during a solemn mass conducted at Kasikeu Boys Secondary School in Kilome. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Deputy Inspector of Police Larry Kieng were among thousands of mourners who attended the funeral. Kieng represented Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. Mwau, a father of six, was the head of the elite presidential unit which was in charge of the security detail for Musyoka when he was Vice President. Kalonzo praised Mwau as a dedicated public officer who carried his duties with dedication, diligence, and utmost respect, attributes that earned him successive promotions. “Officer Mwau was attached to me at the rank of Inspector, but before I left office, he had already risen to the rank of Senior Superintended of Police, proving that hard work pays,” he said. Local leaders the officer saying he had assisted in the fight against rampant sand harvesting in the area. "Even though he was not assigned duties in this area, Mwau was resourceful to the water and environment department of Makueni county government in fighting sand harvesting when I was in charge of the department,” Makueni county assembly speaker Douglas Mbilu said. His sentiments were echoed by Makueni Woman representative Rose Museo who urged the locals to emulate Mwau and protect the environment. Other leaders who attended the ceremony are Makueni Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau, Kilome MP Thaddeus Nzambia and Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti).  Click here for the latest political news