Embattled IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba suffered a major setback on Friday after the Labour and Employment Relations Court upheld the decision to send him on compulsory leave. Justice Steve Radido declined to reinstate Chiloba saying he will not suffer any prejudice as he will still earn his salary. “During the three months compulsory leave, there’s no suggestion that Chiloba will be deprived of his salary or remuneration,” Radido ruled. The judge noted the petition shows there is a complex clash between Chiloba and some IEBC commissioners and he needs to hear both parties before issuing any orders to the CEO. He directed that the respondents — the commission and the six commissioners — file their responses to the petition and appear before him on May 7 for the hearing. Chiloba had gone to court on Thursday to have his compulsory leave lifted, arguing it was illegal and unprocedural. He wanted the court to restrain and prohibit the commission from interfering with his work and compensate him for the torture and adverse publicity he had suffered. He said the action was unlawful as only two of five commissioners had made the decision, short of the required quorum and without giving him a hearing. Read:IEBC crisis: Chiloba sues Chebukati over 'illegal suspension' Also Read:CEO Chiloba suspended, IEBC in chaos Resolutions of the commission require approval of four of the seven commissioners. However, since Roselyn Akombe’s resignation last October, the commission has operated with six. One commissioner - Margaret Mwachanya - did not attend the meeting, while vice chairperson Connie Maina and Paul Kurgat left in protest. Chairman Wafula Chebukati and two other commissioners - Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye - resolved to send Chiloba on compulsory leave to facilitate an audit of “all major procurements relating to the 2017 General and fresh presidential elections”. Chiloba and his deputy Hussein Marjan were asked to leave the meeting as soon as the audit report was circulated. When the matter came up for hearing, Njeru Kanyamba, the secretary general of the Kenya Independent Commissions Workers Union, applied to be enjoined as an interested party. The commission asked for seven days to file its response. Radido observed that the “dispute receals a “complex clash between the powers of an employer as an employer under the common law and constitutional and statitory protections afforded public officers.” Click here for the latest political news   