The Auditor General has raised questions on unsupported expenditure by a number of public entities, raising fears taxpayers may have lost millions of shillings. In his audit report for 2015-16, Edward Ouko unearthed massive irregularities, threatening the survival of some corporations. At the Geothermal Development Company, taxpayers risk losing out after a contractor demanded more than Sh1 billion in damages after the public enterprise terminated a contract. The contractor wanted Sh13.5 million for work done and a further Sh1 billion on account of loss of revenue on 24 rig moves. Must read : Ouko declares KHN board unconstitutional for lack of regional balance The GDC had in 2012, signed a contract with Bonfide Clearing and Forwarding Ltd to move geothermal drilling rigs, but the company cancelled the tender in June 2016. In his report, Ouko flagged the issue, saying it had not been possible to ascertain the extent of the liability that may arise as a result of the claim on termination of the contract. In a turn of events that could cost the taxpayer more, the contractor moved to court in February, seeking Sh3.3 billion in compensation for the termination of the tender. The amount is twice as much as the initial cost of the contract, which was Sh1.7 billion. The Auditor General has warned that the Agricultural Development Corporation is operating on a Sh891.8 million negative capital, making the company technically insolvent. Ouko revealed that taxpayers have lost Sh24.4 million through fake bank deposit slips in connection with the purchase of 40,000 bags of imported fertiliser. He has heaped blame on the management of the corporation’s Eldoret depot, where staff issued out fertiliser to farmers before confirming banking slips. Also questioned is Sh67.8 million illegally diverted from funding two development projects to recurrent costs, without authority from the national government. In the report, grants amounting to Sh34.4 million in respect to the corporation’s land subsidiary cannot be accounted for. The auditor has also unearthed a saga in which the management of the Agricultural Finance Corporation advanced loans amounting to Sh22.6 million using irregular title deeds. “The recovery of Sh22,661,000 is doubtful,” Ouko says in his report. According to the report, AFC is yet to recover Sh35.8 million lost through irregular transactions. “The case is still in court and any provision for the loss and disclosure that would have been necessary in relation to this uncertainty have not been incorporated in this financial statement,” Ouko’s report says.  LACK OF BALANCE At Kenyatta University, the auditor has revealed how one community dominates top management positions. Without naming the tribe, the auditor says the community controls 37 per cent of the senate slots and 45 per cent of the senior university management positions. This, Ouko says, violates the cohesion and integration law that requires public entities to ensure their staff represent the diversity of the people of Kenya. Also read : Ouko team pokes holes on KNH Sh6.9m lunch expenses for guards Worse still, the same community accounted for 38 per cent of the academic staff and 39 per cent of non-teaching staff. “It was also observed that out of the 49 teaching staff and 72 non-teaching staff recruited during the year, 24.5 per cent and 27.8 percent, respectively, were from the same ethnic community,” says Ouko. As a result, the university failed to improve staff ethnic balance during the year under review.” Click here for the latest political news