Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has said he will not allow senior government officials to fan tribal wars between him and members of the Kikuyu community. A furious Sonko, who took a swipe at the media at a public event outside City Hall, condemned an article published in one of the dailies which appeared to focus on his leadership style. This came as MCAs defended the the city boss against criticism on his style of leadership. Led majority chief whip Mwaura Chege, the ward representatives said the governor should be judged and criticised based on his performance and not leadership style. “If there is an issue with the management style of the governor, I think it should be based on how we are getting results from the county. It should be on service delivery,” Chege said. Sonko claimed Interior PS Karanja Kibicho is working with unidentified leaders from the Kikuyu community to try and label him as a hurdle to the well-being of Kikuyus in the city. He further claimed Kibicho is working with a few individuals in the media to tarnish his record and label him as unfit to lead Nairobi.  NOT NEGLECTED Kibicho had last week denied he was fighting the governor. "He is the same person who has been fighting me since campaign time and now thinks he can threaten me by putting me at a crossroads with members of the Kikuyu community,” Sonko said. He dismissed allegations he is targeting the community in the unending dismissal of staff at City Hall, noting that his intention is to weed out the corrupt and cartels. "I have members from the Kikuyu community working at higher level in my administration and no one should tell lies out there that I have neglected them," Sonko said. The governor also accused Starehe MP Maina Kamanda of engaging in secret plans to sabotage his work. He claimed he helped Kamanda by employing ousted Finance executive Danvas Makori who is allegedly his son-in-law. Kamanda did not return our calls to respond to the claims. Sonko urged the media to stop focussing on his personal life and style of leadership and instead highlight key development projects his administration is doing. “We are renovating roads, improving the standards of our health facilities, cleaning the City daily and many other things that they will never highlight.” Sonko has been battling claims his working relationship with senior staff at City Hall is trustless.