Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti suspended 309 workers on Monday after an audit revealed they were hired in an irregular manner. County Payroll Manger Joseph Omondi was also suspended for allegedly authorising payments to people who did not deserve it. Awiti noted the irregular payments culminated in the loss of funds. “The audit revealed serious misuse of funds. This cannot be entertained anymore. We’re sending them home to pave way for further investigations,” Awiti told reporters in his office after meeting his Cabinet. The county formed a task force that looked into 640 employees from January. Their salary payments were stopped during the probe headed by  Deputy County Secretary James Mokaya. “The 227 workers whose contracts are validated by the audit will be paid the salaries they missed,” Awiti said. The Governor said the audit found the county had been paying 104 ghost workers. “The ghost workers were unable to present their academic letters to the task force, besides failing to respond to their questions," he said. The task force also reported that169 workers lacked appointment letters and could not explain how their names ended up in the payroll. Twenty six employees were serving in positions that required more academic credentials than they had. Other anomalies included the use of forged academic documents. Awiti, who addressed the press flanked by Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata and members of his Cabinet, said all departments were affected. “We realised there was a bloated wage bill and the county had been spending 45 per cent of its revenue on salaries against the required 35 per cent as stipulated in Public Finance Management Act,” he said, adding it had been difficult to implement projects. “We’re streamlining the blotted payroll to ensure we achieve the desired development goals for the people Homa Bay." The Cabinet resolved to form another task force to investigate disparities in salaries and wages earned by employees in the area. “Some people earn salaries which are higher than [the stipulations of] their job groups. This must also be investigated and harmonisation done," the county boss said. Noting the suspensions were part of measures against corruption perpetrated by county officials, Orata warned residents against politicising them. “This action has been taken for the well-being of residents. Nobody should politicise it," he said. Related: Homa Bay MCAs want anti-graft agency to probe misuse of funds Click here for the latest political news