Kenyans have already been down that tired and very murky road. We rejected the Bomas draft because it had too many levels of government. At the final writing of the Constitution, people questioned too many tiers of government. It was too convoluted, expensive and wasn't serving the people. It didn't reflect their wishes to bring governance and decision-making closer. There was no legal basis to accommodate all those levels of government. The basis for 47 counties was the Provinces and Districts Act of 1992. Anything without legal basis or documented policy direction is pure politics and that's what Raila's proposal is. He proposes that amendment for very selfish reasons. It's about how they as losers in a democratic process can be accommodated. It's not even about losers this time, but people who absconded the election and attempted to cause chaos and disrupt a legal process. It's about accommodating them. This spells doom. We must accept there are consequences to participating in a process. It's not always about 'my' personal interest. This is backward politics. What these guys should be pushing for is accountability of the Equalisation Fund so we are able to bring all counties on par with each other, so all basic services are present at all constituencies. After that we can debate reducing counties because there is a sunset period of 20 years in Article 204 about equalising. That's the politics we should be playing. Not the politics of saying that even before we equalise the people of Kenya, let's take back what they are already enjoying. A government is already in place, so let's accept it despite misgivings and let's demand it delivers on its promises. That's better than saying, "Let's be disruptive and find a way we can be included forever." This only puts the country in politicking mode forever. The amendments proposed will even triple the current arrangement. With 47 counties, it's assured resources go to the 47 units equitably. It may not be equal but equitable. You get what you deserve based on your needs. The writer was secretary of Committee of Experts that drafted the 2010 Constitution.  Click here for the latest political news