SUCCESSES  March 12: Court declares unconstitutional KRA import duty on soft drinks, bottled water and cosmetics; no public participation. February 16, 2017: IEBC extends mass voter registration by three days following Omtatah petition to keep thousands of citizens from being locked out. February 18, 2017: Court allows Auditor General to scrutinise KDF and security spending; quashes secrecy amendments; blocks creation of oversight committee to monitor Auditor. July 14, 2017: Court revokes five provisions of the Elections Act and four of the County Government Act that limited citizens’ power to recall MPs, governors for mismanagement. June 2017: Court quashes amendments clipping Communications Authority’s power to monitor monopoly in the sector. May 13, 2013: Court rules KenGen breached rights of Nairobi Law Monthly by refusing to furnish information on geothermal contracts the parastatal entered into. April 20, 2017: Court rules political parties bound by two thirds gender rule. April 19, 2016: Court declares Penal Code Section 29 unconstitutional, too broad. It criminalised “misuse of communications device”. Less than 10 months later, court throws out Section 194, criminalising aspects of libel and defamation. February 23, 2015: Five High Court judges quash 8 new laws barring journalists from publishing certain information without police authority, limiting number of refugees permitted; increasing powers of intelligence agencies and widening definition of terrorism.  FAILURES May 12, 2017: Court dismisses petition to revoke Isaac Lenaola’s appointment to SC. It argued 2/3 rule violated, seat should to to woman. August 17, 2015: Court declines to hear case to clip courts’ powers to quash laws where constitutional amendment required. Says High Court has no authority to determine matter. November 24, 2014: Court dismisses petition to stop SGR construction, says evidentiary documents obtained ‘contrary to law’. Petitioner cited single-sourced Chinese contract, irregularities.  PROGRESSING Omtatah vs KRA (2014): Petitioner says taxman lax in collecting Sh2bn from Kingsway Tyres. EACC had called for investigation. Katiba vs AG (2018): Lobby sues to stop President’s nomination of Olive Mugenda, Felix Koskei and Patrick Gichohi to the JSC. Argues no transparency in nominations. Omtatah vs KR, AG, CRBC: Petitioner seeks to stop allocation of land within Nairobi National Park for SGR construction. LSK vs IRA: Lawyers want to court to clip Insurance Regulatory Authority and stop it from appointing receiver managers for unstable firms. Cites abuse of power, failures to revive firms. Adrian Kamotho Njenga vs Kenha, Kura, Kerra County Governments: Wants public toilets built along major roads.