Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi has written a memorandum of understanding to the MCAs requesting them to rescind their decision to cut flagship projects funds. Kiraitu argues that if the amendments they (MCAs) made on the 2017/2018 physical Strategy Paper succeeds they will deal big blow to his development agenda. While reading the memorandum to the MCAs at the Assembly chambers on Wednesday, Speaker Joseph Kaberia noted that the governor was disgruntled by the slashing of some funds in his office, MYS, scrapping of milk programme among others. "Sh.91 million reduction from office of the governor will affect functions, such as maintenance, travel, advertising, governor's Press and communication. We introduced milk programme to ECDE learners to eradicate malnutrition, ensure no parent is forced to pay levies and create a friendly learning school environment. MYS is to transform Meru youths mindset, work ethics and give them training to establish their own businesses," Kaberia read the memorandum. This means a motion will be introduced in the Assembly chambers to debate whether to adopt the Physical strategy paper as it was or they re-approve and adopt to their amendments in the paper. But to note is that if the motion to adopt the physical strategy paper as it is, fails to garner the required support, they will end up into voting and in case of voting they (MCAs) must meet a threshold of not less 45 supporting their earlier amendments. When launching the Meru Youths Service, Kiraitu scoffed at MCAs for slashing the Sh50 million allocation meant for the Meru Youth Service (MYS). Kiraitu said he will seek donor funding for his flagship project to proceed as planned at his initial cost of Sh100 million. "I have heard that they [slashed the allocation] but I am not discouraged. My dream to make a positive difference in our youths' lives must come true," he said at Meru School on Saturday when he commissioned the training of 900 youths. "I will look for international funding to ensure the project does not fail. There are people who have pledged to support it." On Thursday last week, Meru MCAs passed major amendments to the county’s Sh10.1 billion budget for 2018-19, deducting Sh91 million from the office of the Governor. They also deducted Sh176 million from the finance department and Sh10 million from the public service and environment dockets. They ward representatives scrapped the award of a Sh101.4 million tender to Meru Dairy Union, effectively doing away with Kiraitu’s flagship free milk programme. The Assembly also denied funding for the county Investment and Development Corporation and the Microfinance Corporation. Kiraitu said the youths will be involved in community development initiatives once they acquire necessary kills. He said he will seek 1,000 hectares of land for farming by them and that those who partner in the MYS will share the income they generate. "You will be involved in community health sensitisation services. We want you to go door to door and educate people on the NHIF," he told them. "You will also be involved in the new programme of dust free urban areas and towns. Some of you will go for further training to be professional plumbers, electricians and masons. I want a MYS band to be entertaining us." The county boss noted that the goal is to liberate youths from dependency, poverty, apathy and hopelessness. "Many see Kenyan youths as a burden but I see them as a solution. Youths are the strength, power and hope of Meru," Kiraitu said. He added: "The greatest leader in the world was Jesus Christ. He died aged 33 but everyone knows and talks about him. He announced that the county will host an international conference organised by the UN Habitat and the MYS from May 2 to 4.