Tourism CS Najib Balala has lauded KWS Ranger Philip Wesa for hosting a student from Joyland special school -Kisumu on his back to catch a glimpse of the magnificent Chania falls. Balala in a statement yesterday said Wesa's act is an "acts of altruistic sacrifice and a great show of humility that give KWS, our disciplined forces and indeed our great Nation, the right image". "We are absolutely proud of officer Wesa and highly recognised his efforts, plus the positive effect it had on Deborah, her fellow students, teachers and the entire country,"Balala said. Following Wesa's gesture, Balala has asked KWS management to favourably consider promoting him "as we explore other avenues of sufficiently rewarding him for his rare and very humane action, which is quite rare in this day and age". Wesa in photos shared in Social Media on Tuesday fulfilled disabled Deborah Nyaboke’s dream of visiting the Aberdare National Park and viewing the Chania Falls.  KWS ranger Philip Wesa and Deborah Nyaboke. COURTESY He carried her on his back during her school’s tour of the park. Nyaboke could not climb the hill because of her condition. Balala urged other KWS and other disciplined officers to emulate Philip’s attitude and actions, in order to improve service delivery to the people. "Once again, congratulations to Ranger Philip Wesa for reminding us that we all exist to serve others, especially the less fortunate in our society," he said.  KWS ranger Philip Wesa carrying Deborah Nyaboke. COURTESY Balala is in Argentina attending the World Travel and Tourism Council Global Summit in Buenos Aires from 17-20 April 2018. KWS also lauded Wesa. "Join us in honoring our @kwskenya selfless ranger Philip Wesa who went out of his way and hoisted a student from Joyland special school -Kisumu on his back to catch a glimpse of the magnificent Chania falls,"KWS said in its Twitter account. Balala was a panellist in one of the sessions themed readiness, resilience and recovery, with a special focus on Planning for and Managing a crisis in tourism  Click here for the latest political news