County Finance officers will no longer travel to Nairobi to place requests with the Controller of Budget for the release of funds. The Controller of Budget, Agnes Odhiambo, on Friday said transactions for all the county governments will be automated by July. This will reduce wastage of public funds. The plan to automate county transactions will be a reprieve to county finance officers. They will place requests online for Odhiambo to authorise the National Treasury to release funds. The counties will save thousands of shillings officers spent on fare and accommodation in Nairobi. Such expenditure has raised queries during past county audits. “The financial statements were incomplete. Some transactions are conducted outside the procurement and financial laws,” Odhiambo said. She spoke at the fifth Devolution Conference on Thursday in Kakamega county during a plenary session. It sought to examine the roles of government institutions in funding counties sufficiently. “We will automate all county transactions to the Integrated Financial Management Information System by July,” Odhiambo said. The process is essential in managing pending bills in counties, now amounting to Sh99 billion. Odhiambo said the delay by counties to pass supplementary budgets hurts procurement timelines, contributing to pending bills. “We are advising counties to ensure supplementary budgets are passed in time. Overstating local revenue targets also contributes to pending bills,” she added. Commission on Revenue Allocation chairperson Jane Kiringai said loopholes in administrative systems of finances cause poor revenue collection in counties. “There are big issues in the manner revenue is collected, even through the automated system. Loopholes in the administrative systems should be looked into,” Kiringai said. The government seeks to amend the Division of Revenue Act 2018-19 for counties to get less funds. The governors at the conference attended by more than 6,000 delegates were asked to support the national government’s plan to review budgets. The state says the move is prompted by a shortfall of revenue caused by the Kenya Revenue Authority’s failure to meet its targets. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr vowed to oppose the state’s plot to review the counties’ budget. Click here for the latest political news