City Hall has partnered with Kenya Railways to build five railway stations to decongest roads. The new stations are being built in Dandora, Mwiki, Makadara, Githurai 45 and Ruiru. They will complement the existing ones — Kibera, Imara Daima, Syokimau and Makadara. The project is being funded by the World Bank under the Nairobi Metropolitan Service Improvement Programme. Construction of the stations is going on. It is not clear how much will be spent on construction. More coaches will be added to the trains that currently serve the city. Transport executive Mohamed Dagane yesterday said the project is expected to take between five and six months. “The frequency of trains is always in the morning and evening. If we can increase this, then we will be able to transport between 30,000 and 40,000 people per day,” Dagane said. The railway lines and the trains will also be improved and their frequency increased so that more residents can use railway transport. “We have seen how crafty this is, people hang on the wagons because they do not want to be left. The trains are cheaper and they don’t want to waste time in the traffic jams. That is why most people hang on them,” Dagane said. “If say, after two hours you know a train will pass, then Kenyans will reorganise themselves. This will be safer, cheaper and more convenient.” Dagane said matatus will be ferrying passengers to the railway stations, where they will board the trains to town. “If we increase the frequency of the trains and reach more areas, we would be able to do away with matatus in the long run,” he said. The county has given matatus 10 days to leave the city centre. They have until Thursday to leave. Further, next month the government is set to introduce at least 50 high-capacity buses, each carrying 100 passengers. The county and the Kenya National Highways Authority have introduced Bus Rapid Transport lanes on the Thika Superhighway and Mombasa Road. These lanes will be used by the high-capacity buses. The government has also deployed 27 National Youth Service commuter buses to reduce transport costs and reduce congestion. Fifty more buses are to be added in two months. They charge a flat Sh20 fare. The government introduced the NYS commuter buses last month through its Okoa Abiria Initiative. The city loses an estimated Sh50 billion annually. In 2016, the county attempted to eliminate six roundabouts on Uhuru Highway and Waiyaki Way to decongest the stretch, but the move failed. Click here for the latest political news