ANC leader Muslia Mudavadi yesterday suffered a major setback after the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal annulled the appointment of Barrack Muluka as the party’s secretary general. Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi, who is considered a rebel alongside Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, was declared the bona fide secretary general until lawful elections are held to replace him. Mudavadi said he will appeal the decision and termed it “adventurous”. The party said the tribunal ignored the party’s evidence and relied on hearsay. “It is with conviction that justice will prevail that the party has instructed its legal team to appeal,” ANC chairman Kelvin Lunani said. The development deepens the wrangles within the party. Osotsi welcomed the ruling. He said he is committed to serve. The legislator said it was historic and brings an end to the management of political parties as private entities. “This ruling proves fidelity to the law and the Constitution. No political party will ever be run as an individual property,” Osotsi said at a press conference. Last Sunday, Mudavadi said in an interview with KTN that Muluka was the party’s secretary general and dismissed fears there were wrangles over the position. Some party officials had wanted Osotsi and Malala kicked out for “disrespecting” Mudavadi. But in a judgment read by PPDT chairman Kyalo Mbobu, members Hassan Abdi and Desma Nungo said the decision by ANC to appoint Muluka was irregular, null and void. The tribunal ruled that the resignation of Ososti was not voluntary as claimed by the party, and there was no vacancy for the position. “There was no basis for the appointment of Muluka to the position of SG in the first place,” it said. The team looked at the notice dated October 4 last year, which convened an ANC meeting and the minutes of October 12. The agenda for the meeting as captured in the notice stated the filling of the vacant positions of secretary general and executive director, but the minutes did not cover that, they said. “It follows, therefore, that the deliberations in the meeting went beyond the stated agenda contrary to the provision of the party constitution,” the tribunal ruled. It was also of the view that there was a deliberate move on the part of ANC to conceal the real intention of the meeting, contrary to the party’s guiding principles and core values enshrined in its constitution. Read:Mudavadi's party rejects Godfrey Osotsi, says tribunal relied on hearsay The office of the secretary general is a substantive national office, it said, agreeing with Osotsi that Muluka’s appointment was insensitive to party members’ legitimate expectation to participate in the decision making. “A declaration is hereby issued that the ANC special National Executive meeting held on October 12 2017 and all resolutions and consequential actions and decision taken as a result were irregular, illegal, null and void,” the PPDT said. In a complaint filed at the tribunal, ANC members Angela Wambura and Ibrahim Memba had challenged the appointment of Muluka. They argued the party leadership had on diverse dates from last year made numerous decisions affecting the party in blatant disregard of the provisions of the party constitution and the law. They said Osotsi was the party SG and there was no vacancy in the office to warrant Muluka’s appointment. The party should not have appointed Muluka in a Special NEC meeting but should have instead used the National Delegates Convention, the two said. In response ANC, through an affidavit filed by Mudavadi had said Osotsi had voluntarily resigned as the SG after being nominated to parliament and so the position was vacant. The party also defended their position to appoint Muluka, saying Ososti had promised to resign if his nomination as an MP went through, to allow another person to take over. Click here for the latest political news