The Kerio Valley region has not reported any incident of banditry attacks in the last one month. Governor Alex Tolgos has said security and peace have been restored after the government deployed adequate officers, which has been enhanced by involvement of communities in peace efforts. Tolgos said leaders from counties in the region are discussing how to sustain the security situation through the implementation of development projects. The governor said joint community projects will ensure sustain the prevailing security situation. “We are very happy that the situation has improved in the Kerio Valley, and we are now dealing with strategies on how to ensure that the current peaceful environment is sustained,” Tolgos said. He spoke after the leaders from the county met in Eldoret on Monday to discuss the security situation in the area, where more than 160 people were killed by bandits between June and February this year. The governor said county leaders from the affected counties will visit the region to discuss the peace plans with the local communities. “With peace, the environment becomes conducive for investment and as counties, we are already in the process of restarting most of the projects that stalled in the Kerio Valley”, said Tolgos. More than 5,000 boys and girls have abandoned education in Kerio Valley to effects of banditry in the region. Elgeyo Marakwet Woman representative Jane Chebaibai said although calm has returned to the region, the impact of the banditry had negatively affected education. MCAs have since launched a campaign to strengthen peace reconciliation among communities. “We will mobilize our people so that they resume normal life and also ensure all the children, who had dropped out of school, resume learning," Chebaibai said. Keiyo North MP Julius Murgor and his Keiyo South counterpart Daniel Rono said there was need to create employment and business opportunities for local communities so that youths are not lured into banditry. All schools in the region are expected to resume learning on Monday for the second term, with improved security. Last month, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i directed that all the schools be provided with one armed security officer round the clock.