Parliament has given the Kenya Ferry Services a clean bill of health despite reports saying the management has failed to properly manage the ferries at the Likoni crossing channel. National Assembly transport committee chair David Pkosing on Saturday said the KFS management is being targeted for political scores. “We found a very good system. This is against the political backdrop we were hearing. Let us not bring politics into people’s lives,”he said. The Pokot South MP said KFS is not a mere transport parastatal but a crucial security installation which plays a crucial part in the security of the country. “It is about people’s lives. So I urge people, before they enter into this discussion of punching holes into a security system, that is dangerous to our own country and our own people,” the Pokot South MP said. Pkosing was speaking after a meeting with KFS officials at the KFS offices. The committee was on a fact finding mission after reports revealed there have been frequent breakdown of the ferries leading to crisis after crisis. The reports, the latest of which came out on Saturday, the very day the MPs were on a fact finding mission at the facility, said that the breakdown of the ferries have had a negative effect on both the tourism and transport sectors. This has resulted to diplomatic friction between Kenya and other countries which are always quick to issue travel advisories whenever such reports arise. However, Pkosing said all the ferries are usable adding that the KFS should not be used to settle political scores. "If there are issues of maintenance, this ferry (MV Jambo) has a two-year warranty. We want to confirm to the people of Kenya that whatever you hear, those are just stories and politics,” he said. This was music to the ears of KFS managing director Bakari Goa who is under pressure from a section of Coast MPs. The Star has learnt there is a secret push by a section of MPs from the region, led by an MP from Kwale, to have Goa ousted. The Transport committee however has backed Goa and wants him to stay saying he has considerably improved the services at the ferry. On average, about 300,000 people and 6,000 vehicles are transported across the channel using the ferries daily. Pkosing said new systems will be installed at the crossing channel to further ease congestion. The Pokot South MP said the KFS is not a mere transport parastatal but a crucial security installation which plays a crucial part in the security of the country. “It is about people’s lives. So I urge people, before they enter into this discussion of punching holes into a security system, that is dangerous to our own country and our own people,” the MP said. The committee was on a fact finding mission after reports that there have been frequent breakdown of the ferries leading to crisis after crisis. The reports, the latest of which came out on Saturday, the very day the MPs were on a fact finding mission at the facility, have had a negative effect on both the tourism and transport sectors. The reports have also caused diplomatic friction between Kenya and other countries which are always quick to issue travel advisories whenever such reports arise. On Saturday, Pkosing said the KFS should not be used to settle political scores. “We have had the opportunity to use the new MV Jambo. We are happy with its operations,” said Pkosing. There were four ferries operating on Saturday as the MPs toured the facility contrary to reports that only two of the six ferries are operational. Pkosing said all the ferries are usable “If there are issues of maintenance, this ferry (MV Jambo) has a two-year warranty. We want to confirm to the people of Kenya that whatever you hear, those are just stories and politics,” Pkosing said. “Take politics outside of ferry. These people only want to install fear,” he said. This was music to the ears of KFS managing director Bakari Goa who is under pressure from a section of Coast MPs. The Star has learnt there is a secret push by a section of MPs from the region, led by an MP from Kwale, to have Goa ousted. The Transport committee however has backed Goa and wants him to stay saying he has considerably improved the services at the ferry. On average, about 300,000 people and 6,000 vehicles are transported across the channel using the ferries daily. Pkosing said new systems will be installed at the crossing channel to further ease congestion. He said MV Safari, another new ferry, will soon arrive from Turkey where its construction has been interfered with by a court case filed in Kenya. The government plans to build a bridge install cable cars across the channel. This will further ease congestion at the channel. The committee allayed fears that commuters will start paying for ferry services. Pkosing said the service will remain free of charge. “That will not change. The people of Mombasa should not get worried that somebody is coming to build some things to charge people,” the MP said.