The government was yesterday urged not to allow importation of talent which has no moral values to the youths. Right@Home Rehabilitation centre director Gladys Chania said the trend of musical artists imported to perform in the country is wanting since most do not portray good values which in turn youths emulate their bad habits. "Kenyans before we import talents, we have better artists in this country and we haven't exhausted them," she said. This follows the performance by American rapper, Rick Ross alongside other Kenyan artists on Saturday night at the Carnivore Grounds in Nairobi. Chania, who is also a psychologist said, "We don't need this kind of artists coming to milk our youths hard-earned money infecting them with bad dressing and uncultured cues. Let's have Kenyans and if we have to import, import the best for our youth". Speaking in Kiambu, Chania also said the role of parenting is essential and there is need to mentor the youth towards what's culturally acceptable today and in their society not copy-pasting every trend. "Many will argue that this is the today's trend but this won't bridge the gap on unemployment. Let's also not over use the word hustler," she said. Kiambu residents however had different reactions on the matter. Resident Josephine Waithiru said that parents should sit down their children and talk to them and expose them to the truth. "This world is not a cocoon. Let's expose them enough, give them truths not half truths, tell them in black and white what's happening in this world," she said. Another resident, Esau Kioni said westernization is a major menace in the Kenyan society and has caught up with Kenyan youths who will imitate everything with no caution. Tobias Wanyoike, also another resident, said the music genres are different and the culture is different on so many levels. "It is for us to mentor our boy child not international entertainment artist and entrepreneurs," he said. Chania however said she was concerned about a future where facts are discarded and people only listen to things that reinforce their interests and views.         