The government has registered 523,129 senior citizens for its cash transfer programme Inua Jamii, Labour and Social Protection CS Ukur Yatani said on Friday. Of that number, 229,346 are men and 330,701 women. The latest registration started last Monday and will end on Friday next week. Beneficiaries must be age 70 and above. “During this period, the banks, based on the beneficiaries’ choice, shall open accounts and issue payment cards to beneficiaries to facilitate their payments with effect from May 2018,” Yatani said in Gatundu. Four banks — Cooperative Bank, Equity Bank, Postbank and the Kenya Commercial Bank — were competitively engaged to remit the cash. Read: Ministry allocates Sh30bn to older persons cash transfer Also Read: 13,000 elderly in Kisumu to benefit from Sh52 million cash transfer programme “They will address the previous challenge of beneficiaries travelling long distances to the pay points. They have a wide national coverage through their branch networks and agents,” Yatani said. The CS said some banks have partnered with other stakeholders to increase the number of outlets and expand their coverage. These banks allow beneficiaries to get their cash through mobile money transfer platforms. “Immediately the banks complete the enrolment, the ministry shall disburse funds to them for payment to the beneficiaries,” Yatani said. Read: Sign up for cash transfer by August 1 so you won’t be beggars, CS tells senior citizens Related: Where is our cash? Kiambu elderly ask The elderly will receive their full stipend for January to June, as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Yatani said the total number of beneficiaries could hit 1,233,129. On Tuesday, 13,000 elderly people registered in Kisumu county to benefit from Sh52 million allocated under the cash transfer programme. Last year, registration was undertaken between July and August. While cash transfers were initially met with scepticism in Kenya, evidence from countries such as Brazil, South Africa and the Philippines show they help people living in abject poverty.  Click here for the latest political news