Education ministers and senior country representatives from Africa’s 54 States are meeting in Nairobi for the Pan African High Level Conference on Education (PACE). The aim of the conference is to evaluate the implementation progress of internationally and regionally agreed targets on education. While officially opening the conference at Safari Park Hotel yesterday, Education CS Amina Mohammed said Kenya had made impressive strides in meeting sustainable goals on education. The launch of the competency based curriculum in January falls is one of such steps. “Education is going to make the difference between progress on our continent and disaster and it is upon every one of us to ensure that our youth have access to education, and not just education but quality and inclusive education,” she said. The targets of the conference include the Sustainable Development Goal on Education (SDG4) and the Continental Strategy for Education (CESA) in Africa 2016-2025. The sustainable development goal is a globally set target for countries to offer equitable, inclusive quality education and learning opportunities for everyone by 2030. CESA-16-25, on the other hand, is the African response to the SDG4 which aims to adapt and shape the targets to the specific needs of the continent by building on lessons learnt from previous education strategies. The three-day conference will hold discussions on the technical aspects of the SDG4 and CESA 16-25. These will include gender equality, leveraging 21st century technologies for advancement of education systems, relevance of education in fostering a peaceful Africa and advancing higher education in Africa with focus on research and Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM). Tomorrow’s session, which will be attended by president Uhuru Kenyatta, will review and adopt recommendations reached during the preceding sessions. Deliberations during the final day of the meeting will be on financing education, monitoring and reporting, policies and strategies and strengthening mechanisms for effective partnerships and coordination at national and continental levels. Outcomes at PACE 2018 will shape discussions on the 2063 African Union vision ‘The Africa We Want’ which aims to achieve an Africa whose development is people driven. “What Africa do we want? An integrated and peaceful Africa driven by its own competent built citizens to be able to play in the global arena. This can only be done by education,” Sarah Anyang Agbor, the Commissioner, Human Resources, Science and Technology for the African Union said. African countries are at different stages of implementing the two targets into their national education policies, plans and practices. PACE provides an opportunity for countries to share progress, success stories, challenges and lessons learned by member states 