Over half of Kenyan companies do not trust the data they use to make decisions that affect their consumers on a day to day basis. A live survey by KPMG audit committee during a data governance forum held yesterday revealed 65 per cent of board members siting in local organisations have limited or no trust in their data sources. This is 20 per cent below the global rate of 44 per cent. KPMG risk consulting director Brian D'souza said a lot of data in local firms is unclean, unreliable and the source is unknown. “ Very few people know where their data came from, who collected it, and who owns it because data doesn't stand still. If you don't have that concept in your mind then how can you make a decision based on what that data has produced?” KPMGs Risk consulting director Brian D'souza said. D'souza said this is making organisations in the country make wrong decisions that in the long run affect their productivity, reputation, customer efficiency and demotivates employees. Findings of the survey indicate at least 58 per cent of organisations spend their time on cleansing, preparation and gathering of data. It reveals the financial sector is the most affected with inaccurate or inconsistent of data at 70 per cent followed by reputation at 33 per cent. Ironically 92 per cent of executives are also worried about the new data driven trends which include big data, internet of things, artificial intelligence and robotics, and blockchain. While 70 per cent of organisations use their present data to mitigate fraud, majority of them said these innovations makes them wary on the impact they will have on their reputation. “ People are afraid of jobs because process and outcomes are going to become more efficient...leaders are afraid because analytics does bring out the truth when it works and are afraid of taking responsibility,” D'souza said. To mitigate unreliable sources of data and proper collection of the same, board members present in the forum pointed out the need to have proper skilled labour to govern data collection. This comes even as 37 per cent of organisations believe that the operations team is responsible for data collected while 24 per cent believe it is the responsibility of the IT team. KPMG said technology should be secondary to human investment since it is evolving on a daily basis.   