Is Deputy President William Ruto pushing for the appointment of former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto as President Uhuru Kenyatta’s adviser? We are told the DP is looking for a strong point-man in the expansive and vote-rich Kipsigis region of Kalenjin and he believes appointing Rutto will help him “lock” the region. Uhuru, we are told, is yet to accede to the demand. ***** Has Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu bought a commercial building along Koinange street? Word has it that the abrasive Kiambu boss has acquired the multi-million-shilling building and is converting most of it to a hotel. Work has been going on in the building in the past few days. ***** As Interior CS Fred Matiang’i talks about giving permits to foreigners for jobs Kenyans can do, he can start with China Jiangsu International. The firm has employed busybodies among them a Chinese woman, who has no job description, and wants to do all the jobs, some of which Kenyans are capable of doing. The woman has been doing work related to business development, human resources, administration and she is also a secretary of the company. Maybe, Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa can tell us which among these jobs cannot be undertaken by Kenyans. ***** As chaos rock the IEBC, top officials at the electoral agency were overheard asking how they will handle the resignation of three commissioners – vice chair Consolata Nkatha, Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat. The three cited lack of proper leadership by chairman Wafula Chebukati. An aide, who was in the meeting, told Corridors that Article 7 Sub-Article 1 (b) of the IEBC Act requires the resignation to be addressed to the President. “Something is not adding up here since they only resigned through media. It seems my bosses will adopt a wait and see approach,” the aide said. ***** What could have softened the government’s stance on the controversial gaming tax introduced in January? All previous attempts by gaming firms to get the tax lowered from 35 per cent hit a snag, even when they made good their threats to pull out of sports sponsorships. In a surprising move, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale last week tabled a bill that will cut the levy down to 15 per cent. Corridors has learnt that a high-ranking Jubilee Party official has a stake in one of the local gaming firms. Could the official’s investment have had a helping hand in softening the hearts of legislators? Click here for the latest political news