The league table might indicate that the race for this years Kenyan Premier League title is close but that, it seems, could be far from the reality. Having played three games more Mathare United are just a point above Gor Mahia and yet again, however, young the season might still be, the title looks like K’Ogalo’s to lose.
With one eye on conquering the continent with the return leg fixture away to SuperSport United in Pretoria tomorrow, Dylan Kerr’s side are yet to fully focus on defending their crown.
That notwithstanding, they are yet to lose a match out of their eight encounters, dropping points on only one occasion ­— a goalless draw with Tusker.
The brewers find themselves in an unfamiliar territory, 10 matches into the campaign. They find themselves closer to the relegation zone than the title race with just points from as many matches. Their goalless draw  at home to new boys Vihiga United on Sunday meant that they are now only two points above the drop zone occupied by Zoo Kericho, who denied another title contender — AFC Leopards — all three points as a last minute strike from skipper Johnstone Ligare saw their weekend clash end 2-2.
Leopards are third in the league with 18 points from 10 matches with Posta Rangers, who infected a third defeat of the season on Mathare, fourth a point further back. Sofapaka are fifth after they were held to a 1-1 draw by visiting Sony Sugar on Sunday. In what was John Baraza’s first match in interim charge of the club he represented with distinction, goalkeeper Mathias Kigonya gave Sofapaka the lead in the 26th minute from the spot after Kepha Aswani was fouled in the box by Sony custodian Kevin Omondi. Sony, with 10 men, however, got an equaliser as David Simiyu sent Kigonya the wrong way from the spot too after Mousa Omar handled the ball in the box.
Sofapka have 17 points while Sony, with nine points, are third from bottom. Nakumatt, who held Kariobangi Sharks to an unlikely 1-1 draw, are bottom of the table with seven points form 11 matches.