Kenya has presented its bid to host the 12th World Chamber Congress in 2021 before the International Chamber of Commerce jury at the World Chambers Federation meeting in Beijing, China. The country will be competing against three other chambers including Dubai Chamber of Commerce, Ethiopian Chamber of Commerce and the Iran Chamber of Commerce. The Kenyan delegation put up a strong bid showcasing the country as an international conference destination with an experienced hospitality industry of international standards, a gateway toward other African countries and an economy with a thriving private and public sector partnership. “I am persuaded to think that we have been able to convince them that we are not giving them a concrete jungle, but also an experience of Africa, It is going to be a congress like no other before. We would like it to coincide with the wildebeest migration,” Kenya’s 12th World Chamber Congress bid chair James Mureu said. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce chairman Kiprono Kittony said the country has presented a powerful bid for Africa, with most African states having endorsed the bid, adding that the country is ready and able to host another major international conference. “We believe we have put the best bid of the four presented as the mood was very bullish as Kenya was presenting indicating that our product was different and we hope the judges will allow Kenya and Africa to be the next host,” he said. The Kenyan delegation believes that despite the fierce competition from other bidding states especially Dubai, the limited chances that Africa has been presented with a chance to host this congress with only South Africa having previously accommodated the congress will sway the judges towards Kenya’s bid. The Kenyan delegation of 14 includes teams from the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce, Ministry of Foreign Affairs through Kenya’s ambassador to China, the Kenyatta International Conference Centre and the Kenya Investment Authority. Previously, the forum has been held in France, South Korea, Canada, South Africa, Turkey, Malaysia, Mexico, Qatar and Italy.