Kajiado Speaker Johnson Osoi has dismissed the suspended Clerk's claims of tribalism following his suspension over corruption. Clerk Daniel Konyango was suspended for three months on Thursday through a letter signed by the Speaker. He dismissed the allegations raised against him as “flimsy issues that border tribalism” and said he had not done any wrong. More on this: Kajiado Clerk suspended three months over corruption claims In his response to Konyango's remarks on Saturday, Osoi said:  “I brought him on board and confirmed his appointment. I am shocked that after we suspended him he had the temerity to claim the board is engaged in tribalism. When I was working with him for that long period, didn’t I know that he was a non-Maasai?" He went on: “When you have a senior official of that level at the county Assembly, who is not supported by 100 per cent of the MCAs and 98 per cent of the staff, it begs the question of whether all these people are wrong.." “I have had enough of him. Konyango is running the Assembly like his property. He decides which suppliers should be paid depending on the amount they part with." The Speaker claimed his office has received many complaints from suppliers such as Alma Hotel in Kitengela which was allegedly denied a payment of Sh865,000 at the close of last year because of refusing to give a bribe. “After I was re-elected Speaker, I had to intervene so that Alma Hotel, that provides us boardroom space and services, would be paid. This is unacceptable." Osoi had termed Konyango is a diligent employee he has worked with for the last five years after he was seconded to Kajiado from the Transitional Authority. While speaking of the complaints by suppliers, he also cited an insurance company associated with Kiharu MP Samson Nyoro. The company,  he said, supplied car stickers to the Assembly for a whole year "but was not paid a single penny because they refused to part with a bribe". The board suspended
the Clerk pending investigations into the allegations of corruption. Click here for the latest political news  