Kenyan culture is unique and diverse. A recent visit to Sarova Whitesands presented a platform to learn about coastal culture. The Taita community is made up of three sub-tribes: Wadawida (or Taita), Wasaghala (Sagalla) and Wataveta (Taveta). The community borrows some of its words from the Chagga, Pare, Maasai, Mijikenda and those they have inter-married with and live with. The Taita people have a number dialects. For example, Bura, Mghange, Mbololo, Werugha are the Dawidas. The Saghalla people speak Ki-Saghala, which sounds almost similar to Ki-Giriama or Mijikenda. The Kasighau dialect is closer to the Pare and Chagga of Tanzania. One dance that is common to the community is performed by a group of women called ChapaKazi. The dance is called Mwazindika. It was first written in 1991 and was first performed in a harambee to raise funds to dig boreholes that same year. At 5pm we set out on a game drive to Kudu point, where chapakazi dancers welcome us to a sundowner set-up done by Salt Lick Lodge. The view from the top of Kudu point was breathtaking, especially Mt Kilimanjaro with the sunset on the background. The chapakazi dancers are natives of the area and entertain you for as long as you would like to stay up there having your drinks, eating, dancing around the fire. Check out some of the Taita traditions;  Birth At birth, a child is named by his or her grandparents. The firstborn is named from the father's side of the family. A woman mother stays indoors for three months, after which a huge welcome ceremony is thrown, complete with traditional dances, beer and presents.  Circumcision Between the ages of seven and 11, a boy is circumcised. After he has healed the family throws a huge party that includes traditional dancing (mwazindika) by women to welcome him to the new phase of his life. Beer is usually in plenty and the boy is givemn lots of presents. For girls of the same age they are secluded for a certain period during which they are taught by old women on family values. Upon reaching maturity, girls are also circumcised, secluded and upon healing, they are pronounced ready for marriage, with great pomp and celebration.  Marriage Girls between the ages of 13 and 16 are considered ripe for marriage. In the old days they were snatched at the river away from their homes. But this was only after successful dowry negotiations between the young couple's parents. She then was supposed to stay indoors for three months. Afterwards she was formally 'released' again with much celebration pomp and dance, food and traditional brew. The girl was given presents as well. No girl would go against this tradition.  Death The Taita culture respects the dead. The body was buried almost immediately after death. Family members would shave their heads as a sign of mourning. Women wore black head scarves for about six months. After one year the skull was severed from the body and taken to caves.  In general these were observed by all the sub-tribes, of course with slight variations. However, most of these traditions are no longer practised.  