Fourteen landlords of Nakumatt Holdings limited are no longer intrested in having the retailer as a Tenant. The 14 are from Galleria, Nyali, Likoni, Karen Crossroads, Nakuru, Eldoret Household, Cinemax, Nanyuki, Highridge, City Hall, Diani, Malindi, Meru and Highport (Warehouses) “We hereby wish to state that we do not wish to continue with Nakumatt as a tenant,” the 14 said in a joint press statement. They said that they are aware of two other landlords who will not be renewing their leases with Nakumatt, which are soon coming up for expiry, and a further five who have sued the retailer leaving a balance of nine stores which may wish to host them as tenants. MASSIVE DEFAULT The landlords attributed their decisions not to continue hosting Nakumatt due its massive rent default putting them at risk of having their properties seized by banks. Also, they said that Nakumatt’s failure to adequately stock its shelves, footfall within their malls have fallen drastically. “... this has affected other tenants, leading to significant losses and a wider risk of bank default and job losses being visited on these and other third parties,” More to this, the 14 stated that they do not support the proposals for recovery advanced by the administrator, Peter Kahi. Early this year, the high court allowed Nakumatt to appoint Kahi as an administrator, in bid to strategise the way forward on coming out of debt with the Landlords and suppliers. He was expected to meet all Nakumatt creditors in 60 days of his appointment, and address all their concerns. The meeting held last month sought votes of creditors on whether to write off 25 per cent of their debts and convert the remaining 75 per cent to equity, or not. However , it flopped following questions over validity of the retailer’s Sh35.8 billion debt. FRAUD INVESTIGATIONS Last month, the Star established that the Banking Fraud Investigation Unit has opened a probe into Nakumatt directors Atul Shah and his sons as it seeks to find out whether they may have siphoned billions of shillings from the retailer that is now on its death bed. A source within the BFIU confirmed the ongoing investigations. Also, during the retailers meeting with the creditors Kahi confirmed that the detectives are carrying out investigations into Shah and the other two directors. NO HOPE While at that,Tuskys supermarket which had proposed a deal to help Nakumatt back on its feet backed out on Thursday last week.The two filed an application at the Competition Authority for exemption of a management contract that would see Tuskys offer management services to Nakumatt. The deal would also allow Tuskys to issue recurring guarantees to suppliers and in return pocket one per cent of sales, a deal that was opposed with one of Tuskys shareholders Yusuf Mugweru. Tuskys grew cold feet because of some aspects of the revival proposal presented by Kahi. “As a result, we are instructed to advise you that Tusker Mattresses Limited is re-considering its proposed investment in Nakumatt Holdings Limited,” a letter by Tuskys to the Authority said. The 14 landlords also attributed their simultaneous decision to the resolve of Tuskys pulling out of the proposed deal saying there is no viable alternative offered. “We note that the Nakumatt/Tusky’s deal has fallen through with no viable alternative offered, leaving us with no other conclusion than that Nakumatt has no hope for recovery”.