Furo Waribuko, an unemployed, 33-year-old man still living in his parents’ home in Lagos, wakes up one morning to find that he has turned into a white man. The author offers no explanation as to why this has happened. Since he has an interview that day, Furo leaves the house and starts his commute through Lagos, with people staring and calling him ‘Oyibo’, Nigerian slang for ‘white man’. In the story, most of the people he interacts with in that part of town have never had a conversation with a caucasian, and never considered white people as anything more or less than historical opportunists or gullible victims, never seen red hair, green eyes, or pink nipples except on screen and on paper. There is also the fact that his name is still very much Nigerian as is his accent, which people naturally find peculiar. There is also the matter of his black ass. Two hours later, at the interview, he starts reaping the benefits that come with his newfound skin. For instance, at his job interview, not only do they let him jump the queue, they also offer him a more senior title coupled with a company car and driver, never mind that he never even finished his degree. He is also taken in by a beautiful kept woman called Syreeta, who lives in upmarket Lagos. She clothes, him, feeds him and sleeps with him just so she can show him off to her friends, most of whom are married to white men, and hopefully get mixed-race babies as well. The author also asserts himself into the story as a character named Igoni, also a writer, which I found somewhat odd. While this character aims to provide an external perspective to Furo’s narrative, his prose is too long and doesn’t add much to the core of the story itself. Furo’s sister becomes a Twitter celebrity when she uses the app to try find her missing brother. This part is written entirely in tweets, which is interesting but also comes off as too long and a tad pointless. Still, the book itself is entertaining and quite the interesting read. In this debut novel, the writer uses satire to explore the incredulous lengths Nigerians, and by extension Africans, will go to assert their self-importance. If you are familiar with Franz Kafka’s novella, The Metamorphosis, you will clearly see the inspiration for Blackass.  Star Rating: 3/5