Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is set to appear before the Senate Public Accounts Committee to answer queries raised by Auditor General Edward Ouko during Governor Evans Kidero’s tenure at City Hall. Sonko will be asked to explain how county officials in the fiscal year 2015-16 spent billions of taxpayers’ funds. “Because of the significance of the matters described in the basis for disclaimer of opinion paragraph, I have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide the basis for an audit opinion,” Ouko said. Sonko, who last week threatened to resign following alleged frustration at City Hall, will have to explain the glaring discrepancies in Nairobi’s financial statements, receipt books, bank statements and Ifmis. “In the circumstance, the accuracy of reported expenditure on use of goods and services cannot be accounted for,” the auditor said.  LOSS OF REVENUE In his annual reports, Ouko said the devolved unit lost acres of public land in unclear circumstances. Ouko said officials gave a number of conflicting reports on the status of total funds spent on a number of projects. At the same sitting, Sonko will be put to task over Sh600 million, which Ouko said could not be accounted for after City Hall spent Sh2.8 billion on eight items. “The county did not pay all its revenue collections to the County Revenue Fund prior to spending the collections contrary to the provisions of Section 109 ( 2 ) of the Public Financial Management Act,” Ouko said. In the year under review, the Auditor General said the county claimed to have spent Sh8 billion at the source, contrary to constitutional provisions for spending public funds. The auditor also blamed City Hall for failing to put in place mechanisms to ensure all vehicle owners pay parking fees. City Hall failed to explain why residents in Nairobi did not pay for loading zones, and lost Sh422 million in uncollected revenue. Sonko will also be asked to explain why some City Hall officials carried out specific duties without requisite skills. He will be asked why county lawyers were paid Sh1.6 billion without proper procedure. Nairobi county failed to honour a number of its pledges, including remittance of Sh500,000 to Pumwani Maternity Hospital. “Lack of funds compromised the operations at the health facility,” said the Auditor.