Child defilement has increased in Lamu but many cases go unreported and parents and the community are complicit, a human rights organisation has said. Muslims for Human Rights yesterday said boys are sodomised and girls are raped — sometimes by close relatives. The worst-hit areas are Lamu Island, Tchundwa and Kiunga. Girls have borne the greatest brunt. The increase is attributed to complicity and cover-up by parents who accept bribes from criminals who assault their children. Many parents pursue out-of-court settlements. They accept cash from culprits and this denies justice for victims. More than 10 cases of sexual molestation take place every month and no one takes the initiative to report them, Muhuri said at a forum in Lamu town. It plans to pursue justice when parents are complicit. Field officer Ummulkher Salim deplored parents’ silence when their children are sexually assaulted. Culprits get off scot-free. Parents pretend nothing happened and they move on. “This is unforgiveable. Victims nurse lifelong psychological scars,” Salim said. The cases have been piling up. In 2016, a madrassa teacher named Jafar Sadiq, 35, fled after he allegedly indecently assaulted nine girls. He has not been apprehended. Islam requires every girl be a virgin until her wedding day. Because of this, many parents whose daughters are defiled remain silent so they don’t ruin girls’ chances of getting suitors. Parents say it is shameful for the public to know their sons have been sodomised. They are branded homosexual. Because of the stigma, they remain silent to protect their children’s ‘integrity’. “As children don’t call for such things to happen to them, we can’t talk about it. If it’s a girl who has been raped, she is safer if the parents keep mum about it because no one would want to marry someone who was raped,” one resident said. “If it’s a boy who is sodomised, it’s even worse because the community labels the poor by gay and he becomes a target of more sexual assaults. What do we do?” HOME-BASED COURTS Resident and activist Sadha Muhsin acknowledged that what is deemed as protection ends up hurting victims. “It’s unfair and selfish, it doesn’t work in favour of the affected children and must be stopped,” she said. Muhsin said it was unfortunate that in instances where a defiler has been identified, many parents prefer out-of-court settlements. They are compromised and the matter is soon forgotten, she said. In February last year, CJ David Maraga warned residents against accepting cash to conceal crimes. He told them to file cases in court so decisions are based on the law. This fell on deaf ears. Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya Lamu chairman Abubakar Shekuwe warned parents against abdicating their roles of protecting their children. He said no religion or culture should condone sexual abuse. Resident Muhsin said: “Parents should stand up and be the number one champions of the rights of their children. Don’t take any money from any defiler. They must be taught a lesson. No amount of money can save your child the lifelong anguish they will suffer.” Muhuri field assistant officer Habib Ali said the crimes are increasing because of residents’ complicity. Muhuri urged the community to end the scourge. “We have raised the red flag. We demand culprits pay for their wrongdoings. Justice must prevail. Let’s stand up and defend our children,” Ali said. Click here for the latest political news