Lecturers have maintained they will continue with their strike having filed an appeal seeking to quash orders requiring them to resume class on Monday. UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga, in a statement on Saturday, said their appeal will be heard on April 9. On Friday, Justice Onesmus Makau ordered the lecturers to call off the strike and report back to work on grounds the industrial action is not protected. The Labour Relations court declined to grant the stay orders sought by the union. Wasonga said lecturers have to safeguard their negotiating position by continuing to participate in the strike which began on March 1. "The strike, therefore, continues pending the decision of the court. Our fight for the 2017-2021 CBA and dignity of dons continues," he said. He further condemned Maasai University for holding lecturers' March salary and also took a swipe at the police for dispersing them with teargas during their demos in Nairobi. UASU says withholding the salaries will not deter the dons’ resolve to push for the negotiation of the 2017-21 CBA. The strike entered its 38th day today. See: [VIDEO] Amina in the wrong ministry, strike will be longest ever, lecturers say Also read: Striking lecturers miss March salaries over strike, not fazed "Certain evil university managements have denied emergency health care to employees. We strongly condemn the acts of impunity," Wasonga said. Wasonga said the government was using "devious, evil and unconstitutional" means to try and break their collective will and spirit. "I know there has been normal internal debate regarding the strike. The overwhelming consensus among academic staff and union officials is that we should neither retreat nor surrender." Noting that much is at stake, Wasonga said the fight is vital in safeguarding their future. "We must never even contemplate defeat, as otherwise the academia will be enslaved forever; quality higher education will perish and the future of our students crushed," he said. "I have been thoroughly inspired by your determination to keep up this noble struggle for dignity amidst maltreatment by Management. Rest assured that your sacrifice will be rewarded." Wasonga asked the lecturers to disregard any memo that will require them to return to work until the union advises otherwise. "Disregard all memos or directives emanating from university management. During the strike, actionable communication will only come from the union," he said. He asked the lot to only attend meetings that have been organised by the unions from Monday. "Monday and throughout the week, attend only meetings organised by the unions. All university staff will be holding solidarity meetings together, irrespective of their unions." Unions have accused the government of reluctance to address their grievances. Uasu says there has been no engagement on the deal since this date. The strike is this year's first but the fourth to occur in a span of fewer than eight months that caused total paralysis in all institutions of higher learning. More on this: State not interested in dealing with our issues, lecturers say Also read: Striking lecturers to hold street protests over lack of CBA offer Click here for the latest political news