Three key state institutions tasked with managing taxpayers’ money are on the spotlight. They have delayed the release, scrutiny and approval of audit reports to help budget making. Commission on Revenue Allocation, Thirdaway Alliance and ICPAK have put the National Treasury, Parliament and the Auditor General’s office on the spot over laxity. Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot, CRA chairperson Jane Kiringai and the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya questioned the national government’s move to allocate counties Sh314 billion in 2018-19 based on the 2013-14 audited accounts. Aukot and ICPAK termed the move illegal. They say the latest accounts, such as the one for 2016-17, should have been used to arrive at the cash the counties should receive. The state used Kenya’s Sh935.7 billion revenue collection and expenditure for 2013-14, instead of the Sh1.141 trillion actual revenue collection estimate in 2015-16 to calculate the allocation Thirdway Alliance and ICPAK said using the 2013-14 audited accounts to allocate the funds contributes to underfunding. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok demanded more allocation to counties, saying they are struggling to implement projects. “The amount allocated is not sufficient and we ask the Senate to help us get more funds for counties to smoothly discharge their functions,” Nanok said. The three appeared before the Senate Finance and Budget Committee on Wednesday. They laid the blame on Treasury CS Henry Rotich, the Senate’s Public Accounts Committee chaired by Senator Moses Kajwang and Auditor General Edward Ouko. The committee chaired by Senator Mohamed Mohamud (Mandera) was conducting public hearings on the counties’ Division of Revenue Bill 2018-19. “Revenue allocation to counties for the next financial year cannot be based on the audited report of 2013-14. It is disheartening that in the last five years, Parliament has only debated and approved one year’s audited financial statements,” Aukot said. “The Revenue Bill 2018 is premised upon wrong audit report. It is, therefore, the role of Parliament to correct this mistake. Let a fresh Revenue Bill be presented based on the most recent audit report that must have been debated in Parliament.” Rotich defended the Treasury’s move to use the 2013-14 audited accounts to calculate the counties’ budget on grounds it is the only financial year that MPs have finished probing in the last six years. “Any complaints must be directed to Parliament. It should speed up the scrutiny and approval of the 2014-15 and 2015-16 audit reports,” he said. The Treasury CS, however, said using the 2013-14 audited accounts does not deny counties the money they deserve since the figure is always above the 15 per cent minimum allocation provided in the Constitution.