Has Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula and his Ford Kenya camp began executing threats of dealing with ODM leader Raila Odinga head-on for betrayal? Wetang’ula seems to mean what he vowed a last month when he put Raila on notice for reportedly masterminding his removal as Senate Minority Leader by ODM senators. The Ford Kenya leader who publicly said “let the games begin” in declaring war against Raila has launched a vicious political onslaught against the NASA leader. Wetang’ula, who vowed to lock Raila out of Bungoma, has began by opposing the Raila’s proposal for a three-tier system of government by amending the Constitution to create 14 regional blocs. ***** Residents of a county in the former Western province are an angry lot. Reason? Word has it that the residents are annoyed with the manner in which their former county boss used funds for his personal development. Our mole has told Corridors the fomer governor blew huge sums of county funds constructing a palatial house. Initially, residents thought the house was to be the governor’s official residence and could be occupied by future governors, only for it to dawn on them it is the former governor’s family home. What angers residents is their current governor has been living in a hotel since he took over the county yet the palatial house constructed using public money is unoccupied since his predecessor moved to Nairobi after losing. ***** First-time senator is the talk of the town. The woman senator – who hardly misses both House and committee sittings – has not only surprised her colleagues, but also members of the Fourth Estate. The jovial senator is ever punctual to the Senate and committee sittings, but never contributes to debate. It is said some senior government officials, after appearing before a committee she sits in, were heard in the corridors of Parliament amazed at how some legislators can simply get paid without breaking a sweat. It is said the officials who appeared before the committee twice for grilling left without the senator uttering a word or posing a question to them. ***** Have Nairobi city county askaris gone back to their old Hways of brutalising residents despite Governor Mike Sonko issuing a stern warning just a few months after taking over the county leadership? Word has it a motorist recently became a victim of the askari’s harassment when they demanded she pay illegal parking fees on Saturday afternoon long after the official collection period. The agitated motorist took to social media saying, “Dare you express shock over their demands for payment, you get insults!”