Police detected 332 cases of drug trafficking between January and March, when 21,263 crimes were reported. National Police Service spokesman Charles Owino yesterday said the drug trafficking cases were detected at airports, ports and other entry points. “It is important to clarify that this is positive. The drugs are in most cases detected at the port of entry. This strategy is important in ensuring that access to the dangerous drugs is completely eradicated,” Owino said. The reported criminal cases increased by 1,448 (seven per cent) from 19,815 in the same period last year. Crimes involving police officers were only 12 and there was no kidnap case reported during the period. Offences against morality were 119 (nine per cent increase). Owino said 40 homicides were reported which is a decrease of five per cent, while reported cases of theft by servant were 49. Owino spoke at Jogoo House where he released the report. Read:Four suspected foreign drug barons deported to Seychelles He said there was rise of crime by 15 per cent in January, but the same dropped by 8.9 per cent in February. The quarterly crime report said 40 motorcycles were stolen during the three months. “We are alive to this reality and are working closely with the Boda Boda Association of Kenya to ensure theft of motorcycles is addressed through an integrated approach,” Owino said. Owino said strict enforcement of traffic regulations by police reduced road carnage in the period to 609 from 744 last year. He said police noted increase in certain offences, including procuring abortion which recorded 60 more cases, concealing birth where 10 cases were recorded and and 41 cases of unnatural offences. “In our view, these crimes have more to do with the standards of morality in society,” Owino said. In the period under review, 16 police officers died of gunshot wounds and grenade attacks. They include seven from the Kenya Police Service and nine from AP. Two police officers committed suicide during the period while 13 died in road crashes. Also Read:Sh598 million cocaine: Suspected drug dealer Jack Wolf in profile