A Nairobi court on Wednesday heard how NYS officials discovered entries made to the IFMIS System and approved by former deputy director-general Adan Harakhe without his knowledge. While testifying against 26 suspects charged in relation to Sh791 million loss at Agency, Christopher Keter, told the court that Harakhe discovered five days later payments of about 800 million had been approved using his password. Read: DPP appeals Mangiti, NYS scandal suspects' acquittal The discovery was made after Harakhe inquired about the approval of the funds on May 25, 2015. “Harakhe called me to enquire whether i had made any payments of about Sh 800 million, I told him I was not aware but I said I will check through my colleagues,” the witness told Chief magistrate Francis Andayi. He said he talked to his colleague, - Jared Nyandimu and they both checked from the system and discovered a request entry had been made on May 20 and approved the same day. “I went back to Harakhe and told him that he is the one who had approved the payment and he did not know about it.  He said he was not the one” the witness said. The computers showed that the entry had been made by Regina Nyambura one of the accused in the case and approved by Harakhe. Among the suspects include Former Devolution PS Peter Mangiti, former NYS Director General Nelson Githinji, businessman Ben Gethi and Josephine Kabura are among suspects in the case. Keter said he was posted to NYS in mid-February together with three other officers. His job was to update the list of suppliers in the IFIMIS System. The four were also assigned duties of verifying hard copies with those entered into the system. He was to ensure the list of suppliers is recognized in the system whenever they were required by procurement. According to the witness, each one of them was assigned a password by the treasury, and one was at liberty to personalize it. The Sh791 million was allegedly syphoned through fraudulent payments to six companies. The companies were contracted to procure goods and services to NYS include Form Home Builders, Roof and All Trading and Reinforced Concrete Technologies, Dracol Capital, Grumam Engineering and Tegmen Trading. Also read; DPP wants acquittal of Sh47m NYS fraud suspects reversed  Click here for the latest political news 