In the UK an ideological battle over foreign development aid is about to start. On March 26, Labour’s Jeremy Corbyn announced he wants to use Britain’s £13 billion (Sh1.82 trillion) foreign aid budget to address the fundamental causes of poverty and inequality in the global South. Labour will move away “from the Government’s objective of spending aid in the ‘national interest’ to focus on eradicating poverty abroad,” The Telegraph reported on March 26. Labour will address the structural causes of poverty in the global South, not only the symptoms. This is a signal that ought to concern all governments and aid organisations in the global North.  SCANDINAVIAN WELFARE In Norway, my home country, the Conservative government focuses, in particular, on development aid to education in the South. This is an important focus, but the question is: is the government concerned about the structural causes of poverty, or is it focussing on addressing the worst symptoms of the big gap between the global North and South? One fundamental reason for the poverty in the global South is that the education level is alarmingly low. A state without an educated population means a substantial part of the people is outside the political decision-making processes (or at least cannot make sound judgements on policy matters) and that a small elite makes decisions, which often do not benefit the population at large. It is worth noting that research on the Scandinavian welfare model shows a clear connection between the socioeconomic development and the introduction of education for all in the previous century, where everybody in principle acquired functional literacy. Without education we can’t have a welfare state. Since lack of proper education is one of the main contributors of poverty in the South, it is encouraging that the Norwegian government has prioritised education in aid-related activities. The question, however, is whether this development aid really manages to raise the quality of education in, for example, countries in Africa south of Sahara.  MILLENNIUM GOALS Until very recently, development aid to education has to a large extent focussed on the Millennium Development Goals, where the main objective has been access to education, getting more children, and not the least girls, to attend classes — whereas the quality of education is not prioritised. An evaluation of Norway’s multinational support to education from 2015 underlines that Norway has succeeded — through its aid partners — to get more children to school. However, there is a need to focus more on the quality of education, ie, to give pupils basic functional literacy skills (‘Evaluation of Norwegian Multilateral Support to Basic Education’, Norad 2015 ). International statistics on literacy show that low quality is a major challenge in the global South, and particularly sub-Saharan Africa. According to research done by Progress in International Reading Literacy Study from 2016, 78 per cent of South African fourth graders do not have basic literacy skills, and these skills had not improved since the previous statistics five years ago. Unfortunately, Kenya is not on the list of countries researched by Pirls, but there is reason to believe the situation in the country is not better, if not worse. Unesco’s literacy statistics in 2010 indicated the literacy rate in South Africa is 94 per cent for men and 92 per cent for women, whereas the corresponding figures for Kenya were 78 and 67 per cent, respectively, in 2007. These figures are based on so-called basic literacy, which means you can write your name and read and write a few sentences, but you are not literate enough to read longer texts, newspapers, for example. Only 62 per cent of the adult African population, on average, has basic, and thus limited literacy skills, which means 153 million Africans are completely illiterate. Two thirds of the illiterate African population are women, according to 2017 Unesco data. What are the reasons for the poor education quality and the poor learning outcomes for pupils in African schools? Unqualified teachers, poor school infrastructure, insufficient or lack of teaching materials and textbooks are all well-known factors that negatively affect education.  WESTERN EDUCATIONAL DISCOURSE What is very little discussed and debated in the UN organisations, in the World Bank and IMF and among private aid institutions in the global North is the content in the development aid to education — what kind of epistemological and ideological content is conveyed through the foreign education interventions. An analysis of the UN organisations education profile by the Education for All Global Monitoring Reports shows the educational content has not changed much over the last two decades, despite the reports about poor learning outcomes. It is taken for granted that the education interventions are to be based on a Western education discourse — global architecture of education, where Western knowledge production and Western values take priority over indigenous, non-Western cultural values and knowledge traditions. Kenyan author NgÅ©gÄ© wa Thiong’o states that such a Western education discourse means colonising of the mind, which has more long-term negative consequences than the traditional, physical colonisation — the neo-colonial discourse. This discourse alienates pupils due to the cultural and epistemological gap between home and school culture. This is one important reason many pupils do not acquire fundamental literacy competence. Such export of the global architecture of education to the global South (often supported by the national elite educated in the North) is nothing but neo-colonialism couched in aid.  RELEVANT EDUCATION There is unfortunately no reason to believe that Unesco, Unicef, the World Bank and IMF will undertake a radical, epistemological change of the aid to education. This mental colonisation will continue, resulting in low literacy rates. Maybe small countries such as Norway (with an impressive aid budget) can make a difference by liberating itself from Western epistemological discourse governed by the UN and introduce a learning environment adjusted to pupils’ linguistic and cultural background. Education is of course only one of many fundamental causes of poverty in sub-Saharan Africa. But with more locally adjusted education interventions, in conjunction with national decolonised education authorities, development aid interventions can contribute positively to a relevant education for all. This is a necessary prerequisite for socioeconomic development for the whole global South.