Gor Mahia will be hoping to put behind their travel woes when they face SuperSport United in a Caf Confederation Cup return leg match in Pretoria, South Africa, his evening.
The Kenyan champions were set to travel to South Africa on Monday night but never did due to documentation and ticket hitch, which delayed them to another 24hrs.
“We are traveling at 8 o’clock (last night),” said Gor Mahia chairman, Ambrose Rachier. As of yesterday, Gor did not have tickets and were rescued by Nairobi Governor, Mike Sonko even though they will make do without dependable forward of Jacques Tuyisenge (Rwanda) and Ephraim Guikan (Ivory Coast).
“The two could not visa application requirements at the South African embassy and will therefore remain behind,” observed Rachier.
Reports indicate that Tuyisenge has a five-month work permit while Guikan’s is a month longer, contrary to requirements at the South African visa application, which demeands for at least an year.
“A big thank you to the Governor of Nairobi Mike Sonko for buying air tickets to enable Gor Mahia players and officials fly to South Africa for the Caf Confederation Cup return leg match against SuperSport,” read a social media post by club secretary general Ben Omondi.
Earlier, the matter was made worse by blame games amongst cub officials over who was responsible for the team not leaving for Pretoria on Monday as earlier planned.
This will be a big blow to Dylan Kerr’s plans. Tuyisenge has been on a rich vein of goal-scoring form recently, netting winners in the clubs last two outings including the 1-0 first leg victory over their tonight’s opponents.
Now, Meddie Kagere will be the go to man for goals as Gor seek to make history by reaching the group stages of he revamped tournament, which they won so famously in 1987. But it is keeping a clean sheet that will be foremost on K’Ogalo’s mid as a goalless outcome wills see them though to the next round.
More than ever, skipper Haron Shakava will be relied upon to show leadership in defense, given that he will be  partnering fairly inexperienced rookies among them Joash Onyango and Jaokim Oluoch. Boniface Oluoch will again be relied upon to show steady hands in goal if Gor are to knock out last year’s losing finalists.