Australian owned Base Titanium yesterday announced a six per cent drop in its explored minerals for the quarterly period ending March 2018. Joe Schwartz, the firms general manager for external affairs and development attributed the drop to a month-long mining shutdown at the Kwale Phase 2 meant to finalise on equipment and piping installations and tie-ins to the existing plant infrastructure. The shut down saw total productions for Ilmenite, Rutile,Zircon and Zircon low grade drop to 142,430 tonnes from 151,576 tonnes mined in the last quarter ending December 2017. Compared to March 2017, the mineral productions fell by 3,731 tonnes. “ Due to the Kwale Phase 2 project shutdown and reflecting on the ongoing transition to hydraulic mining as the sole mining method, the hydraulic mining unit tonnes mined reduced marginally from the prior quarter’s 1.2 million tonnes to 1.1 million tonnes and dozer mining unit tonnes mined declined from 1.7 million tonnes to 0.8 million tonnes for the quarter,” the firms quarterly activities report showed. However, the drops in production did not hinder the explorer from increasing sales to 176,075 tonnes down from 156,362 tonne during the review period. While the production remained low, Base announced plans to get a special prospecting License for the Magaoni area in the North Eastern part of Kwale in line with the new mining act. This comes as there current SPL is set to for expiry next month. Also, the company has applied for another license to allow them explore Vanga area which is south of Magaoni. Once the two licenses are issued, the company is likely to see its production go up even as they target to produce a maximum of 615,425 tonnes, and a minimum of 574,425 tonnes of ilmenite, Rutile,Zircon and Zircon low grade . The firm is still pursuing Sh21.04 billion as at March 31, 2018 from the Revenue Authority Authority for VAT paid in Kenya, relating to both the construction of the Kwale Project and the period since operations commenced. “ These claims are proceeding through the Kenya Revenue Authority process, although no refunds were received during the quarter,” Schwartz said. He added that Base Resources is continuing to engage with the Kenyan Treasury and the KRA as it seeks to expedite the remainder of the refunds. While the firm was to begin paying five per cent in royalties from the current 2.5 per cent, Schwartz said that this is yet to be effected as the government is yet to be clear on the issue. Base, which accounts for 57 per cent of Kenya’s mineral exports is planning has also Completed the acquisition of the world-class Toliara Sands Project in Madagascar. “Following payment of the US$75 million ( Sh7.5 billion) up-front consideration by Base Resources, the initial 85 per cent interest in, and control of, the wholly owned Mauritian subsidiaries of World Titane Holdings Ltd, which between them hold a 100 per cent interest in the Toliara Sands Project in Madagascar (held through wholly owned subsidiaries in Madagascar) has now been transferred to the Company,” details of the report showed. Base Resources will acquire the remaining 15 per cent interest, with a further US$17 million ( Sh1.7 billion) payable on achievement of key milestones as the project advances to mine development. In addition, it also intends to carry out exploration in neigbouring Tanzania where they hold five prospecting licenses with a combined area of 475 KM2. During the quarter, they carried out a drill that will inform the Company’s future exploration strategy in Tanzania. The drill samples have been delivered to the Kwale operations laboratory for analysis. Total exploration expenditure for the quarter, across all licences in Kenya and Tanzania, was US$177,000 ( Sh17.7 million)