The Mumias Sugar Company has temporarily halted its operations for what the management described as acute cane shortage. Managing Director Nashon Aseka yesterday said the company cannot get sufficient sugarcane because of the persistent cane poaching from rival companies. “We have no option but to temporarily halt our operations,” he said. Aseka attributed the poor cane supply to the lack of laws that govern sugar growing. It has made it possible for contracted farmers to sell cane to other millers. He said West Kenya Sugar Company and Kibos Sugar poach the cane meant for his mill. Aseka urged the Sugar Directorate to come up with effective guidelines to ensure companies only harvest cane from their contracted farmers. Mumias Sugar Company requires a Sh5 billion bailout, despite a previous Sh3.2 billion government funding last year. Speaking in Mayoni, the MD said the company requires Sh1.5 billion this financial year, an extra Sh2 billion in the next year and the balance issued in the following years. “We are trying to bring Mumias to its former state, but now we have to depend on the bailouts by the government to clear our debt,” Aseka said. The mill with a capacity to crush 8,000 tonnes of cane per day is currently crushing a maximum of 4,000 tonnes per day due to cane shortage. The MD attributed this to cane shortage and lack of a ready market for the sugar. Mumias Sugar is also facing serious competition from imported cheap sugar. Most farmers uprooted their cane and ventured into growing other crops when the factory was facing a cash crisis. “When we received the first bail out of Sh500 million shillings, we owed our farmers Sh900 million, but we have since reduced the debt to Sh600 million to encourage our farmers get back to business,” Aseka said. The MD urged the government to check on the influx of imported sugar. “To safeguard the interests of local factories, the government should check on the cartels importing sugar that gives us a hard time selling local products,” Aseka said. He said the cane crisis hit last year when the government allowed the cheap imports following sugar shortage when the main millers shut down. Most privately owned sugar firms imported sugar and are currently not milling, but repackaging the cheap sugar. Aseka assured farmers the firm can make huge profits and stop depending on government handouts. If the factory crushes 8,000 tonnes per day it can have an annual turn over of Sh40 million.