The government has marked five judges it does not like and wants them either fired or transferred because of their recent decisions. The judges are accused of fighting the executive in cahoots with the Opposition and civil society. Top of the list are judges who handled lawyer Miguna Miguna's case. They are George Odunga, Luka Kimaru and Roselyne Aburili, whom the government claims made decisions based on lies. Read: Justice Odunga fines Matiang'i, Boinnet Sh200,000 for contempt of court Yesterday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i appeared to lift the lid on the behind-the-scenes plot to deal with 'errant' judges when he appeared before the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security. He tore into the Judiciary, accusing it of frustrating the executive. He said the Attorney General — who is a member — will lodge a formal protest with the Judicial Service Commission against some judges' conduct. "We will go through the AG and we will petition the JSC over this and how it was heard," Matiang’i said, referring to the Miguna cases. This is not the first time the executive has complained about and threatened to deal with judges. On August 2 last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party demanded the removal of Justice George Odunga from all August 8 election matters, accusing him of favouring Opposition leaders in past cases. In a letter to Chief Justice David Maraga, secretary general Raphael Tuju said Justice Odunga should recuse himself from the cases until his conduct has been investigated by the JSC. Odunga heads the Judicial Review division and has previously faced similar accusations and threats from the party’s Majority leader Aden Duale. The government has revived its offensive following decisions made by the three judges in the Miguna Miguna saga. On February 2, when Miguna was arrested, High Court judge Wakiaga granted anticipatory bail of Sh50,000 to have him released after hearing an urgent application. The order was ignored and Miguna held incommunicado throughout the weekend, before being produced in a Kajiado court on Monday, February 5. Instead of being presented to court, as ordered, police dodged and deported him to Canada, as Justice Kimaru waited. He later made the landmark ruling revoking Miguna’s deportation February 5 and ordering the state to facilitate his return. Although the judgment rattled the Executive, he went on to issue other far-reaching orders against the State, citing the three state officials for contempt and last week fining them Sh200,000 each for failing to honor his summons. New Attorney General Kihara Kariuki said he would appeal the entire judgment. Justice Aburili last week ordered that Miguna be released unconditionally and produced in court as the government held him at the airport. Instead, he was forcibly spirited away to Dubai in controversial circumstances. The Miguna saga has led to protests by lawyers against state contempt of court orders. In February, Chief Justice David Maraga warned against efforts to undermine the Judiciary by disobeying orders. "Every government officer, government institution or private citizen are obliged to comply with court orders," Maraga said in a statement on February 7. But yesterday, Matiang’i accused Odunga of failing to hear an application by the AG, whom he said wanted to explain the circumstances under which they could not appear in person, as they were attending the GSU passing-out parade. "An officer rang me saying we were supposed to appear before a judge yet we had not even been served with a court order," Matiang’i said. CARTEL Sources say Jubilee has been frantically trying to get a compliant bench as it rolls out a strategy to push out stubborn judges it accused of working at the behest of civil society to frustrate the executive. Matiang'i charged yesterday that a section of civil society and activists had captured the Judiciary, in the clearest indication yet from a senior government official of Jubilee’s covert scheme to fix the Judiciary by targeting members of the Bench seen as liberal. “There is a clique of judicial officers working with cartels in the civil society and activists to make sure the Executive arm of the executive doesn’t function,” he said. He insisted the courts had become an impediment to smooth running of government and execution of the Executive’s programmes. “This is a clique of judicial officers…not all judges. It's a race against who will embarrass the Executive most when one order is issued on top of another,” he said as MPs put him to task over Miguna's removal to Dubai. In an apparent reference to civil society activist Okiya Omtatah, Matiang’i questioned how one activist could obtain over 30 ex parte court orders. “He goes to court, gets orders and comes out…what does that say about our judicial officers?…we are being condemned unheard,” a visibly agitated Matiang’i told the committee. Read: Ban State lawyers from top courts for Miguna drama, Khaminwa tells Odunga But Omtatah dismissed Matiangi's assertions as baseless and aimed at deflecting attention from Miguna's issue. “I will skin him alive if he repeated those remarks outside Parliament where he does not enjoy immunity. He is a convict who should not be addressing people on anything," Omtatah said. He added, "I do my research well and it takes a lot to convince a judge to issue ex parte orders. Occasionally, I get ex parte orders but even then all those matters go to full hearing.” Matiang’i claimed some judges have their rulings drafted elsewhere by the ‘cartel.’ “How is it possible for a judge to make a 36-page ruling within 30 minutes…that tells you there is something going on elsewhere,” he said without naming the judge. Sources said the Interior ministry was intent on filing a protest to the JSC to initiate a probe into the judges' conduct. Such a move would trigger fears of an inquisition and worsen the current trepidation in the Judiciary that individual judges are being targeted for intimidation over their work. The JSC is the constitutional body charged with recruitment of judges and magistrates as well as investigations into conduct of judicial officers and recommending punishment. Judges enjoy security of tenure but they can be removed through a process initiated by a motion by JSC on its own or a written petition to the commission by any person. Jubilee wants JSC to initiate the removal of ‘unfriendly judges.’ REMOVAL According to the Constitution, the JSC considers a petition and, if satisfied that it discloses a ground for removal, sends the petition to the President who then suspends the judge within 14 days and appoints a tribunal to investigate. Article 168 lists grounds for the removal of a judge as inability to perform his duty due to mental or physical incapacity, breach of a code of conduct,, bankruptcy, incompetence and gross misconduct or misbehaviour. The JSC includes CJ Maraga as the chairperson, Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu representing the Supreme Court judges, Justices Warsame and Aggrey Muchelule representing the Court of Appeal and High Court, respectively. Lawyers Tom Ojienda and Mercy Deche represent the Law Society of Kenya. Jubilee’s grip is expected to be tightened when Parliament approves the nomination of former KU vice chancellor Olive Mugenda, former Agriculture CS Felix Koskei and PSC commissioner Patrick Gichohi. Kariuki, who took over from Githu Muigai, will join the JSC to enhance the executive’s bidding at the influential commission. Analysts say the composition of the JSC is tilting in favour of Jubilee, giving the ruling party a big say in judges careers. Matiang'i claimed Miguna's lawyers filed false affidavits and misled the court that his Canadian passport had been confiscated by the State during the three-day JKIA standoff. “We want to see how LSK will deal with this one. The AG will write to the LSK to petition it against the lawyers,” he said. Matiang'i defended the government's decision to send Miguna to Dubai — his embarking point — saying the self-styled NRM ‘general’ had made it difficult to re-enter Kenya. Also read: Jubilee demands removal of Judge Odunga over links to Orengo Matiang'i said he spoke to the Canadian High Commissioner who sent consular officers to convince Miguna to either present his passport or be facilitated through a diplomatic manner so he could leave the airport. "He refused," Matiang'i told MPs. "The Pope had his passport stamped on entry. President Barrack Obama had his passport stamped on entry. Even President Uhuru Kenyatta had his passport stamped on entry last night," he added. Matiang'i said Kenya did not deport Miguna as he had not entered the country yet. “We did not deport Miguna. We just returned him to his last port of call,” he said. Click here for the latest political news