The Trump administration on
Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade showdown with
China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial
technology, transport and medical products to try to force
changes in Beijing's intellectual property practices. The US tariff unveiling, representing about $50 billion of
estimated 2018 imports and aimed at dealing a setback to China's
efforts to upgrade its manufacturing base, drew an immediate
condemnation from Beijing, along with a threat of retaliatory
action. China's Ministry of Commerce said it "will soon take measure
of equal intensity and scale against US goods." "We have the confidence and ability to respond to any
protectionist measures by the United States," the ministry said
in a statement quoted by the official Xinhua news agency. Read: China hits back with tariffs on US imports worth $3bn The ministry did not reveal any specific countermeasures,
but economists widely view imports of US soybeans, aircraft
and machinery as prime targets for trade retaliation. The tariff list from the US Trade Representative's office
followed China's imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of
US fruits, nuts, pork and wine to protest new US steel and
aluminum tariffs imposed last month by US President Donald
Trump. The standoff between the world's two largest economies has
sparked market fears that they could spiral into a trade war
that could crush global growth. Asian share markets were mixed amid trade tension concerns,
with Japan's Nikkei 225 off 0.1 percent but Shanghai's
main index poised to open 0.3 percent higher. MANY CONSUMER ELECTRONICS EXCLUDED The USTR list ranged from chemicals to light-emitting
diodes to machine parts, but US industry groups warned it
would still hit supply chains that rely on Chinese components
and would ultimately raise costs for consumers. Many consumer electronics products such as cellphones made
by Apple Inc. and laptops made by Dell were excluded,
as were footwear and clothing, drawing a sigh of relief from
retailers who had feared higher costs for American consumers. But the USTR did include some key consumer products from
China, including flat-panel television sets and motor vehicles,
both electric and gasoline-powered with engines of 3 liters or
less. A Reuters analysis that compared listed products with 2017
Census Bureau import data showed $3.9 billion in flat-panel
television imports, and $1.4 billion in vehicle imports from
China. Among vehicles likely to be hit with tariffs is General
Motors Co's Buick Envision sport-utility vehicle, which
is assembled in China and sold in the United States. Volvo,
owned by China's Geely Motors, also exports Chinese-built
vehicles to the United States. More than 200 products on the list saw no US imports last
year, including large aircraft and communication satellites,
while some categories were highly unlikely to ever be imported,
such as artillery weapons. Publication of the tariff lists starts a public comment and
consultation period expected to last around two months, after
which USTR said it would issue a "final determination" on the
product list. It has scheduled a May 15 public hearing on the
tariffs. China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United
States in 2017, a figure that Trump has demanded be cut by $100
billion. ALGORITHM SHIELDS US CONSUMERS USTR developed the tariff targets using a computer algorithm
designed to choose products that would inflict maximum pain on
Chinese exporters, but limit the damage to US consumers. A USTR official said the product list got an initial scrub
by removing products identified as likely to cause disruptions
to the US economy and those that needed to be excluded for
legal reasons. "The remaining products were ranked according to the likely
impact on US consumers, based on available trade data
involving alternative country sources for each product," the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters. USTR said the China tariffs announced on Tuesday were
proposed "in response to China’s policies that coerce American
companies into transferring their technology and intellectual
property to domestic Chinese enterprises." The agency added that such policies "bolster China’s stated
intention of seizing economic leadership in advanced technology
as set forth in its industrial plans." China has denied that its laws require technology transfers
and has threatened to retaliate against any U.S. tariffs with
trade sanctions of its own, with potential targets such as U.S.
soybeans, aircraft or heavy equipment. 2025 PROGRAM TARGETED A USTR official said the tariff list targeted products that
benefit from China's industrial policies, including the "Made in
China 2025" program, which aims to replace advanced technology
imports with domestic products and build a dominant position in
future industries. The state-led 2025 program targets 10 strategic industries:
advanced information technology, robotics, aircraft, new energy
vehicles, pharmaceuticals, electric power equipment, advanced
materials, agricultural machinery, shipbuilding and marine
engineering and advanced rail equipment. Many products in those segments appear on the list,
including antibiotics and industrial robots and aircraft parts. US business groups reacted cautiously, saying they agreed
with Trump's efforts to stop the theft of US intellectual
property, but questioning whether tariffs were the right
approach. "Tariffs are one proposed response, but they are likely to
create new challenges in the form of significant added costs for
manufacturers and American consumers," National Association of
Manufacturers President Jay Timmons said in a statement. US Senator Marco Rubio said in a letter to Lighthizer and
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that he was glad to see "bold"
action against China. "These necessary actions constitute an important break with
the appeasement of previous administrations, and provide an
opportunity to chart a new course for America’s relationship
with this strategic competitor," Rubio wrote. Click here for the latest political news 