Three bishops have opposed calls for Kenyans to adopt polygamous marriages. Bishops Paul Korir of ACK Kapsabet diocese, Maurice Crowley of Kitale Catholic diocese and Patrice Chumba of AIC North Rift region said polygamy is “unchristian and those advocating it are ignorant”. The clerics spoke separately in church functions in Nandi county on Sunday. They appealed to Kenyans to reject the polygamy call. Early this month, Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba urged men from Central Kenya to marry more than one wife to increase the region’s population. She said polygamous marriages will reduce cases of infidelity and children born out of wedlock. Wamuchomba said it is regrettable that more women yearn to get married but most men are heavily dependent on illicit liquor. “The situation has forced young women to sire children with married men who end up abandoning them to raise the babies [as single mothers],” she had said. But Korir said Wamuchomba’s call is “diversionary” and is meant to set a different agenda for the nation. He said the legislator should be at the forefront of providing solutions instead of peddling political rhetoric. Korir said families are already overburdened by economic problems, despite having shrunk in size. “Many families cannot afford three decent meals per day, yet someone in a high leadership position is asking a man to marry more wives,” the bishop said. He said security and corruption should be tackled instead. Korir spoke at St Barnabas ACK Pro-Cathedral in Kapsabet. Bishop Chumba of AIC said it is against biblical doctrine to marry many wives and that “our forefathers did it out of ignorance”. He asked couples to jealously guard their families and have children they can comfortably raise. Crowley, who is the Pope’s appointed administrator for Eldoret diocese, said the church should come out boldly and oppose the polygamy call. He spoke at Our Lady of Victory Girls in Kapnyeberai. “It’s against Christian doctrine and those advocating it should be asked to use their energy to develop policies to better the lives of the people,” Crowley said. Kikuyu elders have backed Wamuchomba.