Unidentified men were arrested at Daystar University's Nairobi campus on Monday after trying to evict a student leader. A video shared on social media shows about five men manhandling a student before a heated argument ensues. The Star could not independently establish the cause of the fracas as acting Vice Chancellor James Kombo and deputy VC (Finance and Administration) Jomo Gatundu did not answer calls for comment. On April 4, protests at the university saw the suspension of the operations of three associations after they questioned the management's integrity. Council chair George Khroda said the officials of the three unions were also suspended. The three are; Senior Staff Association of Daystar University (SSADU), Daystar Univesity General Staff Association (DUGSA) and the Daystar University Students Associations (DUSA). Details: Daystar council suspends unions for questioning its leadership Today, students who spoke to the Star accused two officials of being behind the chaos. The learners, who requested anonymity, said their investigations found that one of the officials hired about 10 bouncers to evict all student leaders from the school on grounds that they incite students against management. "Five of the bouncers stormed into the library where Arnold Bazenge, the Junior Secretary General of the Student's Council was. They captured him and dragged him outside demanding to know where the other leaders were," one said. The student said Bazenge overpowered the bouncers and started shouting at them, drawing the attention of others. As he demanded that they reveal their identities and their reasons for roughing him up, the bouncers forced him out of the compound. In the video, the other students try to intervene but Bazenge is assaulted and dragged on the ground. "A friend of his tried to intervene but the bouncers also pounced on him, leaving him on the ground," the source said. "The students were angered so they retaliated by pouncing on the bouncers and capturing them. Five escaped after disappearing into crowds." Some of the students claimed the men told they acted on orders by the officials. "The bouncers initially said they worked for Securex Security Group and had been ordered to evict the student leaders from the institution," one of the leaders said. "We called Securex headquarters and surprisingly they could not identify the men. The head of operations told us that in cases where reinforcement of security is needed they use police, not guards. "We called police who took the five men for further interrogation." The institution is manned by guards of KK Security. Click here for the latest political news 