The plot on which a building under construction collapsed in Kakamega town on Tuesday was acquired illegally, the county government said yesterday. Housing, Lands and Physical Planning CEC Alfred Matianyi said the owner only had temporary ownership papers. The documents did not allow him to put up the five-storey building, he said. The collapsed building in Jua Kali estate is among hundreds built on parcels set aside for jua kali sheds and not residential houses, Matianyi said. “Our Physical Planning department is in the process of establishing the exact extent of the jua kali land before we make a decision on what next,” he said. The old Kakamega Municipal Council set aside the land between Maraba Estate and the town centre for sheds. Residents say officials of the Kakamega Jua Kali Association took over the land and subdivided it among themselves in early 2000s. They later sold it to third parties who turned the area into a residential estate. The association no longer exists. Matianyi said the owners of the remaining buildings must prove ownership of their plots to the government. The plots remain available as sites for light industries because no change of ownership was made, he said. “We’re told the Jua Kali Association officials sold the land. They don’t have a mandate to do that,” he said. “The spatial plan for Kakemega town is ready and I will be tabling it to the county cabinet soon. If approved, the developers will lose their space,” Matianyi said. The County Lands Application committee will deliberate o before making recommendations. Matianyi said they will pull down the other structures or regularise them based on the recommendations. Owners will then be required to apply for transfer of ownership. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on February 1 said his administration had received Sh400 million for urban development from the World Bank. He said Sh200 million of it would be spent in Kakamega town, and the balance in Mumias town. Click here for the latest political news