Defending champions Kenya Police extended their fine start in the men’s 2018 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Premier League with a hard-fought 3-2 win over KCA University yesterday at City Park. Prior to the match, Police were unbeaten in their past two matches and their experience won them their third against unrelenting KCA. Police began on a high and after minutes of searching for an opener, Calvins Kanu put the law enforcers ahead in the eighth minute with Sammy Oungo on target from a short corner. Patrick Mugambi’s charges dominated the game and five minutes later, Moses Cheplaiti made it 2-0 from a field goal. Talisman Oliver Echenje was a constant threat to the students defence as his dribbles from the left flank and pinpoint crosses exposed the poor defence by Luke Mbom’s charges. The two teams went into the breather with Police enjoying a 2-0 lead. A revitalised KCA resumed stronger for the final half, seeking to restore parity and barely two minutes into the game, Arnold Marange found space in the area, where he rifled a fierce shot past the goalkeeper Onesmus Mutuku to half the deficit. Exasperated by the goal, Police staged an impressive display in quest for a third goal but their efforts bore no fruits. Their change of tactics forced the students resort to defensive play. Despite playing under pressure, KCA managed to pull a number of counter attacks which almost caught the Police defence flat-footed. After two unsuccessful counter-attacks, KCA got the third one right as the ball landed on an isolated Felix Mochama at the half line mark as he raced towards the goal to calmly slot in the second goal to restore parity in 42nd minute. A minute later, fortunes fell on Police’s side as Samuel Wokila sounded the boards from a short corner after an infringement in the KCA’s area. In a bid to seal the win, Patrick Mugambi reacted by substituting Mutuku for first choice and experienced goalkeeper Allan Agesa to man the goal and this saw the law makers hold onto the lead till the final whistle. Police team manager, James Waruta, cited their midfield as their main undoing. “We had a good first half but we played our usual game. We conceded two goals from counterattacks and I think the midfield exposed the defence. I feel we are still not fully fit unlike last season where all departments were coordinating well.”