The international community is encouraging countries to adopt universal healthcare, but many are still dying of common diseases such as malaria and malaria related ailments. As some African countries battle malaria and its effects, some regard the disease as a ‘mere flu’. Symptoms typically develop within 10 days to four weeks following infection. In some cases, symptoms may not develop for several months. Some malarial parasites will lie dormant in the body for long periods. Common symptoms include chills, high fever, profuse sweating, nausea, headache, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, anaemia, muscle pain, convulsions, coma and bloody stool. In Kenya, the disease has hindered many a family from progressing economically. The country marks the 10th World Malaria Day in Narok today. This year’s global theme is ‘Ready to beat malaria’. For a Kenyan farmer, a malaria sick day means his or her children will go hungry that day. For a poor entrepreneur who’s too sick to take her goods to the market, that’s lost income that could have paid for her children’s school fees. Countrywide, malaria prevalence dropped from 11 per cent to eight per cent between 2010 and 2015, according to data from the World Health Organisation. "Malaria is most pervasive in the endemic region along Lake Victoria, with the country’s highest rate of infection at 27 per cent in 2015, yet this figure is down from 38 per cent in 2010,” the organisation noted. Nonetheless, progress has not been uniform. WHO data shows that in 2015 the eight per cent prevalence in the coastal region was twice what it had been in 2010, highlighting the need to sustain high coverage of malaria control measure. Malaria is among the top killer diseases that continue to claim the lives of children and pregnant women, especially in Rift Valley, Coast and Western. The disease is considered ‘normal’ and residents take over-the-counter painkillers, not knowing this lowers their immunity and could even cause death. In the South Rift, Baringo county is the worst affected. In October last year, a malaria outbreak in Tiaty subcounty killed at least 30 people. The worst-hit areas in Tiaty include Tirioko, Akoret, Kapau, Kongor, Ruttu, Kulal, Lokis, Korelach, Chesetim and Ng’aina. Mary Kiptumo from Chemolingot, Baringo, is nursing three children who are recovering from malnourishment after they were diagnosed with the vector-borne disease. A malaria epidemic killed 20 people, most of them children, in August last year in the area. Kiptumo children aged two, four and six developed a fever, were weak and vomited a lot. "I noticed one Monday afternoon that the youngest child had developed a fever. However, she was still able to eat and play and did not seem to be bothered. Sometimes these simple fevers can go as quickly as they came, I thought. The fever continued throughout the night and the next morning the child seemed very sleepy and his body felt very hot,” she said. The following day, after another night during which the baby remained restless and feverish, two other children developed similar symptoms. The mother of seven prepared herbal medicine and gave it to the children, but their condition worsened. She thought maybe her children had been bewitched and prepared ‘munyan’ (traditional clay which is reddish in colour) and applied it on the children’s hair and forehead to ward off the ‘bad omen’. The clay is also believed to trap insects such as flies and mosquito. "My children were getting weaker every day and efforts to treat them with our normal traditional drugs did not bear fruit. Other children in the village who had similar symptoms unfortunately passed on,” a sobbing Kiptumo said. Kenya Red Cross Society volunteers and other health stakeholders went to the children’s rescue. The children were given antimalarial drugs and nutritional boosters. The children had become anaemic and had to receive a blood transfusion at Chemolingot Subcounty Hospital. "The children could not play. Feeding was a problem and their eyes had turned pale. Doctors visited them and provided them with drugs and slowly, they began gaining weight,” Kiptumo said. Asked why she did not take them to hospital, Kiptumo said the facility is many kilometers away and she lacked money for their treatment. After receiving treatment the children slept through the night, their breathing calmed and their bodies were no longer hot to the touch. When they woke up the next morning, they were alert and had a good appetite for the first time in many days. Blood was ordered from Nakuru Level Five and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret due to a shortage in the area. "We took various interventions to manage the situation. Because the area is normally on its peak with malaria incidents during the rain season, we have ensured there’s ongoing education on ways to prevent the disease,” area Public Health director Joseph Nakopir said. Nakuru Level 5 Hospital superintendent Dr Joseph Mburu says the facility admits at least three new malaria patients every day. “At least 32 malaria cases are confirmed every month, with the most affected being children under five years of age and few cases of expectant mothers. Malaria at an advanced stage can also cause anaemia, cerebral malaria and even pneumonia,” he said. The hospital records the highest number of malaria cases during the rainy season between March and May. The country has taken a number of steps to fight malaria, including providing insecticide-treated bed nets in high-risk areas. This has helped cut the malaria rate prevalence, even though it still ranks among the top five causes of death. "The government has taken steps to ensure that families have bed nets and that the nets are being used consistently and correctly in malaria-prone areas. The government has also encouraged the public living in malaria-prone areas to drain standing pools of water and trim vegetation to limit breeding areas for mosquitoes and taught parents to recognise the signs of malaria and refer people suspected of suffering from malaria to health facilities,” Dr Nakopir said. In many communities, there’s a sense of resignation about malaria. The disease is so ubiquitous, local health officials say many people consider it unavoidable. “The government, through the department of Public Health, has empowered people to protect their own health and by helping parents to recognise their critical role in fighting malaria,” Dr Mburu said. Kenya has distributed 16 million long-lasting insecticidal nets in 36 counties through mass campaigns and routine maternal and child welfare clinics. Statistics from the Health ministry indicate that in April last year, 63 per cent of households in Kenya owned at least one LLIN, an improvement from 44 per cent in 2010. Indoor residual spraying of households, diagnosis-based treatment policy, supply of the preventive medicine and other integrated vector-borne management measures have also contributed to low transmission. Currently 87 per cent of public health facilities have diagnostic capacity. However, Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists & Dentists’ Union chairman Dr Samuel Oroko says the government needs to relook at the preventive initiatives to boost the war on malaria. "The government has neglected primary healthcare, which includes educating the public through public barazas and concentrated on secondary care, which includes diagnosis and cure of the deadly disease, which has continued to claim people’s lives,” he says. He called for initiatives to compel chiefs and other stakeholders to go into villages as well as facilitate health workers to publicly enlighten the residents on preventive measures. "The government is supposed to equip dispensaries and health centres with diagnostic kits, enlighten the public on benefits of using mosquito nets instead of the residents using them in nursery beds and as fencing material when planting vegetables like sukuma wiki,” Dr Oroko says. He says the government should introduce larvicides and use multiple approaches to intensify the malaria fight. The government last year launched a massive campaign to distribute 15 million LLINs in 23 counties. The drive ends this year. A further 15.6 million LLINs will be distributed in a 2020 campaign. Former health CS Ceopa Mailu early this year said over 200,000 structures have been sprayed through indoor residual spraying in Migori county, protecting more than one million people. Four other counties in the Lake region will be targeted for spraying between 2018 and 2021. Mailu noted that IRS is a costly intervention and continued investment is required to address funding gaps.