President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga should be honest with Kenyans about their deal ending political hostility. At this juncture, they are not. Many Kenyans are guessing about the implications of their deal, which they've kept secret. They should accept that the handshake carries their interests, some of which could be political. Their attack on those opposing the handshake only reminds Kenyans of their political interest. Dismissing those who attack or oppose it will not achieve the objectives of unity they have promised to work towards. It is not fair that some leaders should collude against others or hide their deals from the public. It is possible we are reading too much into the handshake and it has nothing to do with 2022 polls. But the truth is that most of us think there is something and it will definitely influence 2022 polls in a big way. Similarly, they can’t say they will recognise the heroes of this great nation if they don't correct the injustices and mistakes of their predecessors. That will not stop the masses from what they want unless they address corruption, impunity and tribalism entrenched in government. It is unlikely that Uhuru and Raila can sit down and come up with something to benefit Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 polls. Nothing is free and with time we will know what they are up to. Ruto didn’t need the handshake to win. He was confident of winning before the handshake but things changed when Uhuru and Raila agreed to work together. Remember Ruto said he supports the handshake. His lieutenants said the same. What Ruto said and what is happening, however, are not in sync; he says he supports it, his lieutenants give conditions. He is opposed to the handshake because it will produce such things as a referendum to create certain positions that Raila's people are talking about. But he should first understand if Uhuru is betraying him to work with Raila. He can also support it but push to become either the President or Prime Minister. If I were him, I would wait until everything is on the table, then plan and hit back easily. Manyora is a political commentator. He spoke to the Star  Click here for the latest political news