A showdown is looming between bar owners and the Kiambu county government over what the business people term as oppressive laws. They accuse the county government of using nonexistent laws to oppress them. During a meeting in Thika on Tuesday, the bar owners said the county government's law on alcohol has not been published in the Kenya Gazette as required by the constitution. Failure to do so means the county has been using a nonexistent law to harass them, they said. In March, the Kiambu assembly passed a bill to abolish retail of wines and spirits. It was signed into law by Governor Ferdinand Waititu on March 7. According to the the Alcoholic Drinks Control Act 2018, bar owners should not reapply for licences through the subcounty alcohol committees. Instead, the committees will hold public hearings for residents to approve or disapprove licensing applications. Those issued with licences must display the certificates prominently. Bar owners must also keep records of their suppliers of alcoholic drinks. The law limits nightclub operations from 2pm to 3am on weekends. In a statement read by the Kiambu Liquor Welfare group chairman, Richard Kagiri, the bar owners demanded that there should be no arrests, which have been rampant since the passing of the bill. “Our traders have today passed a resolution that, since no law exists that has been passed by the county government and published in the Kenya gazette in line with the constitution, they feel their rights are being infringed upon by the county government,” said Kagiri. The traders vowed to go to court to challenge the county's disputed alcohol law. The traders accused the Kiambu government of harassment and destruction of their property by hired thugs who are not employees of the county. They said the responsibility of the county government is licensing of bars, yet Governor Waititu has overstepped his mandate by taking over roles of the central government and other agencies. “Waititu is also on record saying that he was not voted by bar owners while we know that we closed our businesses to vote for him, but we assure him that payback is soon coming," Kagiri said. In a show of defiance, the traders resolved to open their premises from 2pm and not the prescribed 5 pm.