The World Bank has given the Moi Teaching Referral Hospital Sh300 million to put up an Ebola isolation ward and construct a modern Bio-safety Public Health Level two laboratory. Speaking on Wednesday during a meeting with contractors, CEO of the hospital Dr Wilson Aruasa says the project will be unique and the only one of its kind in the East African region. He says the project site has already been handed over to Ressos Company which is the main contractor for the 12-month project. “We have agreed with the contractor to ensure the best comes out. We will be guided by own levels of quality and that is what we are focused on," he said. Aruasa said the hospital serves patients from the entire East African region and the project was timely considering outbreaks of contagious diseases like Ebola in some nearby countries. "We are lucky to be the beneficiaries of this landmark project which will be a game changer. The contractor should adhere to the stipulated guidelines and standards,” he said. The hospital also received drugs and medical equipment worth more than Sh2 billion from Eli Lilly and Catholic Medical Mission Board in the United States of America. The hospital head thanked the donors for the contribution adding that the assorted drugs will go a long way in supporting the fight against Non-Communicable Diseases. The drugs were mainly for Mental Health, Cancer, HIV/AIDS and Diabetes. Focus on non-communicable diseases as well as Population Health are key components towards the realization of Universal Health Coverage. Aruasa said the value of the donations has been increasing over the years. Eli Lilly and the Catholic medical mission board have been supporting the hospital for the last 18 years. “We are very proud and happy with the support we have been receiving from our development partners because the support has been very vital in helping us deal with many of the health challenges which are tackling as a country”, he said. Click here for the latest political news