Celebrated singer and songwriter Wahu joined Mortein Doom and Mbagathi Hospital to donate gift bags to mothers with newborns. The singer, who has just dropped her new single My Everything, said the hit song was inspired by her famous hubby, Nameless. “In the situation where my husband was unwell, I went on my knees because it is not about how popular or how much people love you. Those are not the things that matter. Sometimes God shows you ‘I am God’ and you just have to come down and say yes 'You are God and You are everything'. I resonated with the song because of that space and I guess I can say when my husband was unwell God says he is Jehovah-Rapha the healer.” Wahu said one of the challenges marriages face is the "Disney mentality of 'they lived happily ever after' fairytale, which is great but we don’t understand the happily ever after comes with work.” Adding, "For me, I look at marriage as this is a running mate for life. I'm here to help you fulfil your dreams and your purpose. What role can I then play, how do I help you achieve your goals? [It's] not always getting into each other hair and vice versa. His role is to help me achieve my goals, the best version of myself.” Away from marriage life, Wahu the artiste and mother took part in this year’s World Malaria Day activities. The universal theme was ‘Ready to beat malaria’. Speaking during the event, Wahu said. “I am humbled to be part of this great initiative by Mortein Doom, it is important to educate the public, especially women, on the prevention of malaria. Women play a critical role in our society, and as a mother I feel there is need to empower us more since when you educate a woman, you educate a whole village and this goes a long way in getting things done." Reckitt Benckiser Group’s head of marketing Damira Golubic said community engagement and public and private sector are part of the many activities by the multinational to stem the prevalence of malaria in Kenya. Speaking during the mid-morning exercise, Golubic said, “We believe through such interventions we’ll be playing an integral role of equipping our communities with the right education on how to beat malaria”. Five years ago, malaria accounted for more than 30 per cent of outpatient attendance. This has dropped to 18 per cent. Children below the age of five and pregnant women are the most vulnerable to malaria, which contributes to increased child and maternal mortality. Currently, 94 per cent of Kenya’s health facilities have the capacity to test for malaria.