It is only 11 o’clock in the morning. The spring curious visitors' steps cannot be ignored. The joy with which shoppers happily push their trollies, comparing prices and picking items, is a sight to behold. Older shoppers, their domestic workers in tow in their starched uniforms, pick new packets of soap, food stuff, anything they like. Shopping baskets are getting fuller by the moment. Nobody seems to think about the uncomfortable warmth inside the store, after all, it just opened. It is only Thursday, but you would be forgiven to assume it’s Saturday morning. Kenyans are out shopping, indeed enjoying every moment as Carrefour Supermarkets swang their doors open to welcome a fifth new store in Sarit Centre, Westlands. A poster proudly beckons buyers to ask for a refund if they buy an item that is pricier in the store as compared to other shops. Well, you would need to go in and see for yourself. Carrefour, Kenya’s latest sensation in retail shopping is finally in Westlands. Residents of Nairobi’s quiet but busy township will now enjoy shopping with an international flavour and affordability as the store takes up space where Uchumi Supermarkets was the anchor tenant for years. But not just yet, as the store could move. Not far off though. “The space that we are currently occupying is temporary. Owe will move to the new wing of Sarit Centre once the construction is complete, later in the year,” said country manager Franck Moreau. Their dream is to occupy 5,000 square metres of selling area in a fully-fledged hypermarket at the due to the need to have ample and well-designed space, which is better for operations. “We partnered with the management of Sarit Centre early enough, to ensure that the new space is designed to our specifications and needs.” The hypermarket will serve residents of Peponi, Kabete, Kitisuru, Kileleshwa, Kinoo and people living and working along Waiyaki Way, Westlands, Riverside and Parklands areas. This is the only branch nearest Nairobi’s central business district, with other hypermarkets conveniently located out of town. Moreau said the newest hypermarket, once complete, will operate using the partial selling area model, similar to The Junction, which opened in January, and Thika Road Mall. “Once we move to the new wing of the mall, we will have a fully-fledged mall offering over 30,000 goods including electronics, fresh food, textiles, fresh pastries from our bakery, meats, fish and other items.” He said the store does not import any fruits or vegetables, and instead partner with local suppliers, some of whom are the actual growers. "Can I find yogurt?" An inquisitive colleague asked this writer after the short visit to the hypermarket. No shopper wants to walk to the store and leave without their needs met. There is enough yogurt, breads, snacks, among other products. There are enough staff, well dressed in their uniforms, and ready to help. With the new store at Sarit Centre, the staff base for the retailer will go up to 1,400 within two years of operations in Kenya. The store is expected to give Naivas Supermarkets a run for their money, being the only supermarket sits pretty in a location that faces the highway, and located right by the Westlands bus stop. Naivas offers 24 hour shopping, while Nakumatt Ukay, found along Ring Road, is the only Nakumatt store still open in the area. Nakumatt Westgate quietly closed operations last year, leaving shoppers few options in the area. Uchumi Supermarket that was the anchor tenant in Sarit Centre closed shop after some 30 years of business in the location.