It will be an all first timers affair as Menengai face off with Upper Hill in the rugby 15s boys final as the curtains come down on the national Term One Games at Kangaru High today. Menengai surprised champions Kakamega High 20-16 in one of the semi-finals while Upper Hill were too good for St Mary’s Yala — 24-3 ­ in the other. Both teams have in the previous events failed to make it to the final stages. Kakamega will now play Yala in the bronze medal playoff match in hunt for a ticket to the East Africa School Games. In the match against Yala, Upper Hill’s Calvin Kahindi broke their opponents defence in the 10th minute to make the first try before Mubarak Wandera added a penalty try in the 20th giving his side a 12-0 lead. Three minutes later, Yala’s Aggrey Javan sailed a penalty kick through the posts garnering three points which remained the only consolation for the Nyanza Region’s champions. Clement Ashila extended the good run for Upper Hill after touching down in the 26th minute as Daniel Kategera converted the try to end the opening half 19-3. On resumption, Kahindi pounced again in the 42nd minute, which became the last in the game for 24-3 as the two teams played to a try-less 18 minutes to the last whistle. Kahindi who scored a double acknowledged the finals will be hard. “At last we are in the finals. We are going to give our best. It is not automatic that we will beat them having won against them 17-9 in the group stage. We have to be vigilant in our defense and at the same time attack their try area,” said Kahindi. In other results, former handball champions St. Luke’s Kimilili boys have a date with Nyanza Region’s Kanyawanga in the final thanks to a 24-17 victory against Rift Valley’s Saniak in the semi-finals. Kanyawanga had clawed Makieni’s Nduluni 37-19 in the second semi. In basketball final, defending champion Laiser Hill Academy entertain newbies Busia’s Sigalame having eliminated Ambira Boys 55-23, while in a high-scoring second semi, Sigalame edged Meru School 86-43. Sigalame’s guard Vitalis Akisa said: “We are going to keep our momentum high tomorrow. We will be taking on the defending champions who are a big name on basketball but we’ll square it out in the court tomorrow (today).” In boys hockey, champions St. Anthony’s Boys Kitale managed a 1-0 win over Kakamega County’s Musingu High in the semis and come up against Nairobi’s Upper Hill in the final. Upper Hill saw off 1996 winners Kisumu Day 1-0 in the round of four yesterday.