Kenya spent Sh533 million treating patients who sought medical services after botched abortions, a new report suggests. The amount was used to purchase medical supplies and pay health personnel. This was an increase by Sh100 million that was used in 2012 to treat unsafe abortion. The findings were recorded in the report by the Africa Health Population Research in conjunction with the Ministry of Health titled 'the cost of treating unsafe abortions complications in public Health facilities in Kenya.' Read : Bleeding caused half of maternal deaths – state According to the report, Rift Valley spent the highest amount totalling Sh1.3 million shillings followed by Nyanza at Sh66 million shillings. "Unsafe abortion demonstrates the challenges and fragility within the public health system in the country." lead author of the report Chimaraoke Izugbara said. "This research shows that the time and money required to treat complications from unsafe abortion keeps health professionals from being able to attend to other patients, while also putting women’s health and future childbearing at risk." A total of 128 facilities took part in the exercise. Most of the treatments were conducted in level four hospitals. The average cost of a typical treatment stood at Sh4,943. The cost varied from Sh3, 264 for mild complications, Sh4, 362 for moderate and Sh9,133 for severe complications. Unsafe abortion is defined as the termination of a pregnancy by people lacking the necessary skills or in an environment lacking minimal medical standards or both. This has been cited as the leading cause of maternal deaths in the world. Also read : What it is like to have unsafe abortion The report further states health workers spend at least 7.4 hours on their time attending to a woman who has abortion complications. “This time ranges from 5.5 hours for mild complications to 6.7 hours for moderate complications, and up to 12.4 hours for the treatment of severe complications, involving procedures such as pelvis abscess drainage or cervical/vaginal tear repair,” part of the report said. Abortion is only legal when there is a need for emergency treatment or the life or health of the mother is in danger. The permission must be granted by a trained health professional. In a 2012 report by the Africa Population and Health Research and the Guttmacher Institute showed that 464,690 unsafe abortions were procured. In that same report, Rift Valley recorded the highest cases at 38,687 followed by Nyanza with 36,842. Some of the limitations of the study were that it did not include the critical costs of unsafe abortion complications to households, communities, organisations and individuals. The cost of women’s death from these complications was also not included. The report recommended increasing access to effective family planning methods including post-abortion family planning counselling as well educating the public on the dangers of unsafe abortion. Also read: After safe abortions, 20 girls return to class  Click here for the latest political news 