The three "criminals" remaining at the IEBC must leave immediately, ODM National Chairman John Mbadi has said. Mbadi, who is Suba South MP, noted on Wednesday that Kenyans are disappointed by the way three commissioners resigned on Monday. Vice Chairperson Consolata Maina led fellow commissioners Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat in quitting as divisions at the IEBC boiled over. The other half - Chairman Wafula Chebukati and commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu - were left holding on and now want Sh220 million to exit. More on this: [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader Latest: Chebukati Three want to be paid Sh220 million to resign Regarding the resignations, Mbadi said: "These are the people entrusted with elections but looking at them you see incompetent people. You have to ask yourself why they resigned. "Because of selfish interests, they can easily resign. There were criminals ... six criminals. There are three criminals remaining. Before we get rid of the criminals a lot must be done." Mbadi said reforms at the agency must be part of the discussion that Kenyans will have. "Those reforms can only be done if the three remaining commissioners leave office. This is a perfect opportunity [for the country]. The whole country must engage to see how to have a Secretariat that can run electoral processes," he said. Noting the Opposition has always had reservations about the IEBC, the Chairman said they want a complete overhaul, especially at the Secretariat. Separately, ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna asked the government to constitute a bi-partisan stakeholder forum to oversee the reconstitution of the commission for all Kenyans to have confidence in its ability to manage future elections. "Thereafter, the country must go back to the drawing board to re-look at the entire architecture of Kenya’s electoral body," he said in a statement. Related: IEBC is cursed, Chebukati must also resign - Orengo Also read: Chebukati can't lead IEBC, vague statements unacceptable - Duale Sifuna said the resignations confirmed their long-held fears that the rot at the IEBC goes to its core. "It appears there were commissioners whose sole mandate was to shield the Secretariat to allow [CEO] Ezra Chiloba a free hand to perpetuate all manner of evils at the commission," he said. The Secretary General asked why the three commissioners did not wait for the completion of investigations. "What do they know? What are they running from? We fully support the investigations commenced by the commission and the action taken to send the CEO on compulsory leave," he said. Sifuna said any discussion on the reconstitution of the commission must include a discussion on the reconstitution of the Secretariat. "We reiterate that the officials who oversaw the worst electoral fraud in our country, including Chiloba, Marijan Hussein, Betty Nyabuto, James Muhati, Immaculate Kassait and their cohorts at the Secretariat, must give way." The commissioners have served for 14 months since their appointment in January 2017, eight months to the last elections. They have 58 months — four years and eight months of their fixed six-year term—  to go. Chebukati, Guliye and Molu want to be paid to leave office. Chiloba has ismissed reports he authorised payment of Sh250 million for supply of additional electronic voter identification devices used in 2013 general election. He said the Auditor General did not make an adverse finding against the procurement or payment for the handled devices. Details: Don't blame me for Sh250 million spent in 2013 polls - Chiloba Read more: I had nothing to do with Sh259m procurement, grilling unfair - Issack Hassan Click here for the latest political news