The Netherlands relationship with Kenya will now shift to purely trade partnership, and engagements will be more with the private sector, the country’s ambassador has said. Speaking during the occasion of King’s day at his residence on Friday, Ambassador Frans Makken said for sustainability interests, they will seek to engage the private sector to enhance business and investments between the two countries. “We will seek to focus more on enhancing trade and in doing so, we will work more with the private sector so that the two states benefit, not just giving aid,” Makken said. Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba, the chief guest, said Kenya no longer needs aid and the approach by the Netherlands — focus on trade — makes them “unique and good friends”. In September 2016, Dutch Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation, Lilianne Ploumen, told her country’s Parliament they will not give aid to Kenya after 2020, citing “significant economic growth” and the classification of the country’s economy as middle-income. The Netherlands support to Kenya has been concentrated in food security programmes and agriculture, education, human rights, environment conservation and trade. A recent report of the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows the Netherlands was Kenya’s second export destination in January. Over 125 Dutch companies are registered in Kenya and a recent survey among them showed 80 per cent of them are planning to expand their operations. Kenya exports mainly horticultural produce to the European country, in particularly, cut flowers, while the Netherlands exports to Kenya transport equipment, machinery, engines and chemicals. Ababu said trade figures between the two countries are in surplus of Sh26 billion in favour of Kenya and hoped the situation remains. Makken, however, said the developments will not affect their support for human rights groups since there are other channels they can help such as the AU, the UN and the World Bank. In July 205, the two countries signed the Agreement on the Avoidance of Double Taxation to create a conducive environment for investments and trade in goods and services between the two countries. The deal removed uncertainties on taxation occasioned by having two different jurisdictions at play.     