Kenyans must learn how to criticise and depose leaders when they are wrong. Leaders are not gods and other countries have shown us this by prosecuting and jailing presidents for corruption. This week the family of Kenneth Matiba and the nation lost him to a deterioration of health that started when he was detained in the 1990s. President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a statement of condolences that correctly characterised Matiba as a great achiever, a great patriot, mentor and national hero who sacrificed everything for multiparty democracy. But he fell short of telling the nation and the world that, regrettably, Matiba died an unnecessary death caused by three forces that should be held responsible. Matiba was not killed by disease, crime or a road accident, but by politics and a veiled assassination that was executed over many years. First, and foremost, Matiba was killed by President Moi and his Kanu government in its brutal campaign to crush the drive for multiparty democracy. Now that Matiba has died as a final consequence of his detention, Moi and the Kanu government must bear responsibility and apologise. For Moi, admitting responsibility for Matiba’s death will certainly be painful, but it cannot be more painful than Matiba’s slow death over many years. Asking Moi to apologise might even sound cruel, but it cannot be worse than the torture Matiba and others suffered in detention. Admitting responsibility and apologising might even be the therapy that would relieve Moi from the burdensome guilt of ordering, sanctioning and allowing detention and torture against many innocent Kenyans whose only crime was to change Kenya to a better society. Lack of an opportunity to apologise could very well be the reason why God has given Moi long life. The second killer was detention or indefinite imprisonment, whose unknown end can induce stroke in the strongest soul, heart and body. Many people cannot imagine that the infinity of detention can break and kill even the strongest person. But the detention that killed Matiba was not its limitlessness alone. Detention was enforced with torture. The third killer was one-party dictatorship, without which there could not have been either detention or torture. Dictatorship bore the most responsibility for Matiba’s death for creating the torture that ruled detention. Let us remember that the government, detention and dictatorship that created special torture with which to kill Matiba was also created to maim, ruin and kill other Kenyans who ended up in detention before and after Matiba, some for much longer periods. The torture that killed, maimed and ruined detainees was of three types: The first was indefinite imprisonment, which did not allow Matiba, Charles Rubia, Raila Odinga, Gitobu Imanyara, Koigi or anybody else to know when they would be released. Not knowing inflicted powerful psychological torture that made them lose all hope or desire to live. The consequence was depression, hopelessness or mental breakdown. The second was isolation of detainees that made them vulnerable to disease, hopelessness and surrender. Detainees were isolated from society, being kept in prison without charge or trial. They were isolated in maximum security prisons and uninhabited areas like the Tsavo National Park. The detainees were kept in segregated blocks called ‘isolation’ and ‘segregation’. In detention, one was segregated from other prisoners and other detainees. One was confined in a tiny cell for 23-and-a-half hours daily without anyone to talk to, books, radio or any recreation facilities. The third was deliberate exposure to and non-treatment of diseases. Detainees were given bad food. They were allowed no warm clothes. They were fed to mosquitoes to get malaria. They were not taken to hospital immediately they fell sick. They were denied medicines. Their families were not allowed to buy them medicine. They were examined in the presence of prison officers. Prison doctors became their killers. It took high-level authorities to take them to hospital, and only when they were completely destroyed. Government used disease to kill and punish political enemies-cum-detainees, while deflecting blame to them for failing to survive detention. Whatever we think of Matiba, it is undeniable that he sacrificed his life of comfort, wealth and health to make Kenya a democratic society. For this reason, many Kenyans consider him a hero for whom flags should fly at half mast. Although a state funeral for Matiba will rub some people the wrong way, government should have courage to give him this honour not as a privilege but a right that his contribution to society entitles him to. Though sections of our society and Judiciary are happy to deny torture in detention, after Matiba, no Kenyan should die from detention again. Rest in Peace, Kenneth Matiba.