The National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) President Paul Tergat has lauded the move by the International Tennis Federation (ITF) to set up the East Africa Training Centre in the country. The centre, which seeks to train fast-rising tennis players from the region, was officially commissioned by the ITF President David Haggerty on Tuesday at Kasarani before opening the High Performance Centre at Upper Hill, Nairobi yesterday. Tergat, who graced the opening of the High Performance Centre where players will reside and take their studies, said the move by ITF to invest in tennis was in line with Nock’s commitment in developing sports in the country. He said: “I am pleased to witness the inauguration of this centre where young players will be guided to challenge for honours at international level. I am happy ITF is bringing resources and facilities to support the initiative and my office will continue to support the activities of Tennis Kenya through the Olympic Solidarity funding. I also welcome the President ITF to Kenya and hope to host you again in future.” Huggerty wrapped his two-day visit in the country, where he opened the High Performance Centre and further tipped the players to take their tennis career to the next level. He announced that his office had agreed to offer financial support to the just inaugurated High Performance Centre— the world. “We have two centres in the world—one at Casablanca, Morocco and another one in Fiji. I am elated to have opened the third one in Kenya and my office will give finances to run it. I have assessed the players here and I have noted exceptional talent hence they stand a chance of going far. The kids will benefit a lot from this centre as it instills virtues to players at tender ages.” The players’ captain Ryan Randiek thanked the ITF boss for opening both centres and pledged to reward him by getting positive results in ITF tournaments. “I have been at this centre for two years and I have benefited a lot and so have my friends. We are not only trained in the courts but also in class. We thank the ITF president for opening both centres officially and offering financial assistance. As players, we are looking forward to exploit this chance fully and reward the ITF boss by getting positive results.”