The Nyeri and Machakos governments on Saturday signed an agreement to cooperate in fields from commerce and industry to health and education.
Governor Mutahi Kahiga of Nyeri and Alfred Mutua of Machakos signed the MoU in Nyeri.
The two governments will also cooperate in value-addition, infrastructure development and water and sanitation. Other fields are solid waste management, agriculture, environment, green energy, emergency services and disaster planning and management.
“These exchange and cooperation activities shall be based on shared goals of economic development, cultural understanding and improved governance and administration,” the MoU states.
The agreement was signed at the end of a four-day learning tour of Nyeri by Mutua and his deputy.
The counties will organise visits, trainings and staff exchanges to share ideas, technical expertise, best practices in urban planning and governance.
 Both governors and top officials will maintain channels of communication to expedite consultation, exchange and cooperation.
Kahiga said the MoU is meant to unite the people of Machakos and Nyeri, not just him and Mutua. “The MoU will guide our progressive engagement on matters beneficial to our people,” he said. Mutua said the MoU will go a long way to improve the lives of people in both counties. He said it will also create jobs for youth.
Earlier, Mutua said it was wrong to blame only one community for trade in charcoal and to release a hate song over the actions of a few. He was referring to the ‘Ikamba’ song, which has attracted a lot of criticism.
Mutua said the actions and lyrics were “despicable, contrary to law and order and not the hallmarks of a civilised society”.
Following the charcoal ban, protests have been held and property, including cars destroyed.
“Destruction of property and vigilante actions only happen in a lawless country. The Kamba and Kikuyu are friends who live peacefully with each other and condemn acts that perpetuate discord,” Mutua said in Nyeri on Wednesday.
He asked stakeholders to respect Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu’s ban as the county “has decided”. Ngilu ordered strict enforcement of a 2014  ban on charcoal in the county because it destroys the environment.
Mutua also asked leaders to preach and practice love, tolerance and understand their actions and statements influence the behaviour of their people.
Last month, Kahiga made a similar tour of Machakos county. He was accompanied by his executives and senior officials in his government.
They visited several projects in Machakos for three days from March 7.