Some University of Nairobi students are an angry lot. Reason? Word has it that the learners are unhappy after the varsity, under Vice Chancellor Peter Mbithi, proceeded with elections for the students' leaders on Friday, defying a court order suspending the exercise. It is said the aggrieved students are pointing fingers at Mbithi for meddling in their welfare by forcing the election and the alleged controversial swearing in on Sunday of "his preferred" candidate Antony Manyara to succeed Embakasi East MP Babu Owino as SONU chair. The aggrieved students term Manyara's ascent to power as a "selection" exercise. They have vowed to fight for democracy in the streets and at Miliman Law Courts, Nairobi, from today. ***** Is Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru becoming a darling of two Rift Valley political heavyweights? The meeting between Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Waiguru in Nairobi has elicited mixed reactions among Kenyans on the possible political alignments taking shape ahead of the 2022 General Election. The meeting comes a week after Deputy President William Ruto toured Kirinyaga County to launch mega development projects accompanied by Waiguru. Corridors has learned that Waiguru, the Council of Governors vice chairperson, is slowly emerging as the preferred presidential running mate in the next polls. Waiguru is currently embroiled in a political battle with area woman representative Wangui Ngirici. ***** It seems the National Youth Service buses that were recently deployed to offer cheap transport to Nairobi residents have come with their own set of rules. For instance, this bus GKA 693S that was spotted along Racecourse Road on Friday morning had a cracked windscreen. The question some members of the public were overheard asking is: How could such an unroadworthy bus allowed to operate ? Is this an act of a government agency setting a bad example to other motorist? All eyes are on the Ministry of Transport to see whether it will effectively implement its new programme of easing congestion in the city. ***** Residents of a county in Western region are up in arms. It is has been observed that a company operating in the county is behind all manner of scandals. Even without any contract with the county, those in the know say since September last year the company has received between Sh35 million and Sh40 million a number of times. On a mere expression of interest, a requisition memo is hurriedly drafted and money meant for contractors diverted to execute the payment. Are sleuths from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission aware of this?