A cholera outbreak has been reported in Bunyala West and Central wards in Budalang’i constituency.
Eight cases have been confirmed. Four people have been treated and discharged, while four are still in hospital.
Health executive Phaustine Barasa said two people who were discharged from Port Victoria Subcounty Hospital in Budalang’i on Wednesday had been screened and confirmed to carry the cholera strains.
She said health officials have collected samples from water sources, such as boreholes, to establish where the origin of the outbreak.
Busia county director of public health Melissa Lutomia said the first case was detected in Rukala Health Centre, Bunyala Central last weekend.
Victims have been exhibiting symptoms of diarrhoea, vomiting, stiffness of joints, headache and general body weakness.
Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal disease that can kill within hours if left untreated.
Barasa said they will order closure of all eateries as the county government fights to contain the outbreak. “I’m appealing to all Busia residents to be careful. Those who experience such symptoms should go for screening immediately,” he said.
Bunyala West MCA Taabu Were and Bunyala Central’s Felix Omanyo urged residents to dig pit latrines and observe high hygiene standards to prevent the spread.
Most homesteads in the area do not have latrines and people defaecate in the open.
“The weather is also a challenge, due to flooding, there is urgency for the national and county governments to treat the situation as urgent and ensure we have enough drugs in our hospitals for the victims. Water should also be treated in a bid to save lives,” Omanyo said. He said he can foresee the situation worsening if not contained in time.
Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi said the county government has received the report and is working to ensure it is contained before it spreads.
Residents have expressed fears the disease might have emanated from the Lake Victoria due to water contamination.
A check by the Star on Wednesday revealed that most households in Port Victoria, Budalang’i, use the water for domestic purposes, including drinking. The contamination could be coming from latrines built near the lake.
In 2015, the Busia Health department urged residents to avoid defaecating in the open to prevent cholera outbreak.
The department urged residents to also cover their toilets and keep their houses clean.
They were also urged to wash their hands with detergent after visiting the latrine.