Title: Invasion of Privacy Artiste: Cardi B Genre: Hip hop Release: April 6  Cardi B is the rap equivalent of a strong, independently unapologetic and self-aware creative. Her debut album Invasion of Privacy might first be viewed as compilation of nonchalant slight. But after keen interrogation, she carefully extols what she believes in and hits hard at her doubters, crafting a role for herself in the male-dominant scope of rap music. Her 2017 breakout hit and the album's lead single "Bodak Yellow" was well executed and perfectly timed. In fact, it instantly catapulted her music career to what it currently looks like. Before all this fame, the Bronx-raised rapper was stripper who earned a role on reality TV and later found her way into music. That journey, so far, has been so graceful for the outspoken female emcee. Late last year, she followed up with another track on the album, "Bartier Cardi," which features 21 Savage. Ideally, besides narrating about her life, she was hitting hard at her haters. Well, considering Cardi's past and present, it's something that we get to experience all over the album. She puts on a tough, bad girl act, perhaps to keep her detractors away and to announce her triumphant success. The album kicks off very calm with Cardi trading off bars on "Get Up 10" before the tune picks up Tempo, introducing her audience to what to expect through out the entire project. She works with Migos on "Drip," Chance the Rapper on "Best Life," Kehlani on "Ring" and SZA on "I Do". Cardi B gets playful with the urban contemporary sound when she teams up with Bad Bunny & J Balvin to incorporate the Latin sound. She also attempts a more modern tune on "She Bad" with Compton rapper YG - who is well known for his conscious rap delivery. Invasion of Privacy delivers what the pop culture seems to want, and Cardi does it so well. Cardi entered 2018 with an agenda. Besides affirming that all dreams are valid and empowering women, she was going to be a significant talking point in the music scene. If there's anything Invasion of Privacy makes clear with its 13 tracks it's that you can actually make a number one debut studio album that will get significant plays throughout the year and years to come. The truth is, Cardi has outdone her forerunner Nicki Minaj. While Nicki rose to fame after appearing severally to be under the spotlight of other artistes like Lil Wayne and Drake, Cardi has somehow done it by herself. At a glance, the audience is able to see an artiste who is self-reliant. She is now running the game. Her latest project reasserts this as she outclasses all the major stars featured, proving her skeptics wrong.  Star rating: 4 out of 5