Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday said the government did nothing wrong in the handling of NRM ‘General’ Miguna Miguna. He told a parliamentary committee that Miguna obtained his Kenyan passport and ID fraudulently with the help of the late Immigration minister Otieno Kajwang’. Kajwang, who was Minister of State for Immigration and Registration of Persons between 2008-2013, died in 2014. Matiang’i told the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security he would present Miguna’s file to Parliament for the MPs to see how Miguna illegally acquired the passport. “You will notice the fraud. It was done illegally. In fact, he should be charged in court. Ministers sold citizenship, including those who were there before me. We are trying to clean it,” he said at Continental House, Nairobi. Matiang’i said the fraud was discovered in 2017 when Miguna ran for Nairobi governor. The CS was accompanied by PS Karanja Kibicho, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Immigration Services and Border Control PS Gordon Kihalang’wa. Read : Miguna arrives in Toronto on Canadian passport for medical care They denied the government deported Miguna, and said he was “removed” from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport after he failed to identify himself. He was not technically on Kenyan soil but in a transit area.“We removed Miguna as an undocumented, unestablished passenger on transit to his last port of call,” the CS said. Miguna’s passport was not confiscated as he did not produce it when he landed at the JKIA on March 26, Matiangi said. He said Miguna is on record saying he had his Canadian travel documents. Boinnet said police could not produce Miguna in court as he was an undocumented person and had not been cleared. “The order was specific, that we provide security to the gentleman upon arriving in Kenya on which he did not,” he said. Matiang’i denied that the authorities disregarded court orders for Miguna’s release and production, saying they were not served with the orders. On March 28, Miguna’s lawyers Nelson Havi and Cliff Ombeta were violently chased off by police when they went to serve the orders on the Immigration officials at the airport. Matiang’i also denied that Miguna was held in a toilet, but “in a room compete with beddings”. Kihalang’wa said, “It was a self-contained room. It is unfortunate that the only photo that came out was the one [in which] he was in a toilet.” It’s a lie, there was no bed. But Kamanda Mucheke, principal human rights officer from the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights who was attached to Miguna’s case, yesterday accused Kihalangwa of lying. He said Miguna was kept in a toilet used by people with disability. Mucheke asked the committee to invite him to visit the airport so he could show them the toilet Miguna was held in. “I was there from day one to the last day. Miguna was kept in a toilet. I know the holding area. They lied. There was no bed and I can swear an affidavit to that effect,” he said. “I’m the one who bought him blankets and towels. A mattress was provided after police left,” he told the Star on the phone. Matiangi said it was wrong for Miguna to refuse to be processed through the airport. “Everyone has their passport stamped. Even the President (Uhuru Kenyatta) had his passport stamped when he came back to the country from Mozambique yesterday,” he said. “Even (US President Barack) Obama had his passport stamped so why cause drama?” He said the government complied with an earlier order by Justice Luka Kimaru — for the government to facilitate Miguna’s re-entry — but Miguna “adamantly refused” to fill out documents as required by law, despite pleas by Immigration officials. He said at the JKIA, Miguna refused to present his Canadian passport, which he used when leaving Dubai on Monday. Matiang’i dismissed claims that the self-styled NRM ‘General’ was drugged before being put on an Emirates plane to Dubai on March 27. Also read : [Statement] Why I refused to hand over my Canadian passport - Miguna “I don’t know and I am not aware Miguna was drugged so I won’t respond to that question. As minister in charge of security, I was not aware. I don’t know ... unless there is scientific evidence to that effect.” Kihalang’wa told the committee the ID Miguna holds is illegal and it should he regularised by his applying for a new one. “Even if he regains citizenship, he will have to go to the National Registration Bureau to get an ID so he can process his passport,” he said.Kihalang’wa said Miguna was denied entry into Kenya because he refused to fill immigration forms. Click here for the latest political news