The launch of events planning company A1 Entertainment, whose directors include Shaffie Weru, took place on Thursday night. Scratch that. I mean, it was supposed to take place at the dusitD2, but things fell apart. So, I got an invite to the event that was supposed to have the who's who in the entertainment industry. It did. To top that up, rich kids and politicians' scions were also in attendance. The theme was a 1920s' popular movie, The Great Gatsby. At around 7:30, on arrival, I'm welcomed by some beautiful ladies dressed in black. I get a glass of champaigne. Chilled. The cocktail segment went on swimmingly. After a long interaction with friends, the MC of the night, Martin Kimathi, announces that it's time to get into the venue where the set-up was. I look to my left and see tens of celebrities, including singer Bahati, hair stylist Eric One Wash, KRG The Don, Otile Brown, Tanasha Donna, Tracy Wanjiru, Sean Andrew, H_art The Band, Timmy Tdat, Barak Jacuzzi, Joe Muchiri, businessman Jared Otieno, among others, walk into the dining area. Barely seven minutes after everyone is seated, everything turns topsy-turvy. I suddenly hear a loud voice say, 'Tokeni nje'. With the adrenalin rising, my colleague tells me, "Ni mapolisi wameingia." We move out of the event hall and head outside, where the event organisers and MC are forced into an old, white, rickety City Council van. Everyone was spooked. Terrified celebrities rushed to grab cabs, and others drive off in a huff. We are now left speculating what happened, with everybody giving their views in small groups. I look to my right and see a couple of celebrities in the cold, wondering what could have been the problem. Minutes after the incident, a guy comes and says, "You can go in, dinner is served. I promise you won't get arrested." Hoping to get a comment from any reliable source, we waited... And waited, but nothing. The launch was over even before it happened. Shaffie narrated his side of the story in his Saturday column, The Raverend (https://www.the-star.co.ke/news/2018/03/31/raverend-the-night-i-was-arrested-by-kanjo-askaris-and-never-charged_c1738716).