Taxpayers will directly bear the burden of funding three of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agendas expected to cost trillions of shillings. The Parliamentary Budget Office has said provision of affordable housing units, universal healthcare and food security are the areas the private sector will not participate fully, compared to manufacturing. The latest report from the office also warns the government not to exceed the 2018-19 budget beyond Sh2.2 trillion from National Treasury's proposed Sh2.4 trillion for taxpayers to save Sh200 billion. "The country’s budget has grown substantially over the years, with each subsequent budget referred to as the "largest ever". To stem this incremental budgeting, one of the simple measures the government can consider is to cap expenditure at previous year's level,” reads part of the 55-paged report. "In this regard, the 2018-19 budget should not exceed Sh2.2 trillion. All government expenditure must be reorganised to fit within this plan.” Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich is expected to present the 2018-19 budget estimates on June 6. The budget office said the government stares at “expenditure pressures” in implementing food security, affordable housing and universal healthcare agendas due to revenue collection shortfall to finance the budget. “While manufacturing will largely be private sector-led, health care, housing and food security will require significant funding and subsidies from the government,” reads the report. Uhuru is banking on the partnership between his government and the private sector to implement the Big Four agendas as he retires in 2022. Although the Jubilee administrations remains mum on the sum of money the Big Four programmes will consume in the next five years, PBO discloses that the affordable one million housing units alone will cost Sh1 trillion. “According to market players, low cost housing built with use of low cost technologies may cost not more than Sh 1 million per unit. Therefore, for the government to provide 200, 000 housing units per year, it will require Sh200 billion which translates to Sh 1 trillion over five years,” PBO says. Kenya faces a shortage of 200,000 housing units from the annual target of 250,000 but only 50,000 housing units are constructed, according to the State Department for Housing. “The cost can therefore best be met through Public-Private-Partnership. The ongoing PPP projects however have started addressing the housing needs of the Police Service and student accommodation,” reads the report. "The same can be extended to such low cost housing for the majority of Kenyans. ” The annual demand for housing especially in cities and major towns, which would rise rapidly if left unchecked, is due to the ever-growing rural-urban migration and increase in population. Click here for the latest political news