Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has commended a traffic police officer who was photographed while controlling traffic at a flooded section on Nairobi-Mombasa highway. The office, identified as Abdi Galgalo, stood in water at a flooded section of the road at Sultan Hamud and showed motorists where the edge of the road was. The road was cut off at the section following a heavy downpour on Saturday. Video footage showed motorists in traffic and buses stuck in large pools of water after a river in the area burst its banks. The photo of the officer directing motorists was shared widely on social media with most users referring him as an unsung hero. Boinnet took notice of the officer's selflessness and dedication to serving the public and commended him via Twitter. "IG @JBoinnet commends Police Constable Abdi Galgalo of Sultan Hamud Police Station captured by a motorist while directing traffic on a flooded section of the Nairobi/Mombasa highway. His action exemplifies the selfless service rendered by many officers to Kenyans each day," Boinnet said. A motorist, ‏ @CaptWanderiCFE, went a step further and said he is willing to reward the officer for his dedication to service. "Hello @NPSOfficial_KE @JBoinnet @PoliceKE @APSKenya, I feel obliged to reward Constable Abdi Galgalo in my own way having used that section of the road sometimes last year. Would appreciate if you shared his contacts via inbox. Thank you." @ChwaWakili said,"If only the rest of you worked like Abdi Galgalo, even the lawbreakers would get born again! . I hope Abdi Galgalo is not only commended but appreciated and rewarded with another rank!!!!" @LalaaAbdullahi said "A selfless officer he deserved a promotion." "I witnessed it firsthand. He deserves what the brave gets. There are exceptional officers out. God bless!," said @OleNaado. ‏@jaymasiga added, "If only we had 50% like Constable Abdi Galgalo,we wouldn't need to take 300 hawkers,boda boda riders and matatu drivers and conductors to Rwanda to learn how to obey the laws." Read: Nightmare for Mombasa Road users after flooding in Sultan Hamud Heavy rains continue pounding various parts of the country causing heavy flooding and completely cutting off traffic on some highways. The Narok-Mai Mahiu road, for instance, was on Monday rendered impassable for the fourth time this year since the rainy season kicked in. Dozens of travellers were stranded for the better part of the day following the disruption of traffic flow. Sections of the Kitale-Turkana road, particularly at the Kainuk bridge, remained impassable due to heavy rains. On Saturday alone, nine people lost their lives after they were swept away by floods. Seven died in Kinangop while a mother and her daughter perished in Makueni after an overfilled dam burst open.  Click here for the latest political news  