Two people charged with attempting to defraud several businessmen, with the purported sale of the late Nicholas Biwott's trees, have been rearrested for presenting fake land titles in court. The fake titles were used as surety for their release pending the hearing of their case. The veteran politician died on July 11, 2017 and was buried at his Toot village home in Elgeyo Marakwet on July 20. The accused are Solomon Kiptanui, Margaret Jepchirchir and Milkah Cheruto. They appeared before Eldoret Chief Magistrate Charles Obulutsa for the mention of their case but it was revealed that the titles presented by Kiptanui and Jepchirchir were fake. Their lawyers asked the court to allow them to deposit Sh 1 million cash each to secure fresh release. The two, however, did not face fresh charges in connection with the titles because the lawyers argued that the verification was initially done and approved by Land ministry. Obulutsa said: "Whatever they present in court, even in case, must be confirmed to be genuine first." The court heard that Kiptanui pretended to be his son in the plan to sell trees valued at Sh60 million. Read: Man pretends to be Biwott’s son, ‘sells’ Sh60 million trees The three were accused of conspiring to con Ibrahim Kassim of Sh3 million on grounds that they would sell him pine trees on a 300-acre-piece of land belonging to the late former minister They allegedly committed the offence on July 13 last year. Kiptanui allegedly told the man that he was in charge of the land near Maria Soti in Keiyo South constituency. Jepchirchir and Cheruto were accused of conspiring with workers at the farm to convince Kassim that Kiptanui was Biwott's heir and that he owned the trees. Kassim said he realised he was being conned after not being allowed to cut the trees he had been shown despite paying Kiptanui Sh3 million. "Despite several pleas, he refused to allow me to harvest the trees as he had promised," the businessman says in court papers. The man adds that due to the delays, he sought the truth which led him to the realisation that Kiptanui is not Biwott's son. A new date will be set for the hearing of the case. Also read: I lost Sh2M to man pretending to be Biwott’s son, court told Click here for the latest political news