Deputy President William Ruto has been described as the man to beat in 2022. One might ask, why? We are thinking that far ahead? Well, for one, it is important to interrogate people who offer themselves for leadership if we are to entrench the values envisioned in Chapter Six of the Constitution. Secondly, it is important to debate about potential candidates to offer the public a chance to ask the all-important questions for them to make rational decisions at the ballot. A recent survey by Ipsos put Ruto well ahead of other politicians who have expressed interest in the 2022 presidential race. Generally, he understands Kenyan politics well. He is a consummate and smart politician, who is well-acquainted with the mechanics of power, its acquisition and utilisation. So, how did Ruto become the favourite? First is his proximity to power. As Deputy President, he has access to state machinery, including a say on who gets appointed to what commission, how money will be allocated and intelligence. Moreover, he continually enjoys the power of incumbency, having been Deputy President for two terms. Under Uhuru, he has learnt all there is to learn in securing and retaining state power. Second is his long career in politics: He entered politics at a young age and has never lost a seat in an election. He served as Eldoret North MP for close to 15 years before becoming DP. He was a Cabinet minister in the Moi government and in the Grand Coalition government. Third is his ability to ride out controversy and manage situations. He seems to handle his public affairs well as he has consistently dodged political bullets fired his way. The most notable is the International Criminal Court case, where he faced trial with, among others, Uhuru. His lawyers successfully defended him, leading to the collapse of the case. Additionally, he presented himself as a victim of political machinations in which he was only a sacrificial lamb. Besides, despite widely viewed as being corrupt, he has managed to handle those allegations.  INVISIBLE HAND Fourth is that he is strong-willed: He has consistently shown he can fight his own battles. In the 2010 referendum, he was the only senior politician who opposed the proposed Constitution. Although the Yes camp won, the Rift Valley votes went to the No team. Perhaps this was the beginning of his emergence as the de facto leader of the Kalenjin community. During the relocation of Mau settlers, he was the leading voice of those opposed to the evictions, arguing that compensation was biased. Going against his then party leader Raila Odinga might have cost him the Cabinet seat he held but in the end, he scored more political points, successfully leading his backyard to vote for his new political partner, and he became the DP. Fifth is his ability to craft coalitions: He successfully led mass defections in the run-up to the March 4, 2013, General Election from ODM to UDM, and later formed URP, which partnered with Uhuru’s TNA to win. He is said to be the invisible hand behind the fall of such politicians as former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and Peter Kenneth in the Nairobi governor race last year. Although he denies his influence in Jubilee nominations, it is clear he is in control of the party. Recently, leaders from the Coast have been heaping praise on him and publicly showing their support. His charm offensive in Western is sure to ruffle some feathers, being the backyard of his rivals Musalia Mudavadi of ANC and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya. His endorsement of the truce between Uhuru and Raila shows his ability to position himself. Worth noting is his ability to craft a broad sense of ethnic coalitions, and we are likely to see a repeat of the 1961 and 2002 elections. In 1961, Kanu won the votes of almost all the Kikuyu, Embu, Meru, Luo, Taita and Kisii. Kadu won the Kalenjin and Mijikenda vote bloc.  DEEP POCKETS Sixth is his foray into the international scene. He has represented Uhuru in various international meetings, including giving a keynote speech at the UN. During the 2007 campaigns, he preferred to give interviews to international media stations, giving himself more exposure internationally. And finally his deep pockets, which enable him to launch and fund campaigns. Being a wealthy man, he has the resources to fund and sustain political activities in the run-up to 2022. Like Moi, he can be the second Vice President to become President, doing away with the Kenyan political myth that deputies don’t clinch the top seat. I could be wrong, as four years are a century in politics, but at the moment, all the gods are on his sides.  Antony Nkuubi, Executive director, Governance Pillar
Organization. Email: ankuubi@governancepillar.org  