ODM leader Raila Odinga stands to lose regardless of the "self-seeking" moves he will make ahead of 2022, an official of the Amani National Congress has said. Jimmy Azangu, the party’s Coast Secretary General, said Raila’s handshakes with President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Heads of State will not endear him to the electorates. "He’s seen as a traitor," Azangu said. “The atmosphere of betrayal is still present. Those who helped him and formed the base he used to reach out to Uhuru are angry." The official further said the Luhya nation that “increased Raila’s bargaining power” has been shortchanged and that its wrath will block his ambitions. Raila met Uhuru on March 9 after viciously contesting last year's presidential elections, leaving the country in a delicate state. He and Uhuru resolved to unite Kenyans and as the deal gains momentum, he as met people including former Presidents Daniel arap Moi and Mwai Kibaki. More on this: Raila stirs 2022 succession after meeting Kibaki Also read: Don't blow up small political issues, pursue peace under Uhuru - Moi WIper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya's Moses Wetangula were not invited to the talks. Matters worsened when Wetang'ula, who is Bungoma Senator, was lost his position as Senate Minority leader. Raila has been at pains to explain to leaders and supporters from Western why he seemingly abandoned his Nasa co-principals. He says he made the "painful" decision for the sake of the the bigger picture - national healing, reconciliation, unity, peace and development. But Azangu questioned why Raila did not let the three leaders accompany him to his visits if indeed they were genuine. “We know his bigger plan is to lay ground for 2022. His party is wrecking Nasa but ANC will not be fooled again,” he told the Star in a phone interview on Sunday. The Secretary General said Mudavadi has been watching the developments keenly and that his future moves will be inclusive. Azangu said nothing will stop his boss from vying for president in 2022 after “letting it go” in 2017. ANC and Ford Kenya have set the ball rolling in an elaborate plan to seal Western Kenya behind them and scuttle the efforts of other political outfits. But the idea is facing opposition from the likes of Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala. Details: Ford Kenya, ANC merger plan signals NASA collapse Read more: Raila's supporters frozen in wait for true meaning of Uhuru handshake Click here for the latest political news