The ban against CBD access by Nairobi public service vehicles failed to take effect on Monday. Matatus were expected out of the town centre by the end of last week, according to a notice by Transport CEC Mohamed Dagane. Roads Chief Officer Fredrick Karanja however said the plan was pushed to the end of the month due to logistical issues. "We have to move people ... this will take time," he said on Wednesday. Deputy Enforcement Officer Peter Mbaya, who spoke to the Star, did not specify when the plan will take effect. He said he can only give clear plans next week as he is attending the 5th Annual Devolution Conference in Kakamega. Mbaya noted they were working on a few matters to ensure smooth implementation of the ban. "We are not through with clearing some termini to be used when the ban is effected. We need to tarmac the railway's terminus, demolish illegal structures in Ruaraka and pull stationary lorries away from Park Road." Read: Sonko suspends matatus CBD ban for one month Traders had encroached various bus termini making it hard for PSVs to drop passengers. This caused the county to embark on demolition of illegal structures, an operation that began in Ngara where Murang'a Road termini A and B are. It was extended to Bus Station and Muthurwa market. Matatu owners have vowed to frustrate the move saying it is unreasonable and uncalled for. "It is unfair to victimise matatus that barely make up 10 per cent of vehicles that access the town. Why should someone living along Thika road have to be subjected to the torture of walking all the way to GPO from Fig tree in the rain?"Matatu Owners Association Chairman Simon Kimutai asked. According to Dagane, matatus from Thika Road, Limuru Road and Kiambu Road will end their journeys at Murang'a Road A and B, Ngara and the Desai Road service lane termini. Those from Lang'ata, Ngong and Mombasa Roads will stop at the Railways Bus Station while those from Jogoo Road will stop at Muthurwa and Hakati Bus Stations. Commuters from Waiyaki Way will alight at the Westlands stage. City Hall has partnered with traffic officers to ensure the process is successful. Matatus have been asked to identify their stands at the respective termini and ensure they don't take more than 30 minutes there to avoid congestion. Also read: Matatu ban extended to next Monday as City Hall tears down illegal structures in areas for bus parking Click here for the latest political news