In the latest case of marital murder, a Nairobi man has stabbed and bludgeoned his wife and two-year-old child in his office. Forty-year-old Titus Masika is said to have invited his wife for a cup of tea and mandazi on Thursday evening at about pm. He reportedly wanted to resolve their marital problems. Dagoretti police Chief Rashid Mohammed told the Star they found the mother and child in a pool of blood in a bathroom in the Ngong Road office. Police say Masika killed his wife and child following a quarrel; the issue was not immediately known. “The mother and child were in a pool of blood inside the bathroom,” Mohammed said. Investigators said they believe Masika first drowned the child in a bathtub, then battered his head with a hammer. The woman’s body bore visible injuries to the head and several stab wounds to the neck and stomach. A senior manager in the office told police that Masika called him shortly after 7pm, saying thugs had attacked him and his wife while at the office. Masika called the same manager again and said his wife had joined al Shabaab and had invited criminals to the office to attack him. He said he sustained an injury to his left arm after the criminals stabbed him. Police investigations disproved Masika’s claims. A visit on Friday to Kawangware where Masika and his wife lived, revealed that Masika had parted ways with the woman. After questioning neighbours, it emerged that the Thursday meeting was to iron out problems. Masika has been arrested and is being held at Kabete police station. Recent killings of spouses by spouses appear to be on the rise, predictablly arising from marital problems. On February 4, a man in Murang’a killed his wife after finding her with lover in bed. His 12-year-old son escaped through the window. In January 15, a man killed his wife and three children before committing suicide and setting the house ablaze in Kiambu county. On January 18, a woman in Dandora stabbed her husband in the crouch. According to neighbours, the couple fought over the man’s infidelity and failure to pay rent.