The Ministry of Agriculture is looking for more resources to control the Fall armyworm that has invaded more than 10 counties. Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur, who did not specify the amount, told the Star yesterday the armyworm has affected production, as shown in the Economic Survey Report. He said more money is required so that farmers do not incur huge costs on pesticides. Controlling the pest is a matter of urgency, the national and county governments as well as development partners must work together, he said. “We are in talks with some donors such as USAID to find ways of controlling the pest. Brazil has been able to reduce the ferocity of the armyworm. We want to borrow some ideas from them,” he said. The state has allocated Sh300 million to the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation for assessment and research on suitable chemicals to control the pest. Another Sh50 million has been provided by the State Department of Crops for prevention. Last year, 800,000 hectares were ruined by the armyworm in Western, North and South Rift counties as well as parts of Central Kenya. This reduced maize harvest by 25 per cent from the projected harvest of 37 million bags to 32 million bags. The 2018 Economic Survey Report shows armyworm infestation was to blame for the poor performance of the agriculture sector last year, which stood at 1.6 percent from 5.1 percent in 2016. Tuimur says the decline is also attributed to drought and the prolonged electioneering period last year. This resulted in reduced crop and livestock production, he said. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics director general Zachary Mwangi said the period under review was characterised by depressed long rains and early cessation of short rains. He said, the unfavourable weather conditions suppressed production of key crops and adversely affected livestock production.. “Scarcity of key food crops, such as maize and some vegetables was experienced in 2017. Food prices were high. There was a decline in production of tea and coffee by 7.0 per cent and 11.5 per cent, respectively,” he said on Wednesday.