Kim Jong-un has become the first North Korean leader to set foot in South Korea by crossing the military line that has divided the peninsula since the end of the Korean War in 1953. In a moent rich with symbolism and pomp, South Korean leader Moon Jae-in and Kim shook hands at the border. Kim said he hoped for "frank" discussion during a warm opening exchange as talks kicked off. The historic summit will cover nuclear weapons and a possible peace treaty. Much of what they will talk about is likely to have been agreed in advance, but many analysts remain sceptical about the North's sincerity in offering to give up nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, the whole of South Korea stood still for the moment the two leaders shook hands on both sides of the border in the demilitarised zone between the countries. Then audiences watched in surprise as Kim invited the South Korean president to step briefly across the demarcation line into North Korea, before the pair stepped back into South Korea - all the while holding hands. It was an apparently unscripted moment during a highly choreographed sequence of events. The leaders were met by an honour guard in traditional costume on the South Korean side. The pair then walked to the at the Peace House in Panmunjom, a military compound in the demilitarised zone (DMZ) between the two countries, to begin talks. "A new history begins now - at the starting point of history and the era of peace," read the message Mr Kim wrote in a guestbook at the Peace House. The gravity of the meeting - the first between Korean leaders in more than a decade - was also punctuated by lighter moments. Kim joked about bringing some of North Korea's famous cold noodles for the summit. "I hope you will really enjoy the noodles that we brought," he said. The White House said it was hopeful talks would make progress toward peace and prosperity. The Korean summit is seen as a prelude to a proposed meeting between Kim and US President Trump by early June, an unprecedented move as no sitting US president has met with North Korean leader. The main focus of the talks is to address North Korea's controversial nuclear weapons programme. Seoul has warned that reaching an agreement to rid Pyongyang of its nuclear weapons will be "difficult". North Korea's nuclear and missile technology has advanced significantly since the sides' leaders last met more than a decade ago. The meeting - the third of its kind following summits in 2000 and 2007 - is the result of months of improving relations between the two Koreas.  Click here for the latest political news