A Senate watchdog team has summoned Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to explain Sh1.5 billion allegedly paid to the wrong people in acquiring private land for two schools in Nairobi. Matiang’i is the immediate former Education CS. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investment Committee, which is probing the matter, also fined three directors of companies Sh500,000 each for snubbing its invitation. The Senate team is chaired by Senator Moses Kajwang’ of Homa Bay. Committee vice chairman Senator Mithika Linturi of Meru yesterday directed Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and DPP Noordin Haji to arrest the three directors and present them before senators in two weeks. The directors are Francis Mburu, Mark Mungai and Justin Mburu. They are said to have been beneficiaries of the compensation, according to National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri. He appeared before the senators. “These people are in contempt of this House committee’s invitation. The law enforcement agencies must produce them on April 17 before this committee,” Linturi said. “Since they are also the recipients of Sh1.5 billion of public money, I invoke the provision to sanction any person who disregards committee invitation. They should pay Sh500,000 to the Senate bank account before April 17 to serve as a lesson to anyone who takes this committee lightly.” Expected before the committee on April 17 are Matiang’i, Lands CS Farida Karoney and her Education counterpart Amina Mohamed, the NLC bosses and the three directors. The committee’s decision to summon Matiang’i was prompted by Swazuri’s statement that his Commission does not generate compensation funds to private land owners. Swazuri said his Commission conducted due diligence and valuation to arrive at Sh1.5 billion for the Education ministry’s compulsory acquisition of private land occupied by Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School 1984 and 1987, respectively. The Sh1.5 billion payment made on January 29 this year to Whispering Palms Ltd, a sister company of Afrison Export and Import Ltd, is part of Sh3.3 billion compensation of 13.8 acres for the two schools. Click here for the latest political news