ODM leader Raila Odinga has said he is happy to see the country's political temperatures come down after his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He lauded the peace that is currently prevailing in the country further saying it has brought to an end, the ethnic and political profiling which followed the disputed 2017 vote. "When
I decided to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta after that golden handshake,
political temperatures came down. Everyone is now shaking hands for the good of
our country." Raila spoke when he graced the thanksgiving ceremony for Dalalekutuk MCA loser John Loisa at the latter's home in Enkorika, Kajiado Central on Saturday. The NASA leader said he was not after jobs or political favours when he took the first step to heal
the country. He told those who attended the celebrations that his coming together with President Kenyatta will allow the country
to develop for the good of all Kenyans. Raila caused laughter when he said that his handshake with Uhuru is now
being emulated the world over. "Three days ago, Korean
leaders bonded over handshakes during a world summit in a positive mood that
appears to break 65 years of North and South animosity." This followed the meeting between North
Korean leader Kim Jong-un, and the South Korean president Moon Jae-in at
the world's most militarised border. MPs Kanchory
Memusi (Kajiado Central), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East), Kajiado county ODM chairman Tarayia ole Kores and Nairobi businessman Jimi Wanjigi attended the Kajiado meeting. The
presence of Tobiko, in an ODM affair, raised eyebrows after she heaped praises to Kores and Raila saying they are trusted leaders. Three weeks ago, Tobiko said she will support Governor Joseph
Lenku in his second bid for the seat in 2022. ODM nominated
MCA Sandra Marion and other elected opposition MCAs attended the homecoming
ceremony. Meanwhile
in Kajiado West, Lenku was hosted by more than 3,000 people
from the Keek-Onyokie community at the home of former ODM politician Joseph ole
Simel. During
the party, Simel who has been a supporter of Raila Odinga for many years, said
he will support Lenku in 2022. Also read: All is well, Ruto says amid jitters over Raila Click here for the latest political news  