A while back, a photo of Churchill Owido, 27, holding a placard went viral on social media. Churchill needed to raise Sh145,000 for his advocate training programme at the Kenya School of Law. Armed with letters and copies of his admission letter, he went to Uhuru Highway, holding his placard and hoping he will receive the help he needs. Speaking to Adelle Onyango on the Kiss FM breakfast show, he said: "I didn't mind what people said. I stood on Uhuru Highway for three consecutive days. It was my own challenge, and I had to push until I get success in it." Things took an unexpected turn for Churchill. "On Wednesday March 21, I got arrested by the police. They purported that I didn't have a permit. So when these guys arrested me, I had to comply, telling them that I am not a thief first of all, and my agenda and my cause of action was petitioning my matter to the Kenyans. So I was not in any shady business or in any legality. "When I came off the road, I gave them everything, all my documents, because I had my admission letter. Then we went to Central Police station. The three junior police officers accommodated me in a friendly manner. They gave me their reasons, of which they were valid. They told me that on that road, people normally get robbed, but on reaching the police station, the OCS didn't want to hear me out, and he instructed the cops to book me so that the next day I would go to court. "I was ready to face the law. One of the juniors went to the head of traffic department, who saw whatever I was doing was genuine but I didn't have to contradict the OCS. So they told me that they'll let me free but I shouldn't go back to the same spot because it will bring problems in terms of the command." After leaving the police station, things just fell in place for Churchill. He received one phone call that changed his life. It was his pal Baraza, who works for Environmental and Combustion Consultants. "They paid for me Sh145,000. Senior counsel Evans Ogada gathered senior and junior advocates, who were doing their own contributions. Through all the help I got, I also got to help another person, Angeline, who also couldn't afford school fees."