The battle for the control of the property of former minister Mbiyu Koinange could be headed to the Supreme Court. This is after some of the beneficiaries challenged the inclusion of two wives in the distribution of the vast estate. David Njunu, one of the administrators of the estate, went back to the Court of Appeal, seeking permission to move to the Supreme Court, challenging the inclusion of Margaret Njeri and Eddah Mbiyu as part of the beneficiaries of the estate. The Court of Appeal had last year directed the case to be taken back to the High Court for distribution. Justices Philip Waki, Asike Makhandia and Kathurima M’Inoti cancelled an earlier distribution of the assets by Justice William Musyoka, saying he had not recognised two women as widows of Koinange. Read; Mbiyu Koinange Sh17 billion property disttributed, two widows disowned The Judges ruled that the two Koinage’s widows should be included. But some of the beneficiaries argue that Margaret divorced the late Koinange and married Charles Karuga Koinange, who is also deceased. It is their claim that she did not have any child with the Koinange, while Eddah is said to have been an assistant to the former Minister and cohabited with him briefly but never had a child with Koinange. Through lawyer David Njagi, Njunu wants to be allowed to move to the Supreme Court and have judges define who is a wife. He also wants the court to define what constitutes marriage. He said they are weighty issues that the court needs to settle. If Njunu fails to convince Judges Waki, Makhandia and M’Inoti to allow the move to the Supreme Court. The parties will have no option but to appear before Justice Aggrey Muchelule for the distribution of the properties. The Court of Appeal judges will rule on the matter on April 27. The matter was mentioned before Justice Muchelule on January 17 and the judge directed the parties to file and serve their affidavits and submissions on their proposed mode of distribution within 30 days. Kionange died intestate and was polygamous. He died without a will on September 3, 1981. Representation to his estate has been committed to various persons over the years, but the current administrators are David Njunu Koinange, David Waiganjo Koinange, Margaret and Eddah. Among the properties to be shared out are shares at Koinange Investments and Development limited, shares at Koira ltd, Kenyattu Trading company ltd, Limuru Dairy ltd, and shares at Centum, among others. Other properties to be distributed are 4,292 acres of Muthera Farm, 640 acres Ehothia farm (both of which are in Mau Narok- Nakuru county), Thimbigua farm (96 acres), Closeburn Estate (commercial plots- 10 acres), Closeburn Estate (farm– 176 acres), Ikinu farm (11 acres), Thimbigwa plot, Banana Hill plot, among others. Also read: Koinanges fight for parking yard in CBD   Click here for the latest political news