Drama played out after Embu MCAs, who impeached deputy speaker Steve Munene on Wednesday citing arrogance, hurriedly elected his replacement to avoid a court order. The MCAs conducted an election on Thursday as Munene went to the High Court to seek orders to block the assembly from replacing him. The ward representatives accused Munene of abuse of office. Under speaker Josiah Thiriku, the MCAs elected the only Nark Kenya ward representative - Paul Muchangi - as the new deputy speaker. Munene was overtaken by events as he got the orders to block the election from resident judge Florence Muchemi after the election had already been concluded. When he arrived at the assembly to serve the order to the speaker and the assembly clerk Kim Kauma accompanied by his lawyer David Njoroge, he found the dust had already settled after the completion of the election and the speaker and the clerk had left. Munene served the order to assembly legal adviser Boniface Muthomi and left. Njoroge admitted his client had been overtaken by events, but said all was not lost as they would seek a nullification of the election because it was conducted in violation of the Constitution and the House’s standing orders. money and power Muchangi was elected unopposed after being proposed by Muminji ward representative and musician Newton Kariuiki, better known as Newton Karish, and seconded by nominated MCA Judy Mbuya. The MCAs praised Muchangi for what they described as his humility and devotion to his work and respect for others. They, however, warned he will not be spared if he becomes arrogant. “We shall be checking you because when you want to see somebody’s true colors just give him money and power. You now have money and power by virtue of being the new DS and we hope these things it will not change you from being the Muchangi we know,” Mavuria MCA John Mbaka told Muchangi. service Muminji MCA Newton Kariuki told Muchangi to remember it is ward representatives who elected him so he should serve them well. He said, “When you see a tortoise on a tree, you should know it has been placed there by somebody.” Muchangi promised to serve diligently and devotedly without bias. He said he would consult his colleagues and help the assembly serve residents well and bring development. Munene was sacked following a motion tabled by nominated MCA Edna Muisyo. Munene was accused of being proud, aloof, lazy and undercutting other ward representatives He was accused of failing to convene more than five meetings for the liaison committee for which he was the chairman. MCAs said Munene was always busy in other committees meetings. nullified Munene allegedly cut short members when they raised issues and told them they were not knowledgeable. He was accused of attacking his colleagues on social media, television and radio shows on matters under debate in the House and also touring his colleagues’ wards and undermining them. Muisyo accused him of of threatening to punish her by ensuring he would lobby support so she could lose support in her area.   