Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has dismissed Monday’s Ukambani leaders’ meeting, saying it was an attempt to redeem Kalonzo Musyoka’s “failing political career”. Mutua said statements made during the meeting held at Koma in Kathiani indicated it was not a leaders’ forum, but a Wiper party affair. Delegates at the meeting endorsed Kalonzo as the community’s spokesman. They also approved his 2022 presidential bid. Mutua yesterday said the meeting dubbed “Ukambani Leaders Convention” ought to have been convened by neutral and respected religious leaders for legitimacy. The Maendeleo Chap Chap Party leader said he was ready for a neutral and well-meaning meeting that discusses the plight of the people in an organised manner. “There was no development or economic empowerment agenda discussed. The meeting was all about the political interests of an individual and not the plight of the over four million Akamba people,” Mutua said in a statement. “It was full of insults, chest-thumping and ultimatums that do not lead to real unity of purpose.” He promised to hold interactive meetings with vegetable vendors, boda boda riders, youths, professionals and the business community to “stir the real power for change” among the people. The governor said he will continue reaching out to all stakeholders within and outside Ukambani to bargain on behalf of residents to make their lives better. WIPER TO WOO GOVERNOR “I’m very much interested in improving the lives of our people through development. I will join hands with leaders who are interested in development,” Mutua said. He promised to reach out to Governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Charity Ngilu (kitui) to exchange ideas on plans to uplift their lives of residents of the three counties. Mutua spoke even as the Star established Wiper’s resolve to woo the governor to the party’s fold. Sources said the Monday meeting resolved to dispatch elders, clergymen and professionals to initiate dialogue between Mutua and Kalonzo. “We want to reach out to everybody in Ukambani to ensure that we have a solid vote bloc. Wiper has plans to formally reach out to the governor soon,” Kathiani MP Robert Mbui told the Star on phone yesterday. Both Mutua and Kalonzo have declared interest in the 2022 presidential race. Mutua said MCC leaders will be touring the country to popularise his bid. “To win the presidency, a leader needs to be accepted across the country. The tragedy in our continent is that leaders cling on to power and have to be forced out,” Mutua said. Click here for the latest political news