Finally, the last weekend of April is upon us. If your employer is generous, your salary must have hit the bank by yesterday afternoon. But if your employer is mindful of your well-being, and is responsible, your salary will touch down on Tuesday. No master in their right mind pays their slave on Friday. That’s blasphemy. Every Kenyan is rich on weekends, whether they will borrow or steal. No middle class Kenyan can claim not to have no cash. Ever. The weather is still horrible for the city dwellers, but dope for the rest of the country. But what’s seriously disturbing about the heavy rains and floods is they have forced humans, cars and houses to learn how to swim. For two months and counting, it has been raining non-stop across the whole country. Most places are flooded, from Mandera, where sitting rooms have turned into baby pools, to Homa Bay, where River Nyando has burst its banks. Kenya is now a huge water body. We have water all over. Mysteriously, though, the water is avoiding our dams! We still have empty dams and water rationing in the country's capital. #TheRaverend can only conclude that’s witchcraft. Moving on swiftly like the highways that have been washed away by the floods or the crack in Narok that will divide the African continent. #TheRaverend needs to speak about an incident that has diluted the Devolution Conference in Kakamega. If you think it’s Koffi Olomide's bonoko concert, well you need to think again. The biggest story in the nation, bigger than the devolution Conference, is the story of the deputy governor who was caught stark naked withdrawing from the consolidated fund. Social media is abuzz with that vibe, with everyone sharing their opinion. #TheRaverend is also the secretary general of #TeamMafisi, and so it’s important I set the record straight in that regard. Cheating is not a new thing. Everybody cheats. The difference is only a few get caught and these are fools because most of the time they are complacent or have been set up. As for the guys who beat up the cheating couple when they burst on them, I would like to remind them that they can go to jail/prison because that’s assault and invasion of privacy. So, to men who catch feelings or feel betrayed to the level where you decide to clobber the man sleeping with your wife/bae #TheRaverend has this too tell you: NO! Why would you beat a man simply because he slept with your wife? That is garbage! Did he make a vow to you? NO! Deal with your cheating spouse. Men are hunters. If I hunt your wife and she gives herself to me, that is between the two of you. Imagine what would happen if you crippled a man?! Or worse still, killed him? You will spend the rest of your life in jail because you have a weak mind. So, whether the DG drama was real or stage managed...whether the woman in the video is a professional con artist and she goes around setting up randy men with fat pockets, that’s none of my business. As #TheRaverend, we at #TeamMafisi are appalled at the attempts to scuttle devolution in matters bedroom. The Kirinyaga DG is a playa and like every playa in any game you don’t win every day. So let’s call it a bad day at the office and let’s all move on! But going forward #TheRaverend's advice to all #TeamMafisi out there who feel threatened by the Kirinyanga DG's ordeal is simple: *NEVER EVER* let the lady organise a venue for lungula/Bedminton, especially a public facility kama hizi lodges. Unless it's a lady you've known for two years plus and you've finally agreed to reward yourselves. Otherwise hizi zingine ni set up tu. Dhenk me later...With that said, enjoy your weekend, drink responsibly and don’t get caught pants down because that’s a career killer.