Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia battle long-time adversaries AFC Leopards in a SportPesa-organised friendly match at the Afraha Stadium this afternoon. The match is part of the betting firm’s engagements on return to the local scene after a two-month lull. The winner of the encounter will have a chance to battle English Championship side Hull City, who are also in SportPesa’s burgeoning portfolio. The match, set for the Moi Stadium, Kasarani on May 13 will be the second such high profile encounter after SportPesa flew in English Premier League side Everton to Tanzania where they beat Gor Mahia 2-1 in the final of an inter-countries pre-season tournament. Gor and Ingwe clashed in the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) Super Cup at the beginning of the season where Harun Shakava’s solitary strike won the encounter for K’Ogalo. While the champions will be out to extend their dominance, Leopards will be out to avenge the KPL Super Cup loss as well as last year’s 3-0 SportPesa Super Cup defeat which denied them a chance to play a Wayne Rooney-led Everton side in Tanzania. Gor and Leopards head into the encounter hoping to shake off a run of recent unwanted results where they both drew in their last two matches. AFC drew 1-1 with Kariobangi Sharks last Wednesday and 2-2 with Vihiga over the weekend. On the other hand, Gor saw their title defence punctured after identical 2-2 stalemates against Chemelil Sugar and Mathare United in the last five days. In addition, Leopards are winless in their last six matches after losing twice and drawing four times while Gor have won four and drawn twice in a similar number of matches. While the odds stacked heavily in Gor’s favour, Leopards stand-in coach, Dennis Kitambi, knows a win will leave a long-lasting memory among Ingwe fans. This will be the Tanzanian’s penultimate match as he looks forward to handing over the reigns to newly-appointed Argentine, Rodolfo Zapata, mid this month. Gor Mahia head coach, Dylan Kerr, believes the best way to cage Leopards will be to attack. “We have to get everything right from the first minute until the final whistle. Leopards is a big who are very ambitious and the best way to stop them is by converting our chances. I am aware we have conceded four goals in our last two KPL matches but that is part of football. The boys know that victory will see them play another English side after Everton and their morale is good. I keep on telling them such games can expose them to better opportunities,” said Kerr. Regular tickets for the match will retail at Sh100, regular, and Sh200 for the VIP section. The derby kicks off at 2pm. Hull are expected in the country on May 11 where, in addition to the match, their officials will conduct football clinics in academies within the capital.