Newly appointed Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) first vice chairman, Charles Nyaberi, has outlined his plans to revive volleyball glory in the country. Nyaberi, who is also Kenya National Sports Council (KNSC) treasurer, floored incumbent Martin Makokha after gunning 66 votes against Makokha’s 30 during the KVF national elections held in Nairobi over the weekend. The official said his immediate priority will be to uplift the standards of the men’s volleyball, which have continued to dwindle over the years. At the same time, Nyaberi hopes to catapult the women’s national side back at the top in Africa and ensure they occupy respectable place in the FIVB ranking. He said: “I’m happy and excited at the same time having bounced back to the position I held before I was denounced for four years. Now I am legitimately at the centre of the federation, where policies are made.” “Truth be told; Our standards have dwindled and our focus will be to restore the sport back to where we ought to be. At the same time, my focus is on the youth program which is under my docket. We need to have age group teams, create centres of excellency and attach qualified coaches to primary schools because this is where raw talent is found,” he added. Nyaberi said they will engage the government to work out on suitable rates for the national teams and clubs to have unlimited access to the Indoor Training facility at Kasarani. He said: “If we can get scholarships for our players in United States with some undergoing short professional stints in Europe, then it will not only benefit the player but the federation as well.” On his part, Nairobi branch chairman and KVF deputy treasurer, Moses Mbuthia said it will not be business as usual again. He said: “We will have to work as unit and ensure there is transparency since we will be held responsible and accountable after four years. For us, It’s a matter of collective responsibility with key aim of delivering service to the people.” New KVF Office: President: Waithaka Kioni; First vice-chairman: Charles Nyaberi; Second vice-chairman: David Kilundo; Vice-chairperson (gender): Mududa Waweru; Secretary general: Ben Juma; Deputy secretary general: Catherine Mabwi; Sports Organising Secretary: Ismail Chege; Deputy organising secretary: John Oronje; Treasurer: Kenneth Tonui; Assistant Treasurer: Moses Mbuthia; Committee members: Joseph Kosgei, Alfred Chedotum and Emily Mbotela.