Fourteen member counties of the Lake Region Economic Bloc have until end of June to approve resolutions agreed by the summit to expedite their plans. Chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said others counties would be bound by the accord after one third of the assemblies pass the bills. The Kakamega governor said unity would strengthen economic and social growth of the region. While on a familiarisation tour of the secretariat in Kisumu on Thursday, Oparanya said it would only take five counties for the bloc to begin regional integration. The bloc plans to establish a Sh2.8 billion regional bank once it raises Sh1 billion. Each county is required to contribute Sh200 million by end of October. Member counties are Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Bomet, Kericho, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga and Busia. There are about 14 million people in member counties of the LREB. Last Monday, during a summit in Kakamega Golf Club Hotel, governors resolved to share resources such as Lake Victoria and wider market access. They also resolved to enhance food security through a coordinated agricultural strategy; pursue economic growth by creating an enabling environment for trade and Investment initiatives. The governors unanimously chose Kisumu as the headquarters for the bloc and appointed Abala Wanga acting chief executive officer. “We plan to establish efficient structures, formalise appointments and have the face of the counties under our legally biding entity,” Oparanya said.  BLUEPRINT UNVEILED The county chiefs also agreed to pursue joint public investments to enhance the bloc’s economic growth and sharing of human resources through a coordinated approach. Oparanya said some counties might delay in remitting the share of contribution to the kitty, but that would not derail efforts to set up the bank. “As soon as we raise Sh1 billion, we will begin plans to set up the bank. The bank will be wholly owned by residents from member counties,” Oparanya said. Governors will focus on developing key areas, including infrastructure, ICT, health, tourism, education, agriculture and financial services. Oparanya said Kakamega has allocated Sh200 million for the bank project in this financial year, while Kisumu has deposited Sh100 million at the special purpose account at the Central Bank of Kenya. The economic blueprint was unveiled by former Council of Governors chairman Isaac Ruto during the ≠second National Devolution Conference held in Kisumu in 2015. President Uhuru Kenyatta attended the forum.