A Bill to bar the state from arbitrarily withdrawing security guards of opposition politicians was yesterday tabled in the Senate. The proposed law, if passed and signed by the President, will reverse the unilateral decision of withdrawing bodyguards by the Inspector General of Police. Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina, the sponsor of the Retirement Benefits (Deputy President and Designated State Officers) (Amendment) Bill, 2018, proposes the setting up of a joint committee to review the state’s decision of denying politicians their security details. The amendment wants to stop the executive from altering or modifying entitlements to intimidate individuals. Kina’s Bill was tabled for the first time. The proposed law is in response to the government’s previous move to withdraw bodyguards assigned to NASA leader Raila Odinga, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi. Read: State withdraws NASA leaders bodyguards The four have had their security  withdrawn on numerous occasions. They led millions of supporters in demonstrations against the outcome of last year’s presidential elections in which Uhuru Kenyatta was declared winner. The state also withdrew bodyguards of NASA lawmakers and their official government vehicles. Where there is a need to reduce or alter the security arrangements of an entitled person, the Inspector General of Police shall refer the matter to the joint committee on entitlements for approval. Inspector General Joseph Boinnet defended his move to withdraw the politicians’ bodyguards, saying  it would be illegal for officers to protect NASA leaders in street protests. Also Read: State withdraws Joho's security after Raila swearing-in Watch: [VIDEO] State withdraws Raila’s security Kina’s proposed law is similar to the principal Bill Uhuru refused to sign in 2015 for Raila and Kalonzo to retire from active politics before they enjoy their pensions. The 2015 principal Act does not expressly bar retired designated state officers from receiving benefits for engaging in politics. Section Four says Parliament may do so on a motion supported by at least half of the members of the National Assembly. Kina’s Bill hands a lifeline to former vice presidents who were blocked from accessing their pension by the principal Act of 2015. The Narok senator wants the section of the state officers’ Retirement Benefits Act touching on the former VPs amended to refer to a person who, having held the office of the Vice President at any time after January 1, 1993, and has ceased to hold office as such in the manner specified in the Constitution.  Click here for the latest political news