Former electoral commission boss Issack Hassan has sued the Law Society of Kenya disciplinary tribunal over inordinate delay in determining a professional misconduct case against him. Hassan believes it will be impossible for him to get an impartial decision before the tribunal given that it has taken a long time in hearing the matter. The delay on the part of the tribunal amounts to violation of his rights to fair trial and has made him live with anxiety as the complaint is hanging over his head, he contends. The complaint against him relates to conduct of affairs at a law firm in which he was partnering with Supreme Court Judge Mohammed Ibrahim. They both resigned from the  firm long time ago. Fred Athuok complained that Hassan allegedly asked clients to leave the law firm and file their matters with another firm called Njoroge Katisya. Through Iseme Kamau and Maema Advocates, Hassan yesterday said it would be futile to let the tribunal handle the matter in view of prolonged delay. “The unreasonable time taken by the respondent [tribunal] to determine my objection has led to my stellar career being unfairly besmirched. I risk losing my reputation unless orders sought in the petition are granted,” he argues. The disciplinary case was filed against him in 2013. He filed an objection in 2014 and the tribunal was to make a finding. His objection was relating to plea to have him appear before the tribunal in person to answer to the charges. In his view, the matter before the tribunal is not a criminal case, as such, he is not needed to appear in person. However, four years down the line no ruling has been given prompting Hassan to move to the High Court. His main problem is that because the case is still pending he cannot be given a clearance certificate by Law Society of Kenya, which in turn means he will not get employment. “The petitioner avers the respondent has by its conduct infringed his right to work and earn a livelihood. By reason of the pending complaint before respondent, the petitioner is unable to apply to become a judge of any court in Kenya and the commonwealth...,” the suit papers read in part. Hassan now wants the disciplinary case against him be transferred to High Court. He also sought an order to stop the tribunal from taking any steps in relation to the complaint.