It’s 6am Friday morning and Hellen Irizia, 33, has just finished preparing breakfast for her family. She wakes up her three children, who crawl up drowsily from the mattress, lying on one side of the floor and separated by two curtains, which partition the semi-permanent one-roomed house into a bedroom, living room and kitchen. After quick showers, the children put on their school uniforms, sit on the floor and have their breakfast silently. The breakfast contains black tea and one mandazi for each child, commonly referred to as an ‘escort’ simply because it is an accompaniment to the tea. It is tea time. Forty minutes later, the children are handed over their packed lunch boxes by their mother. Their ideal lunch box is an old, simple plastic tin from one of those used products of an ice cream tins she once got from her former employer two years ago. With a smile, each child picks their share of what they cherish most. A peep into the box is another mandazi sitting tight. It’s accompanied by a plastic bottle containing black tea, mostly referred to as ‘sturungi’, from strong tea — it has no milk. A keen observation shows the three schoolchildren, aged five, seven and 12 years, don’t look healthy as expected of their age. They look malnourished and lightweight. A recent visit to the clinic determined that they are all underweight, and the nutritionist advised the mother to scale up foods that are nutritious to the children. This recommendation cannot, however, be implemented any time soon, simply because Iriza has no stable income yet. Her last pregnancy to the now year-and-a-half-old lastborn son cost her a job with an Indian employer. “I am trying my best to ensure my children carry at least something to school. Mandazi and black tea is all I can afford for now for their lunch box,” says the mother, who never had a chance at all to step into a classroom like her children do now. Armed with Sh40, an equivalent of eight mandazis, each child is able to eat one for breakfast, and the remaining one carried as part of the lunch box snack. In a week, this means that Sh200 gives each child an opportunity to eat 10 mandazis.  ECONOMIC HARDSHIP The family lives at the heart of Kibera slum: Kisumu Ndogo village in KambiMuru. Her journey has not been a walk in the park, as many would think upon meeting her for the first time. The composed mother got to open up during my fifth visit in my quest to see what kind of lunch box she packs for her three children. I discovered that her children’s lunch box only contains one mandazi and the black tea carried in water plastic bottles. The male figure in the family, ‘the husband’, has not been very supportive, and the much he gives out is Sh1,000 every Saturday, which is meant to cater for all the family needs. The hard-hitting economic times literally leave her with nothing to save for a nutritious lunch snack for her children. “I cannot afford to buy any foods that can add value to my children. With a thousand bob, I have to look at other important basic needs, such as soap, water and food. I don’t like packing tea and mandazi day in day out, but have I no choice. At least that is what I can afford,” she says. Asked if her husband has ever packed the children’s lunch box, Irizia gives a strong shake of the head. Her husband, who works as a casual labourer at a road construction company, has never as much as peaked into the box, let alone make an effort to pack the mandazi or the black tea. She is entirely responsible for her children’s welfare. “I wish he can be an example in our family. If we can sit down together and plan, I am sure we can afford to make use of whatever amount that can be available to prepare a more nutritious meal for each child. This mandazi business is of no value at all,” Irizia says.  DIFFERENT PACKAGE I met another family living in Kibera’s Ayany Estate. The early morning interaction with Siyama Ismail, a mother figure to her grandson aged six years, showed a different side of another lunch box packed for the child as he journeys into his early childhood development. Siyama, too, is well informed on what should be contained in her grandson’s lunch box. Luckily for her, she is able to actualise. But first, she shares her childhood culinary memories. “When we were growing up, every food was good food. Sometimes you could have boiled maize for breakfast, and eat a little and save the rest for school. We also had cassava, sweet potatoes, and there was enough to even  share with your friends,” Siyama says. Today’s generation tends to take junk food sold everywhere, from kiosks in city estates to stalls in slums. No one knows how some of the junk food is prepared and packed for consumption. Thus finding an easy target for disease outbreaks, such as cholera. “In most cases, we don’t even know the hygienic condition of the vendors at our doorsteps, even the ones who sell us the inevitable five-shilling mandazi,” Siyama says. “But for me, I am keen on what I pack for my grandson. There are days that he will get homemade pancakes. Other times he will carry eggs and well-spread bread with some cheese — he loves cheese — a sandwich and drinking water, which is a must,” she says. Other times along the week, the grandson’s lunch box menu will consist of yoghurt, roasted peanuts, even sausages once in a while. Siyama says she never gives any cash to the child, as this would easily tempt him to junk food such as crisps, popcorns, processed juices, among other ill foods. Something else Siyama is very keen about is how she packs the lunch box itself, with sliced bread cut into cubes and peeled eggs designed to look attractive to jolt the grandson’s appetite. Siyama recommends that packing a nutritious snack for your child should not be that expensive, just let them know what foods can be of more nutritional value than the junk most parents buy. You will find parents who will give the child, say, Sh50 for lunch, not minding what they will end up buying, and this may lead to more visits to the doctor than you can imagine. Fathers, too, ought to be part of this routine.“Let him also sit down with the family and come up with a simple family timetable menu. This is what you will carry to school each week, and have the items bought and prepared at home,” Siyama says. Fathers are a missing link when it comes to family decisions and needless to say, packing their children’s lunch box.  BALANCED DIET Glady’s Mugambi, a nutrition expert and the focal person on ‘Scaling up Nutrition’ at the Health ministry, says a lunch box is a meal that is packed for a child to carry to school or a trip. Like any meal, it should be balanced with foods that can give energy, proteins and vitamins and minerals, including fruits and vegetables. Mugambi recommends that for children to get value in their lunch box, a simple checklist should at all times be observed, such as the right amount of food, and palatable enough to make the children eager to partake of it. “When a child looks at the box, the food should be appealing. Remember the old adage, that you first should eat with your eyes. These are simple techniques that are missing among parents,” Mugambi says. Another simple technique to a lunch box should be ugali topped with an egg and greens packed methodically. Parents should also pack fresh food, but if there are leftovers, let it be cut into cubes and coated with something the child would enjoy as a snack. Nutrition experts such as Mugambi warn that as a country, we are slowly slipping into the obesity lane, following the current family trends. Pizza has now become fashionable. Families also prefer to pack industry-processed foods from the shop, whose preparation they know nothing of, and this easily leads to addiction of certain juices by children. Such juices contain a lot of sugar, which is not good for the health of a child during their early years. Mugambi urges parents to opt for fresh juice. Throughout the day, a parent should create time to gather food, thinking of how it will be prepared and eaten. “Parents or caregivers are the ones who make decisions for their children, so we should create time for them because if we go wrong when they are very young, they will never reverse the damage caused later in life. Even though they may not be able to blame the parent, all along you will know the blame lays squarely on you,” Mugambi says. According to the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2014 report, good nutrition is a prerequisite for the national development of countries and the well-being of individuals. The constitution recognises adequate food and nutrition as a human right. It states that every person has the right to be free from hunger and the right to adequate food of acceptable quality, and that every child has the right to basic nutrition. This has to be actualised, and not just through a Food Security and Nutrition policy document, which Kenya boasts of having developed, if we are to have a healthy generation in 10, 20 and even 30 years from now. Take charge of your child’s lunch box now to make a difference into their future.