The Kapenguria High Court on Friday quashed decision by KNEC to cancel the 2017 KCSE results for Ortum boys and St Cecilia girls secondary schools in West Pokot County. Judge Stephen Githinji further ordered KNEC to pay the school administration and board all the cost incurred by the both secondary schools and results be released to the relevant people. The court observed that the cancellation of the results was not done in accordance with the law and gave examination body 14 days to to investigate allegations of cheating and determine on whether they will cancel or uphold the results. ‘Unless the KNEC initiate a lawful process with in the next 14 days from the date of this ruling, an order of Cancelation by the examination body is quashed’, said the judge. For the case of Ortum boys, the KNEC cited collusion in English (101), Biology (231) and Physics (232) subjects while for St Cecilia girls cited collusion in English (101) and Physics (232). The court pointed out that the examination body certify the KCSE results released to the candidate, the school, the parents and the entire county on 20/12/2017 as the varied final results for the 320 students of Ortum boys and 162 students for St Cecilia. During the release of the 2017 KCSE results Last December Ortum boys was ranked 26 nationally with a mean grade of 9.0 and all students attaining the minimum university entry. However, county leaders David PKossing (pokot south mp), Peter Lochakapong (Sigor), Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria) and women representatitive Lilly Tomitom have asked KNEC in future not to release results if they are in doubt. "How can you release results and rank schools and then you cancell the results again. This is not good if in doubt don't release the results," said pokot south MP David Pkosing. The leaders also said that KNEC should involve all stakeholders before cancelling results since parents have invested heavily in the education of their students. The leaders also asked politician to stop politising matters concerning education since it may lower education standards. "Let's keep politics out of our schools since we might ruine the future of our children," said Moroto.   