Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai yesterday clashed with Public Service CS Margaret Kobia over government's plan to add 50 NYS buses to its fleet in Nairobi. The NYS buses are charging Sh20, which is far less than what matatus charge commuters in Nairobi. Kimutai differed sharply with Kobia before the Senate Roads and Transportation Committee after she said the buses will be bought by end of this month. The committee is chaired by Senator Kimani Wamatangi of Kiambu. The government through its Okoa Abiria Initiative last month introduced 24 National Youth Service buses. The NYS buses are plying nine routes and were deployed in response to heavy rains that lead to matatu operators exploiting commuters by hiking fares. Kimutai accused the government of engaging in unfair competition with the private sector to push matatu owners out of the market. "I don't know if the NYS did a study to establish the customers' demand before bringing the buses, which are already making losses. This is disrupting or destroying a business that is existing," he said. Kimutai said the public transport sector is suffering losses from massive extortion by traffic officers. He faulted Kobia and NYS Director General Richard Kubai for deploying the buses to interfere the Matatu Owners Association and Transport ministry's plan of procuring 50 buses to address the city congestion problem. But Kobia said the government will from this week unveil a programme of isolating express traffic lanes in Nairobi roads to fast-track the commuter destinations for the NYS buses. "The National Treasury has agreed to procure several buses to help stabilise commuter fares, decongest the city and restore discipline in the PSV sector," she said. The entry of the NYS buses in the PSV industry, Kobia said, was prompted by a gap in the transport sector, including scarcity of vehicles and commuters getting stranded at bus stops. "We are concerned with the congestion of people waiting to travel. We are charging Sh20 per commuter regardless of the distance because we need Nairobi residents to spend less on transport and be left with some money to improve their quality of lives," she said.. Kimutai, however, said there is no any gap in the transport sector. "People crowding at bus stations does not mean there are no adequate vehicles. The problem is slow traffic. The NYS coming in the market doesn't mean traffic will move faster," he said. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet defended his officers from allegations they engage in corruption on the roads. "We do not set off from our homes to extort money from the public," he said. Boinnet told Kimutai to ask matatu operators to stop giving out money to police to end corruption. "Close to 300 officers have been fired for engaging in corruption. Anybody engaging in corruption starting from senior National Police Service officers run the risk of losing their jobs and taken to court," Boinnet said. NTSA Director General Francis Meja said corruption is rife on the roads due to the Matatu Owners Association's reluctance to adopt the cashless system in collecting fares. "Availability of cash is the cause of corruption. Removing cash for electronic card swap system will which was frustrated by the private sector who had vested interests will address this problem," he said. Meja said the Authority certified NYS buses to operate as PSVs before being deployed. "Members of the public are very happy. Fares in the public sector is not regulated in this country at the moment. When it rains fares go up and no one can be asked about that," he said.