We have just come from an uncertain and tough electioneering period that almost divided the nation, with a shattered economy and a section of the population wounded during political violence. Some lost their lives and property to post-election violence. Many more remain traumatised by what they went through and are still bitter, hence, in need of healing and reconciliation. For those who lost property and those undergoing medical treatment, there must compensation and assistance. It is in this spirit that we gratefully welcomed the historic meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Opposition leader Hon Raila Odinga. While we don't know details of their discussion, we consider this a step in the right direction and call upon them to hasten the process of real, meaningful and lasting reconciliation. We hope to see greater commitment beyond the handshake. It is our hope and that of all Kenyans that the meeting will herald a new era of reconciliation, dialogue, peace, stability and prosperity. We call for an all-inclusive round-table conference to iron out all the differences separating Kenyans. All stakeholders should be involved. Review of the Constitution in the light of contentious issues that emerged during elections, and other shortcomings are among matters needing urgent attention. The conference should consider how the presidency can be structured so it is above political parties, it is not a position of power struggle and bitterly contested as in 2007 and 2017. We need to look at the whole electoral system and ask if it's the best way of getting the right leaders to govern. We have seen that it's open to manipulation and has entrenched the evil of vote-buying and other forms of bribery. The round-table conference should look at how we should invest in democratic institutions and strengthen the place and role of the Opposition to check the government in power. It is very disturbing that some politicians are endlessly in campaign mode and now obsessed with the 2022 elections, instead of focusing on solving pertinent issues. That is why we find the 2022 succession politics extremely unhealthy, retrogressive, time-wasting and very selfish. As the goodwill of the handshake provides an opportunity for Kenyans to seek and engage in dialogue, we your 'shepherds' express our commitment to pursue a path helping Kenyans focus more on building a nation that is conscious of its responsibility. Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops (press statement)      