Two Lamu politicians want the national government to intensify the war on al Shabaab so classes can resume. Deputy Governor Abdulhakim Aboud and Lamu East MP Athman Shariff yesterday urged security officers to intensify the Linda Boni Operation and “do more to flush out Shabaab militants from their hideouts” in Boni Forest. Some strides have been made towards a return to normalcy, but more needs to be done, they said. The leaders said children have borne the brunt of terror attacks following the closure of schools. “Some successes are clearly visible. But we believe more can be done to change the situation and enable the children of Basuba to get an education,” Shariff said. The Basuba and Ishakani villages, occupied by the Boni community along the Lamu-Somalia border, are the worst-hit areas. Frequent raids and the ongoing security operation have resulted in difficult times. Many residents say they can no longer cope with the situation. Basuba, Milimani, Mangai, Mararani and Kiangwe primary schools in Basuba remain no-go zones for pupils and teachers. They were closed after teachers fled for their safety. Four years later, the Boni child has yet to go back to class. Some parents moved their children to schools outside the region. Early this year, the then county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo ordered the immediate reopening of all schools and assured teachers and learners of adequate security. Despite the directive, only a handful of ECDE centres are running. They have instructors hired by the county government. Aboud said education continues to dwindle by the day. “No teacher is willing to be posted to Basuba, either by the TSC or the county government. Everyone fears for his or her life while working in Basuba due to the security concerns,” he said. “We have advertised teaching posts even if it will mean on a contractual basis, but no one is willing.” The county is willing to partner with the national government to provide the support needed to win the war on terror, he added. Residents are optimistic Operation Linda Boni will be a success. “As the county government, security is not our docket, but I urge the government to intensify the crackdown on al Shabaab inside Boni Forest. We want normalcy to resume in Basuba ward so locals can enjoy peace and for learning to resume,” Aboud said. “Currently in Basuba, people can’t go about their lives freely due to the insecurity issue. Schools remain closed. This can’t be allowed to go on.”