Shujaa bagged 19 points as they lost the Hong Kong Sevens final to Fiji 24-12 at Son Kon Pon Stadium, Hong Kong on Sunday. It was a heartbreak or Innocent Simiyu's charges who lost to the Fijians last month in Vancouver 31-12. They, however, climbed to seventh position leapfrogging England and now have amassed 83 points. Shujaa roller coaster ride in the three day event came to a screeching halt in the final with the Fijians dominating the opening exchanges and it came as no surprise when Josua Vakurunabili dotted down for an unconverted try and a 5-0 lead. Shujaa tried to rally with Billy Odhiambo going on impressive ran but his attempted offload was knocked on. Fiji regrouped and dominated territory and possession a when Eroni Sau crossed the whitewash to land for unconverted try and 10-0 lead. Matters went from bad to worse for Shujaa when first Willy Ambaka was sent to the sin bin for tackling Samsoni Viririri without the ball to see his team reduced to six men. Star winger Collins Injera was soon to follow Ambaka to the naughty chair for ankle tapping Fijian playmaker Jerry Tuwai. The Fijians capitalised on the numerical advantage with Amenoni Nasilasila scoring Fiji's third try which was converted by Tuwai for a 17-0 lead at the interval. Kenya came out firing on all cylinders in the second half and were rewarded when Billy Odhiambo crashed over following sustained pressure for unconverted try and a 17-65 lead in favour of the Fijians. Shujaa were on the wrong end of the referee penalty count and the Fijians scored a fourth try courtesy of Vatemo Ravouvou who powered his way to the line with Jerry Tuwai converting for a 24-5 lead. Kenya were not going down without a fight and skipper Oscar Ouma barged over the line in the dying seconds with Eden Agero slotting home the extras to close out the match. Shujaa had stunned powerhouses New Zealand 21-12 in the semi-finals. Collins Injera scored twice with Willy Ambaka touching down once as Sammy Oliech kicked over three conversions. Kenya led 14-7 at the interval. In the quarter-finals, Kenya had dispatched Scotland 19-12 with Ambaka Oscar Ouma and super sub Jeff Oluoch scoring a try each with Oliech converting two of the tries. The team now departs for Gold Cost Australia to play in the Commonwealth Games which kick on Friday. Click here for the latest political news 