The dons’ strike enters its 50th day having disrupted university calendars and hit students hard. From upkeep expenses to rent for those residing outside the university hostels, students have suffered the most. Still, there is no end in sight to the problem. University managements and lecturers’ unions continue indulging in an infinite tag of war over the 2017-21 collective bargaining agreement. Education PS Japheth Ntiba says the lack of a substantive Salaries and Remuneration Commission report is the reason a counteroffer has yet to be made to the lecturers. The term of the first occupants of the commission ended in December. Last week, the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum presented a document to lecturers as a counteroffer, but did not include monetary terms because the SRC has not made a recommendation. But the SRC says it has not been consulted about the CBA. Students are at the centre of the tangle — most of them deplore the situation and reel from the financial implications and wasted time. Read: No end in sight to dons’ strike Edina Kibet, a third year student at the University of Nairobi, yesterday told the Star her parents have been sending her money for upkeep until late last week when they asked her to go back home. Keeping her on campus is a burden because no learning takes place. “I went back home and the university ordered us to come back, but we’re still not learning. We spend money and it is not going to be compensated,” she said. Nyakina Moraa, a third year student, said she has been paying rent for the past two months, despite studies not taking place. “Housing is a problem in the university. We have to look for alternative places outside campus. We end up overspending because we have to secure our rented houses,” Moraa said. Some university managements have recalled the students — a tactic to help frustrate the strike. Students’ presence keeps academic and non-academic activities alive. Read: Cops tear-gas striking dons at ministry At UoN, for example, students have been attending classes, despite lecturers’ absence. Contracted lecturers attend the classes. Yesterday, union leaders from Uasu and Kusu said they will eject such lecturers. At Maasai Mara, students were ordered to back to sit end-semester exams. The situation is similar at Chuka, where students are finalising their semester exams. Uasu secretary general Constantine Wasonga told the Star the tactics by varsity managements will bear no fruit. “Vice chancellors are not employers of the lecturers, the university councils are. They have tried to summon lecturers for not coming to work and that has failed. They’re trying to frustrate us, but we are adamant and the strike is not ending any time soon,” he said. Also Read: Drop hard stance and let’s talk about issues, striking dons told  Click here for the latest political news