Kenya on Monday joined other IGAD countries and international development partners in Juba to find a lasting solution to peace in war-torn South Sudan. The shuttle diplomacy on the war-ravaged South Sudan intends to evaluate the implementation status of the High-Level Revitalization Forum (HLRF) for peace and stability. "The agenda of the meeting is to silence guns, and stop all killings and allow unimpeded humanitarian assistance to all affected people. We also want to achieve inclusive peace, security and governance in South Sudan," Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba said. The International partners taking part in the event include the European Union (EU) and the Ambassadors of Britain, US, Germany, Japan, China, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Netherlands. Read: A who’s who in South Sudan’s splintering civil war "We have come a long way with South Sudan from the time of midwiving of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in Kenya. We cannot give up now," Ababu told the Star on the phone. Other participants include the African Diplomatic Corp (Egypt, South Africa, Kenya, Uganda, Somalia, Ethiopia and Djibouti) and the African Union. In his address to the South Sudan peace stakeholders, Namwamba reiterated Kenya's unflinching commitment to the IGAD-led peace process and urged all international partners to firmly support the process. He stressed the urgent need to cease all hostilities and provide protection to humanitarian operations and workers. "By doing so we will give real meaning to our mantra of African solutions for African problems," he said. "At this juncture, the process must start delivering substantive results to forestall a growing sense of frustration that this could yet be just another talk shop. Let us give hope to the people of South Sudan by delivering tangible results of constructive engagement for peace and stability," he said. "And we must not be afraid to try new ways. After all, to get something you have never had you got to do something you have never done." The IGAD Council of Ministers reaffirmed to deploy punitive measures against individuals violating the ceasefire agreement and the peace process. South Sudan has experienced civil wars since 2013. Also read: US sanctions South Sudan oil firms to choke off war funds  Click here for the latest political news 