Duchess of Cambridge Kate Middleton and the Duke, Prince William, introduced their new baby boy at the steps of the Lindo Wing of St Mary’s Hospital on Monday. It is no secret that Kate did not have the easiest pregnancy as she suffered from hyperemesis gravidarum for the most of the duration. According to an article published on Forbes website, hyperemesis gravidarum is, when broken down. "Hyper" means a lot or severe, "Emesis" means vomiting, Gravid is a term for pregnant, frequently used in medical settings but rarely in social situations.  Despite her illness, this did not stop her from attending state functions, well I guess you would be obliged to do the same if you were the Duchess of Cambridge. And as it is tradition she was at the hospital steps seven hours after delivering their baby boy, with no trace of a swollen ankle or cottage cheese knee, and not a hair out of place. What is her secret? One, she was at a state of the art hospital that specialises in a range of complex and robotic surgeries including trauma, weight loss, vascular, gynaecology, urology, ear, nose and throat, and general surgery. Two, she eats right. Three, she works out. She is known to enjoy swimming, yoga and skiing. Well we are Kenyans and I am sure we have no ski resorts ( to my knowledge ) and not everyone understands or appreciates yoga, but after this, I just might enroll. We, women, struggle with weight before pregnancy and it becomes a nightmare after that bundle of Joy comes home. I have heard my aunt's advice, my cousins, that all that baby fat will disappear after breastfeeding. What if there is something you can do to prevent the baby fat from developing all together?    I suspect the Dutch of Cambridge and her family doctor might know the secret. I have noticed that she did not add any excess baby fat in any of her three pregnancies making it ridiculously easy for her to bounce back to her beautiful self. The fact is, having a baby changes every woman. A lot. Not that we'd know it from what we see on TV and in magazines as an endless parade of supermodel moms make it look easy to be birthing a baby one week and walking a catwalk or red carpet the next. Experts say that the uterus will naturally shrink back down to it's normal "walnut" size within six to eight weeks, no extra work necessary—which is why many doctors advise women to wait until after that point to resume regular exercise routines. So what do you need to ensure your walnut does shrink back to its size? Eat right and exercise Choose foods that pack a big nutritional punch and help you feel satisfied such as meals that are high in lean proteins, fruits, and vegetables. Then choose healthy snacks between meals. "Eating a healthy snack every three hours should help you avoid overdoing it at mealtimes," advises dietitian Frances Largeman-Roth, author of Feed the Belly: The Pregnant Mom's Healthy Eating Guide. Not only will you be providing good nutrition for your baby, but your blood sugar will stay level throughout the day so you're less likely to feel starving at dinnertime. Fruit with lots of fiber and high water content – like grapefruit, oranges, apples, berries, pears, and plums – can also help you feel full and keep constipation at bay. It's important to avoid dehydration during pregnancy – and drinking enough water has the added benefit of helping you feel satisfied between meals and snacks. The Medical Institute advises pregnant women to drink 5 liters of water or other beverages each day. Some nutritionists suggest adding more for each hour of light activity. Largeman-Roth recommends three liters of water daily or 101 fluid ounces. Other experts suggest monitoring urine color: If it's dark yellow or cloudy, your body needs more fluids. Sip throughout the day to keep your urine color pale yellow or clear – a sign of proper hydration. Walking is not just important for managing weight gain it also helps reduce aches and pains at the end of the pregnancy. Walking will keep you and your baby’s weight in check. It will help achieve healthy baby weight, thereby making the delivery process easy and natural. It also reduces cholesterol, thus balancing blood pressure levels during pregnancy. While this tip won't help during pregnancy, it's worth knowing that breastfeeding can help you meet your goals for healthy weight loss afterward. "Breastfeeding is the best fix for losing the extra weight you've gained during pregnancy," says Hobel. When breastfeeding goes well, it burns 500 calories daily. Also, birth and the body changes that happen in the first six weeks postpartum should help you drop your first 20 pounds (just from the baby, placenta, and water weight leaving your body). It's a great jump start to losing your pregnancy weight. Hopefully, it's not too late for me but I do need to start working out and not just watching people work out.