The Teachers Service Commission yesterday defended itself over the teacher shortage and blamed the Treasury for the crisis. TSC Chief Executive officer Nancy Macharia told Parliament’s Education committee that the Treasury has not released enough funds required to hire 20,000 teachers annually to close a deficit of 155,605 teachers. “The National Assembly appropriates only Sh2.5 billion annually for the recruitment of 5,000 teachers. Every time we are given 5,000 teachers, we do not know how to distribute them,” she said. Macharia said that in this year alone, the commission asked for Sh16 billion to hire 68,000 intern teachers and another 12,696 trained teachers to make possible the government’s call for 100 per cent transition to secondary schools. The TSC is overwhelmed because it has only 312,060 teachers while 291,635 others remain unemployed, she said. “If we were given this kind of money to employ 20,000 teachers, in four years, we would close the gap,” Macharia said. The TSC boss appeared before the committee alongside Education CS Amina Mohamed. They were responding to questions by Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma about the teacher-student ratio in public primary and secondary schools. They also were asked to shed light on the number of unemployed trained teachers, available vacancies countrywide and steps taken to hire more teachers. Macharia said primary schools are staffed on the basis of one teacher per class plus one. “The plus-one caters for teachers who might be absent. If a school has one stream, which means it has eight classes, then the establishment is nine teachers. A 10-streamed school will have 81 teachers,” she said. Secondary schools are staffed on the basis of curriculum-based establishment — every teacher is allocated a load of 27 lessons per week. “A one-stream school — Form One to Four — has four classes and will need nine teachers, while a 12-stream school with 48 classes will need 101 teachers,” Macharia said. Staffing in tertiary institutions is based on the number of departments. “We have a large workforce out there, but we don’t have the money. If we had the money, we would employ all these teachers and even leave some still unemployed because we won’t have vacancies,” Macharia said. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion expressed concern that the teacher-student ratio was worsening every year. He said the teacher-student ratio had been 1-35, but now it stands at 1-50 The CS said, “I’m not aware as of now that is the teacher-student ratio.” Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya said the problem of teacher shortage is a major concern and needs an urgent solution. The shortage in his constituency is 243 teachers for 29 schools. Garissa, Mandera and Wajir counties together have a shortage of 5,000 teachers. Many fled, citing fear of terror attacks. The committee told the TSC to provide data on the number of trained teachers who are natives of Northeastern to determine if they can meet demand. This will eliminate recurrent hiring of non-local teachers who eventfully seek transfers, it said. Macharia said with 1,948 teachers, Northeastern is among the regions with the highest number of teachers. Sossion urged the TSC to drop the delocalisation programme of teacher transfers to areas outside their home areas. He said it violates the ILO and Unesco statutes. The nominated MP said the programme is being abused. Read:TSC blames Treasury for teacher shortage, wants more money Click here for the latest political news  