“It was better while we waited. Now we have nothing to look forward to. We have killed our past and are busy killing the future.” This is the famous quote from Francis Imbuga’s masterpiece, Betrayal in the City. It captured the mood at the Ol Pejeta conservancy on Saturday, during the commemoration of the life of Sudan, the last male northern white rhino. Sudan, 45, died of age-related complications on March 19 at the conservancy in Laikipia county, raising fears that the species could be headed for extinction, just like dinosaurs. The last of the non-avian dinosaurs went extinct 65 million years ago. Sudan’s death bogged down caregivers due to his humane nature. Caregiver James Mwenda could not hide his disappointment as he bid farewell to the rhino. “Personally, I loved Sudan so much. This is a special day for Sudan. To me, I’m just celebrating his life. He lived a long life to show us and help us learn from him the aspect that he is the last male northern white rhino,” Mwenda said. “Having been so close to him, I do not regret anything that I did not do to him. I gave him the best and loved him so much.” He said he gave Sudan all his attention. Mwenda has been with Sudan for the last four years, and the decision to euthanise him pained him. “Sudan at one time shed tears since he needed someone to step in and help him. I made a promise that I will care about him very well all the time, as animals need understanding and equal rights,” Mwenda said in a moving tribute to Sudan. Mwenda said Sudan’s plight has compelled him to reach out to those who visit the conservancy on the need to jealously guard all the species. “Sudan everyday taught me that every time you move closer, you open a new page. If you were Sudan, what would you have done, as he was the last species?” he asked. Sudan’s death made the world temporarily forget about Easter holidays to commemorate him.  VOICE OF THE VOICELESS Mwenda said Sudan was not just an animal but a voice for the voiceless. “My journey with Sudan was transformative. But the big question I have been asking myself is how did it happen [extinction]? Why we were silent as it did?” he asked. Mwenda recalled his last moments with Sudan, saying he learnt great lessons. “I extend his blessings to all as he was old. The site we are in says not only what we have lost but lessons as well,” he said. Politicians, policymakers and conservationists pledged that the death of Sudan, the world’s last standing male northern white rhino, should propel everyone to think big about conserving all species. Sudan’s health began deteriorating early this year. He developed an infection on his back leg. When this was combined with his sunset years, it proved too much for him. Veterinary officers euthanised him after realising he was undergoing untold suffering. Doctor Stephen Ngulu, who administered the injection, said it was a difficult time for all. “Sudan was put to rest on March 19, early afternoon,” he told the Star. “His keepers were present during this time. They were greatly saddened by the events leading to his death. It was a difficult time for all of us, but the decision was correct, because Sudan was in pain, suffering and his situation at the time was not compatible with life.” The carrot-loving animal was celebrated as “more than wildlife”, as he could gesture and tell his caregivers when something was amiss. Tourism CS Najib Balala said: “We should have an annual recognition of things that happen all over the country in conservation, in Ol Pejeta, Solio and other conservancies, to show what they are doing. That is a platform to recognise efforts both individually and also as institutions.” While Sudan was alive, veterinarians, conservationists and armed guards watched over him. His commemorative plaque is now among the other 17 plaques. The 3m plaque stands next to Suni’s plaque. Suni died in 2014, possibly from a heart attack.  DIFFERENCE WITH BLACK RHINOS Black rhinos have a pointy prehensile upper lip that enables them to browse selectively. The lip acts somewhat like a finger for manipulating bark and twigs, but it uses its molars to take big bites and to chew woody growth or fibrous plants. White rhinos, on the other hand, have square lips and a wide flat mouth, which is adapted to grazing on grass. There really is very little difference in colour between the black and white rhino. Mwenda said the southern white rhinos are muscular and cannot lift their heads up. He said the northern white rhinos roam places that have higher grasslands, and hence they could lift their heads. Moreover, the legs of the northern white rhinos slope to the back. The skin of the northern is rougher compared to the southern white rhino, which is a bit smooth. And the horns of the southern are a bit sharp. Mwenda said his last moments with Sudan made him realise that the hands of a human being are tools that can build and destroy. “It was a turning point, and as a person, the promise I made to Sudan is to spread his word to the world, for people to know that extinction is real,” he said, adding that the loud silence will no longer help. He said the fact that Sudan was the last male standing overwhelmed them. “Sudan’s temperament was so different, compared to Suni. Sudan was cool, unless you approached him on a perspective that was not humane,” he said. Mwenda said Sudan welcomed visitors from across the world, making friendships with many. “Anyone could go close to him. He would never bother with what was going on around him. I think he felt special because of how we treated him, and I believe that is why he lived that long,” he said. The caretaker learned that a decision had already been reached to put Sudan down after veterinary officers tried all that was possible to heal him. “His conditions had worsened and they had to decided,” he said. Mwenda said the affection between him and Sudan was immense. “It is a weighty thing because Sudan is not just any other rhino, he was the last male,” he said, adding that he has learned a lot of lessons. Mwenda said the plaque standing beside a small tree “is special to me because it reminds me of what has been lost and what needs to be done”.  TOUGHER POACHING PUNISHMENT Tourism CS Najib Balala said laws on conservation of wildlife will be reviewed, as the penalty for the heinous crime of poaching is lenient. Balala said poachers found guilty of killing wildlife should be jailed for life. “By increasing the penalties, no one will dare touch any of the iconic species. We need to have zero tolerance to poaching,” he said. Currently, the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013, states that the killing of endangered animals carries life imprisonment, as well as fines of up to Sh20 million. However, no one has been slapped with life imprisonment since the inception of the Act. Data from the Kenya Wildlife Service shows that there are 1,284 rhinos and 34,000 elephants in the country. Balala tasked Tourism PS Margaret Mwakima with looking at the possibility of erecting a national museum, where Sudan’s rhino horn and the tusks of one of Kenya’s largest elephants, Ahmed, will be housed, to create awareness on the threat facing iconic species. Mwakima will work closely with stakeholders from the KWS and the private sector to make it a reality. “The death of Sudan reminds each and every one of us each day of the need to jealously conserve not only endangered species but all species,” Balala said. He said communities must benefit from the proceeds of wildlife, to help them own and protect wildlife. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Mirithi said the extinction of a species in the country is a clear indication that we need to do more to protect them. “We have to ask ourselves: what we are doing to all the species? What more can we do to protect them?” Mirithi said. Also present at the memorial service were Ol Pejeta Conservancy CEO Richard Vigne, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and Wildlife Direct communication manager Trish Sewe.