There is a crisis at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission yet again. Three commissioners – Consolata Nkatha, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwanchanya – in a “kamikaze” style move known in the matatu industry as “kufa dereva & kufa manamba” have thrown in the towel and resigned, ostensibly in solidarity with suspended CEO Ezra Chiloba. Documents tendered in court to challenge the suspension gave us a rare peek into the vicious tender wars and open divisions within the commission. External political influence is also clearly at play, leading to doubts about the independence of the organisation. In an odd development that can perhaps only happen in Kenya, the security detail of the commissioners in office was withdrawn whilst that of those that had resigned remained intact. This is crude clear indication that the Executive is deeply involved in the current events at the IEBC. It also gives credence to the popular saying that Kenyan elections are won at the tallying process rather than at the ballot. Perhaps this is why it has now become customary or fashionable to disband the IEBC after every presidential and general election and create another vehicle for the election of the next President. Instead of strengthening our existing constitutional institutions, we are busy cannibalising them. Hiring and firing of IEBC commissioners has become our favourite game of musical chairs, despite it being a bottomless pit for public funds! It has become a graveyard of broken careers and will no longer be taken seriously by qualified professionals. It has been said that Kenyans are not committed to the fight against electoral injustice(s) and national elections are merely window-dressing for the outside world. The joke now is that the person who will serve longest on the IEBC chair is he/she who does absolutely nothing save reading daily newspapers and collecting a monthly salary. The job description is inaction by turning a blind eye and allowing the secretariat to proceed in rogue behaviour as instructed by the Executive. That is because any action may step on the toes of the powerful, who will initiate action in Parliament or elsewhere for removal from office. The recent developments at the IEBC have vindicated and lent credence to the claims by former IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe, who resigned days to the October 26 repeat presidential election. She had sensationally claimed, “It has become increasingly difficult to continue attending plenary meetings where commissioners come ready to vote along partisan lines and not to discuss the merit of issues before them.” One of the fundamental problems was that there were two centres of power, one led by the chairman and the other by the CEO. She went on to propose that to have a truly independent commission there was a need to alter the process of appointing the chairman, commissioners and other secretariat staff. “The patronage in appointments is the greatest disservice to the nation as it takes away the ability to make decisions independently and professionally.” The IEBC as currently constituted is a powerless impotent institution incapable of delivering on its mandate. The remaining commissioners are however holding on tenaciously. This could be either a game plan to secure a fat severance package to cover their remaining term of office or a diabolical plot to deliberately disable the commission. This would leave the referendum advocates somewhere between a rock and a hard place as their wish cannot be executed without a legally constituted commission. It is in the public domain that several parties, including the opposition, are seeking constitutional amendment. Kanu Tiaty MP William Kamket has gone a stage further and filed a motion in Parliament. Political events in Kenya are currently in flux following the Odinga handshakes. The delay in revealing the contents of the first handshake are causing both anxiety and confusion in our political terrain and our most vocal politician appears to have been contained or compromised. Time is ripe for an alternative leader, another Matiba to steer the democratic process.