NASA co-principals Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi shared the platform for the first time since the famous handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9. The two, whose relationship has been frosty after the handshake, said NASA was still intact and will remain united. Speaking in Shinyalu constituency on Saturday, Raila said the required reforms could not be achieved by NASA alone without working together with Jubilee and asked his critics to be patient. “We’re building bridges to enable us cross to Canaan. The three co-principals remain my allies and we must work together to bring about reforms that will end tribalism, corruption and electoral injustices,” he said. He spoke while attending the burial service for Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito' mother, Regina Mmbaya. “What I have done has nothing to with betrayal. There must be a beginning of dialogue,” Raila said. Adding that he was willing to support any of his three co-principals in 2022 but electoral issues that arose during the 2017 polls must be first be resolved. He said that internal issues will be resolved and the coalition will remain united and strong. Mudavadi said that NASA can only die when three of the anchor parties leave and “No one has written a letter pulling out of the coalition,” he said. We cannot go to another election before we reform IEBC which he said was “crumbling under its own weight”. He said that good will of all Kenyans is need for the reforms to succeed. He said that NASA still stands for a parliamentary system of governance and not the current presidential system. “For the stability of the country, Kenyans must be open minded so that we can review these things we have realized in ten years that they are not working for the nation,” he said. “There is a lot of lies. We must respect each other as democrats. I can agree with Raila or I can disagree with Raila but this does not mean enmity,” he said. Mudavadi said that all stakeholders should be involved in the envisaged dialogue. Mudavadi said that he harbours no grudge against Raila adding “I respect Raila”. Mudavadi said that the ongoing plans between his ANC and Ford K to merge is allowed by law. “We’re simply saying that we can consolidate since there is nothing wrong with mergers. Who knows, maybe the next thing may be to merge all NASA parties so that it is a party and not coalition,” he said. Mudavadi had earlier held that the deal signed between Raila and Kenyatta was a private matter between two people and not Kenyans. He accused Raila of betraying the NASA course. Raila has met retired presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki since he signed a truce with President Kenyatta. The meetings have raise speculations about 2022 succession politics. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Senate speaker Ken Lusaka and MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Ben Washiali (Mumias East), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya) and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale were present. Kakamega women representative Elsie Muhanda and her Vihiga counterpart Beatruce Adagala attended. Agoi asked Raila and Kenyatta to make public details of their pact. Washiali accused Raila of instigating divisions among Luhya leaders for personal gains. But Amisi said that Luhyas were united. He said it was Luhya leaders who were divided.