Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has put his support behind the formation of one party to unite Western ahead of 2022. He said this will ensure a Luhya ascends to State House. Wangamati spoke on Wednesday at Kimukung’i Primary School in Kanduyi constituency during the launch of a Sh71 million rural roads rehabilitation programme. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi have hinted at a possibility of dissolving their parties to form one outfit. Wangamati said he supports the proposal, adding it will give residents direction. “I, as the governor, and all MCAs have begun meeting residents in all the 10 subcounties to tell our people about the importance of the move,” he said. “We want to have one political party all Western residents can identify with.We do not want a scenario whereby come 2022, politicians and outsiders who have been using our vote-rich community come here and tell us to join some movement or party that uses and dumps us.” Jubilee politicians have criticised the move to form one party, saying it will not propel anyone to the presidency. On Sunday, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka called for the formation of a party with a national outlook. NINE MINISTERS Wangamati said the move to form a single party was contemplated after NASA leader Raila Odinga opted to join Jubilee. He said the Mulembe community is the second largest in population and can partner with another group to capture the top seat. “I want tell Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Lusaka it’s high time we as Luhyas have one political outfit,” Wangamati said. “When we as a community came together in 2002 under former President Mwai Kibaki and our late son Kijana Wamalwa after forming the Narc government, we as Luhyas had nine ministers plus the Attorney General - something that has never happened again.” Wangamati urged Jubilee leaders in Western to join the movement so the Luhya community can be a force to reckon with. Some analysts say the unity of Maragolis and Bukusus - who are the majority subtribes - will ensure the region is not used by political brokers. Others have suggested the quest to form one party might crumble due to supremacy battles. Analyst Isaac Wanjekeche said the Wetang’ula-Mudavadi union was one of convenience following frustrations. Click here for the latest political news