Corruption and mismanagement of public resources are to blame for the ailing manufacturing sector, Cotu boss Francis Atwoli has said. Atwoli said manufacturing companies like Kikomi, Thika textile mills, Raymond, Rivertex and Nanyuki textile collapsed after the government started "dumping" finished goods from outside. He said such companies had started spearing economic growth until the government blindly followed a deal by World Bank and IMF to start importing finished products. Read; Manufacturers target to contribute 15% to countrys GDP "Manufacturing is the only path to economic recovery and growth. Kenya cannot industrialize without manufacturing. This is why such consultations are key. We are the recipients as a union and we want industries to open up so that we can have more of our members get jobs," he said. Atwoli was speaking on Tuesday after hosting Public Service CS Margaret Kobia who paid him a courtesy call at his Gikomba's solidarity building. Speaking to the press after the closed-door meeting, Atwoli said they discussed how to revive the sector which plays a critical role in President Uhuru Kenyatta's big four agenda. "What we have seen in the past is an indefinite closure of infant companies that could have played a key role in creating job opportunities for many young people," he said. He said they had held discussions on how to employ mechanised top technology to improve the sector. Atwoli said once Kenya was ahead of Thailand and Malaysia in manufacturing but due to poor planning and corruption, it has lagged behind. "This is all because of what can be termed as government's ineptness and lack of foresight thinking. Diverting our energies on things that do not matter," Atwoli added. He said it does not make sense for instance to import Sugar from Somalia when all factories in Kenya are on their knees. "This government know where it went wrong. That is why to date they are grappling with manufacturing policies. We are poor just the way were in those days because of such poor decisions," he said. He said the public sector has had to grapple with strikes because the government is not able to pay its workers effectively due to corruption. We however call for the CS to facilitate dialogue in all the public sectors as this is the only phenomenon that will reduce strikes, he said. Also read; High power bills bad for industries-KAM Click here for the latest political news