Nema has written to City Hall requesting 100 personnel to be trained as environment inspectors. They will play a key role in exercises for a clean Nairobi, Director General Geoffrey Wahungu noted in his letter to County Secretary Peter Kariuki on April 13. The National Environment Management Authority said the names should be submitted in seven days. The officers will be trained, their names gazetted and their work supervised by Nema's Environment Director. Wahundu said the call followed advice and consultations with the Environment CS and that Nema and Nairobi will co-finance the training. On Sunday, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked members of Governor Mike Sonko's team to honour their pledges to resign if they don't transform the city in 30 days. "Much has been discussed in the last few days on the 30-day agenda and the beauty of these targets and timelines is that those asked to implement the projects and programmes have agreed to resign if these timelines are not met," he said in a statement. "Nairobians want to see many things ... Within one month, there should be no piles of garbage in any of the 85 electoral wards of the city of Nairobi. Also, a clean-up of Nairobi River will have commenced, environmental awareness campaigns will be underway and programmes for regular garbage collection should be in place." More read: Uhuru asks team tasked to transform Nairobi to sort out garbage, traffic menace Also Read: We'll resign if we don't transform Nairobi, Sonko team tells Uhuru The team co-chaired by Sonko and Tourism Minister Najib Balala has set ambitious targets for smooth traffic flow, less congestion at the KNH and low cost housing. On health, members have given themselves six months to improve Mbagathi and Mama Lucy hospitals by putting up accident and emergency facilities. They will take radical measures to ensure smooth flow of traffic, specially in the Central Business District. These include full car-free days for Westlands and the Central Business District, a traffic management committee, the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT), automation of bus termini and improvement of non-motorised travel. Details: Eastlands set for 30,000 cheap houses as Big Four takes shape Click here for the latest political news