The government has launched a Sh 4.5 billion comprehensive medical cover that will cater for all students in public secondary schools. Speaking during the launch at State House, Nairobi, President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday said the cover will benefit some three million students. "My government will pay a premium of Sh 1,350 for every student under the cover. This will have a phenomenal impact on our economy," Uhuru said. He added, "The cover which is a negotiated initiative between Ministry of Health and Education ministry is unique as it caters only for students as opposed to the entire family. This will also encourage other family members and guardians to these students enrol for NHIF as we forge ahead to achieving a universal health care". The head of State said the plan will foster a healthy nation as parents will no longer be under financial constraints to cater for medical bills of the students. He said in case of accidents, the students will also be able to access medical services under the cover. "Even as we move medical services close to schools I instruct that schools train Matrons and nurses to provide first responder care. I also instruct the ministry of health to partner with county governments in ensuring that the facilities that serve students are upgraded to the level of NHIF," Uhuru said. Read: Uhuru directs Matiang'i to enroll secondary students to NHIF from January The NHIF and education ministry must ensure that all learners are registered for the cover before schools open. This is part of our Big4 items under Universal health care," Uhuru added. The President, however, warned the NHIF personell and the education Ministry to ensure that there is an accurate enrollment data to be facilitated by the National Education Management Information System. He said this will ensure that the funds do not end up in people's pockets. Uhuru said his government will closely monitor the programe to ensure it serves the purpose. "I expect all headteachers and principals to fully cooperate with us in this engagement to ensure we fully have the students data. This will put an end to the ghost students," he said.  Click here for the latest political news    