BBC has appointed former NTV news anchor Larry Madowo to head its business desk in Africa. I'm thrilled to be joining the BBC, these were the words of Larry Madowo after the appointment. "I look forward to amplifying stories about entrepreneurship, ingenuity and innovation that I've witnessed as I have travelled all over Africa," Madowo said. "I grew up admiring the quality of journalism the BBC produces around the world and it is an honour to be a part of a bold new team that will tell authentic African stories for audiences across multiple platforms." The BBC Africa appointed Larry as a business editor who will lead the Business unit. "The appointment is part of the BBC World Service’s continuing expansion in TV and Digital Video content for audiences in Africa, including new business programmes," the company said on Wednesday. Regional Editor for BBC News Africa Solomon Mugera said Larry is a fantastic addition to their new team. "...and will be key in leading our new focus on business news and how it affects the lives of ordinary Africans. Our new language services and content will ensure we reach new audiences with our bold, innovative and relevant news,” he said. Larry is a well-known Kenyan journalist and has previously hosted his own radio show, written a weekly newspaper column and fronted many popular TV programmes. He has a vast experience in broadcasting, having worked with various well established local and international media organisations, and has made many appearances previously on the BBC. Larry is also a pioneering digital journalist on the continent with an impressive following of over three million on social media. Read: Larry Madowo quits NTV, urges journalists to 'stay woke' The former NTV presenter quit his job at NTV on March 29. He announced the departure in a tweet and thanked his fans. "I leave @ntvkenya as I came: humbled & grateful. The job was one of the great honours of my life. Thanks to everyone who watched, and to Nation for the privilege of the opportunity." "I’m proud of my amazing colleagues & everything we accomplished. Farewell, my friends. Stay woke," he said. More on this: Larry Madowo quits NTV, urges journalists to 'stay woke' Related: Eight Daily Nation columnists resign, cite lack of editorial independence