This
infamous financial scheme is hitherto a household vocabulary that has otherwise
become an annual stabilizer of our fiscal regime, thanks to the big brothers. But how
has the country reached that level of routinely depending on borrowing to
sustain its expenditure after just a few years from a promising economic
regional powerhouse, courtesy of the Kibaki administration? During the first
years of the Narc government, we witnessed an economic revolution of a kind.
The GDP shot from a dismal 0.1 per cent to about 7per cent. Money was unlocked
from wherever it had been hidden. Banks were forced by new fiscal policies to
open their doors for simple and huge credit, remunerations were reviewed, people
borrowed and established businesses and the economy thrived as we witnessed
steady growth. That
definition of an economy can barely fit our context today. Some would argue
corruption is the cause. I beg to differ, being reminiscent of the fact that
the vice was still rampant even during the Kibaki era. However, borrowing,
particularly external borrowing was, minimal yet the economy thrived.  THE CONSTITUTION I
submit that our problems have been exacerbated by an overbearing political ambition
in the form of the new Constitution and equally, a breakdown of our moral
fabric. Through the 2010 Constitution, we created an overzealous democratic
system that was essentially agitated by a section of political elites as they
pursued for power in the guise of championing the rights of the people. The
adoption of an over-zealous constitution had the effect of expanded structures
of governance, with a concomitant increased cost of running government
operations at the expense of tangible economic empowerment for the lowly
majority. We now
have counties in place, the Senate at the national level and a bloated National
Assembly, which are now costing the taxpayer a whooping Sh32 billion per year
to run. Yet, there has been no commensurate economic explosion from where to
draw requisite revenues to finance operations of these institutions. In fact,
development and the implementation of the Constitution, which effectively
installed devolution, were largely funded by foreign donors. How did our
leaders envisage that a guest could build and furnish your house and continue paying
your bills? Consequent upon funding of the expanded government and duplication
of functions, the country is now spending more than it can generate ie beyond
the GDP. It has fallen into an incessant cycle of huge external borrowing,
further compromising future fiscal stability. An overly
independent Judiciary has demonstrated how the country can be put into jeopardy
through thoughtless court rulings that emanate from undue influence on judges
and magistrates, who are accountable to nobody other than their own
interpretation of the law. Again, referent upon our moral quagmire, which occasionally
compromises the integrity of judicial officers, the courts seem to be
vulnerable to narrow and diverse interests of groups and individuals, and at
times render irrational judgments tailored to suit those interests against the
greater national and public good. This trend predisposes the country to anarchy
and social disharmony on account of unbalanced court rulings.  POLLUTED POLITICS Our
polluted political competition during elections, usually precipitates an
environment of perceived injustices, ridden with ethnic hatred, animosity and
unwarranted apprehension that is antecedent for false promises and deployment
of deceptive tactics to acquire power. Once the people are falsely convinced
the person in the other camp is their enemy, they no longer posses the ability
to assess the quality of leadership they elect. Worse still, they can hardly
discern the real intentions of those seeking leadership. And sadly,
Kenyans have become highly gullible, particularly the huge rural demography. Their
fate is obliviously placed in the hands of shrewd political merchants, who
trade with their wellbeing. The conduct of these latter day traders, who are in
the business of enriching themselves, is a far cry from the much-hyped
patriotism we are so often lectured about.  POLITICAL MERCHANTS The
bigger tragedy is when our national and regional assemblies become sources of
impunity and epitomes of theft of public resources. We have a class of
political leaders whose egos are highly inflated, punctuated with an insatiable
greed for wealth, probably referent upon our social-cultural disposition and a
broken moral fiber. It is regrettable
that even institutions we established in the Constitution to help in regulating
our spending and prevent public theft through harmonization of salaries, ie the
Salary and Remunerations Commission, have been overpowered by collective
efforts to sustain looting by successive Parliaments. It is not lost that the
10th Parliament blackmailed the President Mwai Kibaki into accenting
to increased salaries and emoluments by threatening to shoot down a motion on
budget estimates, thus depriving the government of much-needed funds to run
operations. When the
SRC released a new salary structure for the 12th Parliament, just
before 2017 election effectively reducing benefits for the MPs in consonance
with prevailing economic realities, our “good patriots” headed to the courts to
preempt the perceived injustice meted on them. Incidentally, one Gathoni Wa
Muchomba, the Kiambu woman rep, got the wrath of her constituents for voicing
her intentions to scuttle the SRC proposal. If that was the case for the public
in Kiambu, feelings that are arguably representative of the entire country, who
then do these people represent?  ABYSS OF DECEPTION Our
social-cultural disposition coupled with a moral decay and lack of a solid
value system, has put us into an abyss of deception, which has effectively
enslaved our people to foreign masters. These foreign economic powerhouses rule
us indirectly by determining what our leaders do with respect to freedoms,
rights and development. They micro-manage or remote control our entire economic
and political systems, why? Because we have no money. In fact,
the clamour for a new constitution was first conceived as an effort to
dismantle a regime that was perceived as oppressive and inept, blamed on a
single individual —  President Daniel Moi.
The aspirations for greater freedoms were albeit legitimate, considering the
prevailing circumstances and the emergent global political order and
particularly how those events impacted on the African continent. However, that
campaign was contaminated with covert intrigues for power and domination from
diverse interests both locally and internationally. Did
Kenyans really give unto themselves a robust Constitution as has been widely
acclaimed, and with it a vibrant democratic system as envisaged? Yes and No: Yes
because they voted for it having been persuaded by their leaders. No because
the social and political framework then, and even now, does not allow large
sections of the masses to interrogate and internalise the impact of such
complex structural changes on their personal lives for them to make informed
decisions. Similarly, we did not give unto our selves the said Constitution
because, the process of crafting it was hugely funded and influenced by foreign
powers through donor agencies. What we
are witnessing today, is a country wreathing under a heavy debt burden, trying
to put a brave fiscal face every year; but with poverty and cost of living
spiraling: A Constitution that provides excessive freedoms devoid of
responsibility, a struggling economy and an increasingly greedy and myopic
political class that seems to have no remedy for our national problems. An unfettered
scramble for our natural resources and business space by foreign powers can
best be described as a tight yoke and shackle, on the neck of a weak donkey. The
fiscal management agencies such as the Treasury, Central Bank, the SRC and the
Commission for Revenue allocation, which by law are mandated to streamline our
spending and resource distribution, have been overshadowed and weakened by an insensitive
and greedy political class. The
elites have adopted perpetual political bickering from January to December,
largely contaminating a desired conducive environment for growth and
development. This
trend is perpetuated in an unashamed manner, as leaders jostle for space to
execute corruption master plans through business and political deals for
personal and group aggrandizement.  This
kind of political wheeler dealing, as exemplified by our leaders, and the
breakdown of our moral fabric, constitutes a threat to nationhood and
predisposes us, as a nation, to perpetual domination and undue exploitation
through debts by foreign masters
without apology. 