Mourners at the funeral of Jone Kakuli condemned his death and wished a painful end to his killer. Kakuli, a former Postal corporation technician, died last month at the Kenyatta National Hospital. The death followed his involvement in a bar brawl at Katambauku in Kitui in November last year, during which his neck was twisted by an ex-convict. On Saturday, mourners cursed John Mwenda and wished him a more painful death. “May my uncle’s killer meet a more painful death. May he drop into River Tana and be chewed by the ferocious
crocodiles,” a tearful Mwende Mutemi said. Mutemi is Kakuli's niece. “The most fitting
punishment Kakuli's killer is to be crushed to death by a trailer,” mourner John Mwendwa said. A sombre mood engulfed Kakuli's homestead in Ng'ombeni village as family and friends came to terms with his death. Speakers eulogised Kakuli as a cool man who was enjoying his retirement. Mwendwa called for the arrest of the man who twisted Kauli's neck. Residents said the ex-convict had not been arrested, six months since the incident occurred. Jacob Musee said there were many unresolved murders
in the area. "It is time criminal
investigations are dispatched here to deal with rising crime," Musese said. A Kenya Post and Telecommunication corporation  technician  who 
was brutally  killed  by a jail bird 
who twisted  his neck was on Saturday
 given a tearful  sent-off at his Ng’ombeni home in Mumoni
district, Kitui county. A somber  engulfed 
the late Jones Mwandikwa Kakuli’s home 
for the  better part  of  the
day as speaker after  speaker  cursed 
the man  who  committed 
the  foul murder through Karateka
tactics. As the late Kakuli who was 
enjoying his early retirement  was
eulogized as a good  member of the
society   who could  not hurt a fly 
and  his  untimely  death 
described as  must painful,  unfortunate and  unlooked. “It is my wish that by Uncle’s killer meets   a more painful death than what my uncle
experienced. May he drop into Tana River and chewed alive by the ferocious
crocodile,” tearfully said a moaner Mwende Mutemi, the deceased’s niece. “The most fitting
punishment Kakuli's killer is to be crushed to death by a trailer,” mourner John Mwendwa said. Mwendwa further  wondered 
why  police and the administrators
 have since last November not arrested 
the man  who broke Kakuli’s  neck occasioning his  death. Another moaner Jacob Musee said  there were many unresolved  gory murders 
in the area in recent times. “He said 
it was  time  the office of the director of  criminal 
investigations department  dispatched officers  to the area to deal with raising crime.