DP William Ruto on Monday issued cheques worth Sh53 million to families in Kajiado County as compensation after their livestock was recently confiscated by the Tanzania government. A total of 22 families which lost 1325 cattle received the cash to enable them restock their herds and return to their normal lives. Ruto said the gesture was to help the families as well as maintain the existing good relations with Tanzania. “The government is mindful and has sympathy for the families which lost their animals. It’s also our resolve to maintain our existing good relations with our neighboring country, Tanzania. This is why we have decided to compensate the families,” he said. Read: Kenyan herders lose 1,300 cattle to TZ, auctioned for Sh93m against their will The DP praised the herders for their patience and humility even after losing their livestock. “I ask all the beneficiaries to put the money to good use by restocking as well as starting income generating projects that have direct impact on your lives.” The Deputy President spoke at Oltiasika grounds in Kajiado South during presentation of the cheques to the affected families. He said the government has launched a pilot project on livestock insurance policy in eight counties aimed at cushioning farmers during dry seasons. “Most families especially those in arid areas lose their livestock during dry season due to lack of water and pastures. It is because of this reason that we have decided to come up with livestock insurance policy to cushion them from loses during such seasons,” Ruto said. Present during the event was Kajiado governor Joseph ole Lenku, MPs Katoo Ole Metito (Kajiado South), George Sunkuyia (Kajiado West) and Janet Teiya (Women Rep, Kajiado).  Related: Tanzania gives Kenyan pastoralists seven days to leave Loliondo More on this: Kenyan herders fined Sh45 million for grazing in Tanzania  Metito said the money will be disbursed in the accounts of the affected families immediately. The leaders said the unity pact between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA principal Raila Odinga has nothing to do with 2022 elections. They said the deal was only meant to unite Kenyans and accelerate development across the country. Metito said Jubilee would not allow anyone to interfere with its succession politics come 2022. Sunkuya said no one should mislead Kenyans that the agreement will lead to a new political realignment come 2022, saying Jubilee has its own political arrangements until 2032. “Jubilee political arrangements are sealed. It’s William Ruto who will take over the leadership of the country from 2022 when President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term comes to an end. That’s all,” Teiya said. Metito said pastoralists would vote for the Deputy President as a bloc. Read: DP Ruto intensifies 2022 campaign in drives disguised as official duties More: If elections held today, ‘Ruto would beat Joho and Raila’ The leaders thanked the government for compensating the families saying it would help them rebuild their lives. “We wish on behalf of our people to sincerely thank this government for being sensitive to issues affecting its citizens,” Metito said. Lenku urged the government to speed up the compensation of 37 people who were killed by wild animals in the county. Ruto, at the same time, warned of stern action against individuals interfering with forests in the area. “We have declared war on forest destruction. Those found cutting trees especially in Chyulu Hills in this area would be arrested.” He asked the provincial administration in pastoral areas to work closely with the ministry of Education to ensure all the 100,000 school going children who were out of school returned. “Every member of the provincial administration from assistant chief to parents are under legal obligation to ensure all school going children are in school,” Ruto said.  Click here for the latest political news