A committee of the Senate yesterday termed as “cosmetic” recommendations on ending the deadly violence in Mt Elgon, Bungoma county. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja (vice chairman) who led the Senate Committee on National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations to assess security in the area said they would look into the region’s problems. “We are going to look critically at this report and issue an appropriate one. We shall not allow cosmetic recommendations. Real issues affecting the area must be addressed,” he told reporters, flanked by Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and Senator Moses Wetang’ula “Whether the insecurity is politically triggered or [worsened by the] laxity of security teams, we shall make necessary recommendations that will see a lasting solution.” Read : Two suspects arraigned, remanded over Mt Elgon killings Last month, the Star published an exclusive series on the insecurity in the subcounty caused by a gang of remnants of the Sabaot Land Defence Forces known as G5. The police have since arrested and charged some suspects and put a prize on the head of a Class Five dropout, Timothy Kiptanui Kitai alias Cheparkach, presumed to be the gang leader. Despite raging counter-accusations of political motives, residents told the committee land was the cause of the conflict. A resident, Stephen Cheptinde, traced the animosity to the dispute over the Chepyuk settlement scheme began in 1971 which the government has failed to resolve. “This problem started during the Kenyatta regime, through Moi and surprisingly to Kibaki regimes, which have given it a deaf ear,” he said. Moses Chemorion wondered why other settlement schemes that were started around the same time had been completed except Chepyuk. He urged the government to hasten the current allocation of plots to beneficiaries, whom he said were deserving. Sakaja, who was accompanied by among others Senator Fatuma Dulo, asked the lands officials to conduct their work properly and efficiently. He urged the Lands ministry to educate the locals on proper land use so beneficiaries do not end up selling all their land to other people. Last month, the Western Kenya Human Rights Watch Group released a report, Whats Wrong With Mt Elgon, that claimed 35 people had died in the last one year as a result of political rivalry between area MP Fred Kapondi and his predecessor John Serut. Also read : Historical land injustices blamed for chaos in region DP William Ruto who visited the area said security officers shielding or colluding with criminals would be investigated, sacked and prosecuted. He urged residents to cooperate with security agencies because the criminals causing insecurity are locals. Click here for the latest political news 