Omar Faraji, 17, from Mombasa has gone missing in a suspected case of either forceful disappearance or recruitment by militant groups. Stapol Central, the local command centre, has sent a circular on this case to all patrol bases and crime divisions in the area. "It was reported by one Safia Mohamed of Ganjoni estate that on April 8 at about noon, her son went missing ... He was last seen carrying a grey bag ... ," the circular reads. "All Stapols Kenya, keep a sharp lookout. If seen inform this end for collection." On Friday, Mohamed told a press conference at Muslims for Human Rights Muhuri) offices that her son lived a solitary life. "He had very few friends and did not love hanging around them," she said, adding he often used his laptop and phone. "He left them behind on the day he disappeared. The phone had no power and after charging it, I found the only communication he had was with me," she said. The laptop had a password. Muhuri Chairman Khelef Khalifa said their IT team will check the websites Faraji visited and the people he contacted. Faraji is 5.6 feet tall and a Sheikh Khalifa alumnus who scored B plain in the 2017 KCSE examination. He had enrolled for ICT courses at a local college and is to join university this year. The boy went missing just a day after his mother returned from abroad. The family therefore could not give  details of the activities he engaged in. Khalifa said: "We don't want to speculate. In many cases of disappearances, members of the public have witnessed abduction but this was not the case. "A 17-year-old cannot go missing without a trace. Where is the intelligence and why are there so many disappearances?" Related: [VIDEO] Mombasa family fears missing son was kidnapped and killed Also read: 16 Coast residents killed by cops or missing since 2017 - Haki Africa Numerous researches have shown that terrorist organisations have a sophisticated social media presence. Their recruitment efforts are centred on the Internet on popular platforms such as Twitter , Facebook, and YouTube. Terror group al Shabaab, for instance, maintains an active Twitter page whose posts are in English. "Since the Internet offered the connective glue that allowed disaffected Somali exiles worldwide to connect alongside militant Islamists, it became al Shabaab’s link to the outside world," a documentary by Fast Company released in 2013 states. Mohamed asked her son to return if he left intentionally and added that he should be produced in court if police are holding him. "And if there is any person who abducted him to fight me, I plead with you to produce him at a police station," she said. Muhuri's Deputy Executive Director Rahma Gulam termed the case disheartening. "The boy was the first born. Losing a your first child like that is painful," she said. Khalifa noted that in cases of forceful disappearances, "police have produced none [of the missing people] either alive or dead." "But in this case, we thank police for efforts taken so far," he said. More on this: Extrajudicial killings an epidemic, Haki Africa says, details 81 cases Also read: Haki Africa demands probe into killings of al Shabaab returnees Click here for the latest political news