Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has dismissed the notion that the GEMA community alone will make DP William Ruto win the presidency in 2022. "Ruto will not become president. He will be made a president. Not by the GEMA nation. But by the hustler nation," Ngunyi said via Twitter on Tuesday. The DP, who has declared his interest in the 2022 race, has always referred to himself as a hustler, having being brought up in a humble background. He said he has no apologies to make for the same noting that he can account for any shilling he has and every step he makes both as an individual and a politician. More on this: I have no apologies to make for being a hustler, says DP Ruto Ngunyi's post was not received well, as some of his followers bashed him saying that Ruto will be made president by the Rift Valley bloc. "Oh please! Ruto epitomises the source of the problems the "hustlers" are facing. Ruto will be made President by the loyal Rift Valley block, a thankful Central block, disgruntled Nasarites and big voter apathy," @AmechokaPunda said. @abduli said: "Going by the history of who has become President of Kenya, Ruto is unlikely. All the previous ones, including @UKenyatta are/were mild-mannered. The abrasive nature of Ruto can only be compared to @RailaOdinga. President makers are uncomfortable." "‏Uhuru is the fourth president and third from Mt Kenya and last president in this nation and king to be, in the name of the LORD #Gatibakatiba have spoken," @GatibaKatiba said. On January 7, Ruto criticised a section of Jubilee leaders for prematurely initiating the 2022 succession politics. "Kenyans, more so Jubilee, should avoid useless political debates about positions including 2022," Ruto said. More on this: DP Ruto rebukes Kuria, Wambugu over 'useless' 2022 succession politics Ruto was reacting to Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria who said the Kikuyu community will back his Presidential ambition. The legislator said the Mt Kenya region will not betray the DP as he has always supported President Uhuru Kenyatta. More on this: Mt Kenya won't betray Ruto in 2022 - Moses Kuria says Also read: Mt Kenya planning to pick Ruto’s 2022 running mate  Click here for the latest political news