Kenyans will have a chance to pay the last respects to the second-liberation icon Kenneth Matiba on tomorrow and Thursday. The funeral committee, however, did not give details on whether the former opposition maverick will be cremated or buried. The family is yet to make official position whether Matiba will be buried or cremated. This is despite reports that Matiba's body may be cremated. The date of burial or cremation has also not been made public. Read : Matiba to be cremated as he wished The family and the committee organising the politician's funeral yesterday urged Kenyans to come out in large numbers. The programme start tomorrow will involve two funeral services at All Saints Cathedral and another at Ihura Stadium in Murang'a. The cortège will leave Lee Funeral home tomorrow at 9.15am for All Saints Cathedral through Ngong Road, the convoy will then pass through Haile Selassie Avenue and head to Uhuru Park through Processional Way. From Uhuru Park, the convoy pass Kenyatta Avenue and head to All Saints Cathedral. “We thank the President for instructing the government to take charge of the burial plans for our late dad. We invite Kenyans to come and give a befitting send off to this great son of Kenya,” his son Raymond said. Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata, also a member of the funeral committee, expressed satisfaction with the funeral plans. “We are happy with the arrangements done by the government. I am urging residents of Murang'a county to come in large numbers on Thursday to give our former MP a hero's welcome,” Kang'ata said. The committee's interim chairman Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the team would give more updates on the funeral plans. Also read : Public funeral services for Matiba set for Nairobi and Murang'a They were speaking yesterday at Harambee House. Speculations has been rife in the media that Matiba will be cremated according to his wish, citing a story in 1994 newspaper in which he reportedly said his remains should be cremated and that his funeral should not be a public function. Click here for the latest political news