SportPesa has signed new partnership agreements, albeit of lower amounts than before, with four football entities in the country. The betting firm will be the main sponsor of Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards and the title sponsor of the Kenyan Premier League which will become SportPesa Premier League. For three years, Gor Mahia will get Sh198,607,000, AFC Sh156,406,403 and KPL Sh259,712,000. SportPesa will feature prominently on the front of the Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards shirts for this period. Football Kenya Federation has entered a three-year partnership with the company, the goal being to improve the standards of local football. It will get Sh69.4 million for three years. The total sponsorship amount is Sh682.4 million. The previous deal with Gor Mahia was for five years at more than Sh200 million while AFC's was Sh45 million annually for five years. KPL got a deal worth Sh450 million and Kenya Rugby Union more than Sh600 million over a period of five years. SportPesa CEO Ronald Karauri noted on Monday that the company remains committed to supporting local sports despite the economic policy setbacks they have suffered. In 2017, the betting firm withdrew sponsorship for local sports clubs and unions due to the 35 per cent tax on revenue. The withdrawal began on January 1, 2018 after the CEO announced that their cost of doing business would be affected by the finance law that President Uhuru Kenyatta eventually signed. More on this: Sport Pesa to pull sponsorship for sports clubs, unions over higher tax Karauri said: “We are extremely excited to be able to partner with these four powerful industry players. As we have always maintained, developing local football talent is a key vision for our company." He added: "[We will help] get Kenya where it should be; among the great football nations of the world. “Partnerships mean a lot to us as they enable us to tangibly impact communities and leave a lasting legacy. The journey of Qatar 2022 continues and we are honoured to be part of that journey." HULL CITY TO TOUR KENYA Karauri further said English football club Hull City will tour Kenyans for the first time in what will be a major score for the country’s football development goals. The team is expected to arrive on May 11 for a five-day tour that will also feature several other activities. Karauri said the visit is aimed at exposing local players to international competition thereby increasing their exposure. The team that will face Hull City will be decided at a Mashemeji Derby on May 1, when AFC Leopards will face off with Gor Mahia  at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. The winner will book a date with the Nigel Adkins-led side. The chief executive also announced a coaching clinic and a training camp during the Hull City tour. A Kenyan AllStars team faced a development-side Hull City team at the KCOM Stadium in the UK on February 27, 2017. The team was made up of 18 top players picked from various SportPesa Premier League clubs. Hull City Coach, Nigel Adkins, said: “This is an exciting opportunity for the club to be able to play in Kenya. The passion for football out there is enormous and we can’t wait to interact with the local teams. I’m very honored to be the first Coach to bring the team to Africa." The exhibition match between Hull City FC and the Kenyan team will be played at Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi on May 13. Click here for the latest political news