Busia  Governor  Sospeter  Ojaamong  has pledged total support to all cadres of  health workers  in the county saying their success  will be his success. Addressing  medical doctors  during  a meeting on Friday evening   at Hotel Itoya,  the Governor said  he doesn't want  to cause discomfort to any health worker  but to form a team and move  forward  for the benefit of the  county residents. " I was not happy when  health workers  tried to distance  themselves  from my Government  and return to the National Government. The sector is fully devolved  and not  even President  Uhuru Kenyatta can reverse." he said. "Lack of civic education by the National Government led to false notion by health workers. Instead of pushing for their return to National Government the health workers should try and align their unions to the county and the Governor," he added. Ojaamong said he has allocated more funds to training to encourage medics to undergo training as long as they give assurance they will return to serve in the county, adding that one doctor from the county will be seconded to Cuba. This comes a few days after health workers called upon Ojaamong to increase the health budget in the department. The department expressed concern that if the allocation by the county government reduces as proposed, then funding from donors including the World Bank will go down as well. Director of Medical Services Janerose Ambuchi said it will be difficult to provide adequate health services if the budget is reduced. The department was allocated Sh1.8 billion last financial and the sum proposed for this financial year is Sh1.5 billion However, Ojaamong during the Friday meeting stated that he wants to see doctors who are stress free  with equipped theater and pharmacy," he said, adding that  Facility Improvement Fund will be operational  to help cushion against emergencies. I  am  a happy Governor  because of the reports I receive  that  service delivery in health institutions has drastically improved. I am also giving an assurance that  ambulances will be operating with full fuel   tanks 24 hours  and seven days a week," he said. County Assembly Speaker Bernard Wamalwa  said doctors are very critical part of the county, adding that the assembly  will ensure the  health docket gets  the highest allocation. County Executive Committee Member for Health  Phaustine Barasa thanked  Dr Edward Kibochi  of BCRH for efficient service when she  visited the hospital at night disguised as a patient. She said the completion of  the Emergency and Intensive care Units at the County Hospital  will go a long way in raising the status of the hospital. Those present included  County Chief Officer for Health Dr Isaac Omeri,   County Director Public Health Dr Melsa Lutomia, Director Medical Services Dr Janerose Ambuchi  and Busia County and Referral Hospital Medical Superintendent  Dr David Mukabi.