National Social Security Fund yesterday
told a parliamentary committee that the cost of  building the  Hazina
Towers in Nairobi  is set to significantly reduce from the initial Sh6.8
billion to Sh4 billion. Board members led by
Teresa Maina told the National Assembly’s committee on Public
Investment that the reduction has been informed by an audit carried out
by officers from the state department of public works. Maina
who was accompanied by Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli among
other board members told the watchdog committee chaired by Mvita MP
Abdullswammad Nassir that even  the earlier claim of Sh 6.7 billion by
the contractor has been  revised downwards to sh870 million. Read: Probe NSSF for ‘robbery’ in Hazina Towers, says PIC team Sh
6.7 billion is the amount the Chinese contractor Jiangxi International
wants to be paid as compensation due to delays caused by the protracted
case between Nakumatt Holding s and NSSF  that took two years
determined. “The stalling triggered a
contractor claim of sh 6.8 billion which was reviewed downwards by the
project consultants to sh 1.8 for up to December 31 2017. The State department of Public Works in a report of April 12,
2018 , further vetted the claim  and arrived at a figure of sh 871
million. This shall be subjected to further processing internally,”
Maina told the committee at Parliament Buildings. She
also said the Public Works has reviewed that after scaling down the
building from 36 floors to now only 15 floors, the cost of completing it
will be sh 4.9 billion and will be completed by June next year. The MPs however questioned how NSSF board extended the contract when it had already elapsed. “We
want to know how the board arrived at extending the contract. We will
not allow that, the issue of variation of contracts is meant to defraud
state departments,” Nassir said ordering the office of the Auditor
General Edward Ouko to carry out fresh forensic audit on the building
within CBD. Read also: MPs tell NSSF to stop construction of Sh6.7bn Hazina Towers in city centre When he appeared before the same
committee moments after the board had left, Labour CS  Yakur Yatani
 told the committee that there was need to investigate every aspect 9of
the building saying it was turning out to be a cash cow. He
said he has constituted a special committee to look into the mess in
the building saying from the preliminary report is indicating that
“things are not good”. He raised concerns as
to why the board did not involve the department of Public Works from the
begging saying would be a clear indication of some collusion to defraud
the fully retirees funding state agency. The
tough speaking CS warned that the Chinese contractor Jiangxi
International  has not been informed of the  revised costs, a matter
that would set another stage for a protracted court battle. “I
can see a long court battle over the revised costs as the board
together with the management have not informed the contractor. We will
need arbitration with all stakeholders to solve this matter of payment,”
he told the MPs. At the same time, both the
board the CS admitted before the committee that they are facing
international pressure on who should be appointed the Managing Trustee. Atwoli
told the committee the current Managing Trustee has been acting for
three years and their attempts to confirm him have faced challenges due
to “outside interest from senior government officials”. “Every
time we want to fill the vacancy, we receive recommendations by our
seniors on who to be appointed. Some of those recommended to us are
known thieves,” he said. More: PIC faults delayed court ruling on Sh6.7bn Hazina Tower in CBD  Click here for the latest political news