Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is a condition that affects a women’s hormone levels, which is common among women of reproductive age. Women with PCOS produce higher than normal amounts of male hormones, called androgens. The exact cause of PCOS is unknown, but genetics may be a factor. PCOS affects women’s ovaries, the reproductive organs that produce oestrogen and progesterone hormones that regulate the menstrual cycle. As a result, there is elevated production of androgen, says Dr Alfred Murage, an obstetrician gynaecologist and fertility specialist at Aga Khan University Hospital. “Androgen is associated with many of the symptoms, including irregular periods, reduced fertility, acne, weight gain that is difficult to shed of and abnormal hair distribution. Long-term effects that may not be immediately apparent include disordered glucose control leading to diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease,” he said. HOW IT’S DIAGNOSED Diagnosis is made following symptoms, hormone tests and ultrasound imaging of the ovaries. The ovaries are usually enlarged with multiple follicles, or small cysts, hence the description polycystic ovaries. However, some women will have a polycystic appearance of the ovaries without having the syndrome. Dr Murage says PCOS has no cure but can be managed through healthy eating habits coupled with exercises to maintain a normal weight and reverse most of the symptoms and associated consequences. Women should aim for a body mass index (BMI) between 19 and 25. As a result periods become more regular, the skin and hair changes reverse and chances of spontaneous pregnancy increases. “Hormone tablets can also be used to induce regular periods and reverse physical changes. Skin and hair changes may take longer to improve and some women will need to incorporate cosmetic measures like shaving,” he said. “Attaining a normal BMI is an important initial step, however, some women will require ovulation medications and if given and monitored appropriately, there is a higher chance of conceiving. Ovarian surgical procedures are only considered as a last result.” Follow up for long-term health effects should be discussed with your gynaecologist. Regular blood sugar checks, blood pressure monitoring and related cardiovascular assessment may be advised.