Barclays Kenya has denied riding on a Kenyan firm’s name while re-branding to ABSA as it seeks to restructure its operations in the country. ABSA last week moved to court to stop Barclays from re-branding to ABSA. Barclays had earlier announced the name change was in line with its ownership changes at the continental level. The bank says in response to the suit that the firm’s move is malicious and intended to disrupt its business. “I verily believe that the plaintiff’s application has no merit and only intended to cash in on the immense goodwill and reputation created from the ABSA trade mark by the defendant through ABSA Group”, the bank said. They added that they believe the company’s limited is an afterthought and is perpetuated with malice and bad faith in order to frustrate the prospective change that the bank’s name for ultimate financial gain. Barclays also say that they are aware that other than ABSA Group and its subsidiaries, there are at least 12 registered companies in Kenya incorporating the word ABSA. “The plaintiff lacks legal basis for its claim that Barclays has infringed on its mark ABSA because an action for trade mark infringement cannot lie against a person that has duly registered its trade mark, using it within the purview of the trademark registration conferred, that is, services or goods in respect to which the trademark has been registered,” reads the affidavit. Last week ABSA Kenya, founded by Edward Njuguna together with his wife, moved to court seeking orders to permanently restrain Barclays from adopting ABSA as the trade name in line with the recent changes in the bank’s ownership. ABSA Kenya, which was incorporated in 2005, said it reserved the name with the registrar of trademarks for exclusive use and that it has incurred huge financial losses since Barclays announced plans to rebrand. The losses, it says, arise from the confusion that the coming into themarket of another entity with a similar name has and is bound to causeamong its clients. The firm was seeking a permanent injunction restraining the defendant, its servants, agents and/or employees from trading, using, representing or in any other manner whatsoever, the trademark and the name ABSA or its derivatives, corollaries devices and or ancillaries in Kenya or any other place or at all. The firm says Barclays has carried out a massive media campaign that has occasioned it huge losses after many clients cancelled transactions on the grounds that it is no longer possible to tell who ABSA is. The case will be mentioned on May 9 for further directions as the new presiding judge will take over.