Lapsset director general
Sylvestre Kasuku lets us in on the enrolment process for all those seeking to
join the Presidential Lapsset programme. Advertising for slots The enrolment
process is first announced through mass media, that is, local radio stations,
barazas, websites and social media. “This provides an opportunity for all the Lamu
residents to be informed, and for all the eligible Lamu youth to participate in
the process,” Kasuku says. Vetting of
candidates At this stage,
verification of student IDs and education certificates is crucial to ascertain
who goes and who doesn’t. This is to ensure the
candidates are only from Lamu, and that they have completed their KSCE with the
required grades. Eligible candidates
are interviewed by teachers present to determine their career goals and skillsets,
and match them with their qualifications to determine the best career choice. This
information is captured, and a report is produced. Selection of eligible
candidates The Steering
Committee members, in the presence of Lamu Corridor Development Authority
officials, review the report and select 200 students with strict adherence to
the scholarship policy, ensuring equity, gender-ethnic and religious balance are
adhered to, and that deserving candidates (very underprivileged and top
performers) are selected. “A report is
produced and handed over to the LCDA, and the selected students are notified
publicly,” Kasuku says. Student
placement Students, depending
on the courses offered and level of study, are distributed across learning
institutions countrywide by LCDA. This distribution
enhances social integration, culture exchange and promotion of the Lapsset
Corridor Programme, he says. The learning institutions
issue to the authority calling letters for each student and facilitate receipt
of the letters. Commissioning
and mentorship LCDA facilitates a
mentorship day, where all successful applicants assemble and are taken through
the objectives and importance of the scholarship and what is required of all
involved parties. “This stage focuses purely on student
motivation and encouragement to perform. Thereafter, they are commissioned by
the county commissioner to report to their learning institutions. Tuition fees and
allowances Once the Lapsset
Presidential Scholarship beneficiaries have arrived at their learning institutions,
these institutes formally confirm their presence and provide invoices for
tuition and accommodation allowance where applicable. Being a full
scholarship programme, the authority provides transport (to and from),
subsistence and meal allowance. Monitoring of performance The authority,
through its officials handling the scholarship programme, maintains strong
relationships with the learning institutions and obtains reports on their
semester attendance and performance. “Furthermore,
towards the end of every semester, the authority tours all learning institutions
and engages with the administration and students, with the aim of ensuring a
smooth successful running of the scholarship programme,” Kasuku says.