Writing for the
Washington Post in November 2011, Peyton Craighill, noted, “In the seemingly poisoned atmosphere of American politics,
President Obama’s directive to withdraw U.S. forces from Iraq by December is a
rare example of a broadly popular policy decision — fully 78 per cent of all
Americans support the decision in the latest Washington Post-ABC News poll. The
decision to effectively end the war next month has been a long time coming for
the public, which turned decidedly against the war during George W. Bush’s
second term. In the current poll, 62 per cent say the war was not worth its
costs, on par with polls over the past five years.” In 2004, four years after the launch of the US-led invasion
on March 19, 2003, public opinion
about the war in Iraq has turned decidedly negative. Most Americans
regretted the decision to use military force. Majorities believed the
war was not going well, and most said the US troops should return home. This was largely based on media information on the
developments in the Middle East. UK public opinion, especially on immigration, is thought to
have greatly influenced Brexit. But is public opinion effective in Africa? And
what are the contributing factors either way? This takes us back to the rate of consumption of news in the
country, in particular international news. It also draws us to how media houses treat this segment —
international news round up. Not many stations in the country have set aside programmes
to feature international and regional news. For the leading newspapers in the country as well as
websites, the common trend is sourcing from international outlets — BBC,
Reuters, AFP, Africa News and Financial Times, among others. While the Somali incursion ought to have become a top story
in Kenyan media, it was not until the attacks started that Kenyans started
saying we needed to withdraw. It was not until mid 2014 when Al Shabaab started
killing non-locals working as quarry workers in Northeastern that people right
in rural Nyeri realised how close the issue was to them despite it being miles
away. And why are media houses investing or not investing in foreign
reporting? Simon Kruse Rasmussen in a paper headlined Is anybody
there?  Crisis and collaboration in
Foreign Reporting for Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism at Oxford
University he number of foreign-based staff correspondents has declined by
one-third, from 60 in 1998 to 39 in 2012. In the three largest general interest
newspapers, the number has dropped from 35 to 22. Since 1998, Africa, Latin
America, South Asia and Eastern Europe have lost the presence of staff
correspondents. The decline in staff is accompanied by changes in the
structure of foreign desks. The study identifies a shift from a fixed to a
flexible structure. According to the foreign editors surveyed, they rely less
on permanent foreign bureaus and more on freelancers, home-based reporters and
ad hoc bureaus. According to the editors and correspondents interviewed,
increased emphasis is put on enriched content setting output apart from the
online news stream. Correspondents are expected to guide news consumers and be
brands, analysts and protagonists in news narration. How does this bias affect
credibility and the resultant public opinion? Rasmussen notes increased demands for enriched content and
personal branding are at odds with the shift towards freelance positions, ad hoc
postings and cost-cutting on the other. Among freelance correspondents there
are some indications of a partial de-professionalization. This is an issue media owners and practitioners need to
relook at.  