The Fifth Annual Devolution Conference starts in Kakamega today. The summit is to focus on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. These are universal healthcare coverage, affordable housing,  food security and manufacturing. More than 6,000 delegates from the 47 counties and the national government are expected to participate. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Friday urged the business community to take advantage of the conference to do business and engage with partners. The conference is expected to rake in more than Sh200 million in the economies of Western counties. Read: Uhuru, Raila top guests at fifth devolution conference in Kakamega Governors and their deputies, senators, the county assemblies’ forum and Cabinet and Principal Secretaries will today afternoon have a football match in Bukhungu Stadium — a curtain-raiser. Uhuru will officially open the four-day conference tomorrow morning. The President, CJ David Maraga, CoG chairman Josphat Nanok, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and devolution donor working committee chairman Nic Hailey will form the panel for the high-level plenary on intergovernmental relations in the afternoon. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga will deliver a keynote address on devolution on Wednesday. More: Devolution conference expected to rake in Sh200m for Western On Thursday, DP William Ruto will close the event and unveil the venue for the sixth conference. He will also launch the governors’ inaugural addresses book and the county spatial planning guideline. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said the conference is unique as it will be held at a time the relationship between governors and the government has improved compared to the first four. Kakamega hopes delegates will visit tourist sites such as the famous crying stone in Illesi, Kakamega Forest, the Nabombo Mumias Shrine in Matungu and Mawe Tatu site in Lugari to boost local revenues. “The conference has come at the right time following the March 9 handshake between President Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga,” Oparanya said. Kakamega county commissioner Abdiruzzak Jaldesa said 640 police officers and 60 vehicles would be deployed to ensure safety. Details: Why governors hold their annual devolution conference Click here for the latest political news