An inter-agency team carrying out the crackdown on illicit alcohol and unlicensed alcohol sellers has accused senior police officers of interfering with its work. On Saturday, a team composed of officials from the National Authority for the Campaign Against Drug and Alcohol Abuse, Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Nairobi county government, Public health and National Police Service was ambushed by officers from Hardy police station in Karen. The officers claimed the crackdown amounted to invasion of their territory. “We are not aware of the crackdown and if anything, this is our territory,” an officer from Hardy police station identified as Chelagat said at Beacons Inn. Efforts by the inter-agency team to convince them fell on deaf ears. “We ought to have known in advance that you are coming here,” Chelagat, accompanied by Hardy OCS, said. The standoff, which took almost half an hour, saw Hardy police station OCS threaten to free those who had earlier been booked. Following the disagreement, the inter-agency team was forced to book other suspects at Lang’ata police station. A Nacada official who sought anonymity said all senior police officers were made aware of the crackdown when it was launched. “All senior officers were adequately briefed and urged to support the crackdown,” the official said. The briefing took place after Interior CS Fred Matiang’i launched the crackdown on March 1 in Kiambu county. The 100-day rapid results initiative seeks to curb illicit brews and unauthorised outlets. Karen OCPD  Cunningham Suiyanka said local police officers ought to have been informed in advance “to prevent friendly conflict”. “I’m not aware as I have not received any complaint. However, I will inquire,” Suiyanka said. During the first phase, 278 premises were closed down and 280 people arrested. The crackdown focuses on the validity of operating licenses, security of the premises, public health standards and validity of standardisation marks. Officials also verify Kenya Revenue Authority excise stamps and the distance of premises from learning institutions. Eight people were arrested on Saturday and another four on Friday for various offences.