A man was killed on Monday and scores displaced after the River Perkerra burst its banks following heavy rains in Marigat, Baringo South subcounty. Charles Murgor, 50, was crossing the flooded Endao River at 9pm, when he fell into the water and was swept away. His body was found downstream in Salabani village. Salabani location chief Francis ole Kipirich yesterday told the Star the heavy rains started on Sunday. Homes were flooded and 130 goats and sheep killed. Residents in Eldume, Salani, Ng’ambo and Sokotei villages are stranded. Floods swept away Eldume footbridge, which connects El’Ngarua and Eldume villages. “Maize, green grams, and beans on 600 hectares ( 1,482 acres) at Murda and Perkerra irrigation schemes are submerged. We fear the yield will be poor,” scheme chairman Dickson Lekeshio told reporters at the site yesterday. Ilchamus MCA Joseph Le’Parselach urged the national government and well-wishers to help resettle the flood victims. He said the building of the proposed Radat mega dam should be fast-tracked to collect water from Tugen and Mochongoi hills. Meanwhile, at least 800 members of the Ilchamus community displaced by bandit attacks are at risk of contracting diseases in temporary camps in Marigat and Baringo South. They include 400 schoolchildren who fled their homes in the volatile Mukutani area and now living at the Eldume IDP camp. “Life if getting unbearable in the congested camp. It is going to get worse because of the heavy rains,” Bryan Kiriambu told the Star yesterday. idps’ tents worn out He lives with his four-year-old son in the dirty camp, after his 25-year-old wife was killed by suspected bandits. His wife was among 11 people slaughtered during a retaliatory attack at Mukutani Full Gospel Church on March 11 last year. Many people were injured, more than 1,500 livestock stolen, 100 homes torched and shops looted. The IDPs said the tents donated by the Kenya Red Cross Society in March last year are worn out. Most of them are leaking. There are fears of an outbreak of cholera and diarrhoea, one of the IDPs said. The Baringo government says it has inadequate funds for emergencies. “The budget we have is tight. We only have Sh25 million for drought, floods and water scarcity. We are are not able to buy tents for the displaced people,” Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony said “We are appealing to the National Drought Management Authority and Kenya Red Cross Society to donate tents to the IDPs.” County commissioner Henry Wafula urged the government to use the funds to buy food and shelter for the IDPs. He said the national government will distribute relief food. He has written to the Department of Special Programmes. Wafula urged residents living in low-lying areas to move to higher ground.