Matatu operators
have defended traders whose stalls were demolished saying move is politically motivated. The Nairobi county government has for the past two days pulled down over 1000 structures to create space and pave way for the removal of matatus
from CBD. Matatu Transport Vehicles Association secretary general
Wambugu Kanoru claimed the demolition was done to give way for traders backing the current city administration. "The ongoing
demolition has nothing to do with opening spaces for matatus. Those
structures are at the edges of the terminus," Kanoru told the Star on Thursday. "The exercise is to reward those who campaigned for the current administration." Noting that most of the affected traders enjoyed security from the former governor, Kanoru said traders were not given notice to vacate Ngara, Parklands, Bus Station, and Muthurwa terminuses. "Those bus terminuses are full already and are designed to hold the 14-seater
matatus apart from Muthurwa which has no proper exit plan," he said. Kanoru said the operators should be left to manage the stations as
they will not move to areas without sanitation facilities. The terminuses lack
proper lighting hence pose security threats to members of the public. He said the
county has not involved all stakeholders in the decision to do away
with PSVs from the CBD, hence the same is doomed to fail. He said they learned about the CBD ban through the media. Kanoru added that
the county should get a holding area for vehicles, from which they can
be called on intervals to pick passengers at the existing terminuses. City Hall dismissed the claims that the demolition was
politically instigated. Deputy director of
enforcement Peter Mbaya told the Star that they have not allocated
the spaces to any person as insinuated by the matatu operators. Mbaya said that they
are rushing against time to clear the terminus for the vehicles which are expected to be out by April 23. "I have said it
over and over through the media that we are preparing spaces for the
matatus to terminate. Six months later, they cant claim that they need a
notice," Mbaya said. He added that
an official communication will be given on when the matatus will vacate
the CBD adding that the sanitation and security concerns have been addressed. Read: Ngara structures brought down to create space for matatus in decongestion plan Click here for the latest political news   