Authorities seem to have awakened to the reality of Nairobi’s filth and promised to revive the capital as the famous Green City in the Sun. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko on Saturday pledged to realise former Environment minister John Michuki’s dream of a clean and beautiful city. On April 13, the national and county governments launched a sweeping Nairobi regeneration project. Cleaning the river is part of it. Tobiko praised Michuki ( 1932-2012 ) for cleaning the river, thus bringing back the fish. “Michuki coordinated 17 ministries and departments to ensure the river was cleaned,” he said. Tobiko was speaking in Michuki Park during tree-planting. Present were representatives of NIC Bank, the Green Belt Movement, Royal Media Services and Junior Achievement. More than 1,000 trees were planted. Michuki Park is the command centre for the operation that aims for major revival in 30 days. In 2009, Michuki launched revival of Nairobi River, ‘killed’ by dumping of human and industrial waste. He pushed for a convention on the control of movement of toxic waste and was honoured by the UN Environment Programme (Unep). Years after Michuki left the scene, the river is once again foul and garbage is strewn about the city centre. CS Tobiko earlier said, “We were satisfied with the status quo, impunity, greed, laxity and corruption.” The CS said there is no conflict between him and Governor Mike Sonko. He said environment, waste management, water and sanitation are responsibilities of the county. “The national government facilitates through legislation and in ensures county governments have capacity,” Tobiko said. Nairobi Environment acting CEO Isaac Moraya said more than 50 notices have been served on premises polluting the river. “We are starting on Monday (yesterday) to act, including closures and follow-ups to ensure compliance,” Moraya said. Nema has closed 15 slaughter houses in Kiamaiko. They were said to be discharging blood and waste Regeneration targets the Nairobi River catchment area, including Ngong River and Kirichwa Kubwa and Kirichwa Ndogo tributaries.   