A single party to champion interests of the Luhya nation can’t take anyone to State House, but a national party can, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has said. Lusaka wants ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart to shelve the idea. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have announced their intention to fold their parties and form a single political outfit in readiness for 2022 elections. The two leaders said the formation of a single party will unite the Luhya nation and champion their interests. Speaking in Lwandayi in Bungoma on Sunday, Lusaka said Musalia and Wetang’ula should instead think of forming a national party that will unite all Kenyans. “Whereas we support the unity of a people, the idea of forming the Mulembe party with the hope that it will propel anybody to the presidency is ill-advised. It will go nowhere,” Lusaka said. Lusaka asked Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to join other national leaders in ensuring that the county moves in one direction. The former Bungoma governor said he had warned the two against joining NASA during last year’s campaigns. “Had Ford Kenya, ANC and ODM dissolved to form NASA, Wetang’ula could not have suffered the blow he recently suffered,” Lusaka said. Wetang’ula was removed as Senate Minority leader. FRUSTRATED IN NASA NASA senators replaced Wetang’ula with Siaya Senator James Orengo. Lusaka accused Wetang’ula and Mudavadi of selfishness, saying they were calling for Luhya unity after being frustrated in NASA. “We have always called for the Luhya unity but this should not only be propelled when an individual’s self interest is at stake,” Lusaka said. He said those advocating for unity should be genuine and respect the opinions of other leaders. Last month, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula launched the fresh drive to unite the Luhya nation and field a single presidential candidate in 2022. The project ‘Luhya Nation’ was launched during a six-hour road show in Vihiga county. The two NASA co-principals asked for support and promised “never to allow the Luhya community to be divided by outsiders”.