The meeting between Deputy President William Ruto and Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana was the talk of the day yesterday along the corridors of Parliament. MPs from both Jubilee and Opposition NASA were speculating that Kibwana could be among those Ruto is considering for running mate in the 2022 election. ********* A veteran Opposition MP was heard teasing a colleague from the Rift Valley: “Seems your man has a new catch; what could be happening? Are you people looking east side for Deputy President?”. The DP, who is seeking to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta, has held a series of meetings with a number of leaders from various counties and it is thought he is shopping for the best running mate. ****** Is the Kenya Urban Roads Authority aware of a contractor who has been given several roadworks within Nairobi county, despite failing to complete projects awarded in 2016? Questions are being raised about how the contractor was identified and given several roads with the same deadline. MPs were yesterday discussing how the Committee on Roads and Transport should summon the leadership of Kura to explain how the contractor has been allowed to operate on his own terms and conditions. Those in the know say the contractor only shows up on the sites once in a while and disappears for months. ***** While addressing the Fifth Annual Devolution Conference in Kakamega via videolink yesterday, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed that sugar, maize and fertiliser importation must come to an end. A top government official immediately whispered to Corridors that if the directive is fully implemented in the next five years a number of politicians will not have funds to campaign or seek reelection. The official said one of the politicians who has his eyes on a governor seat in the 2022 election would find it rough since he relies on imported sugar sometimes smuggled from Somalia. ****** Where is NASA co-principal and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula? Could he have gone under to strategise on how to deal with leadership challenges within the opposition outfit? Or could he be out of the country? These are some of the questions delegates attending the ongoing Devolution Conference in Kakamega county were asking themselves as the former Senate Minority leader was conspicuously missing on the first day. The Ford Kenya leader, who has fallen out with NASA principal Raila Odinga, promised that the NASA divorce will be “noisy and messy”. For weeks now, little has been heard from Wetang'ula’s corner amid reports that his colleague and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has been meeting with Raila.