The National Assembly Public Accounts Committee yesterday scrutinised the evidence adduced by the IEBC on the Auditor General’s report for the financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. In a closed meeting, the watchdog team chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi examined the presentation made by the IEBC, led by CEO Ezra Chiloba. Committee vice chair Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi East) said they are verifying the evidence before drafting a report on the audit queries raised by Auditor General Edward Ouko. “We cannot draft a report before going through the evidence given by the Commission.We will continue engaging the IEBC over the queries raised,” she said. Read : IEBC inflated kit maintenance tender threefold, auditor report The IEBC was recently taken to task by the committee to explain a Sh250 million payment for electronic devices that failed during the 2013 General Election. Chiloba was questioned by the committee for making the payment to Face Technologies Ltd in 2015. The devices were procured before Chiloba took office, after the exit of former CEO James Oswago. MPs, led by Junet Mohamed of Suna East, tasked Chiloba, who is the Commission’s accounting officer, to explain why funds from the Exchequer were spent on equipment that failed. “Why did you incur such a huge expenditure, knowing well there was no value for money? You paid people who failed and all Kenyans know the equipment failed,” the Suna East MP said. Chiloba said the Treasury and the auditor had authorised the IEBC to pay the firm Sh460 million, as an additional claim for what they had supplied during the election. He said internal auditors were commissioned by the Treasury to critically analyse the commission’s pending bill. Also read : IEBC legal director throws in the towel a month to repeat presidential poll Chiloba said he chose to pay Sh250 million instead of Sh460 million, which had been recorded as pending bill. He said the amount was for the supply of 4,600 additional kits. “In respect to this matter, I agree with Junet that issues were raised about the legal obligation on the part of the Commission. We paid for the goods that we had already received and what the auditors had observed. We did some due diligence to save the Kenyan people,” Chiloba said. “With the support of my team, we noted that given the nature of the contract, we could not pay them the Sh460 million, but rather Sh250 million. This is regardless to what the National Treasury and Auditor General had recorded.” Click here for the latest political news