Former IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe made recommendations for Kenya to hold a national dialogue on elections shortly after she resigned abruptly on October 18 last year. In her hand-over report to chairman Wafula Chebukati dated October 30, 2017, Akombe said the dialogue would facilitate a “frank environment to address the issues that befall the nation” ahead of the 2022 polls. She listed several key areas around which the dialogue should revolve to reach a mutual consensus on Kenya’s electoral processes. They include putting an end to State capture of constitutional bodies, tackling corruption, misuse of state resources during political campaigns and the determination of a political system that will end the culture of the presidency revolving around only two communities. Akombe said an independent public inquiry into the conduct of the 2017 elections should be held. Read: Citing death threats, Roselyn Akombe quits IEBC Read also: Uhuru-Raila handshake can end Kenyatta-Odinga dynasty feud, says David Ndii She said discussions should include the role Safran/OT Morpho and other IT consultants played in both the August and October polls. “Technology cannot replace trust, credibility and transparency. If the country decides that it needs to use technology in its elections, then the commission needs to move away from inventing new technology each and every election year and use existing technology that has been used continuously by other countries,” Akombe said. She said IEBC should also build its own ICT capacity especially in the areas of cyber security and biometric registration if Kenya wishes to continue using technology in future elections. Akombe suggested that the public inquiry should be composed of external experts as was the case with the Waki and Kriegler Commissions which were led by prominent jurists. She said mechanisms should be established to ensure the full implementation of the recommendations of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Review Commission (Kriegler Report) Commission of Inquiry on Post Election violence (Waki Report) and the Ndung’u Land Commission Report. Akombe noted in the 93-page report that an audit should be carried out by the commission of inquiry on issues such as voters register and procurement of electoral material. The report covered Kenya’s electoral processes between January 2017 and October this year. “There must be a direct link between the registration of persons and registration of voters. There has to be a way in which once one has attained the age of 18, they are automatically included in the register of voters with the opt-out option for those not wishing to vote and opportunities to change polling stations,” Akombe said. She said there is need to also evaluate what contributions the 2010 Constitution has made towards advancing electoral justice and make amendments where it has been an impediment. Akombe said it’s also imperative for the country to discuss ways of fully implementing the devolution agenda and tackling issues of youth unemployment and exclusion of minorities, women and persons with disabilities. LEGAL REFORMS Akombe said legal reforms touching on elections must be conducted at least a year before general elections. She said amendments to election laws in an election year should only become applicable in the next general election and not in the same year. According to her, the reforms should adopt a pragmatic holistic approach and be carried out by people with expertise in electoral processes and move away from a legalistic approach. “The commission should propose legal reforms following extensive lessons learned not more than six months after conducting a general election,” she said. Read: Jubilee tames Supreme Court, IEBC in amended law Related: 'Don’t blame me': Muturi distances self from Jubilee's election law changes During the electioneering period last year, various glaring pitfalls emerged concerning the manner in which the electoral body handled elections. The main opposition NASA led by Raila Odinga expressed concerns with the live transmission of results which it said did not represent a true picture on the ground. The coalition would later claim in court during the presidential petition that the transmission of election results had been tampered with using an algorithm to show that Jubilee candidate Uhuru Kenyatta was always ahead by a certain percentage margin. The August 8 presidential election results were eventually nullified by the Supreme Court which cited massive irregularities and illegalities. Raila pulled out of the October 26 repeat polls saying IEBC had lost credibility to conduct any elections. Shortly before the polls, Chebukati said he could not guarantee credible polls, a statement he later changed. Raila called on his supporters to boycott the repeat elections, which were eventually not held in 25 constituencies in Nyanza due to violence. The opposition chief then embarked on countrywide rallies to call for electoral justice alongside co-principals Moses Wetangula, Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi whom he has since fallen out with. Read: Raila declares nationwide Monday, Friday demos over IEBC, election laws The call for national dialogue and electoral justice and refusal to recognize Uhuru as a legitimate president culminated in Raila reaching a truce with the president on March 9. The two leaders said they had decided to put their differences aside for the sake of uniting the country. Raila has since held talks with former president Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki after the handshake. Meanwhile, three commissioners have since resigned from the IEBC citing a lack of proper leadership from Chebukati. They are former vice chair Consolata Nkatha, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya. Ezra Chiloba, the IEBC CEO, is also on a compulsory three-month leave to pave way for investigations into alleged improper procurement of electoral kits for the 2013 general election. The resignation of the three commissioners has literally crippled IEBC but Chebukati said he won't quit and that those who want him out must follow the legal process. [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader  Click here for the latest political news