Inattentional blindness is a psychological lack of attention where one fails to see things that are unexpected, obvious and quite often salient. To test its veracity, Daniel Simons and Christopher Chabris conducted an experiment in which where subjects watched a video of two teams playing basketball. Half the subjects kept count of the bounce passes made, while the other half the aerial passes. Midway through the game, someone in a gorilla suit walked across the court. Later, when asked if they noticed anything out of the ordinary, 50 per cent of the subjects reported not seeing the ‘gorilla’. This is inattentional blindness. Recently, two black swan events occured in our political courts. There were handshakes between two Presidents and Raila Odinga. The jury is still out on what this means. Do we have inattentional blindness? Did we see the ‘gorilla’? Civic education teaches us that we have three arms of government; the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary. But could there be a fourth? Today, we consume the functions of these arms of government through our televisions, smartphones, and laptops. Through these devices, we witness the handshakes, court ordersand the floor debates. This government frequents our screens wearing flawlessly fitting suits, shiny pointed shoes, manicured nails and perfect haircuts. This government cuts ribbons, receives flowers from small girls, does a jig with traditional dancers, announces political appointments and walks on red carpets. This government captivates our attention. This is the visible government. The TV government. However, conventional wisdom has it that there is another arm of government. This possibility is supported by conjecture through labels such as madimoni, cartels, dark forces and ethnic mafias. We hear of this government arm twisting candidates into signing deals to give up their presidential ambitions; of night meetings to plot succession; of unholy alliances that influence judicial orders; of collusion with tenderers to crowd out bidders, and of being the invisible power behind the elected thrones. Unlike the TV government, this government is concealed and publicly unknown. Despite not having the instruments of State power, this government dwarfs the TV government in command. This is the fourth arm of government. This is Kenya’s rendition of the Deep State. Colour me surprised, but the Deep State transcends any tribal, racial, linguistic and cultural barriers. It is non-partisan, non-ideological and non-denominational. It is neither elected nor appointed. The Deep State is self-organising and plays by its own rules, regardless of who is in power. Like the ‘gorilla’ it hides in plain sight and has made corruption and dysfunction the new normal. Its nature is parasitic, purely extractive and it exercises illegitimately acquired power. The recent report released by the Auditor General is proof positive of this. It reveals massive plunder of public resources by State institutions. Just to sample a few: Sh841.4 million by Kenyatta National Hospital through a medical service contract; Sh450 million by the National Social Security Fund for purchase of a building that has remained partially unoccupied for 17 years and Sh323 million by the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency as stocks of expired drugs. As if it couldn’t get any worse, taxpayers will repay about Sh700 billion borrowed from international financial institutions. Little is known in the public space explicitly how corruption and dysfunction of this magnitude is transacted unnoticed, only to be ‘discovered’ later through audits. But with such a damning report, we know enough to know that we have seen the Deep State in action. In a nutshell, the Deep State has privatised corruption ‘profits’ while the TV government has socialised the resultant losses. The Deep State was foretold by James Burnham in 1941. He cautioned that the greatest battle would not be between communism and capitalism. But the rise of a new ‘managerial’ class shrouded in secrecy, gaining dominance in business, finance, organised labour and government. He projected that it would exercise its power in subtle and stealthy ways, while being impervious to anyone opposing it. And as it gained more power, it would entrench itself deeper into the labyrinth of society. Sounds familiar? To our credit, we have endeavoured to decimate this Deep State through institutions, removal of the corrupt from office, prosecutions and media exposés. Sadly, our efforts have deterred little or nothing at all. So every five years, we get outraged and send the TV government packing for the vices that occur during its tenure. This is an understandable error because it is the theory of democracy, the god that failed. Then we usher in a new lot through the revolving election door. Meanwhile, the real felon remains intact, lying in wait. And the predatory cycle continues. I submit that we need to change tact. As Sun Tzu teaches us, the acme of skill is to defeat the enemy without fighting, by avoiding direct confrontation and by using indirect means. One indirect way we could destroy the Deep State is by shrinking the TV government to a minimal state that restricts itself to protecting its citizen’s right to life, liberty, property and contract, as noted by Robert Nozick. This can be achieved by embracing the principle of subsidiarity. This tenet holds that nothing should be done by a larger and more complex organisation that can be done more efficiently and competently by a smaller and simpler entity. So beyond shrinking numbers of those elected, government should cede functions such as healthcare, housing, education and loans to the free market economy. And to allay fears of higher costs, remember that price is a function of demand and supply, not privatisation. Governments ought to provide a safety net of last resort. Sadly, the government today is the first resort. Subsequently, our societal default has become ‘serikali saidia’. And in obedience, the TV government expands accordingly and offers us the social security fund, the Uwezo Fund and the free health and education programmes. And as surely as night follows day, the Deep State also extends its tentacles. Now correlate this expansion with the corrupt institutions and it becomes evident that big government always breeds big corruption and dysfunction. Conversely, with a leaner government labyrinth, there will be fewer crevices where the Deep State to camouflage itself; fewer opportunities to predate; and fewer pawns to manipulate and entice. With a healthier and inoculated host, the parasite inevitably dies. Perhaps only then, will the nuances of political handshakes and the unseen powers will be exposed.  When power is concentrated and entrenched, it will be abused; when it is concentrated and entrenched in secrecy, it will be abused in secret. That’s the Deep State – Lord Acton  Mugwe is a political economist 