Kitui MCAs have approved chief officer nominees after the intervention of Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. The ward representatives, who mostly belong to Wiper, had threatened to reject three of 13 nominees. Sources said Kalonzo whipped the MCAs to approve the nominees on Thursday. This would allow Governor Charity Ngilu to concentrate on delivering the promises she made to residents. MCAs unanimously voted to approve 12 nominees on Thursday. A 13th nominee could not be approved because he was yet to be vetted. John Mwikali was said to be indisposed. Minority leader Peter Kilonzo, who was opposed to the adoption of all the nominees, skipped the session. He later told reporters that he had serious reservations about five of the approved nominees. “The five had issues and ought to have been rejected. I had to stay away from the session after Kalonzo prevailed on members to approve the nominees because I’m not party to the decision,” Kilonzo said.  MINORITY GOVERNMENT Kyuso MCA Makau Musili told the Star on Friday, “It is true the Wiper leader pleaded with us to approve the names of all nominees presented before the assembly. The reasoning was that without such substantive officers, Ngilu’s administration could not function effectively.” In August last year, Kalonzo asked Ngilu to cooperate with his party since she ran a minority government. “You will have to talk to me nicely so that I can make your work smooth because I have the majority of the MCAs,” Kalonzo told Ngilu during her inauguration. Justus Makau and Enoch Kimanzi were as chief officers in Treasury. The two will head economic planning and finance departments, respectively. Also cleared were Richard Muthoka (Health), Agnetta Mwikali (Education) and Geoffrey Mulinge (Youth ). Benjamin Kiilu was approved as chief officer for Environment and natural resources. Godfrey Kimanzi was endorsed for the same position in the department of Tourism, sports and culture. Others approved included James Mbii (Agriculture and livestock development), Joseph Mutua (water and irrigation), Christopher Maingi (Lands and infrastructure), Clement Mulyungi (administration) and Agnes Mulewa (Coordination of county affairs).