Lecturers yesterday warned of a protracted battle with the government over the failed 2017-21 CBA negotiations. They are prepared to stay on strike for as long as it takes until a deal is reached. The strike enters its 42nd day today. It has disrupted learning in 31 public universities. More than 600,000 students are affected. The tough stance came even as Education CS Amina Mohamed reiterated government’s position that it was working on a permanent solution to the stalemate. “We are ready to engage and I assure all stakeholders of the government’s determination to come up with a lasting solution to the perennial standoffs arising from CBAs every so often,” she said at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, Nairobi. Mohamed presided over the release of the 2018-19 college selection results for last year’s KCSE exam candidates. As she gave the assurance, union officials addressed the media at their headquarters and said the promises are “gross dishonesty, gross unfairness, and incredible conduct”. The Universities’ Academic Staff Union dismissed the Inter-Public Universities’ Council Consultative Forum’s sack threats. It has no powers to issue such orders, it said. “If you go on strike about a CBA, under no circumstances shall you resume work without that CBA being negotiated, signed, registered and implemented. The strike shall bite for as long as the CBA is not negotiated,” Uasu national chairman Muga K’Olale said. Even after the finalisation of the CBA, the strike will continue until a return-to-work-formula is signed to protect them from victimisation. Uasu secretary general Constantine Wasonga accused the IPUCCF of lacking goodwill in its promises. “We’re compliant with Chief Justice David Maraga’s advice that whenever a party to a dispute is aggrieved by a court’s decision, the next recourse is to appeal,” he said. On Friday, Justice Onesmus Makau of the Employment and Labour Relations Court dismissed Uasu’s appeal that sought to quash his earlier ruling that required dons to resume work by yesterday. The Kenya Union of Domestic Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers, however, obeyed the court order and called off its members’ strike yesterday. Wasonga said, “Our members should remain on strike. We will go to the Supreme Court if the appeal is dismissed. This affirmed the lengths to which they are prepared to fight. He said they will no longer take lame excuses on why a counter proposal has been delayed. The IPUCCF and Mohamed have previously blamed the delays on lack of staff audits, lack of job evaluation and the ongoing strike. Kenya University Staff Union secretary general Charles Mukhwaya said they are not aware of any invitation for a conciliation meeting on Thursday as claimed by Labour CS Ukur Yatani. “Whatever it is, whether in air or under water, we are more than ready to sit and talk, but there must be meaningful talks — not just exercises in futility,” he said. Specialised services in referral hospitals have also been hampered. Doctor-lecturers are also on strike. They demand payments for emergency calls and risk allowances to be backdated to January last year. Read:Meeting to end dons’ strike fails to take place