A good place to start when talking about a platonic friend is to define what a platonic friend is. There’s the cerebral definition, but we’ll stick to what people mean, in everyday conversation, when they say platonic friend. A platonic friend is a very close friend of the opposite sex, where nothing, of a sexual nature, has ever happened between them. Is this possible? Can a man and a woman be nothing more than ‘just friends’? The simple answer is, not really. Let’s lay it all out, shall we. Just because nothing has happened between platonic friends doesn’t mean there’s nothing there. I’m not saying people of the opposite sex can’t be friends. I’m saying very close friends of the opposite sex is a different animal. There is attraction, a palpable chemistry, and the interaction between platonic friends is about the same as that in a romantic relationship. You have sharing of secrets, you’re comfortable in each other’s company, you lean on each in times of crisis and sadness. Basically, the only reason you’re not classified as a couple is the not-sleeping-together part. A platonic friend isn’t a big deal if neither of you is in an actual relationship with someone else. But, often it’s people already in relationships — either married or have a significant other in their lives — that go to great trouble to rationalise and explain their platonic friend as ‘just a friend’, knowing very well that is not entirely true. Men especially don’t come at this platonic friend with pure intentions. In comedian Chris Rock’s view, and I quote: ‘Men don’t have platonic friends. We just have women we haven’t (one word for sexual intercourse) yet.’ Rock continues, ‘Every platonic friend I got is someone I was trying to (have sexual intercourse with). I made a wrong turn somewhere and ended up in the friend zone.’ I can’t speak to why women have platonic friends, but again, Chris Rock has an opinion. In his words, ‘women keep platonic friends forever. Why? Coz you never know…’ The implication here is a platonic friend to a woman is a fallback plan. So the secret is out, men and women who are very close friends are not ‘just friends’. This, though, doesn’t have to be a problem, even if you’re married or have a girlfriend. You see, the trick to a good platonic relationship is to not pretend that it isn’t what it is, and that is, you’re attracted to each other, you wouldn’t mind seeing each other naked in an intimate setting, but for one reason or another, you can’t go that far, or develop this relationship into something more. Once you admit this to yourselves, it makes it that much easier to set some ground rules to keep you on the straight and narrow, avoid any slip-ups that involve a bed close by to break your fall. In other words, rules that cover the parameters: we can talk but we can’t touch. Platonic relationships are actually incredible when they work well. A non-judgemental friend of the opposite sex can offer you much in the way of advice, support, conversation and differing perspectives. All these without the complications and drama that come with a romantic, sexual relationship. Am I saying that platonic relationships are better than long-term romantic relationships? I can’t say for sure, but I’m leaning in that direction.