The Nubian community is up in arms accusing the government of sidelining it during the recent nomination of public officers. The community which resides in Kibera, Nairobi has termed the exercise "discriminatory" and in contravention of the law. Spokesperson Shafi Ali Hussein said the appointment of Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries, Ambassadors, and other government officials did not meet the requirements of the law. Hussein says this is since the appointing authority did not nominate any resident from the Nubian community despite a number of them being qualified. President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the changes in his administration after assuming office for a second term following his November 2017 inauguration. Hussein told the Star at the Nubian Rights Forum Offices in Kibera that they are uncomfortable with the fact that none of the members of the Nubian community has held public office since independence. "We are disappointed that since independence, neither of the subsequent governments has offered an appointment to any of our people to a senior public office in Kenya," he said at the weekend. The Chairperson of the Nubian Rights Forum challenged the government to adhere to the law while making public and parastatal appointments. "The Constitution states that all communities be offered job opportunities in an equitable and fair manner. Article 27 under the Bill of Rights requires the government to reserve opportunities for the marginalised like the Nubian Community," he added. The community has also accused Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Mwangi of attempting to sabotage the nomination of Musa Mohamed as the Nairobi Medical Officer. The legislator recently wrote a letter to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko urging him to rescind the appointment of the doctor. Hussein said that by appointing Dr Mohamed, the Nairobi Governor implemented Section 56 of the 2010 Constitution. At the same time, the community has complained of harassment while applying for national identification cards. Nubian residents claim that their youth who have attained the age of 18 years and above find it difficult to acquire an ID card. The community now wants the government to abolish the vetting process and fast-track production of IDs for eligible youths. Click here for the latest political news