Democracy has been defined as government by the people, especially rule by the majority, in which supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them directly or indirectly through a system of representation usually involving periodically held free elections. The end of the Cold War saw the end of the autocratic African strongman as the USA and its European allies embarked on perhaps the biggest democratisation exercise ever. After the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Cold War, Mobutu and many of his fellow Presidents in Africa lost their relevance for the West and all of a sudden the western countries pressurised their African allies to democratise and to respect fundamental human rights. Africa underwent a remarkable transformation. In recent years however election disputes have been witnessed in several countries in Africa and the global voter turnout is dropping dramatically across the world. According to the World Bank's 2017 World Development Report, “if judged by voter enthusiasm, democracy is struggling as election turnout is declining across the world. Over the last 25 years, the average voter turnout fell by more than 10 per cent. The drop in global voter turnout, which began around 1990, coincided with the fall of the Soviet Union. Trust in government is falling across the democratic world. It’s no surprise that voter turnout is falling with it. Alexander Zinoviev, one of the great intellectual giants of the USSR who became dissidents together with Solzhenitsyn and Sakharov, in a remarkable and prophetic interview published in the French Figaro Magazine (1999) under the title 'The West and Russia –A controlled Catastrophe', predicted many of the challenges that democracy is undergoing today. Amongst the gems from sage Zinoviev was that the end of communism in Russia meant the end of democracy in the West. The collapse of communism was certainly the greatest victory in the history of the West. An unheard of victory that enabled them to establish a unitary power monopoly on a planetary scale. The modern epoch is not only post-communist, it is also post-democratic. Today we are witnessing the establishment of democratic totalitarianism or if you will totalitarian democracy. Zinoviev goes on to state that true democracy requires pluralism and pluralism implies the existence of at least two more or less equal forces which oppose each other and at the same time influence each other. During the Cold War there was a world democracy, global pluralism, with two opposing systems; capitalist and communist, plus other countries with an amorphous system that belonged to neither. Soviet totalitarianism was sensitive to Western criticism and vice versa. Today we live in a world dominated by one single force, one ideology and one pro-globalisation party. All of this together began to take shape during the Cold War, when superstructures gradually appeared in various forms; commercial, banking, political and media organisations. Despite their different fields of activity, what they had in common was essentially their transnational scope. With the collapse of communism they began to run the world. He further avers that, “a democratic and prosperous capitalism with socially oriented laws and job security was in many ways thanks to the fear of communism”. After the fall of communism in Eastern Europe a massive attack on the social rights of citizens was launched in the West. There is no longer a political force in the West capable of protecting ordinary citizens. They say that when Europe and America cough, Africa catches a cold! We have in recent times seen totalitarianism creep back into Kenya. The Executive has captured the legislature and the Judiciary is under permanent attack. Organisations like Cambridge Analytica are under investigation for having influenced voting in the US, UK, and many African countries including Kenya. Raila Odinga, our champion of democracy, abandoned the journey to Canaan and is currently dining with Pharaoh. Jubilee definitely did not send their party officials to study democracy in China. Brace yourselves.   