Kenya Lionesses will be aiming for a strong start when they battle Papua New Guinea in their World Sevens Series qualifiers opener in Hong Kong today. The match against the Pacific islanders will be at 5:30am (Kenyan time) with the second pool match, against Mexico, at 8:04am. They complete their pool matches against South Africa at 11am. Head coach Kevin Wambua wants a strong start. “The first game will be important for us in terms of how we want to play the tournament. It will be crucial for us to be quick off the blocks and post a good result in that match,” said Wambua. Commenting on the South Africa clash, Wambua said: “We are relishing the match against South Africa since we lost to them by five points when we met at the Women’s Africa Cup Sevens final. Our players are much more confident, fitter and technically apt and are looking to give them a run for their money.” The Lionesses reached the cup quarterfinal stage at last year’s qualifier and will be out to go all the way this time round and secure core status for the 2018/19 season. Wambua has termed the tournament as the biggest for the Kenyan girls this season. “Hong Kong is very important for us — even bigger than the Commonwealth Games. We are still humble and proud to be participating at the Commonwealth Games but Hong Kong has been our goal and focus all through,” said Wambua. Pool ‘Y’ features Brazil, China, Kazakhstan and Hong Kong with Wales, Belgium, Argentina and Poland in Pool ‘Z’ . Wambua said the girls have adjusted according to the conditions in Hong Kong. “The conditions are favourable. We had three good days of training as we rectified on areas which we thought was a challenge in our game ahead of the big kickoff,” he observed. The quarterfinals, semis and final are expected to be played tomorrow.  Lionesses squad to Hong Kong and Gold Coast Philadelphia Olando (Captain), Sheila Chajira (Vice Captain), Grace Adhiambo, Judith Auma, Sinaida Aura, Doreen Remour, Celestine Masinde, Linet Moraa, Rachel Mbogo, Janet Owino, Janet Okello, Camila Cynthia, Stacy Awuor