NASA leader Raila Odinga should forget any support from Western, the alliance co-proncipal Moses Wetang'ula has said. Speaking at a funeral in Kabuchai on Saturday, Wetang'ula said they have ended any political engagements with Raila. The Bungoma senator called Raila a traitor of the Luhya community and promised to cut all links with the NASA boss. "Our marriage and political engagements with ODM leader Raila Odinga have ended and will not be renewed by any means," Wetang'ula said. Wetang'ula said they have resolved to merge Ford Kenya and ANC with the focus of delivering a Luhya presidency in 2022. "I'm praying that our people and leaders join hands with me and my brother Mudavadi to ensure that we speak with one voice. That is when we can gain respect from other communities," Wetang'ula said. He spoke at the burial of Boniface Wenani in Mukhweya village. Wenani, 94, was a world war fighter. It is said he treated wounded soldiers. Wetang'ula asked residents who are yet to register as voters to get enlisted. He asked chiefs not to harass women from Uganda who are seeking ID cards. There are claims that chiefs have made it hard for women married from Uganda to get IDs as they are asked for title deeds. Wetang'ula said Raila has enjoyed the support of the Luhya community without returning a hand. He said that Raila has used the Luhya community for a long time without retuning hand and will now be treated as an enemy of Mulembe nation. "We saw him use our late brother Kijana Wamalwa, he used Ruto, he used Mudavadi and now he thinks he can use me by stripping me of the Leader of Minority seat in the Senate. I'll come out strong and show him that Luhyas are now wise and fed up with his tricks," Wetang'ula said. He said they have found a better path for the community to follow. "We're asking our people to unite behind us," he said. Wetang'ula said Luhyas are the second largest community, but can only be respected if they speak with one voice through a single party. Calls for a Luhya party have been laughed off by Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. "We want to remind our brothers who are laughing at us that the once rejected stone became the pillar. That will happen soon," Wetang'ula said. Many Kenyans have killed each other some have lost properties because of fighting for Raila who has only decided to go to ‘canan’ alone The senator said that they as Ford Kenya have recognized Uhuru as legitimate president but want national dialogues that will help the country heal and move forward He said that Raila only sneaked from them like the biblical Nicodenmus and went to meet Uhuru to address his way out of political retirement forgetting the issues nasa was addressing. We want the talks to be national so that eve n the El molo and Makonde should come together for the talks as they are also part of this country not only two tribes,’ he added He said that there is no visitor in Kenya and all leaders have their people who support them and if youi trat them wrong prepare for a rebellion form them.