The government is keen to ensure the regional blocs formed by counties to drive development succeed, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has said. The national government is working on a legal framework to ensure all regional blocs have proper legal backing. “What we’re seeing right now is a complete paradigm shift that will enhance cohesion and integration of communities and spur development and the government is determined to provide the right environment for them to succeed,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa spoke during a pre-devolution conference meeting convened by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Monday. He said, “Putting aside political differences as leaders and agreeing to work together regardless of political party boundaries is a new dawn.” Wamalwa said the formation of the Lake Region Economic Bloc will make the region attractive to investors and spur development because the bloc will ensure economies of scale. The bloc brings together 14 counties with a population of 14 million. Members of the bloc are: Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Kericho, Nandi and Bomet counties. Wamalwa, Oparanya, Vihiga Governor Wilbur Otichilo, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Devolution PS Nelson Marwa, Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulobi, Kakamega’s Philip Kutima, MPs Emmanuel Wangwe, Bernard Shinali, Johnston Naica, Titus Khamala and Didimus Barasa attended the meeting. Wamalwa said donors were more willing to support organised blocs rather than individual counties. He said the government will support the Lake Region Economic Bloc development agenda through the Nile basin development initiatives and the Lake Basin Development Authority by the implementation of cross-cutting projects. The CS said the regional blocs will tap into the African regional blocs, especially after the signing of a Free Trade Area Agreement by 44 African Presidents on March 21, providing a 600 million population market. Wamalwa urged county assemblies to support initiatives by the regional blocs by ensuring the bills required are approved without delay. Malala said the bloc will ensure development in the region and foster unity of purpose. Oparanya said the World Bank is willing to support initiatives by the bloc.