Siaya county has been dragging behind for the last five years since devolution due to lack of public participation. Interviews conducted by the Star revealed that locals feel they have not been given adequate voice in the running of county affairs. Locals said voices of the marginalized groups have not been adequately captured during public participation forums on development projects that are hardly conducted or poorly attended whenever convened. The locals said though the county government under Governor Cornel Rasanga has initiated many projects, few are in line with the public requests. Head of Community Initiative Action Group Kenya, Chris Owalla told the Star said there is no quality public participation hence the budget allocation and implementation of projects does not answer to the needs of residents. Owalla said with the governors going for the fifth devolution conference in Kakamega, they must ensure they address the issue of public participation going forward. Owalla said that it’s a standard practice for some counties to conduct public participation without considering feedbacks. He said lack of feedback from few public participation avenues, that are always poorly attended due to lack of mobilization, makes residents not to reap from devolution. “The county needs to have legislation that promotes public participation for residents to access information as they cannot participate without information,” Owalla said. Owalla faulted the county for neglecting the formation of village administrators that was the real aspect of devolution. He said failure for the county not to listen to the people’s voice through public participation has seen the county not to realize the implementations of many projects in the county. Owalla added that the fishing industry has been neglected by the county government despite it generating a lot of revenue for the county. “Look at the health department that is always allocated the highest amount of money every financial year and instead of focusing on the need of the people they end up concentrating on other things until hospitals lack drugs all the time,” he said. He also faulted the public service board for not engaging with residents on when the county needs to employ saying they usually make it a secret affair that is very wrong. Owalla also mentioned that going forward the county Needs to come up with sustainable projects that would support economic livelihood for youths and people living with the disability. Titus Ogallo who is the member of Transparency International Kenya said the county should stop taking residents for a ride and focus on public participation to implement the right projects. Ogallo regretted that the ground development and the projects earmarked in the CIDP do not synchronize due to lack of public participation. He added that there are gaps under key devolved sectors in the CIDP and the public expectations begging the question whether the county is ready for residents to realize its fruits. John Ochieng who is a fisherman in Usenge (Bondo) said for the five years the county government has been in place their plights have never been captured in the budget. Ochieng said they have been requesting for cold rooms, toilets, and ice plants for five years in vain all because of lack of public participation from fishermen. Leonard Okoro who is the beach management chairman faulted the county government for failing to listen to their request of treating Lake Victoria water into clean water to end the perennial water problems in the county. Okoro said the only thing the county government has done to fishermen despite being one of the avenues that generate the high amount of revenue to the county is the building of the landing bay. He said many residents have not been sensitized on public participation and that is why the county government ends up implementing their own projects at the expense of the people’s request. Veronica Anyongo who is a businesswoman in Rarieda said despite the county government’s effort to build marketplaces for them the facilities are not enough. Anyongo asked the county government to empower them through table banking was of finance to build their own shades instead of demolishing their shades. Agrery Omondi representing people with disability (Ugunja) faulted the county government for failing to include people with disability for the few and selective public participation they have held. Omondi said the ever conducted public participation in the county was not disability friendly in terms of language interpretation and mobility. William Owino Alego Usonga said the county can only achieve its intended development agenda if they embrace public participation. Owino noted that the county government is working but failure to realize the people’s need through public participation during the implementation of projects has made them not to appeal to many.