As the Sh2.5
trillion port project Lapsset takes shape, youth in Lamu are equipping
themselves to get a slice of the 200,000 jobs up for grabs by studying in the Lapsset
Presidential Scholarship programme. The national
government is to ensure that 1,000 local youth are given full scholarship to
pursue port-related courses and acquire skills to facilitate their employment
at the Lapsset once the port begins operations in 2020. “The Lapsset
is an all-round project. It’s not just the economic and industrial gains we
pursue, because all those will be useless if we don’t seriously deal with the
scholarship programme,” Lapsset director general Sylvestre Kasuku says. The programme
mainly trains youth in technical courses. This is in line with the Lapsset project’s
components, including marine engineering, transport and logistics, nautical
engineering, project management, port management and surveying. Additionally,
the scholarship will cater for auxiliary services and industries, such as human
resources, medicine, business management, economics and information technology. The programme
was launched by former President Mwai Kibaki when he toured Lamu back in 2012.
It was initiated in February 2013 under the management of the Lapsset Corridor
Development Authority, in conjunction with the Higher Education ministry and
Lamu county leaders. BREAKDOWN
AND OBJECTIVES The
scholarship covers tuition, food and accommodation, and comes with transport
and subsistence allowance. It takes place in five tranches, with 200 students
being recruited into the programme each year. Already, some
400 students have been admitted in various institutions and colleges across the
country to pursue port-related courses. Kasuku describes
the programme as “vibrant”. He says admission of students into the scholarship will
continue until the 1,000-student goal has been attained. The programme
falls in line with the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta to invest in the
education of Lamu youth to ensure the local community is actively involved in
and stands to benefit from the implementation of the Lapsset corridor mega
projects. The main
objectives are to instil skills and competencies to the Lamu youth, enabling
them to be industrious and employable, hence contributing to the country’s
socioeconomic development. The programme
also aims to expand the worldview of Lamu youth by exposing them to the diverse
cultures and regions, thereby enhancing their social integration. The programme also
seeks to empower the youth through education in combating retrogressive cultures,
such as early marriage, idleness, substance abuse, as well as mitigate the effects
of radicalisation. Another aim is
to foster goodwill among the local community in supporting the Lapsset corridor
projects in Lamu, and to enhance public participation and inclusivity in the Lapsset
corridor programme. The government
has already spent Sh120 million on the programme since its commencement. Out of
the 400 students recruited so far, 130 have already graduated from various
higher learning institutions across the country, with 200 more expected to
graduate later in the year. For the sake
of transparency and accountability, several steps have been taken to ensure the
programme runs smoothly. “A steering committee
was formed that comprises of the Lamu county commissioner as the chair. The Education
executive forms the secretariat, and members are drawn from community and
religious leaders,” Kasuku says. Moreover, the Lapsset
Presidential Scholarship Policy was established to ensure free, fair and
transparent processes in implementing the scholarship programme. BENEFITS TRICKLING DOWN Lapsset
corporate affairs officer Benson Thuita urged Lamu youth to take advantage of
the recruitment tranches and turn up for the life-changing opportunities. “It’s not
always that such opportunities are available, and that’s why I’m urging the
youth here to come and get them. The recruitment is as transparent and fair as
can be,” Thuita said. The impact of
the scholarship programme is already being felt, as some of graduates have
already been absorbed into the job market, enabling them to earn a living and
support their families. Thuita says as
a result of training under the programme, some beneficiaries have acquired
skills in electrical wiring, news reporting, motor vehicle mechanics, welding
and so forth, and these skills have enabled them to become problem solvers in
society. He says the Lapsset
Presidential Scholarship Programme will secure the future of Lamu youth. “It is
an effective, deliberate attempt to safeguard employment and business
opportunities for the local community, who are usually at risk of being left
out in favour of the skills and qualifications of people in more developed areas,”
Thuita says. Programme beneficiary
Hadija Ali says in many instances, the only option young women had after
completing secondary school was marriage. However, the programme has given
women like her a new lease of life by equipping them to take part in nation
building. To sustain the
current scholarship needs for Lamu and expand it to the rest of the Lapsset
corridor counties, Thuita says the authority is planning to form a scholarship
fund and draw support from key stakeholders. The proposed
expansion is informed by the similarities in living conditions in the corridor
counties. These include unfavourable weather, marginalisation, poverty and
illiteracy. “This nature
of corporate social investment will help the local community get jobs and
acquire specialised skills, such as oil pipeline construction and maintenance,
rail operation, among numerous opportunities on the rise,” Kasuku says. COMMUNITY
WANTS MORE Residents of
Lamu county have expressed gratitude for the programme, especially with the
hope that their children will get to work at the Lapsset. Many, however,
feel that the 1,000-student figure for the total number of scholarship
beneficiaries is too low for a county with high poverty levels. Mohamed Bingwa
says it would have been fair if the figure was tripled, considering the
magnitude of the Lapsset as projected. “We need more
of these scholarship programmes here. Many of us want to send our kids to
school, but we lack the means,” he says. Lapsset
corridor development chairperson Francis Muthaura has been quoted saying the
port will be a key solution towards eliminating the high unemployment rate in
the county. Muthaura said
the project has the capacity to create over 200,000 jobs for the unemployed
youth upon completion. He says even
at the construction phase, a lot of consideration is being given to the youth,
especially those from Lamu, which is the host county, in terms of employment as
labourers. “Any parent
here desires that their kids get employed at the Lapsset, even if not through
the scholarship programme. Let parents strive to send their kids to schools and
colleges. You shall reap from it,” Muthaura said.