Oh, “I thought you were trying to build a canal. If it is jobs you want, then you should give these workers spoons, not shovels.” This was Professor Milton Friedman’s response to his host, a government bureaucrat of a country he was visiting. During his visit, he toured a worksite where a new canal was being built. He was surprised to see that instead of modern tractors and earth movers, the workers were using shovels. Turning to his host, he asked why there were no machines to do the work. His host, replied, “You don’t understand. This is a jobs programme.” Likewise, had Friedman visited Kenya during our kazi kwa vijana programme, he would have told us to give the youth razor blades, not slashers to clear the overgrown roadsides. Over the past couple of weeks, there has been renewed panic of possible unemployment and loss of revenue following job automation. A World Bank study reported that the use of technologies to produce traditionally manufactured goods will slice employment for 1.4 per cent of Kenyans in the manufacturing sector (The Star, January 19, 2018 ). Elsewhere, the Law Society of Kenya has sued the Ministry of Lands over a plan they argue will cut off their property conveyancing revenue stream. In their defence, they have cited Section 34, Advocates Act and court precedents. When implemented, this plan will enable Citizens to make online transactions such as land search, transfer of ownership or lease, issuance of consent and valuation requests. But does job automation lead to job losses? Absolutely. But only temporarily. Hence, this argument should not just stop here because as President JF Kennedy once said, “A rising tide lifts all boats.” These job losses are the price the whole society pays to enjoy overall higher living standards and conveniences. And this has held true since the industrial revolution. This process of innovation is called creative destruction. Creative destruction occurs when innovations — new technologies or business models — demolish the structures of long-established industries that have lost the ability to satisfy the urgent wants of customers, according to Joseph Schumpeter, a political economist who served as a Finance Minister in Austria). Recall how long you had to queue to pay your telephone, water and electricity bills, or transact at the bank, or how long you had to wait for your mail? Today, not only do customers want things promptly, but also conveniently. And compelled by consumer sovereignty, the market responds accordingly. Hence, your car replaced the horse-drawn carriages; your light switch the kerosene lamp; your microwave the three stones; your iPod the vinyl; and your smartphone the camera, calculator, clock, bank and library. There is no doubt that with each new innovation or convenience we enjoy today, a new skill set is birthed, inevitably displacing the older one. The tendency, however, is to focus on the jobs lost but not on the new ones created as a result of hitherto unimagined goods and services or on the increased jobs that go into creating the new technology. In 1999, the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation was restructured and birthed Safaricom. Resultantly 5,925 employees were retrenched. Their outcry was heard all the way to the chambers of our courts and Parliament(Hansard 20th July, 2000 ). Were there real job losses? Undoubtedly. But today Safaricom has employed over 135,000 M-Pesa merchants and employees. This is a 2,150 per cent increase in employment (Safaricom annual report 2017 ). Currently, telecommunication services contributs 10 per cent to Kenya’s GDP compared to 4.4 per cent 19 years ago,ccording to the KNBS, 2017. What caused this quantum leap? Technology. The purpose of factories and industries is not to create jobs. It is to provide society with goods and services. When they opt to use technology to increase output, quality and variety, while reducing production costs, three things happen: One, the extra profits are used to expand operations. Two, investment in another industry; and three, increase own consumption. In all cases, employment is increased or sustained and with cheaper production costs, consumers can afford cheaper goods. Creating jobs is the easy part. In the 19th century, there was hardly any joblessness. Everyone worked 60-70 hours a week on the farms. The daily wage was $1.94 for backbreaking labour. At the time, one needed to work for six hours to afford a tallow candle, which cost Sh2.6 pence ($13.52 ). According to Minimum Wages Order, 2017, the minimum wage for a laborer today is $1.2 per hour for a 40-hour work week. In contrast, one only needs 30 minutes of labor to afford a $0.6 light bulb. It is a no brainer that the time saved is appropriated to other things, including leisure. Today too, we can create jobs. We can ban all the computers and hire people to use pen and paper; all CDs and hire live bands; all light switches and hire lamp lighters; and all mobile phones and hire switchboard operators. So you see, the problem with banning or opposing job automation should not be the loss of jobs. It ought to be the fear of the loss of economic progress, which is symbiotic with wealth creation. Granted, joblessness is not a good thing, but the alternative is worse. Therefore, what we need is not job creation or job protection but wealth creation. To achieve this, we need to embrace technological innovation, which on one hand will inevitably render some occupations obsolete, but on the other hand, will improve the quality of our lives. TGIF is a favorite phrase every Friday evening. Why? Because everybody wants a job but nobody likes to toil. The Holy Book teaches us that after the fall of Man, toiling became a curse. So if we can simply press a button and produce more, better, varied, faster and cheaper, why do we want a human being to do it? So do we still think that automation is a dirty word?  Wealth is made when untethered, creative people hit the markets - Iain Murray Mugwe is a political economist 