Police yesterday teargassed lecturers protesting outside Jogoo House demanding more than Sh3 billion that has delayed payments and implementation of CBAs signed with the government. The lectures were petitioning CSs Henry Rotich (Treasury) and Amina Mohamed (Education) to provide funds to facilitate negotiations, conclusion and implementation of the 2017-2021 CBA for university staff. They said Mohamed is in the wrong ministry. Read: [VIDEO] Amina in the wrong ministry, strike will be longest ever, lecturers say University Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga said the CS is unaware of some of the most basic issues affecting public universities. “A whole CS of Education does not know the number of employees in public universities. A whole CS publicly admits that she does not know how much vice chancellors collect from self-sponsored students. It means you have failed as a minister,” he said. Kenya University Staff Union secretary general Charles Mukhwaya said the CS lied she would expedite the tabling of a counteroffer to their 2017-21 CBA. “It’s more than three weeks. To date, not a single word, not even a single letter has been heard from her.”  EVALUATION The duo spoke at the University of Nairobi before leading peaceful demonstrations on Harambee Avenue. The lecturers went on strike on March 1. The demos coincided with another one held by university students to urge the government to intervene and end the dons’ strike. Wasonga dismissed Amina’s claims talks on the CBA must be pegged on job evaluation. He told the CS the Employment and Labour Relations Court ruled last year during nurses’ strike CBAs are not linked to job evaluation. “Check the ruling. The learned judge was very clear and if you don’t have the ruling I will bring it to you,” Wasonga said. “We are the people who teach job evaluators. Who should evaluate who? We have professors, who are these at SRC that can evaluate a professor,” he posed. Wasonga said university professors should be paid Sh1.5 million per month. “Professors are the highest human resource in the world. In the hierarchy of beings, it is God who is up there. On the ground here, the next thing is a professor.”  USE CASH SPARINGLY Wasonga reiterated the strike will go on until the CBA is negotiated, signed and implemented. He told lecturers not to be intimidated into resuming work after some universities withheld their March salaries saying the salaries will eventually be paid. “Use your money sparingly because this strike is not ending soon. Students are tired of perennial strikes. I want you to strike with abandon. Let the consequences be what they might.” Also read : We'll intensify strike until CBA is resolved, Moi lecturers and Kusu officials say The lecturers later presented petitions to Treasury CS Henry Rotich and higher Education PS Prof Japheth Ntiba. “He (Ntiba) has agreed that he is going to call a stakeholders meeting so that we solve this problem once and for all,” Wasonga said. At least 1,200 Moi University staff have declared they will intensify their strike until the government acts. Click here for the latest political news