The Kenya Forest Service board learnt of the suspension of its senior management through the media, a parliamentary committee heard yesterday.Board member Bernard Sang’ told the Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural Resources that chairman Peter Kinyua released a press statement on March 12 indicating that senior officials had been suspended. He said after learning of the statement, other board members met on March 13 and ratified the decision. “There was no illegal logging as there had been prolonged drought and trees were being harvested in a procedural manner,” Sang said. He said, however, they are not aware of the reasons behind the suspensions.Sang told the team the senior officers were asked to step aside to pave way for investigations. He told the committee the Environment CS visited KFS headquarters on March 12 and held meeting with the board. Read: KFS on the spot for 'wrongful' suspension of senior officers More on this: 10 KFS officers fired over illegal forest activitiesSuspended officials include chief conservator of forests Emilio Mugo, procurement manager Victor Kobia, finance manager Patrick Nyagah and head of plantation and livelihoods Simiyu Wasike.Others are assistant chief conservator of forests Central highland Cosmas Kiruki, assistant chief conservator North Rift Dedan Nderitu and assistant chief conservator for Eastern Francis Kariuki.Esther Keige and 26 county heads of ecosystems and forest stations were also suspended. But Kobia and Keige have been reinstated, following a court order. Monica Kalenda replaced Mugo in an acting capacity.Yesterday, Sang said the officers were suspended without  show cause letters to allow for investigations. The human resource committee was tasked to dig deeper and find out those culpable. Sang said nothing much came out. Other board members present included Patrick Ojwang’, Irene Kamunge, Peter Leitoro and Samuel Kasiki.Kamunge had earlier told the committee she is a joint secretary to the task force investigating illegal logging and as such, there was likelihood of conflict of interest. Read: Suspended KFS director blames Tobiko for woes More: KFS chairman: I’ve an interest in upscale Karura Forest River CafeMarakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen said the board was in deep slumber only to wake up after Environment CS Keriako Tobiko visited KFS. “If she (Kamunge) sat in the board, which had issues and she is now a member of a task force, that simply means there is conflict of interest,” Kangogo said. Tobiko has previously distanced himself from the accusations. Sang when pushed to reveal if there were reasons behind the suspension, he said there were none.He said the report that had been generated by the human resource committee detailing their findings was not looked into as the time of the board was almost up. The term of the board ended March 31.  Click here for the latest political news