Four people were arrested in Karen on Wednesday evening and are pending trial following a crackdown on illicit brew and unlicensed alcohol sellers. The crackdown conducted by a multi-agency team unearthed a tax-evasion racket by dealers avoiding the standardisation mark of quality by the Kenya Bureau of Standards. The dealers are said to be selling the illicit alcohol brands in high-end residential areas. Hundreds of assorted wines and whisky brands were also intercepted during the exercise. The team comprised of officials from Nacada, Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Public health and the National Police service. Genuine alcohol manufacturers were found to have counterfeited their own products in a calculated move aimed at evading stamp duty. A total of 713 alcohol outlets have been inspected since Interior CS Fred Matiang'i launched the crackdown March 1 in Kiambu County. During the first phase, 278 premises were closed down and 280 people were arrested. A report in possession of the Star shows counterfeiting of Kenya Revenue Authority stamp was rampant. This means the government could be losing billions in a tax evasion syndicate. NACADA senior Records officer Duncan Ndwiga said the intercepted goods did not have Kebs stickers. However, most of them had KRA stamps, raising questions on how they were obtained. "Some of the suppliers normally go underground whenever they get the wind of the crack down," he said. Ndigwa saud three clubs were closed down in Mugumoini near Kibera on Monday since they did not have operating license. A total of 52 products were also seized and eight people were arrested. On Wednesday Spots bar and restaurant, Club M sports bar and grill, Kolani Village in Karen, Esiet Enterprises, Sixteen Eighty five wines and spirits, the red lounge were inspected. Among the intercepted contraband are Black label that go for Sh 4,500 and Double black going for Sh 5,500. Cresswell water supply was also closed by KRA after the owners got wind of the operation, disapearing. During the operation, most wines that come from South Africa did not have Kebs stickers, raising questions on how they were shipped into the country. The owners of intercepted wines and whiskies were given 14 days to find out from their supliers the reasons as to why there are not Kebs stickers. Hot spots in central Kenya includes Nyeri, Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Kiambu and Nyandarua. Meru, Embu, Isiolo are hots pots in Eastern. In western, Busia, Bungoma and Kakamega are hos pots. Hotspots in Nyanza include Kisumu, Migori, Kisii, and Nyamira. Nakuru, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet and Kajiado. Machakos is hot spot in Eastern. In Coast, Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Taita Taveta and Lamu are also hot spots. During the crackdown officers focused their attention on validity of operating licenses,security of the premises, public health standards, validity of products standardization marks, validity of Kenya Revenue Authority excise stamps and distance of premises to learning institutions of persons below age of 18. During the sting operations, Liquor Licensing sub-county Alcoholic Drinks committees were accused for sabotaging the crackdown.