Thousands of people have been displaced and property worth billions of shillings destroyed by raging floods in Kilifi county. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Chief Administrative Secretary Hussein Dado toured the county on Saturday to assess the situation. Wamalwa assured all flood victims in the country they will get food supplies. The CS also said his ministry will work with the Education ministry to ensure all affected students are assisted to go back to school asm ost parents lost everything. He said they will work with the county government to ensure affected families are assisted to rebuild their homes and get seeds, fertiliser and other farm inputs. “I am here because the President and Deputy President are aware families were displaced from their homes and are now camping in schools,” Wamalwa said. The Kenya Defence Forces and police used choppers and divers to rescue marooned residents. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi spent two days helping with evacuation. Six tourist camps in Galana Kulalu were washed away. The affected camps are Tsavo River, Kiboko, Bigis, Kulalu and Kuwinda. Agricultural Development Corporation offices in Galana Kulalu were destroyed. Residents will grapple with water shortage for months as all the nine boreholes are flooded and cannot pump water to Malindi, Magarini, Kilifi and Mombasa. A Sh2.3 billion water project launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta at Baricho was submerged. At Shakahola, a footbridge to Galanawas wept away and residents cannot cross to the other side. In Malindi ADC Kisiwani Complex, more than 3,000 acres were submerged, with more than 400 heads of cattle and 400 goats marooned. “We are liaising with the authorities. Ten workers are safe and currently at Kakuyuni Primary School IDP camp,” manager Murasi Mulupi said. In Malindi and Magarini, there is a humanitarian crisis as more than 6,000 households were displaced by floods, while thousands of acres of farmland are under water. Also destroyed are schools and health facilities.