Amina Mohamed is in the wrong ministry, lecturers have said, and pledged they will not let her have any peace. Uasu Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said this on their behalf on Wednesday in an address to the press at the UoN before they marched on Nairobi's streets. "Amina should be ready for the longest strike ever," he said, noting the people she is dealing with are learned. The CS was transferred from the Foreign Affairs ministry to Education.  Striking lecturers during a march on the streets of Nairobi town, as part of their push for their 2017-2021 collective bargaining agreement to be implemented, April 4, 2018. /EMMANUEL WANJALA A charged Wasonga said the Cabinet Secretary does not understand the most basic issues for universities, such as the number of lecturers or how much vice chancellors collect from self-sponsored students. "I was taken aback the other day when the CS admitted something like that publicly before a parliamentary committee," he said. He added: "If you (Amina) want peace, give them a better offer, not just a counter offer. We want structured salary negotiations ... we will not accept a global figure." The lecturers took the industrial action on March 1 over the delayed implementation of their 2017-21 collective bargaining agreement. Wasonga continued: "The CS does not know the number of employees in the university. How can a whole CS can admit that?"  Striking lecturers during a march on the streets of Nairobi town, as part of their push for their 2017-2021 collective bargaining agreement to be implemented, April 4, 2018. /EMMANUEL WANJALA The Uasu official said the CBA negotiations should not be tied to job evaluation as the Minister suggested. "We are the people who train ... we will not accept any job evaluation ... it is used to evaluate cattle dip managers," he said. "We only have professors. Who can evaluate a professor? Who is this at Salaries and Remuneration Commission who can evaluate professors? "I challenge you; who should evaluate who? Professors should evaluate the SRC, not vice versa. We will not allow professors to be downgraded." Wasonga even referred to God in explaining the educational ranks - he said professors are next only to God so they should be respected. "God is up there ... when we come down here the next being is a professor. What I am saying is that this professor must be paid well," he noted. He urged lecturers not to be swayed into giving up the fight for their rights. "Know your rights because the union is with you. Workers, I want you to stop teaching and use whatever money you have sparingly. This battle is going to be protracted ... don't misuse it." he said. After the address, the lectures marched on the streets of Nairobi town, blowing whistles and demanding a review of their salaries.  Striking lecturers during a march on the streets of Nairobi town, as part of their push for their 2017-2021 collective bargaining agreement to be implemented, April 4, 2018. /EMMANUEL WANJALA In Eldoret on Tuesday, at least 1,200 Moi University staff declared they will intensify their strike until the government implements the CBA. Read: We'll intensify strike until CBA is resolved, Moi lecturers and Kusu officials say On March 1, a seven-day notice given by the Universities Academic Staff and Union (Uasu) expired, ushering in the fresh strike. Unions have accused the government of reluctance to address their grievances. Uasu says there has been no engagement on the deal since this date. The strike is this year's first but the fourth to occur in a span of less than eight months that caused total paralysis in all institutions of higher learning. More on this: State not interested in dealing with our issues, lecturers say Also read: Striking lecturers to hold street protests over lack of CBA offer Click here for the latest political news