Meru MCAs have dealt a huge blow to Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s flagship projects after they passed major amendments to the county’s Sh10.1 billion budget for 2018- 2019. The MCAs deducted Sh91 million from the office of the governor, Sh176 million from the finance department and Sh10 million from public service and environment departments. They also scrapped the award of a Sh101.4 million tender won by Meru Dairy Union, effectively doing away with Kiraitu’s flagship free milk programme. The assembly also denied funding to the county investment and development corporation and the county microfinance corporation. “The shooting down of the fiscal strategy paper will send a signal to the executive,” Finance, Budget and Appropriations committee chairman Julius Mbijiwe said. Mbijiwe presented the Fiscal Strategy Paper report. He said the amendments were meant to ensure residents get value for money. The free milk programme is currently being piloted at a cost of Sh50 million. Kiraitu’s wants ECDE learners to be given free milk in school. But the ward reps prioritised the construction of classrooms. “Reallocate the Sh101.4 million from milk for ECDE learners to ECDE infrastructure and vacation training centres,” read the adopted amendments. MCA’s OFFICES “We cannot allocate funds to free milk when several ECDE classrooms have stalled while children learn in dilapidated structures. There is a problem in how the executive is working,” MCA Mbijiwe said during debate on the amendments. The amendments were tabled by deputy speaker Elias Murega on Thursday. Also affected was the Meru youth service programme whose allocation of Sh100 million was slashed by half. MCAs also scrapped the Sh584 million allocated for sinking boreholes and overhauling water supplies. Interestingly, the MCAs retained the Sh20 million ward development fund. The money slashed from the governor’s office was allocated for bursaries with Sh50 million set aside for the construction of MCAs office block. The MCAs allocated Sh10 million for the installation of CCTV cameras and an electric fence around their offices. SONG AND DANCE They also reduced Sh. 275.3 million to Sh. 184.3 million of the office of the governor but retained Sh. 20 million Ward development funds for the reps. They allocated Sh. 96 million for bursary and retention, Sh. 50 million for construction of the Ward reps office block and Sh. 10 million for installation of CCTV Cameras and an electric fence. They deducted Sh. 176 million from the Finance department and Sh. 10 million from Public Service and Environment departments. They adopted for purchase of three graders, two dozers and a Buck hole to grade and maintain roads. The afternoon session, which ended at 7.30pm, started off with drama as most MCAs crossed to the minority side, leaving the majority side with about 10 members. There was singing and chanting as the MCAs waited for the start of the session. Attempts by Majority Leader Victor Karithi to introduce a motion deferring the amendments was shot down by the more than 40 MCAs who were keen on stamping their authority. “ECDE learners should not be taking milk under a tree. We need to provide enough teachers and classrooms before giving them milk,” Murega said. The changes were also meant to ensure each MCA gets three staff members including a driver and a personal assistant. Abogeta West MCA DMK Kiogora said there existed bad blood between the assembly and the executive. “This is an opportunity for animals to smell each other,” Kiogora said.