Debate on the neglect of the boy child took centre stage on the third day of the National Drama Festival. A play by Sironga Girls’ High School titled ‘Fifty Fifty’ and a dance by Kangaru School titled ‘The Ripple Effect’ showed how the girl child empowerment campaign has hurt boys. In the Sironga play, directed by Victor Onyambu, a Form Four boy in a mixed school is falsely accused of torching the school after a clash between boys and girls. Boys raise complaints of neglect in a toxic environment that favours girls. The girls plot to burn part of the school. The fire is almost fatal after one girl is trapped in a dormitory. It is later discovered one girl started the fire, but implicated the boy. She is taken for counselling. Onyambu said the play advocates gender equality. A narrative by Mulango Secondary depicted the rot in society. A teacher gets employed, despite using forged academic certificates. The hilarious play had some remarkable rib-cracking jokes. One line goes: “The reason why girls don’t receive video calls is because their faces are undergoing factory reset.” It says one Mr Alphayo misguided students in the school, leading to massive failure. The story ends with the students forced to repeat and the teacher arrested. Malindi High School focussed on corruption in Kenya through a play titled ‘BabaYao’ written and directed by Stephen Omond. In the play, army recruitment is held and unfairly decided by the army chiefs who ask for money to shortlist candidates. The play ends after those involved in the fraud are investigated and arrested. Omondi said it was meant to educate people on the need to fight evils in society. “We miss good servants in our country because of corruption and other social vices. It is high time we taught the young generation through plays and social forums to shun such behaviour,” he said. A remarkable dance by Marifano Secondary focused on discrimination faced by children living with disability. One child decides to drop out because of stigma, but is encouraged by teachers to come back.