Is former Kenya Airways CEO Titus Naikuni doing some work for Magadi Soda? Some senior officials at Kajiado County are unhappy with whatever the former Magadi soda CEO is trying to do. Those in the know tell corridors that the former PS in the Moi adminstration has been camping at the county trying to see governor Joseph Ole Lenku to help him resolve a matter between the county and Magadi soda. It is not clear what matter is. ***** Did Deputy President William Ruto host Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru at his Sugoi home in Eldoret on Saturday? It is not clear what the two discussed but what is clear is speculation that the meeting is fuelling but in Eldoret and in Kirinyaga. We can speculate without fear that this pair may be significant in the 2022 political scene however it plays out.* ***** Is the ground so hostile to Nairobi governor Mike Sonko that he could not attend a function on Friday? Sonko was scheduled to join CS Keriakor Tobiko and James Macharia among other top government officials at Michuki Park to launch the clean up of Nairobi River but the governor did not show up with word having that he had cited ' a hostile ground". A disappointed Tobiko said :" We have traversed ourselves around this place and we cannot point out the kind of hostility the Governor is talking about". ***** Who could be this governor whose motorcade was harassing motorist along Nairobi -Nakuru highway? The governor who is said to have been heading to the Devolution Conference that started yesterday in Kakamega county had his three-car motorcade shoving other motorist off the road with impunity. For drivers who were adamant to give way, the bodyguards would flash out walkie takies to intimidate them. ***** A lady corporal police officer based at the Buru buru station is said to operate with impunity and cases have been raised against her for harassing residents of Umoja, Buru Buru estates and its environs. The officer on a number of occasions has been reported to the bosses over extortion claims from small entrepreneurs in her jurisdiction but no action was taken. She is also said to have evicted the wife of a colleague who is ailing from the police houses. The residents now want Independent Police Oversight Authority and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett to deploy sleuths to investigate the matter failure to which they consider taking the law into their hands.