The National Assembly will defy a High court ruling that temporarily barred the vetting of Judicial Service Commission nominee Justice Mohamed Warsame as the House resumes today after a 10-day recess. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali said MPs are doing their work as the people's representatives. This is likely to trigger a stand off between the Legislature and Judiciary. High Court Judge Roselyne Aburili barred Parliament from vetting the nominee and suspended a notice inviting the public to submit presentations. “Vetting must go on with or without the ruling. JSC members must be vetted since they are not chosen through an election,” the Mumias East MP said. Warsame will be vetted by Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo. Aburili said the petition filed by the Law Society of Kenya raised weighty issues regarding the legality of the vetting process. “The petition in my view raises very serious questions of law and constitutionality of the process of appointment of the Justice Warsame as a commissioner of JSC upon his election as the representative of the Court of Appeal,” Aburili ruled. LSK argued that vetting Warsame by the National Assembly will be acting outside the Constitution and without legal authority. According to LSK, the procedure adopted by the National Assembly is unconstitutional as specified in Section 15(2) of the JSC Act. They also say that President Uhuru Kenyatta purported to nominate Warsame as a member of the Judicial Service Commission, which is unlawful. Earlier, JSC had protested a decision by the National Assembly to subject Warsame to vetting before admitting him as a member of the body commission. In a letter to clerk Michael Sialai dated March 21, the Judicial Service Commission said the approval of Warsame by Parliament is unlawful, unconstitutional and undermines the independence of the Judiciary. The letter signed by JCS Secretary Anne Amadi said the Judicial Service Act, 2011, exempts judicial nominees to the commission from vetting because they represent a body whose members are lawyers. “The requirement for parliament approval is only in respect of persons appointed under article 171 (2) (h) of the Constitution and these are one woman and one man representing the public not being lawyers appointed by the president with the approval of the national assembly,” Amadi said. Read:Court bars MPs from vetting Justice Mohamed Warsame for JSC post Also Read:JSC opposes MPs vetting of Justice Mohamed Warsame    