Jubilee leaders from Western have launched a campaign against the proposed merger between ANC and Ford Kenya parties to unify the Luhya community. Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and his Sports and Heritage counterpart Rashid Echesa ran a choreographed attack on the proposed formation of a single party for Western at the weekend. The attack is seen as part of Jubilee’s wider scheme to block unity of the region so Deputy President William Ruto can tap into the vote-rich - though divided - region in 2022. READ : Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula have announced their intention to fold their parties and form a single outfit in readiness for 2022. They said outsiders have in the past taken advantage of the existence of many parties to divide the community for their benefit despite the fact Luhyas have the numbers. On Sunday, Wamalwa and Echesa, speaking in Shitoto, Mumias East subcounty, said they asked Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to find other alternatives to unite the community. “A party alone is not enough to secure the presidency and Mudavadi and Wentag’ula should be told that,” Echesa said. A fortnight ago, Echesa asked Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya - who has declared interest in succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta - to team up with Ruto because the DP has built networks.  UNITY Wamalwa suggested the community should align with others to present a strong bid for the presidency. “We shall be able to decide the country’s politics by finding friends and mingling with other Kenyans,” he said. Political commentator Martin Andati said Jubilee is uncomfortable with the unity initiative because it will lock them out if successful. “They are simply telling Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to dissolve their parties and join Jubilee since they know it will be difficult to penetrate a unified Luhya bloc,” he said. Andati supported the decision by the two leaders to unite, saying it marks the beginning before bringing others on board. He said branding the initiative a regional affair was premature. Also read : Nasa affiliates threaten to divorce Raila's party for 'marrying' Jubilee Andati, however, said Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should tell Kenyans whether they gave the go-ahead for their MPs to meet Ruto on Thursday last week and reveal what they discussed. Lusaka on Sunday said Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should instead think of forming a national party that will unite all Kenyans. Click here for the latest political news