The area area under maize production in the country is set to decrease by 40 percent in the next two decades owing to increased impact of climate change, warns a crops officer with the global Food and Agriculture Organisation. Effects of climate change, for example, rise in temperature, emergence of new pest and diseases is expected to cost the country about one million hectares by 2040. “Area under maize production is likely to reduce by 800,000 hectares from the current 2.1 million hectares (5.2milion acres) to 1.2 million Ha,” said Wilson Rono. He made the remarks at KARLO headquarters during a media briefing by FAO and representatives of European Union on execution of international treaty on plant genetic resource for food and agriculture. To avert any food crisis, Rono advised farmers to adopt orphaned crops such as sorghum, millet, cassava and legumes owing to their resilience to drought and if well-handled can produce high yields. He said most of the arid and semi-arid areas are suitable for growing of the traditional crops. He said sorghum and millet covers a wider area than maize. There is need to develop varieties that are suitable for both the market and domestic consumption and to produce livestock feed. “Rise in temperature in currently maize growing areas will make it unsuitable for the staple crop growing and shifting to high altitudes will not work as well. Equally, the current regions will suffer from emergence and spread of new pests and diseases. We are equally likely to experience deadly diseases more than the maize lethal necrosis disease,” he explained. He said value chain players need to encourage and promote traditional crops growing in both high rain and low land areas. The focus should be on increasing productivity per plant. Read:Maize production cost to remain high in 2017 There has been an erosion in genetic resources not only in Kenya but in sub Saharan Africa due to effects global warming. He added, “This is because most areas have been getting drier so the materials that were adapted to the higher rainfall regions have been lost.” Rono stated that urbanization and population decrease has contributed to high consumption of foreign foods and thus disregard food such as pumpkins and spider plant. Also Read:Maize farmers threaten to cut production over Sh3.2 billion debt