Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s closest allies are undermining his 2022 presidential bid, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has said. Kibwana said on Sunday that Kalonzo’s inner circle have been attacking Kamba leaders who decamped from other parties to Wiper or pledged to back his presidential bid. “Some Wiper leaders relish abusing the Makueni people who are working day and night to help Kalonzo. They continue to view those who came to Wiper recently as outsiders. Personally, I’m beginning to get fatigued,” he told reporters after a service at Muliiliii Catholic Church in Kibwezi West. Kibwana said the Emali Declaration made last year to unite the community could be meaningless if politicians do not respect their colleagues. Calling some leaders outsiders only work against Kakonzo’s quest, he said. The declaration brought together leaders, including Kalonzo, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, former Machakos governor candidate Wavinya Ndeti and People’s Trust Party leader Mutua Katuku. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua snubbed the event. Kibwana, the Wiper chairman, criticised Mwingi Central MP Gedion Mulyungi for insulting Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu. “I’m disappointed that after we did a lot of work to help the party leader bring our community together, Mulyungi virulently attacked Governor Ngilu,” he said. The second-term county chief said some nominated MCAs in Makueni have also been attacking his administration and Speaker Douglas Mbilu who is seen as his close ally. Kibwana joined Wiper in the run-up to last year’s election. The former Muungano Party leader said he was appointed by Kalonzo to act as the Wiper chairman. He said Kalonzo must rein in his close allies, including Mulyungi, to restore order in the party. Kibwana threatened to relinquish the position if Kalonzo fails to act. “I’m not interested in personal gain in politics, but for our people to be served,” he said. The position was held by former Kitui Senator David Musila who quit before the last General Election. Musila accused Kalonzo of undermining his Kitui governor bid and preferring then-Governor Julius Malombe. The two eventually lost to Ngilu. Ngilu, the Narc leader, has pledged to support Kalonzo in 2022. The two did not see eye to eye but buried the hatchet before the last General Election. Kibwana has warned Kalonzo would not get the backing of leaders from other regions if leaders in his backyard continue fighting each other. “For us to be able to reach out to leaders from other regions to support Kalonzo for President, we have to demonstrate that we are united,” he said. 