African Union Commission (AUC) Chairman Moussa Mahamat has lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta’s support for the continental body’s agenda of integration, trade, peace, security and stability. Mahamat thanked the President for showing commitment to the financial and institutional reforms of the African Union (AU). “We appreciate your support for the Single African Air Transport Market and the African Continental Free Trade Area, among other AU initiatives,” Mahamat said on Thursday during a meeting with Uhuru at State House, Nairobi. Mahamat also commended the President for demonstrating great responsibility and leadership in the last elections, proving to the world that political competition need not be a source of disunity and instability. Read: Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila On the regional front, the Chairman appreciated the role Kenya ha played in promoting peace and stability in Somalia and South Sudan. “We commend the sacrifice Kenya has continued to make in terms of human and capital investment,” he said. Mahamat appealed to Uhuru and his colleagues in IGAD to remain on course in pushing for peace and stability in South Sudan. “There is need to come up with more original proposals that will help resolve the problem in South Sudan. We are relying on you, Mr President, and your colleagues in IGAD to help,” he said. Uhuru affirmed his support for the continental integration agenda, saying Kenya is set to submit its papers for the ratification of the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement that he signed last month in Kigali, Rwanda, with other African leaders. He said that as the continent moves towards closer to the free movement of people and goods, it should not shut out its traditional trade and development partners especially the Caribbean and Pacific regions. “There is a growing feeling that Africa is trying to pull out from the ACP partnership,” he noted. More on this: Why Africa’s free trade area offers so much promise On peace in South Sudan, the President voiced growing concern and impatience regarding the slow pace of theprocess. “The situation in South Sudan is of great concern to us. After Naivasha, we hoped we would have a stable and prosperous country. It is disappointing to see that the situation has deteriorated even further." He called on South Sudan leaders to embrace the IGAD and AU-led peace processes, saying it was sad that they were derailing initiatives. Mahamat said the AU was considering imposing sanctions on leaders who appear to be frustrating the process. Uhuru assured that Kenya will remain steadfast in the revitalisation of talks. The President and Mahamat also discussed peace and security in Somalia - they asked the international community not to scale down its support to Amisom.. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma attending the meeting. Click here for the latest political news