Everyone knew Edward was destined for greatness. A precocious child, he had aced all stages of schooling. Graduating top of his class, he was headhunted by firms keen to cash in on his financial acumen. Finally settling at a blue-chip company, he proved himself by handling difficult accounts. All seemed well until the annual office party and it began to unravel. After a couple of stiff drinks, Edward began to loosen up. First, he told off the chief accountant for being inept. Then he called the CEO an insufferable bore. The final straw was when he described the chairman’s wife as an old hag. At his dismissal hearing, the chairman told him candidly that despite his prodigious knowledge of financial systems, Edward did not possess the comportment necessary in handling the firm’s clients. As a college freshman, one of my favourite lecturers was a venerated gentleman called Mr Andibo. He taught the Philosophy of Education in a manner that left a lasting impression. According to Andibo, although the words “education” and “learning” are often times used interchangeably, there is a vast difference. Education, he said, is a process through which a society passes on knowledge, values and skills from one generation to the other. Learning, on the other hand, is merely the acquisition of new skills and knowledge. By this definition, education is a communal affair and involves the transfer of the ethos or character of a society from the old to the young. On the other hand, learning is largely an individual affair concerned mainly with the acquisition of knowledge. Education prepares one to fit in society, while learning gives you entry into that society. It is quite possible for one to be learned and yet uneducated. When one has attained the highest levels of learning but cannot hold his or her own with colleagues, one can be said to be uneducated. So is one who cannot hold decent conversations with the lowest cadres of society. Thus, an educated person is one with the knowledge that enables them to fit in the hallowed grounds of posh country clubs or the poorest slums in a country. The unfortunate saga of Miguna Miguna is a study of the Kenyan national character. That he is a learned man is indisputable. He is a barrister and solicitor in Canada and an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. He previously served as an adviser to former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. He is also an author and a politician. Those who have worked closely with Miguna have described him as brash and combative. It is said he does not differentiate between friend and foe in doling out his acerbic wit. Raila found himself on the receiving end of Miguna’s caustic observations at the tail-end of his premiership. Ina televised debate, Miguna committed a faux pas by describing a lady opponent in sexist terms. But it is in the last three months that Miguna has captured the attention of the entire nation. Miguna presided over the swearing-in of Raila as the ‘People’s President’. The government reacted heavy-handedly against those deemed to have been core at this ceremony. Miguna was arrested and eventually deported to Canada. This was on the strength of allegations that he had lost his Kenyan citizenship when he got the Canadian one. Curiously, the man at the centre of the swearing-in, Raila, has never been touched or harassed by agents of the state. Miguna flew back to Kenya on High Court orders that the government facilitate his return. Then typically, he got into altercations with Immigration officers at JKIA. It did not end well. Journalists covering the event were wounded. Miguna’s lawyers were also manhandled. Miguna, however, remained intractable in his demands that he be allowed into the country unconditionally. Questions abound. Is Miguna’s defiance a corollary of the unfair treatment meted out to him during his first deportation or is it because of his character? Is his lack of savoir-faire to blame for his current predicament? Questions also arise about the conduct of the government. It has entered unchartered territory in the looming showdown between the Executive and the Judiciary. A small administrative incident, it seems, has precipitated an artificial crisis. The iteration of contempt of court more than five times displays a lack of character on the part of those in contempt. -High Court judges are best placed to give an exegesis of the law. Not the three state officers now convicted for contempt of court. Miguna may be regarded by some as an odious character. Like Edward, the brilliant financial analyst, he may have all the knowledge to get him in but none of the social graces or character required to keep him there. The exigent demands of proving himself right may have exacted a toll on him. However, our national character of rallying for the underdog may yet be his saving grace if the government accurately reads the mood of the nation and acquiesces to his unconditional return.  Khafafa is vice chairman, Kenya-Turkey Business Council   