Greatness
is seldom true unless both friends and foes agree. For Kenneth Matiba, a
man of many
accomplishments, friends and foes eulogised him
as a man of phenomenal courage, what Ernest Hemingway called grace
under pressure”.  Amongst Matiba’s Gikuyu community this virtue
was celebrated as njamba (warrior champion). In his nation’s collective memory, Matiba died
as the njamba who stood up to the
Nyayo dictatorship to break its resistance to multiparty democracy. But this is inadequate to honour to the
memory of a man who had momentous impact on the lives of many who
followed him and on the course
of his country. In his tribute to Matiba
during his funeral service at  All Saints Cathedral, President Uhuru
Kenyatta called him a national hero, a father and a mentor to him.
And in a
unique display of emotional intelligence, the President joined the
family
pall bearers to carry Matiba’s casket. From the outset, I should
declare I have a deep emotional connection to Matiba, although I never had the privilege to meet him. I interacted with his daughter Ivy Matiba when she managed The People newspaper. Matiba also had a very specific impact on my life. My father Joseph Mungai Kongoni was a
carpenter and so until mid-1990, my ambition
was to become a civil engineer. Then
Kenneth Matiba and Charles Rubia happened. In May 1990 they demanded the reintroduction of multiparty democracy and
two months later, the Saba Saba riots happened. That had a profound impression on me. Matiba’s struggles thrust lawyer Paul Muite into the public limelight across
the villages of Kenya. I switched from civil
engineering to law. In 1993 Matiba established The People
weekly newspaper to which I was a regular commentator. And this writing
is partly attributable to the forum his newspaper afforded me to
nurture my writing. As a capitalist state, Kenya can only succeed
when it gets a critical number of successful African capitalists. Matiba was such a capitalist who
made his money the hard way, unlike the current generation of
politician-billionaires. I salute Matiba for
running The People newspaper as a
business, besides offering a platform for political pluralism. He gave me my first pay cheque for commentaries.  Moreover, The People played a major role in advancing
democracy, human rights and constitutional reforms that we enjoy
today. The People helped launch the careers of first-rate journalists and freedom warriors like Mwenda Njoka, Kamau Ngotho, David Makali, John Kamau, Mukalo Kwayera, Kiruri
Kamau, Tom Osanjo and many others. Matiba’s falling out with the Nyayo regime
stemmed from the infamous mlolongo
General Election in September 1998 when every wicked Machiavellian
strategy was employed to establish a Parliament of
regime-friendly representatives. According to the Constitution of the day, the next General Election was
to be held by September 1993. Although by early 1990, clergymen like
Timothy Njoya and Henry Okullu had called for a return to multiparty democracy,
the majority of Kenyans were resigned to the reality of another poll under single-party rule. We should never take for granted that the
1992 general election was a multiparty one. Throughout the 1980s many valiant Kenyans paid personal
sacrifices for standing up to  Nyayo dictatorship. They included Koigi Wamwere,
James Orengo, Paul Muite, Raila Odinga, George Anyona, John Khaminwa, Gibson
Kamau Kuria, Tirop Kitur, Willy Mutunga, Njeru Kathangu, Martha Karua, Wafula
Buke, Kiraitu Murungi, Mwandawiro Mgangha, Pheroze Nowrojee, Davinder Lamba,
Kang’ethe Mungai, Wanyiri Kihoro, David Onyango Oloo, Gitobu Imanyara, Pius Nyamora,
Wangari Maathai, Alexander Muge, Anyang’ Nyong’o, Mukhisa Kituyi, G.B.M.
Kariuki, Mirugi Kariuki, Jaramogi Odinga, Masinde Muliro and others. All
these luminaries were outsiders, their struggle was easily criminalised and many were labelled
dissidents. Sadly, in the
pressure cooker of single-party politics, the dissidents alone
stood a slim chance of draining the Masinga Dam of authoritarianism that
held
the Nyayoists together. To dismantle the Kanu dictatorship, the building blocks of this dam had to be dislodged. In breaking ranks
with President
Moi and revolting against single-party rule, Matiba and Rubia became those blocks off the dam of Moi dictatorship. That triggered the haemorrhage
of Kanu
and the events after the Saba Saba riots of July 1990.
This led to repeal of infamous Section 2A of the Constitution
that
declared Kenya a single-party State. Loyalty and solidarity of the political nomenklatura are vital to the survival
of authoritarian regimes and perhaps any organised society. Successful dictatorship dominates the social, economic and political aspects of life. Thus, in joining the multiparty
band wagon, Matiba not only betrayed and revolted against his old friend Moi
but also the system that had controlled the State since
Independence. This hero of my
generation who hastened the return of multipartyism in Kenya was a traitor
to the system and his privileged political friends. As with the mafia, nobody escapes unscathed for betrayal. And so, we
need look no further than the State-instigated illness of Matiba, his
political destruction and collapse of his family businesses. A governing elite looks out for the welfare of its loyal members. Matiba did not live up to the
loyalty creed of the feudal class. It was no accident this
feudal class denied Matiba the economic rescue package to salvage his once-thriving business. Politics is a game of
numbers. In the 1992 General Election
Matiba was the opposition presidential candidate with the most supporters but
through some funny logic, apologists for the status quo blamed him for not letting
Jaramogi Odinga or Mwai Kibaki challenge Moi. It's just as well Matiba ran for President in 1992 because it gave my generation of
first-time voters the opportunity to vote for the one politician
with the potential to become our Lee Kuan Yew — and this is not hyperbole. In the 1960s Matiba was a PS in Jomo Kenyatta’s government, a
position affording an easy path to prosperity by living off the
State. Today politics is a trillion-shillings
industry,the only industry controlled by African
Kenyans. In the 2017 General Election
over 50,000 Kenyans sought to leave productive sectors of the
economy to
join this industry and live off the State like parasites. When this
political industry was established in the 1960s, Matiba could have
become a lifetime member but in 1968 he instead chose to join private industry where he made billions through
hard work and determination. Sadly, because of the State's atrocities against his businesses, the example of Matiba is not
available to inspire young men and women who
increasingly find it easier to join political industry than work their
butts off as Matiba did. The irony of all this played out after
Matiba’s death. In recent years whenever
a former presidential candidate dies, the media and elite quickly declare
him the best President Kenya would have had. With Matiba, this hypocritical
class wouldn't deign to make such a declaration. In the heady
days of the 1990s, Mwai Kibaki
was called a coward in contrast to Matiba. Yet in 2002 it was Kibaki not
Matiba who succeeded Moi. Finally, William Ruto entered politics as an
errand boy of the Cyrus Jirongo-led the YK 92 outfit whose mission was
to stop Matiba from becoming President. Today Ruto is the presumptive
fifth President. These truths are evident elsewhere: In the 1920 US campaign, former Senator Henry F. Ashurst of Arizona is said told his colleague Mark Smith: Mark, the great trouble with you is that you
refuse to be a demagogue. You will not
submerge your principles in order to get yourself elected. Your must learn that there are times when a
man in public life is compelled to rise above his principles. That could have been said about Matiba. So, fare thee well, my hero.  This land is better because of your sacrifice
and high principles. My heart bleeds that our nation did little to mitigate your suffering and honour.  The writer
is a constitutional lawyer (kibemungai@yahoo.com).