A former Harambee House operative who was shown the door months to last year’s general election is a man under siege. The former high flying civil servant is being pursued after he allegedly conned a politician Sh2m in the guise of helping him secure a party nomination slot as MCA in Nairobi. While he has been dodging the victim for months, it was shocking when the former influential official bumped into his adversary at a mega shopping mall within Nairobi’s CBD. The scene nearly degenerated into a fist fight before shoppers stepped in to separate the duo. They dispersed but the politician says all is not lost as he intends to move to court. ***** Is the chairman of a constitutional commission that has been in the news
frequently over questionable payments working to make sure the expiring term of
the CEO is renewed without the support of other commissioners? Corridors of
Power is informed that the chairman whose term expires in February next year is
keen on having the CEO’s term renewed this year. The chairman has not convened
a full commission meeting to deliberate on the CEO’s tenure which ends this
June. One of the commissioners has reportedly complained that something fishy
could be going on to cook up minutes of a board meeting that met to ostensibly 'renew'
the term of the CEO. Senior officials of the commission say it's a matter of
time before the conspiracy is exposed and those behind scandalous payments across
the country laid bare. ***** Did one of the IEBC commissioners who resigned have any communications with
some top Harambee Annex officials before the surprise exit? Well, a well placed
source at the second powerful office in the land told Corridors of Power that
the commissioner made two visits to the office before the exit from the
embattled commission. It is not clear why but it is understood that the
commissioner must have gone to get blessings from the officeholder before finally
throwing in the towel. Call it loyalty pledge at turbulent times. ***** Is a powerful politician from Rift Valley behind the importation of maize
from neighbouring Tanzania and then selling the same at inflated prices to the
National Cereals and Produce Board? A tycoon-cum-politician has been fingered
by a number of small scale businesspeople from Eldoret for seeking to defraud
Kenyans through a syndicate that also involved some local officials of the
NCPB. Local authorities are said to have been compromised as the businessman
makes a killing out of the sweat of poor farmers who rely on steady maize prices
to eke a living. Why can’t the national government swing into action and arrest
the politician? Well, time will tell.  Click here for the latest political news