Low rainfall in the Aberdare Forest explains the abnormally low level in Ndakaini Dam, Murang’a county director of meteorology Paul Murage has said. The level is 33 per cent. He said the upper zones of the county receive significantly less rainfall than the lower zones. This month, the upper zones have received 480mm against 540mm for the lower zones, Murage said. This has never happened before, he said. Athi Water Services Board acting CEO Michael Thuita also expressed frustrations that there is little runoff in the Aberdares. Murage said, “This rainfall pattern has never been recorded before, but it shows agroforestry is bearing fruit. It is also a challenge to the upper zones known for tea farming, which should plant more trees. “The environment surrounding Ndakaini Dam and other high-altitude areas bordering the Aberdares, such as Tutho, Kinyona and Gatare received 71mm of water.” He said downpours in the coffee zones end up flooding the Tana River region. On Sunday, more than 102mm rainfall was recorded in other parts of the county, the officer said. Residents have expressed alarm over the slow rise in the level in the dam, despite heavy rains. They don’t use water from the dam. Instead, Ndakaini supplies 84 per cent of the water used in Nairobi, where dwellers have complained of rationing despite downpours. Joseph Mihiu, the Kenya Forest Service officer in charge of Gatare — part of the Aberdare Forest — said rivers Thika, Irati, Githika, Chathanda and Gikigie that flow from the Aberdare catchment have been full since the rains began. Thika, Githika and Kayuyu rivers feed Ndakaini. Dam manager Job Kihamba supported Murage. “The dam has a capacity of 70 million cubic metres and the refilling is being slowed by the minimal rains in the Aberdares,” he said. The water level has reached 33 per cent — a three per cent increase from 30 per cent early in the week, he added. The trouble with Ndakaini started during the prolonged dry season, when the level significantly receded. Thuita said improvements are expected. “This can be attributed to climate change as there has been an abnormal behaviour,” Thuita said. Last week, Thuita said the Sh6.8 billion Northern Collector Tunnel, which is under construction in Murang’a, has not lowered the level in the dam, as some people have claimed.