Rains are expected to slightly reduce today and tomorrow before increasing towards the weekend. The weatherman said Northern Kenya will be the biggest beneficiary of the reduced rainfall, because it is where most flooding has occurred. Head of meteorological services Peter Ambenje yesterday said residents will enjoy mixed fortunes because storms will still hit some places within the region. “Heavy showers and thunderstorms may still occur,” Ambenje said. The rains will generallys increase toward the weekend across the country, which means floods may persist. Read: Nine dead, chaos as heavy rains strike Ambenje also delivered gloomy forecast for Narok and most parts of the Rift Valley in his seven-day forecast which ends Monday next week. He said residents and travellers using the Narok roads should expect afternoon showers and thunderstorms throughout the week, with the exception of today. Narok has borne the brunt of the rains this season with major roads collapsing and a section of the Rift Valley tearing apart. All Nyanza and Western Kenya counties should also expect heavy rains in the afternoons. “Intense rainfall is likely to occur in the first two days over Nyanza and Western regions and the southern parts of Narok county,” Ambenje said. Ambenje said the rain would also drench highlands in the Rift Valley, including Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Kajiado, Kericho and Bomet counties. “Evening showers and thunderstorms are expected over several places during the week," he said. Read: Kainuk Bridge swamped by floods, passengers stranded Northwestern counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will remain sunny until Monday. However showers and thunderstorms may occur over few places tomorrow and Friday. Central highlands including, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Murang'a, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi will have cloudy mornings and evening showers. “The showers are likely to be relatively heavier on Thursday and Friday,” Ambenje said. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will occasionally experience morning rains and afternoon showers. The showers will be heavier on Friday and could cause flooding. Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta will experience light rains. The rains will be relatively heavier towards the weekend. At the Coast, the rains will be relatively heavier on Thursday and Saturday.  Click here for the latest political news