The DPP has launched investigations into rape allegations made by a lady against two Kenyan rugby players. The lady revealed the alleged ordeal on her Instagram page and named Frank Wanyama, a Harlequins Rugby Club player, and one of his colleagues as the perpetrators. “Hey guys, I have decided to share a certain ordeal that happened to me earlier this year…on my birthday. Something that has changed my life possibly for the worst,” she said. “On 10th February 2018 (my birthday) I was raped by two men,” she added, saying the ordeal left her pregnant. She claimed Wanyama and the friend took turns in raping her on the fateful night and had the audacity to even let her rest before resuming. “I was slipping in and out of consciousness maybe due to shock but I was helpless. I couldn’t fight two men who play rugby professionally, obviously they were stronger hence I let them do whatever they wanted to do the whole night.” The lady, who describes herself on Instagram as a singer, songwriter and performer, said she was afraid of reporting the ordeal to the police because she couldn’t face what happened. “I could’ve reported the case to police but I was in denial, shock, pain and exhausted! I didn’t want to report also because of the profile of one of this rugby players,” she said. The issue was brought to the attention of the DPP’s office after it was widely shared on other social media sites. “The @ODPP_KE has already contacted the victim and appropriate action is being taken in consultation with DCIO Kilimani,” the office tweeted. “I still don’t want to report coz of the toll it had had on me…more than a month later I found out I am pregnant from the ordeal guys,” she said. “Reporting a case now will not have any impact because of the way the system is set up mostly helps the rapist never the victim,” she added. She went on: “I tried reaching out to Wanyama to take responsibility for his actions…as I don’t know his other friend and I wouldn’t know the father to this child. I even threatened him to go public but he told me to hit the road and look for a lawyer.” In a tweet, however, the DPP assured that the case was being given serious attention. “@ODPP_KE treats information about rape very seriously. Be rest assured that the matter is being given due urgent attention. The @ODPP_KE has already got in touch with Kilimani DCIO CC @DCI_Kenya and action is being taken. #justiceforkemunto.” In a statement on Monday, the Kenya Rugby Union said that it was aware of the rape allegations and that it was reviewing the case. “It is also important to note that with a report having been made to law enforcement officers, the KRU cannot comment further about the allegations pending the outcome of investigations.” “KRU wishes to state that it does not condone sexual harassment or any other activity that goes against the spirit of World Rugby Regulation 20 and remains committed to continued respect, empowerment and increased participation in all aspects of the sport of rugby,” the statement reads. Kenyans on social media condemned the incident and called for speedy investigations and prosecution of those involved. "Lets not be quick to judge the system, we have brilliant prosecutors. @ODPP_KE who work hard to put away criminals. The judiciary equally has able Magistrates who are somber enough to convict where its due," Karanja Marigu said.  Click here for the latest political news