ODM is strong and supportive of the handshake, Hassan Joho has said, adding he will push for constitutional changes should the vote be called. In Kondele, Kisumu county, where Opposition leader Raila Odinga has massive support, the Mombasa Governor said he supports initiatives of inclusivity and cohesion. "Our party is still solid and compact but we want to strengthen it and Baba’s position more, so he is assured of our backing when he engages other leaders across the country," Joho said on Thursday. "We support all initiatives by Raila to foster inclusivity and cohesion in this great nation." He added that he will soon go on tour to promote and strengthen Raila's Orange Democratic Movement. The county boss also reaffirmed the party’s support for a referendum to change the Constitution. Kenya could hold a referendum in late 2020 and go to the next election with a new system of government headed by an executive Prime Minister. This is among the proposals proponents say will end the winner-take-all system blamed for perennial political tensions. While on this way from the 5th Annual Devolution Conference in Kakamega, Joho said: "If this includes a referendum for and by the people of Kenya, so be it. Gibiro ngeyo ni gikiya (meaning 'Watajua hawajui', which directly translates to 'They will know that they don't know')." "There are people claiming they will not allow constitutional amendments. You can’t long for the presidency yet be afraid of some things," the ODM Deputy Leader added.  Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho addresses residents of Kondele in Kisumu county, April 26, 2018. /COURTESY Raila, who is fondly referred to as Baba, has had his eye on State House since 1997 but after years of a rough battle, he decided to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The deal announced on March 9 is aimed at national healing, peace, unity and development. The referendum and other proposals are believed to be among the long awaited details of the implementation plan of the Uhuru-Raila agreement. Insiders say Uhuru will elaborate on likely reforms during his State of the Nation address to Parliament next Wednesday. This has however been opposed by Deputy President William Ruto who insists no changes will be made to accommodate selfish interests. More on this: Uhuru-Raila handshake to bring back Prime Minister Read : Uhuru-Raila handshake will not lead to Prime Minister post, Ruto says Click here for the latest political news