First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has received a donation of 100 special wheelchairs from the Giants Group of Nairobi towards her Beyond Zero campaign. The 100 special wheelchairs bring to 240 the number of mobility carts the ‘Beyond Zero’ initiative has received since last month when the First Lady began implementing the second Strategic Plan for her Beyond Zero initiative. Last week, the First Lady distributed 140 hand-driven mobility carts to persons living with disability in Migori County. The Kenya Relief Organisation, a faith-based organization from Migori that helps vulnerable groups across the country, donated the carts; other beneficiaries of the 140 carts were drawn from Kwale, Narok, Kisumu, Nakuru, Machakos, Lamu, Eldoret, Kisii, Busia, Bomet and Kericho. Read: Nairobi gets 47th mobile clinic as phase one of Beyond Zero campaign ends The chairs donated on Tuesday will be distributed to needy Kenyans in line with the new strategic plan of the ‘Beyond Zero’ initiative. Giants Group of Nairobi is a charitable organization which has been offering services to the less fortunate members of the society in Nairobi and across the country for over 30 years now. As he handed over the wheelchairs at a ceremony held in State House, Nairobi, the chairman of the Giants Group of Nairobi, Altaf Abdalla, thanked the First Lady for her devotion to uplifting the lives of the less fortunate. “We sincerely appreciate your hard work in putting a smile on the face of Kenyans through the ‘Beyond Zero’ initiative,” Abdalla said. The First Lady expressed her appreciation to the organisation, saying the wheelchairs would change the lives of many Kenyans living with disability. “On behalf of Beyond Zero, I would like to say ‘thank you’. We appreciate your generosity and concern for the less fortunate,” said the First Lady. At another function also held at State House, the First Lady donated a bus with special features to Therapies For Kids, to provide transport for children living with disability. Therapies For Kids is a state-of-the-art shop that allows the families of children with disabilities to access their therapy needs in one place. Nine children living with disabilities, and their parents and guardians, had the chance to meet and talk to the First Lady and to ride in the new bus. Also read: First Lady cancels Beyond Zero marathon over politics  Click here for the latest political news