African leaders resisting
"democratic transformation" must heed their citizens' calls for
change, former Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said on
Saturday after receiving an award aimed at promoting good
leadership on the continent. Without naming specific countries or leaders, she referred
to "laggard" countries in the region of one billion people who
are "not meeting democratic transformation". "Their own citizens are making the call for change and I
don't think they can continue to resist or deny that call for
change," Johnson Sirleaf told Reuters after accepting the award
in Rwanda's capital Kigali. Long-serving African leaders who have changed the law to
stay in power include Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, 73, and
Cameroon's President Paul Biya, in power for 35 years. Johnson Sirleaf was awarded the 2017 Mo Ibrahim award,
designed to improve the quality of African political leadership,
after handing over power in her West African country's first
peaceful democratic transition in seven decades. "The pressure builds (for democracy)," she said. "The young
people today are educated, skilful, demanding, and eventually we
have to listen and I think that will happen to all those that
are still lagging behind." Africa's first elected female head of state, and a Nobel
Peace Prize laureate, Johnson Sirleaf stepped down as president
of war-scarred Liberia last month, making way for
ex-international soccer star George Weah. She is only the fifth person to win 10-year-old Ibrahim
Prize for Achievement in African Leadership, founded by Sudanese
telecoms tycoon Mo Ibrahim, which has several times not been
awarded for lack of a suitable candidate. The prize is $5 million paid out over 10 years, with another
$200,000 annually throughout the winner’s lifetime. Johnson Sirleaf, a former World Bank and United Nations
official, said this was unsurprising because many African
nations do not meet the Foundation's high standards. "Democracy is now moving at a fast pace but it hasn’t got
everybody yet," she said in an interview. "And even in stated democracies there is not enough ...
democracy in the sense of full competition, full support for
those that have been marginalised from the political scene." But Africa continues to change. In Burkina Faso, Blaise Compaore was ousted by protests in
2014 after he tried to amend the constitution to extend his
decades-long rule, while Gambia's ruler Yahya Jammeh fled after
regional pressure ended his 22-year reign last year. Johnson Sirleaf said she was optimistic about recent
transfers of power on the continent. Earlier this month, Ethiopia swore in a new prime minister
after Hailemariam Desalegn quit to clear the way for reforms. In Zimbabwe, 94-year-old Robert Mugabe stood down as
president in November, after the army and former political
allies turned against him, ending nearly four decades of rule
marred by allegations of corruption, human rights abuses and
economic negligence. Zimbabwe is due to hold elections in July. Johnson Sirleaf defended her record in Liberia, saying her
much-criticised efforts to fight corruption were hindered by a
"culture" of graft "developed for many years of deprivation
through conflict." Click here for the latest political news