The government's desire to achieve the big four agenda is likely to see China's credit to Kenya hit Sh1 trillion by 2022. This follows a pledge by the Asian economic giant to support Jubilee's blue print for the next five years that is aimed at improving the living conditions of an estimated 47 million Kenyans. Currently , China is one of the leading bilateral donors with cumulative official development assistance to Kenya standing at Sh730 billion comprising grants of Sh27.9 billion and loans of Sh702.1 billion. “The big four will cost quite a lot. Our expectation is that some of it will come from government some of it from the private sector and so we are in the process of strengthening our public private partnership,” the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of National Treasury and Planning Kamau Thugge said on Friday last week. He further said that the government is currently using Chinese credit to construct the Nairobi to Naivasha SGR project, the construction of Nairobi Inland Container Deport yard, Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital, construction of Kibwezi-Kitui road among other projects. “ There are other hosts of projects in the pipeline...,” Thugge said. The government’s Big Four Agenda was launched last December by President Uhuru Kenyatta with the aim of addressing the most pressing issues faced by Kenyans. The Agenda is aimed at raising the share of manufacturing sector to 15 percent of GDP; ensure that all citizens enjoy food security and improved nutrition by 2022 ; achieve universal health coverage; and deliver at least five hundred thousand (500,000) affordable housing units. In the first phase of building the houses, which was carried out in Mavoko, transport and infrastructure cabinet secretary, James Macharia said that they had 65 companies expressing their interest in building the homes with 35 of them being Chinese firms. OTHER FUNDING SOURCES To further achieve the laid down agenda, the government seeks to maintain inflation rate within the band of 2.5 per cent on either side of the five per cent target. This comes as it slows down ministerial expenditure, while implementing various measure to boost domestic revenue mobilization, strengthening the tax administration by funding it more and expansion of the tax base. To this effect , the government last week proposed an overhaul of the current Income Tax act that seeks to improve the cost of living. Other laid down measures aiming at raising revenue to realise the big four include reducing government deficit by three per cent to the Gross Domestic Product ( GDP) by financial year 2021/2022 from the current 9.1 per cent of GDP, and the nominal public debt on net basis targeted to reduce from the preliminary 51.9 per cent of GDP to 43.2 per cent in 2022.  