Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is banking on a funding strategy as his administration seeks to deal with heaps of garbage that have continued to dot
most parts of the city. The 2018-19 County Fiscal
Strategy Paper (CFSP) has proposed that the county creates additional landfills as well as ensure timely collection and
disposal of wastes. The CFSP proposes further investment in Solid Waste
Disposal (SWD) and development of a solid waste management policy. The county government has also recommended behavioural change programmes for
residents in order to inculcate the 4Rs (Reduction, Reuse, Recycle and
Recover). Sonko's plan came amid public outcry over
the ever increasing mounds of uncollected garbage in markets, estates,
streets and roadsides.  This is against drawbacks in the face of 17 out of 28
contractors stopping to collect garbage over a Sh600 million debt for the past
two years. Some of the contractors’ trucks have been auctioned
after they failed to repay their loans since City Hall failed to
honour its end of the contractual agreement. Shortage of equipment has also been blamed for the challenge of solid waste management. A report tabled by Environment
committee chairman John Kamau last month stated that only 22 trucks out of the county's 60 are
operational. Sonko unveiled the garbage trucks in November last year after MCAs complained of the unending filth of the county. The 38 trucks were grounded after they broke down due to bad roads, especially those
leading to the Dandora dumpsite. More on this: Sonko unveils 60 garbage trucks after MCAs complain of filthy Nairobi In 1996, the county's only
legal dumpsite (Dandora) was declared full. However, it still continues to
receive waste from across the city. Several attempts to relocate it
to Ruai failed. Last month, the county government obtained the
title deed for Dandora dumpsite which gave new hope for investments towards waste recycling. A German investor —
Sustainable Environment Management UG — withdrew from the project in
2016 for lack of a title for the 30-acre wasteyard. Reports
indicate about 2,400 tonnes of solid waste is generated in the
city daily, but only about 1,500 tonnes is collected and deposited in Dandora. Acting environment chief officer Isaac Muraya earlier said the county has financial challenges because the money it collects is not enough to cater for solid waste management. The official said this when he appeared before the
Public Accounts Committee last month. Muraya said the county's equipment such as bulldozers, compactors among others, were procured over 30 years ago and are grounded at the Dandora dumpsite. Sonko pledged to distribute at least 40 garbage skips in wards after waste collection was devolved. To date, the
skips are yet to be positioned in strategic locations in Nairobi estates. Read: Sonko takes garbage skips to Nairobi estates, hires youths   