Maendeleo ya Wanawake yesterday held a memorial service for fallen South African freedom fighter Winnie Mandela at Nairobi Baptist Church. The organisation's leaders led by chairman Rahab Muiu celebrated Winnie as the woman who inspired women allover the world. MAYWO founder Phoebe Asiyo remembered Winnie as anti -apartheid icon who bore the brunt of the struggle for independence during the 27 years of her husband, Nelson Mandela's incarceration and inspired women. Former Justice Minister Martha Karua said Mandela's widow was a gallant fighter for independence, human rights and Africans dignity who inspired women in Africa and the whole world. "Women excellency is often uncelebrated. We must vow as women to keep celebrating and va;idating ourselves. We have resposnibility to keep the legacy of Winnie alive," Martha Karua. The life of Winnie did not only inspire women in SA alone but women in politics all over the world. Our dreams were validated and that we have a place in politics. Without a woman like Winnie in the struggle women would have been completely forgotten." Winnie will be laid to rest today. Nominated senator Zipporah Kitony hailed Winnie for her strength in the face of tribulations and keeping the fire of freedom struggle burning by continueosly reminding the world of Mandela's predicament in prison. "Losing Winnie Mandela is not only a blow for South Africa but to Africa and world at large. Her bravery amid threats by the colonialists, and standing firmly to fight for the rights of South Africans and women, we have seen fruits and today, in all spheres of government and politics, women occupy senior positions. In Africa, she made us know that a woman has a space in politics and leadership." "Winnie visited me in my office in Maendeleo House in 1998 when she was in the country and went for lunch at Grand Regency with us, MAYWO officials. She took time to celebrate our achievements as the first national women organisation, she was an encouragement to us," Kitony said. Kitony said Winnie was selfless and fought for the rights of women and her family enduring for 27 years her husband was in prison during which she continued the fight. "Not other person could have given such a sacrifice. If it was a man, he could have remarried but she endured until Nelson Mandela was released,' Kitony said. Read:Raila leaves for Winnie Mandela's funeral in South Africa      