Global health officials have set a target of 2026 to kick out yellow fever from Africa. World Health Organization boss Dr Tedros Adhanom said nearly one billion people will be vaccinated against yellow fever in 27 high-risk countries, including Kenya, in eight years. “The world is facing an increased risk of yellow fever outbreaks and Africa is particularly vulnerable,” Adhanom said in a statement sent by WHO yesterday. “With one injection, we can protect a person for life against this dangerous pathogen. This unprecedented commitment by countries will ensure that by 2026 Africa is free of yellow fever epidemics.” The commitment is part of the Eliminate Yellow Fever Epidemics in Africa strategy, which is supported by WHO, Gavi, Unicef and more than 50 health partners. Read:Relief as 10-year Yellow Fever jab certification extended to lifetime Kenya remains at risk of yellow fever because of travellers through countries that have recently reported outbreaks. The last two cases reported in Kenya in 2016 were imported from Angola. One of the patients died after multi-organ failure. The second was treated in Nairobi and discharged. Yellow fever is the only disease specified in the International Health Regulations for which countries may require proof of vaccination from travellers as a condition of entry. Currently, one jab is enough to protect people for life. The outbreak in Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2016 killed about 400 people. Brazil is currently battling its worst outbreak of yellow fever in decades, with more than 1,000 confirmed cases. The virus is transmitted to people primarily through the bite of infected female Aedes aegypti mosquito. Most people recover, but approximately 15 per cent of those infected develop severe disease manifested as yellow eyes and skin, haemorrhage and shock, resulting in potentially fatal kidney, liver or heart conditions. The three objectives of the new strategy are protecting at-risk populations through preventive mass vaccination campaigns and routine immunisation programmes; preventing international spread and containing outbreaks rapidly. “Vaccine manufacturers and Gavi partners have worked hard to improve the global vaccine supply situation in recent years to make sure there is enough vaccine to respond to outbreaks, allow preventive campaigns and that routine immunisation functions at full capacity,” Dr Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, said. Also Read:No entry to Kenya for Angolans without valid yellow fever certificates