Former Lamu Governor Issa Timamy has put land grabbers on notice for engaging in illegal transactions at the expense of poor locals. Land grabbers in the Governor Fatim Twaha's administration will not go Scot-free, Timamy said on Friday, warning that they will be pursued to the end. "I will not allow the oppression of the poor by a few greedy individuals out to steal land," he said. He spoke during his homecoming ceremony at Lamu Fort Square where he was welcomed by hundreds of supporters. The former county boss told the crowd that his petition against the election of Governor Fahim Twaha will be heard next month. "I filed an appeal and expect it to be heard in May. We shall know the truth," he said. “Be warned," he told the land grabbers he did not name. "If we come back, we will follow them to ensure the land is taken back to the public."  Former Lamu Governor Issa Timamy is received at Lamu Fort Square by his supporters, following the filing of his elections case at the Court of Appeal, April 20, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI Timamy added that he had received reports of the subdivision of land in some parts but promised to ensure justice for the poor. He regretted that residents "have turned out to be like orphans" and that there have been many complaints against Twaha's government yet he has been in office only since the election in August last year. "There have been issues with hospitals, lights and water and some county officials have been sacked for no good reasons," he said. Twaha sacked two executives - Florence Ndung’u and Raphael Munyua - in a cabinet reshuffle on April 4. Munyua’s sacking came in the wake of demonstrations by health workers. Read: Twaha sacks two executives in cabinet reshuffle The supporters jammed the streets of Lamu, dancing and singing Timamy's praises. Some accompanied him all the way from Manda Airport, his visit being the first since the Court of Appeal approved his case. The ex-Governor said those who voted for Twaha were misled and that they should start supporting him and preparing for victory in court. Related: [VIDEO] Twaha opposes Timamy's bid for vote recount, scrutiny Timamy and former Deputy Governor Eric Mugo noted that they were not mentioned in any cases of corruption or land grabbing while they were in office. Timamy thanked the national government for initiating the Sh625 million sea water desalination plant projects, which he noted are important for residents. He asked the government to lift the ban on the cutting of mangroves and charcoal burning as the people's livelihoods have been affected. "Mangrove cutting has been there for many generations yet side effects have not been there," he siad. Mugo said the government increased the financial allocation - from Sh2.2 billion to Sh3.3 billion - due to their good performance. In September last year, Twaha declared war on corrupt county officers saying he would deal mercilessly with anyone found culpable. The Governor also said he would ensure proper utilisation of the funds allocated to the county. Details: Toe the integrity line or quit, Twaha tells Lamu officials Click here for the latest political news