MPs will be required to speed up the passing of a Bill for 14 marginalised counties to benefit from Sh12.4 billion “lying idle”, according to Treasury PS Kamau Thugge. Thugge appeared before a parliamentary committee yesterday and said the Treasury has been allocating equalisation funds annually and projects in the marginalised counties can only be implemented once the Appropriation Bill pending in Parliament is passed. MPs in the National Assembly’s Committee on National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity had accused the Treasury of being a stumbling block in releasing the funds since the 2011-12 financial years to implement key projects. Eldas MP Adan Keynan said the prolonged delay in releasing the money is against the Constitution and amounts to continued marginalisation of the counties since Independence. Read: 14 counties to get Sh12bn Equalization Fund “It is better we call a spade a spade. This particular fund is not a favour by any government institution. It is a constitutional requirement. If money is not there, let’s say it is not there,” Keynan told Thugge. He raised concerns the Treasury has been confirming the availability of the funds in documents but on “ground it is zero.” “We should be told the truth for us to announce that the government has refused to implement the constitutional requirement and resolve as a parliamentary caucus from marginalised counties to go to court with governors,” Keynan said. He said some projects in his constituency have been completed, but the Treasury is yet to pay contractors. Turkana South MP James Lomenen and Samburu Woman Representative Maison Leshomo took Thugge to task, saying they have never seen equalisation projects in their counties yet Treasury books show they have been implemented. “Marginalised counties have been denied justice and equal opportunity. I haven’t seen Equalisation Fund projects in Turkana. In my Turkana South subcounty, I proposed a water project; it is not there but in books it is completed,” Lomenen said. He raised fears the Treasury could have used the equalisation funds to clear the government’s debts because it only exists in books. Equalisation funds are meant to fund water, electricity, road and health projects in the 14 marginalised counties. Details: Uhuru launches Sh6 billion Equalization Fund for poor counties  Click here for the latest political news