Investigations into the attack on former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka’s Karen home have collapsed, police have said. Gunmen on January 31 hurled a grenade and fired shots at the compound of the NASA principal. No one was injured during the midnight incident. A status report on the investigations by the Nairobi DCI said investigators could not proceed because Kalonzo had declined to hand in a cartridge he said he recovered from his compound. The report submitted to city DCI chief Ireri Kamwende said the cartridge was needed for ballistic examination. Yesterday, Kamwende said investigators are still working on the case, but did not comment on the brief. But in a quick rejoinder, an aide to Kalonzo said police gathered all the evidence they required to carry out investigations. “The police have photographs of the scene, serial numbers of the grenades and they have no reason to fail in their investigations,” the aide, who requested not to be named, said. political gimmick? He could not, however, explain why the former Vice President had not given the cartridge to the investigators. Kalonzo’s home was attacked the night after he skipped the swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga as the People’s President in Uhuru Park. Read:Kalonzo weeps as Raila says home attack scared sick wife But some, including senior police officers, were sceptic and dismissed the attack as a political gimmick. Kalonzo was at his Karen home with his family when the criminals struck. Police say the attackers arrived in a private car but drove past the main gate when they saw private guards on duty. Bomb squad investigators have since concluded the device hurled at the home was a stun grenade, also known as a flash grenade, which is only capable of producing a loud sound but cannot cause injuries or destruction. Police had earlier said they could not find any footage from the CCTV cameras in Kalonzo’s home because they were not working at the time. Also Read:Kalonzo refuses to comment on 'fabricated' home attack Click here for the latest political stories  