Some 3,000 families in Likoni constituency, Mombasa County, are set to benefit from fresh water supply once the Likoni Water Supply Works Project is completed. Likoni residents told the Star on Saturday the project will help “quench our thirst.” Newly appointed Water CS Simon Chelugui toured the area on Friday to inspect the progress of the project. “We are very pleased with what is ongoing in Likoni. Yesterday, the Water CS was here to inspect the project and we are being assured that water scarcity in Likoni will soon be a thing of the past,” Evans Momanyi, a youth leader in the region, said. Momanyi, who chairs  the Capital Youth Caucus Association said Likoni has about 200,00 residents in the five wards of Likoni constituency. “We are happy that water pipes are being taken to about 3,000 households. We are sure this project will serve the entire Likoni population estimated to be over 200,000 people,” he said. Khamis Mbwana, a resident who has lived in Likoni for over 30 years, praised the project. “Water is life and we are happy that the government is committed to ensure Likoni residents and Mombasa at large get access to fresh tapped water,” he said. Related: Mombasa illegal connections to blame for dry taps, poor supply  Contractors water pipes in Likoni in the Likoni Water Supply Works Project. /CHARLES MGHENYI On Friday, Chelugui said the project entails rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary distribution lines and installation of water meters. He said the Sh542 million projects, which is being undertaken by Suhufi Agencies Limited, is expected to be completed by the end of October this year. “The ongoing work comprise laying of 52km steel and UPVC pipes and construction of chambers for all meters, valves, air valves, fire hydrants and thrust blocks on bend," Chelugui said. According to the contractor, Suhufi Agencies Limited, they are already ahead of schedule and they expect to hand it over to the government by the end of August or early September. “We are ahead of schedule and we are glad that we have made progress. The project, which is expected to be handed over October, will actually be handed over by August or thereabout,” Director Siyad Issak told the Star. He said the project is now 68 per cent complete.  Click here for the latest political news