Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula’s has been labelled a “broker” for trying to rally Luhyas behind a ‘Mulembe party’ after falling out with NASA leader Raila Odinga. Wetang’ula on Saturday said Ford Kenya has parted ways with Raila. He is planning a merger with Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC to unite the Western region. “We are wishing him well in his future endeavours. We are now clearly seeing who the real brokers are and it’s good they have left,” ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna told the Star yesterday. However, Sifuna said the divorce by Wetang’ula is “inconsequential” to the coalition. Others who have opposed the forming of a Luhya party are Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and his Sport counterpart Rashid Achesa, who are allied to Jubilee, as well as NASA’s Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Sifuna said Wetang’ula is not bringing anything meaningful to the NASA coalition and is riding on the name of Raila Odinga. He said Luhyas voted for Raila without being forced by a leader, and they do not need Wetang’ula’s endorsement for them to support him. “He should not think that leaders should go through him to get Luhya votes. He should understand that Luhyas support Raila through their own will and not being influenced by a leader,” Sifuna said. RAILA 'SNEAKED LIKE NICODEMUS' Wetang’ula said the political union he and Mudavadi had with the opposition leader had ended. He said the opposition leader should not take Luhya leaders for a ride, saying the Mulembe nation would not be used to propel others to power. Speaking in Kabuchai, Wetang’ula said every leader had their supporters and followers, and trying to undermine a particular leader is no longer welcomed. “For my friend Raila, my journey with you is officially over. He should understand that every person leader has his home and those who follow him. We as Mulembe people will be looking to forge ahead with other like-minded people,” he said. Wetang’ula said it was wrong for the people to die and others to lose property during campaign time, only for politicians to pursue their selfish interests. He said they were not opposed to the dialogue between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leaders for the sake of peace, only that it was supposed to be done in a proper and constructed manner, and should be all-inclusive, as every Kenyan has a right to participate in the affairs of the country. “What we are opposed is somebody sneaking like Nicodemus in the night to meet Jesus and come to tell us that he did it on our behalf,” he said. Wetang’ula said he is consolidating his support base before reaching out to other leaders from various regions to back his presidential bid. OPARANYA WOOS RAILA Elsewhere, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya also said he is ready to run for President in 2022. “I will also want to have a chat with Luhya leaders in Jubilee so that we can unite the ‘Mulembe’ nation and support my presidential bid. I am also calling on my friend and party leader, Raila Odinga, to back my bid,” he said. Click here for the latest political news