Former Transport CS Michael Kamau yesterday lost a bid to completely terminate a corruption case against him. Kamau had applied to have the case terminated to arrest any attempt to charge him afresh after he was discharged. When an accused person is discharged, he or she can be charged afresh with same offence. Anti-Corruption Court Judge Hedwig Ong'undi dismissed Kamau's plea for acquittal, opening avenues for the state to institute fresh charges against the former CS. Kamau was discharged by a lower court following a decision of the Court of Appeal, which issued an order permanently blocking his prosecution. An aggrieved Kamau moved to the High Court seeking an acquittal on January 31. He sought orders for examination of the record in the case to determine legality of the discharge. Kamau also sought to terminate his prosecution in accordance with appellate court order of July 14, last year. Kamau had challenged his prosecution before the Appeal Court, arguing that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission was not properly constituted when the charges were leveled against him. The state said he never sought to challenge the case on the basis of his innocence, which can only be determined by a trial court. Appellate judges said the decision to charge Kamau for abuse of office was illegal. They quashed the trial. Judges Milton Makhandia, William Ouko and Kathurima M'inoti ruled that the criminal proceedings against Kamau be stopped. They said the EACC was not properly constituted when it investigated the former CS and recommended his prosecution. "The appeal succeeded following this technicality," the judges said. Kamau was facing charges of flouting procurement procedures in the tender for construction of Kamukuywa-Kaptama-Kapsokwony-Sirisia road. The Sh33 million tender was awarded to Engiconsult Consulting Engineers. Yesterday, Ong'udi said the case was not heard at the time the Appeal Court orders were issued. Ong'udi dismissed Kamau's application, saying there was no error committed by lower court in giving a discharge instead of acquittal.