Death and injury caused by snakebite will no longer be compensated if the proposed amendment to the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013 is approved. The amendment says death and injury caused by poisonous snake, shark, stone fish, whale, stingray and wild pig will be struck off the compensation list. But death and injury caused by elephant, lion, leopard, rhino, hyena, crocodile, buffalo, hippo and cheetah will be compensated. It also proposes to stop compensation for crops and property damaged by elephant, lion, leopard, rhino, hyena, crocodile, cheetah, buffalo, zebra, eland, wildebeest, snake and wild dog. However, livestock loss will continue to be compensated. The new changes are in Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2018, currently in Parliament. The changes were introduced by Leader of Majority Aden Duale last Tuesday. They seek to amend sections of the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013. Efforts to get a comment from Tourism CS Najib Balala were unsuccessful as he did not pick our calls or reply text messages. Currently, Sh5 million is paid out to the family of those killed, Sh3 million for injuries that lead to permanent disability and a maximum of Sh2 million in case of injury, depending on the seriousness of the attack. For damaged crops, compensation is based on the market value of the crops. Those not satisfied with the awards from the County Wildlife Conservation and Compensation Committee or the Kenya Wildlife Service can appeal to the National Environment Tribunal within 30 days. This is after being notified of the decision and award. On the second appeal, the unsatisfied party files an appeal at the Environment and Land Court. According to the Third Schedule of the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013, death and injury caused by elephant, lion, poisonous snake and hippo attracts compensation. Others are shark, leopard, rhino, hyena, crocodile, cheetah, buffalo, stone fish, whale, stingray, wild dog and wild pig. Crops, livestock and property damaged by elephant, lion, leopard, rhino, hyena, crocodile, cheetah, buffalo, hippo, zebra, eland, wildebeest, snake and wild dog also attract compensation. Former Environment CS Judi Wakhungu last year said her ministry was unable to pay snakebite victims Sh1.5 billion because the KWS had run of cash. Wakhungu said loopholes in the Wildlife Act made it difficult to compensate victims of wildlife attacks and amendments were long overdue. The former CS said of the Sh1.5 billion, the ministry had received only Sh250 million since 2015 for compensation. The proposed amendment also seeks to introduce penalties for those found to have poisoned wildlife. Those found to have knowingly or recklessly used a substance to poison any wild animal, will be liable to a fine of not less than Sh5 million or imprisonment of not less than five years or both.