The task force reviewing Nairobi county's Sh60 billion debt has raised concerns over creditors' laxity to present their contract documents for scrutiny. The team led by former EACC boss Patrick Lumumba has asked the creditors to produce the documents by April 30. They want the contractors to state the services offered, work done or goods delivered as well as disclose payments already made. The special committee is expected to review, scrutinise and analyse all the pending bills and make appropriate recommendations to the County Treasury for payment. The team said it is worried about the slow pace the debtors are taking to make the necessary documents available. Read: Sonko appoints PLO Lumumba to head Sh60b pending bills task force Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko asked those with genuine pending payments to submit their documents before the Pending bills committee. "I'm shocked to report to the public that a big number of the suppliers and contractors are reluctant in submitting these important documents." The county government also placed a paid advertisement in the local dailies on the same. The notice signed by the committee’s secretary Leboo ole Morintat and Lumumba says genuine creditors will be paid. The team has also promised to publish the review report in the next 90 days. Leboo said the contractors are required to tender copies of letters of award, acceptance and completion certificates. Their contracts, service level agreements, local purchase and service orders as well as bills of quantities are also needed. The team also requires the claimants to present them with certified copies of delivery notes, demand notes, interim payment certificates, fee notes, and invoices. Lumumba's team also wants documents showing either concluded (proceedings, judgement, decree, warrants or ongoing litigation or petition) over the claim. The committee will also determine whether there will be a need for oral representation or further documentation that is required. The contractors were also warned against any fraudulent claims. "The committee will not relent in the fight against and will forward [matters] to relevant government agencies for investigations and necessary action," the notice reads. Click here for the latest political news