The government will set up a company to helps Kenyans own houses at affordable rates, by the end of the month. The Kenya Mortgage Refinance Company, scheduled for full incorporation by end of the month will receive an estimated Sh2 billion from World Bank and shareholders. “We are engaging a consultant to develop a detailed business plan which will enable potential shareholders do appraisals and make informed investment decisions,”National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said at a stakeholder engagement. A detailed document on the establishment of the project reveals its initial funding will be from sovereign loans under the World Bank Affordable Housing Finance Project, and the government. Initial capital funding of Sh1.5 billion will be released in the first tier of the project through loans from international financial institutions, and the government. World Bank funding will be at concessional rates and provided directly to the government, which takes the foreign exchange risk. The remaining Sh500 million will be provided by shareholders, including leading private sector institutions and the National Treasury through Development Finance Institutions funding. The document, seen by the Star says that the funds will be used to kick start KMRC on affordable housing finance lending operations inclusive of loans below a certain level while developing its bond market funding strategy. More to boosting mortgage uptake in the country, the project seeks to help the government its Agenda 4 on affordable housing which seeks to deliver at least 500,000 affordable housing units in major cities around the country by 2022. Industry data shows that a backlog of two million housing units, and the backlog increases by 150,000 units every year due to factors including limited availability of mortgage finance and developer finance. It will offer loans to only civil servants, self employed or salaried persons at a fixed interest rate for a minimum period of time which will be variable if feasible in later years. The loans will be limited to a minimum of Sh1 million and a Maximum of Sh15 million for a five to 30 years term limit.