Governors yesterday criticised the national government for delaying money for the counties. They warned that it would hamper President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda and service delivery. Council of Governors (CoG) chairman Josphat Nanok fired the first salvo. He said the Treasury should fix the problem. He was speaking at the Fifth Devolution Conference at Kakamega High School. The Turkana governor said the 47 counties were merely surviving. He urged the national government to come up with a lasting solution for counties to access cash easily. County functions are being paralysed, he said. Let us not give room to acrimony or misunderstandings that create conflicts, he said. Colleagues praised Nanok’s tenure at the helm of the CoG. They said he has improved ties between the national and county governments. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the national government should to sort out the cash flow issues. “The Treasury is delaying release of funds to counties resulting in huge pending bills that are affecting county services,” Oparanya said. He asked Deputy President William Ruto, who was the chief guest during the closing ceremony, to intervene and ensure counties get their equitable share on time as required in the law. Governors asked the national government to develop clear linkages with the counties to power the ambitious Big Four agenda through structured consultation, coordination and cooperation. They said proper coordination was crucial in implementing Uhuru’s legacy because most of the issues at the heart of the President's vision are devolved. “The Big Four agenda is important for the counties because most of the items are devolved. For the national government to succeed, we must agree on the linkages so that we can achieve the objectives of the big four,” he said. But Deputy President William Ruto defended the government against claims of holding unto counties’ share of revenue. He said the state wants devolution to suceed. The DP said counties have received more than Sh1.5 trillion since the beginning of devolution in 2013. The is need to expedite release of funds to counties. Devolution is right up there in our agenda, he said. “We have no intention to delay money even for a day when we have resources. We have no intention to delay money any longer than we have resources,” Ruto pointed out adding that there are no arrears due to counties owed by the national government. “We don’t have balances for previous years. Year in year out, we have been faithful and although there are delays at the end we have no debts,” he said. Ruto told government that shortfalls in revenue collection at the counties coupled with over-commitment of resources was to blame for ballooning counties pending bills. According to Auditor General Edward Ouko’s reports, by December last year, the total pending bills in counties stood at Sh99 billion. “How do you explain the pending bills if all the resources due for counties have been released by the national government. We should avoid commitments that go beyond resources available,” he said. Ruto told the governors to emulate the national government that operates within the available resources. “We have a government that lives within its means. All that we transfer to counties are resources collected locally from the taxpayer, we have no any other support. All we raise we fund both the counties and the national government,” he said.