The Kirinyaga government has disbanded all youth polytechnics' boards of management. Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri said the institutions need vibrant and focused leadership to revamp them. He said those entrusted with the management of the youth polytechnics need to be serious if the institutions are to provide technical expertise to students. “In Kirinyaga our target is not only the youths who may not have proceeded to higher institutions of learning but to any member of the community who wants to learn and improve their skills," Ndambiri said. He spoke on Sunday at Nyangati Youth Polytechnic. The polytechnic has never been upgraded since it was established after Independence. Ndambiri said the county government has equipped the polytechnics with ICT equipment. He said students are taught to use the internet to look for jobs and markets for their produce; as well as to take advantage of any other opportunities it has to offer. "This is why we want competent people in the management of our polytechnics. People who share our vision of making Kirinyaga county great," Ndambiri said. Plans to open an industry to process rice husks into boards at Mucii aa Urata Youth Polytechnic are at an advanced stage. Ndambiri said the husks have been a menace to rice farmers. The boards will be used to make ceilings and desks. Ndambiri said the BoMs only exist on paper but their presence at the institutions has been invisible. “The CEC for Education should from now declare vacancies for the boards in all the 11 youth polytechnics and start a process of hiring new ones,” he said. Ndambiri said some of the board members must be men and women of integrity from the surrounding communities. “I have learnt one of the things which make these institutions not to grow is that the board members are picked from far away and have no attachment to the facility," he said. MCA Samuel Maina said he will be push to have more funds channelled to Nyangati Youth Polytechnic by the county government for its expansion and modernisation. “But we cannot talk of expansion without parents enrolling more of their children to this facility given it had only 12 students in 2013 and 40 presently," he said.