Fred Matiang'i appears has changed his position where civil societies are concerned, noting willingness to work with them on police reforms. There has been bad blood between police and groups such as Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR), Amnesty International, Africa Centre for Open Governance (AfriCOG) and Kenya Human Rights Commission (KHRC). Matiang'i, who is Interior Minister, noted on Tuesday that members of the societies are not foreigners. He added that he appreciates them and wants to work with them. "We must learn to talk to each other. Civil societies are part of us. We welcome their comments on various topics. Let us look at the Transparency International index on corruption and see how to improve," he said. Read: Kenya still among most corrupt, Transparency Index reports Speaking at the first National Policing Conference at Kenya School of Government in Nairobi, Matiang'i said that for a long time a gap has existed between police and CSOs. He said security agencies often wake up to all manner of provocations, some of which are based on falsehoods. "Sometimes we wake up and read reports in the press but never sit down to listen to our colleagues, reason with them and understand our reality and theirs," he explained. "Strangely enough, no one goes back and looks at the lies told about the security sector. Even our colleagues in the civil societies don't go back and say 'we were told this but it was not true'." The Cabinet Secretary noted that they were accused of "so many bad things" during the 2017 general elections. "We were accused of every evil. To this very day investigations are being carried out. People pay attention to things when they are exaggerated and played up but don't look at the reality," he said. "A gap has exited where we think others are enemies of others or suspect one another. There is no need to be suspicious. We in security are human and make mistakes. We are humble enough to say 'let us think of how to strengthen the sector and reduce the negative energy [that comes from] blame games." Matiang'i noted CSOs are a critical part of Kenya's development so they must be accorded the respect they deserve. He said that equally important is the need to hold talks and discuss ways to steer the country in the right direction. "I am happy to engage with Amnesty and KNCHR on all the reports. That is how we will develop a strong country where we speak to one another and develop as one," he said. "Let us work together. Police do a great job whether it rains or shines. We need to change our attitudes." The CS he would like to see police present reports and statistics on crimes, complete with actions taken. "Civil societies, don't condemn us when this things happen ... so much is happening ... one of my hopes is that we will come up with informal solutions on how to strengthen the police force," he said. On February 6, police fired tear gas to break civil society protests in Nairobi’s CBD, against the closure of three major TV stations and a return to dictatorship. KHRC Director George Kegoro, Deputy Director Davis Malombe and International Commission of Jurists Chairman Njonjo Mue led the demos from Freedom Corner in Uhuru Park. They made stopovers at the Standard Group offices and Nation Centre and demanded that the firms’ TV stations be switched on. Read: Activists teargassed during demos against media muzzling, dictatorship More on this: Civil society warns of repression as police disrupt city protests Click here for the latest political news