Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has asked the Attorney General to file a complaint with the Judicial Service Commission against various judges. Matiang'i told MPs on Tuesday that this is because the courts condemned them unheard in the saga surrounding lawyer Miguna Miguna. "We have gone to the Court of Appeal on the matter and even sought the Attorney General''s direction on how the judicial officers conducted themselves," the CS said. "When the judge wanted us to appear in court in person, we were attending a GSU pass-out parade and did not even have our phones. We were condemned unheard and on the basis of lies." He added: "I have not been served with any court order. I am not aware that there have been attempts to serve me, or any of these officers, with court orders." Appearing before the National Assembly Committee on Security, the CS further explained that the government could not smuggle Miguna into the country. Miguna was not deported but removed from the air side of the airport as required by law and international treaties, he noted. "I never signed any deportation orders. He was not in Kenya, he was a passenger on transit who never presented his credentials. He was sent back to his last port of call which was Dubai." Noting their actions were guided by the law, as their responsibility is to implement it, the Minister asked Parliament to help the Executive uphold these laws. Matiang'i told the MPs that they were determined to take as little time as possible handling Miguna's issue but that he made it difficult for the government to facilitate his re-entry. But he noted the case of a person who renounced his citizenship by birth thereby having to live at the JKIA for four months now. The vociferous lawyer declined to give out his passport for clearance at the point of entry. He admitted the same via a statement on Monday. Read: [Statement] Why I refused to hand over my Canadian passport - Miguna Matiang'i further said the ministry did what it could under the circumstances, including engaging the Canadian High Commission to extended consular services to Miguna. "They spent three hours persuading him to sign the forms. He refused. The following day his lawyers went to court," the CS said. He condemned lies peddled during the proceedings, following claims that the lawyer's passport was confiscated and that the subject was detained. "The director of Immigration could not produce someone who was not in Kenya. The simple act of giving your passport to be stamped takes less than a minute." Also read: Miguna arrives in Toronto on Canadian passport for medical care Read: Why Miguna Miguna was deported a second time Click here for the latest political news