Raila and his Opposition brigade have always painted the former President as the poster child of bad governance. The former Prime Minister was jailed for nine years during the Moi rule. In a statement to newsrooms from Raila’s office yesterday, the ODM leader said they discussed the state of the nation, key among them unity. Raila has been on a unity drive since the Harambee House handshake that sealed a deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The two leaders [Raila and Moi] discussed the state of the nation during the visit that lasted more than one hour,” Raila’s office said in a statement. Raila has been meeting former adversaries, especially from Uhuru’s Mount Kenya backyard, sparking speculation abouts his 2022 game plan. But yesterday, the former PM said the visit followed Moi’s recent hospitalisation in Israel last month. Read: Raila visits Moi at his Kabarak home, talk on state of Kenyan nation “Raila was visiting to wish the former President well,” said Raila’s spokesman Dennis Onyango. The high profile reception of Raila was, however, telling. On arrival at the Kabarak Airstrip, Raila was received by Tiaty MP William Kamket (Kanu) and Jubilee rebel Moiben MP Silas Tiren. At home, he was welcomed by Gideon and Kanu secretary general Nick Salat. Onyango, in a statement, said the retired President was in high spirits during the meeting. Raila was with Mvita MP Abdulswamwad Shariff and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri. Raila has been meeting leaders since his historical handshake with Uhuru on March 9. On April 10, he met former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo at his Capitol Hill office. Kabogo is a known critic of Deputy President William Ruto. Raila said his discussion with Kabogo revolved around the country’s welfare. A day earlier, on April 9, Raila met with UK ambassador Nic Hailey, where he said they had “candid discussions on pertinent issues affecting the country”. On March 26, the Opposition chief met Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. Also Read: Visiting Moi won't help you in 2022, Duale tells 'excited' politicians Click here for the latest political news