Raila Odinga has rebuked Interior CS Fred Matiang'i for going against the spirit and purpose of his unity agreement with President Uhuru Kenyatta. In a statement to the media on Wednesday, the Nasa principal condemned Matiang’i for "highly irresponsible and reckless statements" against the Judiciary, saying his behaviour exhibited impunity. Matiang'i said the government would deal with 'errant' judges when he appeared before the National Assembly Security committee on Tuesday. He appeared alongside PS Karanja Kibicho, Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa and IG Joseph Boinnet to explain the chaos that surrounded the return of lawyer and NRMKe General Miguna Miguna. More on this: Government targets judges over recent rulings Raila criticised the CS noting he and Uhuru promised Kenyans that they would use social and political platforms to foster reconciliation and unity, not hate. "I was therefore very distraught to see Matiang'i, live on national television, making virulent attacks on the Judiciary and on specific members of the bench." The ODM leader further said the Minister use language uncharacteristic of a State officer. "Using language that should not be on the lips of a State officer, Matiang’i attacked who he perceived to be his enemies, including his predecessors, who are unfortunately long dead," he said. He said it was unethical and irresponsible for a Cabinet Secretary to publicly denigrate another arm of government and refer to judges as “evil.” "It is irresponsible to castigate one’s predecessors in office particularly when they are dead and not there to defend themselves," he said. The Opposition leader asked Matiang’i to provide evidence against the judges he attacked. "The responsible thing to do is to register his complaint and present his evidence to the Judicial Service Commission. The politics and leadership of chest-thumping, fear-mongering, hate and division must end in Kenya," he said. Regarding court orders which the Minister said they did not disobey, despite being found guilty of contempt, Raila said: "Matiang'i has room to challenge the decisions of any court in a superior court through established channels of appeal." Noting the long and trouble 2017 elections seasons, he asked all leaders to behave in rational manners instead of worsening matters. Earlier, Miguna criticised Matiang'i for the saying he must fall and that he will pay for brutalising him. "Even the worst and most despicable tyrants like Idi Amin, Jean-Bedel Bokassa and Mobutu Sese Seko never got to the point of referring to judges as an evil clique the way despots like Matiang'i are doing. They must fall." More on this: Matiang'i must fall, Kenya can't be governed by guns - Miguna Details: Miguna was never in police custody, was not deported - Matiang'i Also read: [Statement] Why I refused to hand over my Canadian passport - Miguna Click here for the latest political news