With only two weeks inside April, the fireworks continue, and it doesn’t look like it’s a about to stop. It feels like it’s Diwali every single day of April, en I’m not being a fool about it!!! So let’s start with the never-ending handshake that this week was in Kabarak, where Baba (Rao) met up with the Real Baba, aka Man-Toro, aka Mzee Mo1, and not to mention Kijana Gideon... Kenyans definitely have a lot to say about the meeting. It was the the talk of the bar Thursday night... From Rao's magic handshake, another trending topic was Betty Kyalo, aka Petty Kyalo, who decided to raid her former business partner's premises and poach all her employees, forcing the once very posh palace to shut down instantly... According to #TheRaverend's blogs, Petty, oops, Betty Kyalo took all the staff, including the tea girl... She has now opened a new spot right across the road where Posh Palace is situated... Talk of revenge serves cold sub-zero levels... #TheRaverend can’t wait to see how Betty's former business partner Susan Kaittany will respond... I have a few suggestions; she can turn the salon into a pub or bar, and instead of doing hair, sell alcohol. I will definitely give her my support... Moving on swiftly to another trending madness, KOT decided to Andika Barua Kwa Mama (Wazazi). Yeah, our kids have completely lost the plot. I vividly recall an article I did on Instagram Pornographers, warning parents that their kids are being exploited in the guise of Instagram models... Months later, KOT have decided to expose the same madness, with our young kids posing nude and turning into instant porn starts without notice... It’s very sad to see the pictures of young teens posing nude or like strippers on the Tripple-W. But the kids who everyone is busy trying to help don’t give a shit... In fact, they're fighting back on social media, calling out KOT, feeling absolutely nothing... When #TheRaverend was growing up, we respected and feared our parents, but fast-forward to 2018, the kids don’t care... I will not sit here and blame the society or the media because at the end of the day, I believe the buck stops with the parents. If your child is rotten, that’s a parent's fault... Society and the media will not raise your child for you. Yes, it plays a role and may shape their thinking in some type of way, but the buck stops with the parents. We can’t let our kids run around like mad men or women. We have to instil the fear of God in them. They need to know it’s not a democracy but a dictatorship. Hakun cha haki yetu when you're below 17 years. That only comes to play when you become a voter... We can’t allow our kids to run wild and turn around and look for excuses. Parents need to take control of their brats. They need to be in charge... We can’t let the society or the media dictate who our kids will become... KOT can’t police or act as the voice of reason when it comes to parenting our kids. The fact that it has taken KOT to speak for parents to act means parents have failed their kids... We need to go back to the days when raising kids was a communal effort. We were scared shitless of all adults and respected them! I remember when I was growing up, doing dumb shit was never ever an option, because any adult would whoop your ass instantly... Fear and respect are the only way to deal with a child... Fear is what made you scatter and hide when you kicked the ball into the neighbours' by mistake. Respect is what has you offering your seat to an older person who’s standing. We had it all, now we just need to raise our kids on some of that. They need to know that Aunty Nani has a right to vuta their ears when they do wrong, and they dash to get a glass for uncle Nani when he needs one without saying how they are busy watching TV... The only right children have is the right to breathe. All the other rights they can exercise them when they become adults, when they start paying taxes... #TheRaverend is not making excuses for millennials. It’s time we introduce the beatings that we got as children for a better future. When wagenge said spare the rod spoil the child, they were not drunk. So parents, it’s time we parent our kids like they did back in the days. It’s time to go back to the Wild Wild West!!!