The fifth devolution conference to be held in Kakamega starting next Monday will pump Sh200 million into the economy of Western region counties, a representative of host Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said. Beatrice Sabana spoke yesterday at a Council of Governors steering committee meeting. A majority of the 6,000 delegates will be accommodated in Kakamega, Kisumu and Bungoma counties within the Lake Region Economic Bloc. This is after it emerged Kakamega county lacks the hospitality facilities to meet demand. Sabana said the CoG will cater for the accommodation of governors, their deputies, executives and speakers of county assemblies while the rest of the delegates will book their own hotels. Each of the 47 counties has contributed Sh2 million to accomodate VIPs. During a revenue enhancement forum in Kisumu last week, Oparanya said the counties in the region will take advantage of the conference to encourage development partners to invest in the hotel industry. The secretary of the county joint hospitality committee and Kakamega Hoteliers Association chairman William Ouya said all hotels in the county can accomodate 3,00 people only. Sabana said 17 hotels within the county have formed and registered a consortium to handle the catering services during the four-day event. “No single institution could offer the required services and the hotels owners came together to be able to pool resources for the purpose of ensuring standard services by local entrepreneurs,” she said. Sabana said the consortium has gone through tendering. Hospitals have also been identified to provide medical services. Aga Khan Hospital will be on stand by to provide evacuation services if required. Kakamega county commissioner Abdiruzak Jaldesa said 640 police officers and 60 vehicles will be deployed to provide security during the event. handshake Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Oparanya, Vihiga Governor Wilbur Otichillo, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Devolution PS Nelson Marwa, Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulobi and Kakamega’s Philip Kutima, MPs Emmanuel Wangwe, Bernard Shinali, Johnston Naica, Titus Khamala and Didimus Barasa attended the pre-conference meeting. Others were woman representatives Elsie Muhanda (Kakamega) and Catherine Wambilianga (Bungoma). The conference will run from Monday to Thursday next week. It will focus on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda of affordable housing, healthcare, industrialisation and agriculture. Wamalwa said the relationship between the national government and county governments and senators has improved and the conference is expected to be smooth compared to the past four devolution conferences. Earlier, conferences were held in Kisumu, Meru, Naivasha and Kwale counties. “The conference has come at the right time following the March 9 handshake between President Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga, which has a positive impact on the country’s economy,” he said. “What we’re seeing today is a paradigm shift where the leaders are preparing for the conference as one unit.” Wamalwa said the government will support the Lake Region Economic Bloc development agenda through the Nile Basin Development initiatives and the Lake Basin Development Authority through implementation of crosscutting development projects. He said the bloc will make the region, with a population of 14million, attractive for investments by partners.