The Kikuyu community will stand with DP William Ruto at all costs in 2022, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has said. Waiguru said on Sunday that they are sure Ruto will succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta, so Rift Valley residents should not be afraid or doubtful. "I am here to assure you that we already have our President ... that is Ruto," she said. "We will support Ruto to ensure the presidency comes to this side in 2022. In February, Ruto kicked off an elaborate strategy to widen his political base amid muted discussions in the populous Mt Kenya region on whether it will back him in the next general election. Among the obstacles he must neutralise is the family of former President Daniel Moi, whose son Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has declared his interest to succeed Uhuru. Details: Ruto seeks new allies over 2022 fear of ‘betrayal’ Waiguru also praised Ruto for his efforts in uniting Kenyans. She spoke in Eldoret town where she joined the Deputy President and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago for the first edition of the Eldoret City Marathon. Read: Waiguru joins Ruto and Mandago at first Eldoret City Marathon Governors present included Stephen Sang (Nandi), Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo) and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet). Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau and her Nyeri counterpart Rahab Mukami also affirmed the Kikuyu community's support for the DP. Gitau said Mt Kenya communities have already made their decision. "This is a done deal. We are only waiting for 2022." she said at the event. The marathon, whose winners won Sh3 million each, was themed 'Climate Action' and aimed at creating awareness on environmental conversation. Ruto urged Kenyans to actively participate in conservation efforts while Waiguru welcomed athletes to Kirinyaga for the Mwea marathon. She noted that athletics has given the county international fame so it should be used to unite Kenyans. Nanok said counties in the region will unite to support athletics and push for environmental conservation. Click here for the latest political news