There will be no celebrations to mark the third anniversary of the Garissa University terror attack which left 148 people, majority of them students, dead. Unlike last year where the celebrations were low key with a marathon held, this year, no event will take place. Vice chancellor Osman Warfa said anniversaries bring back bad memories. “The incident left a permanent scar that will take long to heal. If to date it is affecting me this much, what about the parents and relatives who lost their loved ones,” Warfa said. “Since the incident, we have tried to redeem ourselves and we have risen from the ashes to what we are today. We have shown the militants we are resilient.” A visibly emotional Warfa said the institution has put the incident behind it and is determined to make the institution great again. Warfa said a raft of security measures have been put in place. The gate is also manned by four armed police officers at any given time and there is an Administration Police post headed by a chief inspector. A perimeter wall is being constructed which once complete, will be fitted with razor wires and 24-hour CCTVs are already in place. Three watch towers to be manned by armed security officers will also be constructed.  DEPARTED HEROES No outsider without a national ID card and the approval of the relevant authorities is allowed into the institution. “It’s the blood of our departed heroes that is nourishing the state of affairs at our university,” the vice chancellor said. Warfa thanked the national government, the local leadership and the security agents who stood by the institution during the difficult time. Assistant registrar in charge of academics Stephen Ndinya said the current student population (both regular and self sponsored) stands at 1,195 ( 862 men and 333 women) compared to 750 before the attack. “I want to thank Kenyans for their resilience. Despite the setback, we were able to pick up the pieces and are back on our feet and raring to go,” he said. Ndinya said the institution now offers certificates, diplomas, degrees, Masters and PhDs. Students who spoke to the Star did not want to relive the ordeal, but expressed their satisfaction with the steps taken to secure the institution. Student Peter Wambua said his colleagues are stronger.      