The major turning point of Wahu’s life was when her hubby, Nameless, was hospitalised with a life-threatening condition called subarachnoid haemorrhage. Some small blood vessels in his brain had ruptured and blood had leaked into the area between the brain and tissue, causing intense headaches. Nameless was rushed to hospital and admitted in the high dependency unit for monitoring. “After a few more tests my doctor realised that fortunately my condition didn’t need surgery. What I needed was to be closely monitored in HDU and given the right medication to allow the leaked blood to dissolve, the ruptured vessels to heal and the pain to be controlled,” Nameless said. “After about two weeks I was sent to the ward for a few more days of monitoring and pain management. [The hospital] then did an MRI test that showed there was no more leaked blood in the brain and that I could be discharged with some medication.” Speaking to Word Is, Wahu said this incident inspired her to seek the face of God. “In the situation where my husband was unwell, I went on my knees because it is not about how popular or how much people love you. Those are not the things that matter. Sometimes God shows you ‘I Am God’ and you just have to come down and say yes You are God and You are everything. “I resonated with the song because of that space and I guess I can say when my husband was unwell God says he is Jehovah-Rapha the healer. The beautiful thing about God is He doesn’t contradict himself and He doesn’t change. His word is his word.” The songstress is riding high on the wave of her new release, My Everything, which was written by Pitson of the Lingala ya Yesu fame. “Life sometimes is not [about] how much you have really acquired. It’s about doing what God created you to do. Without Him you can’t really move on,” Wahu said. Surprisingly the songbird started out as a gospel artist before turning to secular music, but she is now back to the gospel industry. Wahu has no spiritual mentor as she is inspired by anyone who walks in the faith. But her relationship with God is between God and her.