According to the 2017 Economic
Survey report, 202,556 students were enrolled in 1,300 TVET institutions in
2016. In a new bold plan, the government will enroll one million primary and
secondary school leavers into TVET programmes annually. The new master plan will see
enrollment in TVET institutions peak at 3.1 million. Moreover, the new plan
guarantees jobs for all TVET graduates within six months of graduating. I don’t for one moment doubt the
bold vision proposed by the new Education CS, Amina Mohamed, and TVET PS Kevit
Desai. In fact, the scale of unemployment and the staggering deficit of skills
can only be met by an audacious plan. But how will we get there? Here
are some numbers to give us a sense of dimension. In 2016, 2,720,563 students
were enrolled in 9,942 secondary schools across the country, both private and
public schools. A total of 89,187 teachers were employed in public secondary
schools in 2016. Ramping TVET enrollment to 3.1
million students suggests we need at least 10,000 TVET institutions distributed
equitably across the country. Similarly, we will need at least 90,000
instructors — men and women highly trained and qualified to apply cutting edge
pedagogy to deliver a curriculum that will produce the skills needed to drive
our economy. The record of public spending in
TVET is instructive. While the expenditure for the Ministry of Education
increased by 24 per cent between 2012-13 and 2016-17, total spending on TVET declined
from Sh9.8 billion to Sh5.8 billion. In the same period, development spending
in TVET declined by 52 per cent. According to the 2018 Budget
Policy Statement, allocation to the education sector is expected to increase by
15 per cent in the 2018-19 and over the medium term. This increased expenditure
is expected to pay for free day public secondary schools and establishment of government
apprenticeship programme for all university and TVET graduates. It is not clear where the massive
resource outlay that is needed to expand TVET programmes — more instructors and
increase and more physical facilities adequately fitted with requisite modern technology
and equipment — will come from. While the plans to expand TVET to
respond to the paralyzing dearth of skills is laudable, we must be careful not
to go down the perilous path of reckless, commercially motivated expansion
witnessed in university education in the last decade. We are on the brink of the fourth
industrial revolution. Workers for this digital revolution cannot be produced in
large numbers and without commensurate investment in quality instructors and
requisite facilities. The Internet of Things (IoT) will
power more than half of new businesses and therefore new work opportunities in
the next 3-5 years. The technologies needed to drive construction, agriculture,
healthcare and manufacturing will be connected to some chip that integrates the
physical, digital and the biological. We must not set up our children
to fail. Expansion of TVET is long overdue. But we must assemble adequate
budgetary resources to get it right. Awiti is the director of the East
Africa Institute