Kenya on Friday secured the support of Commonwealth leaders for its Blue Economy Summit in November. The country is seeking to press its case for the greater exploitation of the seas for the benefit of citizens. The support was secured at a huddled retreat at a royal residence in the English county of Berkshire. The leaders were meeting to flesh out an implementation plan for their agreement on deepening trade among the 53-member organisation. The meeting also discussed security, climate change and efforts on general cooperation. President Uhuru Kenyatta and other leaders were driven to the Windsor Castle for the retreat. The leaders had previously held all other meetings meetings in the royal residences of Buckingham Palace and St James' Palace. At the Windsor retreat, leaders were assembled without their aides, including foreign ministers and senior advisers. Read: Kenya turns to blue economy for jobs, wealth creation Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau agreed to co-sponsor the summit. Other countries also agreed to come to the table, with the Commonwealth Secretariat convening a blue economy meeting in June for Kenya to flesh out issues for the Blue Economy Summit. "We continue to pursue our agenda to boost trade among the Commonwealth countries and ensure greater investment in Kenya," Uhuru said on Friday. The high-profile Blue Economy Summit will be similar to the World Trade Organisation ministerial meeting and the U.N. Conference on Trade and Development, which Kenya hosted in December 2015 and July 2016 respectively. Kenya was also looking to take charge of managing Commonwealth scholarships with a promise of greater efficiency and effectiveness on how they are administered. There have been concerns that the scholarships, an area of strength for the Commonwealth, was diminishing in stature. As leaders met, Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs Monica Juma was meeting UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson to pursue progress in bilateral relations, including in the areas of trade, security, tourism and the blue economy. On Thursday, Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma invited all Commonwealth members and the rest of the world to the Blue Economy Conference to be held between November 26-28. Watch: [VIDEO] Kenya bids to host World Economic Forum on Africa Kenya also joined the Commonwealth Blue Charter champions and was unveiled alongside Belize, Sri Lanka, Banuatu and Fiji. "Kenya chose to be a champion because of the unlimited opportunities available in the oceans," Juma said. “We have elected to join as champions of the Blue Charter in order that we can reverse the activities around the rising temperatures. This is important as a matter of fairness and as a matter of prosperity,” said CS Juma. Apart from Kenya other co-champions include Belize, Sri Lanka, Vanuatu and Fiji. Whereas oceans provide humanity’s largest source of protein and absorb around a quarter of our carbon dioxide emissions and most of the world’s extra heat; produces half of the world’s oxygen and billions of people depend on it for their livelihoods, cultures and traditions, human activities have increasingly put the health of the planet’s valuable ecosystem in peril. “We look at the Blue Economy as an alternative to what we have been limited to the land. In fact, in many ways we have been sea blind for a very long time. Looking at the wealth in our seas and oceans, there is great potential for innovation, for growing employment, for growing productivity and value addition for our people,” remarked CS Juma. The blue economy is one of the main areas of focus for President Kenyatta during the commonwealth meeting which comes to a close this evening.  Click here for the latest political news