The union of political rivals to achieve a national objective is an age-old occurrence. Abraham Lincoln waged a bitter campaign against three political heavy weights, Senator William Henry, Judge Edward Bates and Governor Salmon Chase, in his quest to win the republican presidential ticket. Lincoln did not stand a chance in the campaign but after three rounds of voting, he emerged the victor and later won the election to become the sixteenth US President. In what has gone into annals of history as the epitome of political statecraft, Lincoln took the unparalleled step of appointing his three opponents as Secretary of State, Attorney General and Secretary of Treasury, respectively. When asked about the wisdom of having his rivals in the key government positions, Lincoln said, “We needed the strongest men of the party in the Cabinet.... I had looked the party over and concluded that these were the very strongest men. Then I had no right to deprive the country of their services.” Lincoln and his rivals overcame many odds to strengthen the union of America and abolished slavery The coming together of erstwhile political rivals Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta bodes well for the country. These two statesmen have earned themselves unprecedented political capital. However, they will be judged on how they use this capital. Will the truce be a short-term and expedient mechanism to cool political heat or a transformative agenda that will give rise to a united and prosperous Kenya? Nations usually go through tumultuous and uncertain political terrain, which later on become the ingredients of a stronger state. The government of France, as we know it today, is called the Fifth Republic. Four sets of government formations preceded the Fifth Republic until General Charles de Gaulle crafted a representative, inclusive and democratic republic out of a crisis. Our nation has had two constitutions since the republic was formed. On attaining self-rule, we inherited a Constitution from the British government. It was a product of negotiations that largely reflected the aspirations of Kenyans. We had a devolved government with regional assemblies and governors. The regional governments had executive powers and independent sources of revenue. We had a bicameral Parliament, headed by a Prime Minister, and a Supreme Court. We had two strong parties that were both driven by ideology, vision and philosophy. We had constitutional amendment threshold that was extremely difficult to achieve — 75 per cent in the Senate and 65 per cent in the Lower House. We had a lean government of not more than 20 Cabinet ministries staffed by competent individuals. Kenya then became a republic in 1964 and mutilation of the Constitution started in earnest. The powers of regional assemblies were gradually reduced and eventually eliminated in 1965. Concentration of power in the presidency begun. In 1966, both Houses of Parliament were amalgamated and the Senate abolished. In 1968, parliamentary approval for declaration of state emergency was removed. Between 1964 and 1991, the Constitution of Kenya was amended more than 20 times and each of these amendments was aimed at strengthening the Executive and denying Kenyans their fundamental rights and liberties. Although the nation gained its Independence, it was now largely a monarchy with an African, Jomo Kenyatta, as a king, instead of the Queen of England, and with that, we buried the First Republic. Eight years after the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution and the birth of the Second Republic, Kenyans find themselves living in constitutional rot. The spirit of the Constitution is under assault. We now have senior government officials showing open contempt and disregard for court orders and summons. The government chooses which court orders to oblige and which to disregard. Constitutional commissions and independent offices have been defanged to the point of being nearly redundant, and are at the mercy of the Executive. The concept of devolution is slowly being strangled by rationing the release of funds from the national government coffers. The sanctity of the birthrights of Kenyans is being defiled. Parliament has become an institution that continues to churn out draconian and partisan laws that cater for a certain class of the country. Our financial independence as a state is in peril as the nation continues to saddle future generations with debt. The debacle of the 2017 election, the swearing-in of the Peoples’ President and the desecration of the rights of Miguna Miguna buried the dreams of the Second Republic. Uhuru and Raila have an opportunity to craft a Third Republic. The President is not weighed down by the political baggage that goes with seeking reelection. He has an opportunity to craft a united and peaceful nation. Raila should be magnanimous with his co-principals and rally them towards this course, as Kenyans need their brains and intellect to craft a new republic. But this republic should be built for posterity and should not be a product of political negotiations and deceit. History will judge our leaders harshly if we waste this opportunity.   Yussuf works with the county government of Wajir