Taita Government has promised to crash cartels in hospitals diverting drugs to their private facilities, causing shortage and disadvantaging service delivery. The re-routed drugs are sold at exorbitant price, it said, noting locals suffers the brunt. These deals succeed through collusion with hospital staff. This warning followed the flag off of a consignment of assorted medicines at Moi Referral Hospital. The medicine worth Sh39.5 million was supplied to the county by KEMSA. Deputy governor Majala Mlagui said drug shortage will end. Mlagui on Tuesday said health is a key priority of the County Government. "We have embarked on an ambitious program to ensure universal health coverage. The medicines we flag off today will service all county health facilities," he said. "The five main hospitals -- Moi Referral Hospital, Wesu hospital, Mwatate, Wundanyi and Taveta Sub County hospitals -- will receive their supplies today while all the remaining facilities will get their supplies on Thursday and Friday this week." Shortage of drugs and other working facilities have been pushing doctors and nurses in the county to the streets, protesting. Mlagui urged health personnel to ensure that the medicines reach the targeted persons. Mlagui who has been handed over albinism protective materials including sunscreen lotions from The National Council for Persons with Disabilities, called for awareness campaigns. She said it will eradicate stigmatization, correct misconceptions held by some members of the community and advocate for the rights of those living with albinism. Health executive Frank Mwangemi said measures are in place to maintain steady supply of medicines in all the health facilities. "We have trained our personnel on commodity management to track issuance of medicine and ensure that they are replenished before the stock runs out. We will avoid instances of the facilities being hit by drugs shortage," he said. Majority Leader Jason Tuja and a member of County Assembly Health Committee said cartels will be dealt with. He promised enough allocation for the health docket. County Assembly Health Committee Chair Newton Mng'ambwa affirmed that the Assembly is working with the executive to improve healthcare.  