Accountants of Kenya has said the current debate on scrapping interest rates on commercial loans is premature. “One-year on, it is too early to accurately determine the impact of capping of interest rates to any sector of the Kenyan economy,” chairman Julius Mwatu said yesterday. The interest rate cap, under the Banking (Amendment) Act 2016 effected in September 2016 has seen a significant decline in overall private sector growth. In its biannual Monetary Policy Committee report, the Central Bank of Kenya found that private sector credit growth stood at 13.5 per cent in April 2016. The is slowed down to 1.4 per cent in July 2017 before recovering to 2.1 per cent as at the last MPC meeting held on March 19. “We believe that the challenges experienced with lending in the recent past are not directly attributable to the interest rate caps,” Mwatu said. He said the decline in the Private Sector Credit could be attributed to several other factors and not interest capping. “As an Institute, we continue to support interest rate capping as the benefits outweigh the hiccups faced so far,” he said. Mwatu said the decline in private sector credit disbursement has also come as a result of increased domestic borrowing by government ( 48 per cent of public debt stock) which has crowded-out private investment. He said that analysis from the CBK’s MPC report indicates that private sector lending had started dipping in 2015 before the introduction of interest rates cap. The chairman said the MPC report dated October 2017 notes weak performance of some sectors of the economy and increased usage of alternative funding as factors that might have led to decline in private sector credit. “We believe that the discussion to lift interest rate caps should be preceded by operationalization of other mechanisms that will allow a self-regulatory regime such as use of credit rating information,” he said. This means that any discussions held to consider scrapping of the interest rates caps should ensure that the initial objectives of the capping are maintained. The Government agreed to make adjustments in its economic policies including the possibility of scrapping the interest rates cap last month following discussions with the International Monetary Fund. These were conditions given by IMF in order to extend $1.5 billion (Sh152 billion) precautionary facility whose review was postponed last year