Nyamira MCAs have endorsed Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to vie for the position of Deputy President during the 2022 general election. The group said the community has good leaders who can take the country forward and hence it is time it is considered for a top slot in government. The MCAs led by Mekenene MCA Alphayo Ngeresa said: "If we can produce an Interior CS, a solicitor general and a Chief Justice, then it means can produce even a
president." "It is high time that we never let go of the position of DP during the 2022 polls," Ngeresa, who spoke in the presence of Matiang'i on Saturday, said. The CS presided over the commissioning of a science laboratory at Mwongori High school in Borabu constituency. Read: Abagusii unity call to fail just like previous attempts, say analysts When he spoke, he steered clear of the debate initiated by the MCAs. But Bomwagamo MCA Charles Barongo said Matiang’i has exhibited the qualities of leadership from the time he was Education CS and now in the Interior ministry, hence is qualified for the DP job. "He should be considered DP by any of the presidential candidates during the 2022 polls in the country," the MCA said. The legislator asked the Gusii community to rise up and support its own to get to the presidency so that their presence can be felt in the country. The call to back CS Matiang’i for DP comes amid efforts by Kisii and Nyamira leaders to unite under one political umbrella and produce a presidential candidate. Kisii region last produced a candidate when Simeon Nyachae sought the presidency in the 2002 general election. At that time, Nyachae ran against Mwai Kibaki (NARC) among others who were bidding to end Daniel Moi's 24-year stay at the helm. Moi had seconded Uhuru Kenyatta (Kanu) as his successor. In the latest overtures by Gusii leaders, Borabu MP Ben Momanyi said the call for the community to produce a DP in 2022 is not a secret. "It will come to happen...When I recently met with DP William Ruto, I told him to start thinking of picking a running mate from Nyamira county if at all he is serious with the 2022 presidential ambition." "This is because we have over 1.5 million votes as a community, which is a good number of votes that can make us even stand on our own instead of following other communities," the MP said. Also read: Kisii leaders praise Raila, Uhuru call for reconciliation, unity Click here for the latest political news 