Eleven more witnesses are lined up to testify in a public inquest seeking to establish the killers of Baby Samantha Pendo.
The hearing will continue on April 20. The six-month-old baby died in August last year, after she was allegedly hit on the head by police officers quelling protests in Kisumu county. The protests erupted after Uhuru Kenyatta was declared winner in the presidential election.
Ten witnesses have testified and all have accused GSU officers of being behind Pendo’s death.
The case is before Kisumu resident magistrate Beryl Omollo. On Friday, witness Lucy Awino, a neighbour of Pendo’s parents, told the court six GSU officers stormed her house and unleashed terror on her. She said she had refused to open the door when the officers broke in and ordered her to sit on the table.
Awino said she was at the time pregnant and she unsuccessfully pleaded with the officers to spare her as she was unwell. She said they started hitting her hands, back and thighs with their batons.
“I showed them the medicine I was taking, but four officers started hitting me, while two others stood guard,” Awino told the court.
She said after the officers left, she heard her neighbours screaming. Awino said she went outside and saw Pendo’s mother Lencer Achieng weeping.
Achieng, the first witness to testify in early February, told the court she unsuccessfully pleaded with eight heavily-armed police officers to spare her family. She said they first descended on her husband with beatings. Achieng ran out with Pendo, but the officers accosted her. She said one officer hit Pendo’s head with a club and the baby started foaming at the mouth. Her head started swelling, Achieng said.
Last month in the same court, witnesses said police officers refused to help people who were rushing Pendo to hospital on August 12.
Pendo was moved to Aga Khan after doctors found she was in a coma. She died several days later. Pendo’s uncle, Thomas Oluoch, told the magistrate the officers only said they sympathised with them.