Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has finally narrowed down to five possible picks for Nairobi Deputy Governor. Sonko said on Sunday that he had submitted the names to Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi for debate and approval. The five candidates are former Nairobi Woman Representative Rachel Shebesh, former Nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro, businesswoman Agnes Kagure, journalist Anne Kiguta and Karen Nyamu. "Pursuant to the Supreme Court advisory opinion, I have today forwarded a list of five nominees to the Speaker for consideration," he posted on his Facebook page. "I have also directed the Assembly to have a special sitting tomorrow through a special gazette notice to be issued later today." Shebesh vied for re-election in a hot contest on August 8, 2017 after winning the Jubilee Party primaries but was floored by ODM's Esther Passaris. Nyamu also wanted to be Nairobi's woman MP but Shebesh floored her during the primaries. Ongoro vied for Ruaraka Member of Parliament but lost to incumbent TJ Kajwang. Kagure, 43, was an insurance agent with Alico and has various business interests. She has been in the eye of a storm in the past two years, following fierce ownership disputes over three prime pieces of land in Nairobi that have found their way to the High Court. Kiguta works for Royal Media Services. Read: Mystery over Sonko's deputy governor pick's taxes, wealth Mid last month, Sonko asked city residents to help him choose a Deputy Governor to fill the slot left vacant by Polycarp Igathe, who said he had given up on earning the trust of his boss. The Governor posted the 'appeal' for help on his Facebook page, listing 22 names of people he was considering for the post. Among them were self-declared NRMKe General Miguna Miguna, Education CEC Janet Ouko and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru. Others were former Dagoretti MP Denis Waweru, Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga, former Town clerk John Gakuo and businessman Jimnah Mbaru. Read: Anne Kiguta, Miguna among Sonko's top options for deputy governor Sonko's latest post shows he may have decided to appoint a woman. Reached for a comment by phone, the Governor said: "Today is April Fols Day. That is a special message for Nairobians." Click here for the latest political news    