The last week of April is auspicious as it simultaneously marks the World Health Organization’s World Immunization Week and the African Vaccination Week. It is a week of hope and determination as focus shifts to a health intervention whose public health impact is hailed to be second only to clean water. This year’s themes are ‘Protected together, #Vaccines Work’ and ‘Vaccines work, Do your part!’. They embody the core message of the overarching slogan of the African Vaccination Week, which is ‘Vaccinated communities, Healthy communities’. In the years before 1980, immunisation in Kenya was carried out on an ad hoc basis through learning institutions and in emergency response to disease outbreaks. Subsequently, these efforts were organised to provide a platform for routine immunisation. Today’s child has access to vaccines that help prevent a variety of ailments, including hepatitis B, measles, rubella, whooping cough, diphtheria, pneumonia, polio, rotavirus diarrhoea and tetanus. For rotavirus diarrhoea, while hand washing, exclusive breastfeeding and sanitation are helpful, they are not enough to prevent the disease. In fact, in the absence of vaccination, this disease will affect almost every child in the world by the age of three to five, regardless of their socioeconomic status. Infants and young children are most predisposed to severe rotavirus diarrhoea, which can be life-threatening. Those who suffer most are children in developing countries, where there are challenges in accessing healthcare. While diseases such as whooping cough are rarely seen nowadays, failure to vaccinate will result in their reappearance. In 1977, the last natural case of smallpox was reported and by 1979 the disease was eradicated. This positive step was made possible – in part – due to vaccination. To achieve the dream of health for all, other diseases are targeted in the same way. Worldwide, since the advent of vaccination, the number of cases of paralytic polio has reduced by 99 per cent. The next step is to eradicate the disease. This Global Polio Eradication Initiative, which is a public-private partnership, has worldwide polio eradication as its sole aim. Measles is one of the most contagious diseases ever known and is an important cause of death and disability among young children worldwide. Rubella can cause severe birth defects. Already, since the year 2000 the measles vaccine has averted 20.4 million deaths and there is global commitment for elimination of the disease. To fully enjoy the benefits of vaccination, it is important to consistently ensure that as many children as possible are vaccinated. Apart from the obvious health benefits, there are economic benefits to be enjoyed. It is estimated that increasing vaccine coverage in low- and middle-income countries by 2030 could result in 24 million people being prevented from falling into poverty due to health expenses. Immunisation is part of the essential package for healthcare. The 2012 Global Vaccine Action Plan, endorsed by WHO member states, calls for commitment to ensuring that no one misses out on vital immunisations. Further the Addis Declaration of 2016, recognising every child’s right to health, is a commitment by governments to invest in their respective immunisation programmes. The 2015 target was to ensure that at least 90 per cent children completed the course of primary vaccination. in 2016 the global completion rate was 86 per cent, falling short of the target. This 14 per cent represents approximately 19 million children. These children, half of whom reside in war-torn countries, are at a high risk of acquiring vaccine-preventable diseases, many of which are life-threatening. An impressive amount of time and effort goes on in the background from policy to planning, logistics and delivery to ensure that we each receive our much-needed shots. This should not be taken for granted. Immunisation is not just the responsibility of healthcare workers or policymakers. Our children are the future and their well-being is paramount. We are, each of us, partners in this process and there is no better time than the present for us to play our role in the promotion of health through prevention of disease. Speak to your healthcare provider today to find out more about immunisation. Vaccines medical manager at GlaxoSmithKline