Benson Masubo alias Wazir Chacha has denied fraud charges in relation to extortion claims against Members of Parliament. Chacha was yesterday charged with six counts, including conspiracy to defraud, obtaining registration by false pretence and intent to defraud. He denied the charges before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi. Chacha also faced charges of obtaining money by false pretence, attempting to obtain money by false pretence and impersonating a public officer. He was accused of impersonating Murang’a Woman representative Sabina Chege. Chacha denied all the charges. He will appear in court today to argue his bail application. Chacha conspired to register a Safaricom mobile number in the name of Sabina Chege, the court heard. He used the number to contact former Gem MP Midiwo on March 4. Jakoyo gave him Sh20,000. Midiwo has since been listed as a witness alongside Chege. On March 8, at Golden Sport Restaurant, the suspect attempted to obtain Sh100,000 from Jakoyo. Last week, police asked the court to hold Chacha longer so they can complete their probe. Read:[VIDEO] I'm innocent, Sabina Chege trying to fix me - Wazir Chacha FLIGHT RISK The former Devolution ministry employee did not take plea. Yesterday, the prosecution said they will oppose bail application, saying the suspect was a flight risk since he has no fixed abode. A report on Chacha’s mental status has been compiled. Chacha was arrested on April 1 in Tanzania as he attempted to flee to the Democratic Republic of Congo. He was exposed after MPs, including Chege, sought police intervention after it emerged the suspect had conned several lawmakers and high-ranking government officials in a scam. MPs said they were being bullied on the Internet and bombarded with nude photos and videos. An accomplice, M-Pesa agent Catherine Nyaboke has already been charged for conspiring to register an M-Pesa account in the name of Chege. Nyaboke denied the charges. She was released on a Sh100,000 cash bail pending hearing on April 26. See:KOT raps Sabina Chege after 'ask your mother' remark over Wazir Chacha