Is the lid on the IEBC’s dealings about to blow up? Well, word has it that (some) commissioners and the secretariat are not pulling together. As a result, the commission is divided down the middle. One of the commissioners whispered to Corridors that half of the commissioners are determined to kick out CEO Ezra Chiloba and replace him with someone they can “manage”. The trio also want to hire someone — reliably from the Judiciary — to fill the vacant HR director’s position instead of promoting the incumbent, who has been acting for months. The final leg will be to instal a compliant procurement department. Is Interior PS Karanja Kibicho “dictating and intimidating Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko over whom he should nominate as his deputy for the remainder of his term?” Well, Sonko has castigated Kibicho and other top civil servants in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government, terming him a “junior official who cannot give him orders”. A mole informs Corridors that some insiders are questioning why the governor hurled blame at the PS for some of his problems in running the county government. The criteria for the conferment of honorary degrees has always been shrouded in controversy. And it was no different when a European university recently awarded one to a Kenyan MP whose tenure in an influential watchdog committee of Parliament was dogged with scandals. It was ridiculous to some that the MP was recognised for outstanding leadership he offered in a country whose lawmakers are notorious for harassing and intimidating government officials and blue-chip companies in a bid to get financial favours. Now it is claimed some universities abroad ask for as little as $4,000 and attendance of five workshops in different countries to award one an “honorary” degree. They have of late taken the country by storm with their inter-county visits, but more questions than answers abound over Governors Alfred Mutua and Mutahi Kagiha’s mission. The two seem to have struck some ties but many are asking whether the trips have any benefits for the mwananchi. Well, Corridors has learnt that Mutua and his delegation’s recent four-day learning tour of Nyeri has elicited mixed reactions among residents, who feel it was much hype about nothing. Mutua’s reciprocal trip comes a month after Mutahi went for a three-day visit to Machakos county. Now residents are questioning whether the money spent for the benchmarking trips is in fact in the budgets of the respective counties. Interestingly, prior to Mutua’s tour, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo had also visited Nyeri on development matters. What’s in Nyeri?