Israel presented on Monday
what it said was evidence that Iran had continued gathering
nuclear knowledge after signing a 2015 agreement with world
powers to curb it, calling on Washington to jettison the
agreement.
"Iran's leaders repeatedly deny ever pursuing nuclear
weapons," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during a televised
address carried by Israeli networks. "Tonight I'm here to tell
you one thing: Iran lied." "First, Iran lied about never having a nuclear weapons
programme. 100,000 secret files prove it did. Second, even after
the deal, Iran continued to preserve and expand its nuclear
weapons knowledge for future use," Netanyahu said. "Third, Iran lied again in 2015 when it didn't come clear to
the IAEA as required by the nuclear deal." The Israeli leader spoke in English and showed pictures and
videos purporting to be of historic secret Iranian nuclear
facilities, as well as Iranian documents and plans to develop
atomic weapons. "After signing the nuclear deal in 2015, Iran intensified
its efforts to hide its secret files," he said. "In 2017 Iran
moved its nuclear weapons files to a highly secret location in
Tehran." Netanyahu referred to a secret Iranian nuclear project,
codenamed "Amad", which he said had been shelved in 2003, but he
said work in the field had continued. Also read: US, Iran resume talks on nuclear programme after Netanyahu warnings US President Donald Trump has long criticised the 2015
agreement, under which world powers lifted economic sanctions on
Iran in return for curbs to its nuclear programme. Trump has threatened to pull out of the agreement in the
coming weeks unless it is renegotiated. Netanyahu said he
expected Trump would do "the right thing" in reviewing the Iran
deal. Netanyahu met in Tel Aviv on Sunday with new US Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo and both men talked tough about Iran. "We remain deeply concerned about Iran’s dangerous
escalation of threats towards Israel and the region," said
Pompeo. Netanyahu said: “I think the greatest threat to the world
and to our two countries, and to all countries, is the marriage
of militant Islam with nuclear weapons, and specifically the
attempt of Iran to acquire nuclear weapons." Netanyahu also discussed Iran by telephone with Trump over
the weekend. Israel has long opposed the agreement, while Washington's
major European allies have urged the Trump administration not to
abandon it and argue that Iran is abiding by its terms. The head of Iran's Atomic Energy organisation said on Monday
that Iran has the technical capability to enrich uranium to a
higher level than it could before the multinational deal was
reached. "Technically, we are fully prepared to enrich uranium higher
than we used to produce before the deal was reached... I hope
Trump comes to his senses and stays in the deal," Ali Akbar
Salehi was quoted by Iranian state television as saying. Israel is widely believed to be the only nuclear-armed state
in the Middle East, though it neither confirms nor denies
possessing atomic weapons. Also read: Trump to approve Iran nuclear deal for last time Click here for the latest political news