Finding out how things work has never been as easy as it is today. From recipes to how to change a tire and even what the greatest scientific discovery of 2017 was (which was, for your information, China having teleported a photon from the earth to a satellite in orbit). We live in an age of information where an infinite library lies at our literal fingertips and we are taking advantage of it. Last month, Google search trends reported that the top three searches in Kenya include Chris Kirubi, followed by Stephen Hawkins and lastly the UEFA Champions league. This is largely unsurprising as they were featured prominently in the news either in Kenya or internationally. However, when looking at the most searched “how to?”, it seems that Kenyans are feeling lucky. The top search was “How to register for SportPesa?” Maybe it is the idea that anyone can win, any life can be changed, that is driving more and more Kenyans to Kenya’s largest gaming company. Perhaps the big wins on the SportPesa midweek jackpot and the SportPesa MegaJackpot have been an inspiration to Kenyans that they can also do it. Either way, If you would like to take your chance, all you have to do is follow these simple steps to register with SportPesa.  How to register online  1. Visit sportpesa.co.ke and click “Register Now” 2. Read the terms and conditions and click the checkbox in order to accept 3. Input your desired account details, that is, your mobile phone number and your password. Once done, click “Get Registration code.” 4. When the registration code is sent to your phone, you then verify the account on the website     @page { margin: 0.79in }
		p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; direction: ltr; color: #00000a; line-height: 120%; text-align: left; orphans: 2; widows: 2 }
		p.western { font-family: "Calibri", serif; font-size: 12pt; so-language: en-US }
		p.cjk { font-family: "Calibri"; font-size: 12pt; so-language: en-US }
		p.ctl { font-family: ; font-size: 12pt; so-language: ar-SA }
		a:link { so-language: zxx }                How to register via SMS To register via SMS, follow these three simple steps: Step 1 To register for S-Pesa account, please visit www.sportpesa.com ,read Terms and Conditions, text “ACCEPT" to 79079  Step 2 A customer receives back a confirmation message providing him/her with Username, PIN and particular mobile operator Paybill # e.g. Your username is: 0733XXXYYY. Your PIN is 1234.Your Web password is 123456 To top up use Paybill: SportPesa   Step 3 Enjoy the Game! 