So, whom did President Uhuru Kenyatta have in mind when he told mourners during the memorial service for Kenneth Matiba in Muranga that some people were unhappy with the peace deal he entered with arch foe Raila Odinga? Six MPs who were following the proceedings on television at a city hotel were overheard unleashing the potential candidates for Uhuru's list. The legislators from across the political divide two from Jubilee and four from NASA went ahead to tease each other on “what if” the list was made public. ***** While former MPs are allowed to access Parliament as they wish, a group of former MPs from one particular community have become a bother to current legislators. At least five have become a permanent fixture at the MPs’ lounge. Some sitting MPs are unhappy with their presence and often try as to avoid them. The former vocal Mps who served during retired President Daniel Moi, former President Mwai Kibaki and President Uhuru Kenyatta have been spotted recently at the members’ lounge scouting for tea from the current MPs. One of the ex-MPs from Ukambani region has been a frequent visitor to Parliament, where he engages in merry conversations. ***** A scribe and a number of bloggers are making a kill from a governor. Every time stories are published in the main stream newspapers or aired on radio or television, the scribe and a group of his bloggers with the blessings from the county boss use their blogs to malign the names of the writers of the stories that are seen to be negative to the governor. The scribe was overheard recently at a popular joint telling some of his friends that his mission is to make money from the governor. ***** There has been all manner of rumors as to exactly who is behind the land grabbing of a section of land belonging to a secondary school in a north eastern county. Residents of the county have linked the grabbing to a prominent and powerful family in the town. Only construction workers have been spotted working on the land. On Tuesday last week some angry students from the school held demonstrations in the town to protest against the alleged land grabbing. They chased away workers from the site just when they were about to start construction. The students and parents are wondering if the grabber is enjoying political protection or what could have given him the courage to grab the school land. They are appealing to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Anti-Corruption Authority to open an investigation into the matter they have called "daylight robbery".