Royal Media Services chairman SK Macharia’s son John is dead. He was involved in a road accident on the Southern Bypass on Thursday night. John Macharia died at Karen Hospital while undergoing treatment. John, the founder of Triple A Capital Limited, is said to have had dinner at The Hub in Karen with his girlfriend and friends before proceeding to the Southern Bypass in his Porsche Cayenne 911 where the accident occurred. Police reports indicate the woman who was seated on the passenger seat at the time of the accident survived with minor injuries. According to his profile, at directline.co.ke, John is described as a seasoned entrepreneur who is credited for introducing insurance premium financing in Kenya and founding Triple A Capital Limited. It said John built one of the most successful PSV underwriting firms - Directline Assurance Limited. He was also an executive director at Harbour Capital with over 20 years’ experience in the financial services sector. In November 2016, in the same Porsche, John was involved in an accident at Museum Hill, Nairobi, after he rammed into a Prado. Police arrested him for drunk driving and he was charged at a Nairobi traffic court after failing to follow a traffic officer’s order to blow into a breathalyser. He pleaded guilty through his lawyer Ian Maina. The Thursday crash happened at 10pm when John, who was alleged to have been speeding, lost control of his Porsche Cayenne 911. The 2017 Porsche 911 costs between Sh8.5 million and Sh13.3 million. The luxury car has a combined fuel consumption of 9.11/100km with a top speed of 330km/h. According to technical specifications, the car accelerates at 9.2s from 0-100km with a carbon dioxide emission of 212g/km. It has a height of 1,297mm, wheelbase of 2,450mm and a total length of 4,507mm. The car also has a seven-speed ultimate sequential transmission speed with a manual mode with a bumper to bumper and roadside assistance warrant of 80,000km or 48 months. The model has two front headlights, auto delay off headlights, daytime running lights, dual front side mounted airbags, dusk sensing headlights, engine immobiliser, front head airbags, high pressure washers headlights, remote anti-theft alarm system, self leveling headlights and stability control. Click here for the latest political news