Unesco’s assistant director general of Africa Department said the government needs to adopt mother tongue as a tool of teaching. “There is need to inculcate our culture into our education system. Studies have shown that unless you teach children in their local languages, they cannot get to the level that you want,” he said. He was speaking on Friday at the Pan African High Level Conference on Education. Eduoardo said the teaching curriculum for teachers also needs to be aligned with the evolving world of technology. He says this will ease the delivery of education to majority of young people in higher grades who are tech savvy. Teaching composition and fractions in mathematics is a challenge for many teachers in Kenya, a survey by the World Bank shows. WB Practice Manager Sajitha Bashir said Kenya needs to raise the qualifications for recruitment of ECDE teachers. She said this should be done on a continuous basis until a uniform teacher standard is achieved. In its Service Delivery Indicator survey conducted between 2012-2016 on teachers in grade 4, World Bank said only 45 per cent of tutors got the teaching concepts on composition right while only 40 per cent got it right in fractions. They, however, scored highly in the average score for grammar 92%), adding double digit numbers ( 98%), general mathematics concepts ( 77%), and languages ( 63%). The report dubbed, “Facing Forward: Schooling for Learning in Africa” revealed the poor understanding of composition. It said Kenya is among African countries with less than 30 per cent of children who can read a paragraph by the time they clear 4th Grade. A majority come from poor backgrounds, rural settings and those who do not speak the language of instruction. According to the report, 90 per cent of pupils can correctly read a letter, about 82 per cent can read a word while about 65 per cent can read a sentence. The report calls for a review of the teacher training curriculum to improve proficiency in reading and maths among Kenyan pupils. “You go to most schools in Africa and you see this swollen enrollments in Grade One of size 80, 100, or 120. Children come and regularly repeat and they don’t learn anything so by the time they get to Grade 3 or 4, they are not able to read a sentence,” she said. Bashir identified teacher absenteeism and lack of equity in teacher deployment as another cause for the low proficiency levels. Wrong choice of language of instruction was also blamed.