Untrained teachers posted to terror-stricken Basuba ward in Lamu East have accused the government of abandoning them and failing to pay their salaries. Eight teachers were posted in January this year to five primary schools, Milimani, Mangai, Mararani, Basuba and Kiangwe. They have been closed since 2015 following frequent al Shabaab attacks that left many residents and security officers dead or injured. Lamu county Education director William Micheni said he had no idea the teachers had been hired. In January, the national government directed that the five schools be reopened. It hired eight teachers, mostly Form Four leavers from the Boni community. Then-county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo assured the teachers and learners of adequate security. Milimani, Mangai and Mararani were reopened but only Standard One to Three and ECDE centres are running, and enrolment is low. Some parents transferred their children to schools outside the region. The national government resorted to hiring Form Four leavers teach in the schools after non-residents refused to go back for fear of attacks. Yesterday, the teachers said they have not been paid since they were hired. Their spokesperson Kedi Guyo said the government has ignored their plight, despite assuring it would pay their salaries. Guyo also criticised the government for failing to fix the infrastructure in the schools. Teachers and learners work in a difficult, he said. “We’re suffering. Since we were posted, no one [government official] has even bothered to visit. We don’t have basics like chalk, pens and books. The government needs to come clean and tell us what the game plan is,” Guyo said. He said some of them go without food for several days and have, on several occasions, relied on food from the nearby military and police camps. One teacher who requested anonymity said, “We beg for food from the army and police camps. That’s what keeps us going. Our families lanquish in poverty. We came to help children but are also depended upon. How can one be expected to work in such a place without a salary, even if we are from the local community? It’s unfair.” Deputy county commissioner Loius Rono declined comment and referred the Star to the Education office. But Michemi said, “I don’t know who hired the teachers. I’m not the county commissioner’s office.” Basuba MCA Deko Barissa urged the government to fulfill its promise. Teachers must be paid so they do not close up shop and and leave the already-strained education sector in shambles, he said. “The government is playing games. They demand that locals be employed to teach, then refuse to pay them. The schools are in bad shape — no teaching materials and support of any kind,” Barissa said.