Nasa Senators have defended Raila Odinga against attacks by Moses Wetang'ula, noting the decision for his removal was unanimous. In a statement sent by Siaya's James Orengo, who became Mirotiy leader after Wetang'ula's removal, the also noted that they strictly complied with the law and Senate Standing Orders. The lawmakers said the move was taken after confirmation that in the Nasa coalition agreement, there is no provision or condition that awards positions in the Senate and Parliament to any member of party. "The Nasa summit and Raila had no role in the decision, which was made in accordance with parliamentary practice and procedure, for reasons that include the need to maintain balance between the coalition generally and in Parliament," read the statement. The Senators further stated that Nasa Senators have tremendous respect for the summit and the principals. The ODM and Ford Kenya leaders united with Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and ANC's Musalia Mudavadi for a formidable force of the August 8, 2017 presidential election. After Raila resolved to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta, ANC and Ford Kenya merged to unite Luhyas ahead of the 2022 vote. Details: Ford Kenya, ANC merger plan signals NASA collapse Also read: Coast Luhyas ratify ANC, Ford-K merger, say Raila will not play them again Wetang'ula cut all links with Raila whom he termed a traitor to his Nasa colleagues. He said he will focus on his
journey to State House after elders from the neighbouring Sabaot,
Tachoni and Teso communities backed the idea. “My friend Raila, I have no hard feelings for you but our journey with you is over," he told the Opposition leader. More on this: VIDEO] Mulembe 'marriage' with you is over, Wetangula tells Raila The Senators further noted that when the summit asked them to explain the decision on change of leadership, they fully justified it. They said it is unfortunate that the Ford Kenya boss wants to denigrate the outcome of a democratic process on the platform of politics of ethnic divisions, sectarianism and parochialism. "We cannot pursue political goals and ambitions on the pedestal of bloated ambitions and falsehood. Raila should be kept out of this as there was no single Senator from the constituent parties who voted against the change of leadership in the Senate," read the statement. "We appeal to Wetang'ula to embrace the spirit of solidarity and unity of purpose so that Nasa's political objectives are not sacrificed at the altar of reactionary and diversionary preoccupations ..." The legislators also noted that "contestation and rhetoric have no place in the narrow and vital space in which Kenyans can deal with the problems of electoral justice, protecting devolution, the judicial authority of the courts and rule of law, inclusivity, corruption, human rights and good governance". They asked Wetang'ula to focus on issue-based politics and join the quest for a united Kenya. More on reactions: [Statement] Weta's remarks point at vendetta against Raila - Dennis Onyango Click here for the latest political news