The Kenyan Port Authority IT department has been blamed for Sh106 million revenue lost in 2016. This emerged as witness Rose Musau testified at a Mombasa court yesterday before senior principal magistrate Francis Kyambia. Twenty-five KRA, KPA and clearing agents have been charged with causing revenue loss by illegally clearing containers at the terminals. They denied the charges. They include Vincent Nyatundo, Benedict Kisilu, Susan Kagira, Anthony Maina, Paul Makau, Benedict Opiyo and James Kato who work for the revenue authority. Others are Joshua Misoi, Mathew Owiti, Reuben Onsongo, Matari Ali, Bobson Amani, Fatuma Nabhany, Eddah Mwake, Dzila Bweni, Bernard Adungo, Mohamed Kangao and Binti Nuri who worked for KPA. Five companies and their clearing agents were also accused of causing the loss. They were jointly accused of fraudulently conspiring to release 124 cargo containers without payment of custom duty between May and August 2016. Staffers of the Kenya Ports Authority and the Kenya Revenue Authority are said to have misused their positions. KPA officers are said to have failed to deactivate passwords of former employees, with an intention of using them to defraud. Musau, who retired from KPA in January 2016, said if only the Information Technology department removed her check number from its database, her password would not have been used to clear 150 containers. The witness worked for the port authority for 37 years. She said she cleared with all departments when she received her retirement letter. TAX EVASION Musau said the departments issued her with clearance certificates, indicating she had surrendered everything belonging to KPA. A few months into her retirement, she was contacted by an official from the KRA who informed her that her old password had been used to clear containers, she said. The password was used to aid five companies evade paying taxes for consignments they had imported. Musau said the firms whose cargo was purportedly cleared by her include Phahim Freights Forwarders, Sannick Freights, Jamil Company, Spears Freights and KAPPA Company. “Someone must have had my password. But I blame the IT department. If they had removed my check number from their system, no one could have hacked my password,” she said. Yesterday, another witness said the password belonging to a former worker who had resigned was also used to clear some containers. Benjamin Mwawuda said the former check number of Florence Langat was used months after Langat had quit. It caused a huge loss of revenue, he said. Mwawuda is a KPA officer in charge of electronic data. The hearing continues today.