Liverpool Vs Stoke City, Today 2:30pm My Prediction: Reds...4 Stoke...0 Liverpool are on fire! I shudder to think what would have happened had they started the season in their current form. Their front three are an attack to die for; and Mohammed Salah’s name is on everybody’s lips. And I mean everybody. He is so impressive that Roma fans were clapping for him at their end of their 5-2 Champions League loss on Tuesday. Jurgen Klopp has taken a while to find the team that may finally win the Reds the Premier league title; but he seems to have got it! He probably needs one more solid defender and his team will be complete. Today they play a relegation bound Stoke City who will be tough because the latter are fighting for their lives but I don’t think Stoke can pull anything off at Anfield. Stoke need four points to climb out of the relegation zone but the teams just above the zone have a game in hand. I fear for what will happen at Anfield today because it will definitely be a high scoring tie.  Swansea Vs Chelsea, Today 7:30pm, My Prediction: Swans ...1 Blues...1 Swansea spent much of the season at the bottom of the league but a decent run around February saw them climb out of the relegation zone though they are not yet safe. They are, however, four points above the drop zone with four games to play. The Swans troubled Everton, West Ham, Arsenal and Liverpool and somehow I feel Antonio Conte’s men will underestimate them. Chelsea have won their last two fixtures but they are still a club that looks disjointed. Their manager and their players don’t appear to be on the same wave length and now that their fate of not playing in next year’s Champions League seems sealed, they don’t have anything left to fight for. I think this game will end all square.  Man United Vs Arsenal, Tomorrow 6:30pm, My Prediction: Red Devils ..1 Gunners...2 Oh my goodness! If the final outcome of the Europa League first leg semi-final match between Arsenal and Atletico Madrid is anything to go by, then the Gunners are doomed. We played well during the first half but failed to score going into the break goal-less. A silly error caused the goal but that’s what goals are made of—one team making silly errors. This game against United will be an extremely emotional one given that it will be Arsene Wenger’s last battle with Manchester United as Arsenal manager. Despite accruing more losses than wins against Red Devils in the last 20 years, we can’t forget the 2001/2 season when Silvain Wiltord scored the winner allowing Arsenal to win that Premier League season at Old Trafford. Who can forget the harsh words between managers and the numerous times tempers were lost on the pitch. The fact is we, the Gunners have always played second fiddle to Man United in recent years and they beat us in the reverse of this fixture 3-1 at Emirates. That was unfortunate because we didn’t play badly in that game but we made few costly mistakes. I don’t think the Gunners will come into this game thinking it’s just another match up against our biggest rivals in recent years. We have a mission to help our manager end his time at Arsenal on a high and that includes this match up. But we can’t allow the laxity that cost us a 1-1 draw against 10-man Atletico Madrid to creep in here. We have the players to finish off United but we must focus. And I trust that we will.