Counties will spend at least 25 per cent of their cash on health this financial year, an analysis of their budgets shows. The study by the Ministry of Health shows more than 70 per cent of that money will go to recurrent expenditure. In the 2016-17 financial year, health took 25.2 per cent of the 47 county budgets and 13 per cent in 2013-14. Health CS Sicily Kariuki lauded the counties, saying increased allocation will help Kenya attain universal health coverage. “We encourage counties to continue to increase their allocations to health,” Kariuki said on Friday during the World Health Day. In the National and County Health Budget Analysis 2016-17 report, the ministry had recommended the counties increase their spending to at least 35 per cent. Majority cash to agencies The Ministry of Health itself has received about Sh60 billion directly from the government in the last two financial years. This is about 3.7 per cent of the national budget. At least 70 per cent of the money goes directly to the seven semi-autonomous agencies under the ministry. Three of these - Kenyatta National Hospital, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and the Kenya Medical Training College - were allocated almost 60 per cent of the ministry’s recurrent budget in 2016-17. The CS said the government would increase financing for health to reduce the burden on Kenyans. She said social protection initiatives such as the elimination of user fees, the Linda Mama programme, subsidies for the poor and health insurance subsidy have been successful. “These government initiatives combined with the efforts of development partners, the private sector and other key stakeholders have seen Kenya register significant progress in terms of health outcomes such as reduction of maternal and infant mortality and increase in the use of contraceptives,” he said. She said her ministry will work together with the county governments to improve service delivery. The UHC aims at cushioning users against out of pocket expenditure on health services.    