Survivors of the bus plunge that killed 17 people in Narok on Tuesday have narrated how they escaped death. The 62-seater Daima Connection bus plunged into the Siyabei River after the driver lost control of the vehicle while trying to avoid hitting an oncoming lorry. The Tuesday accident on the Narok-Mai Mahiu road left 63 people injured. They are being treated at the Narok County Referral Hospital. The bus was travelling from Kendu Bay to Nairobi. Survivor Maxwell Oduor, 36, yesterday termed the accident “bad luck”. Oduor, an electrician, said he boarded the bus because he wanted to get to Nairobi early on Tuesday. “The vehicle had some problems and had a rear tyre burst in Bomet. The driver decided to drive it that way to Narok town, where the tyre was changed,” he said. Oduor said 10 minutes after they left Narok town, the driver was speeding downhill when the accident occurred. “I heard a loud bang when the bus hit a rail guard and rolled four times before landing in the river,” Oduor said. Many lives would have been saved if the bus had not have plunged into the river, he said. “My height helped me because the river was swollen. I held onto the handlebars in front of me,” he said. Survivor Mercy Kemunto told journalists from her hospital bed that she considers herself and her six-year-old son lucky. “We had no hope of coming out of the bus alive, but we survived,” she said. Collins Otieno, a student at Cooperative University, said he lost his father Peter Odonga in the accident. “He had called me to say he was on his way to Nairobi and I should wait for him at the bus station,” Otieno said. Narok Governor Samuel Tunai visited the survivors in hospital. He said the county will foot the bill for the survivors as well as morgue fees. He sent a message of condolence to the families. Meanwhile, Stephen Kibet, the driver of a truck that the bus driver was avoiding, was charged in court yesterday. He was accused of causing the deaths through obstruction. The court directed the DPP’s office to conclude investigations in 10 days. Nancy Laboso, officer in charge of disaster management, said only 10 bodies have been identified. The Kenya Red Cross officials have been searching for more bodies in the water. Read: 17 killed as bus plunges into river to avoid lorry Click here for the latest political news