The Government has started a partial voluntary cover for livestock farmers in Arid and Semi-Arid Lands. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said an extra livestock insurance will be provided for every cover bought from the voluntary market by farmers. Currently, the CS said, 18,000 farmers in eight ASAL counties are benefiting. "This translates to over 100,000 animals. This is more of an incentive. The idea is to cover as many livestock as possible by reaching out to all the 14 ASAL counties. We are scaling it up to achieve the Big Four Agenda," he said. Read: Herders get Sh175m to ease effects of drought The livestock insurance scheme started in July 2014 in Wajir and Turkana. "The program has since been expanded with intention of providing the much-needed financial resources to the pastoral communities in the event of drought and protect the main asset of their livelihood," Kiunjuri said. At least 1,500 livestock in Baringo died last year due to the drought. There was an acute shortage of water and pasture for the emaciated animals. Hundreds of others in Kajiado were on the verge of death before Governor Joseph ole Lenku intervened. Kiunjuri said livestock insurance has stabilized the pastoral livelihood system, reduced dependency on relief aid and post-disaster responses while restoring the dignity of the mainstream pastoralists. "The insurance payout will provide water, procure animal healthcare services or even move animals to areas with better forage to cushion them against severe starvation and possible deaths," the minister said. He spoke on Wednesday in Mombasa during the executive seminar on "Index-Based Livestock Insurance for Members of the Kenyan Parliament". Livestock is estimated to contribute about 42 per cent of the agricultural GDP and over 12 per cent of the national's. It also accounts for 30 per cent of total marketed agricultural products. Kiunjuri requested county governments and other stakeholders to set aside funds to complement the national government's efforts of cushioning Kenyans from " extreme shocks" resulting from drought. A Sh9.8 billion investment on Regional Pastoral Resilience Project has been made by the Government and World Bank. Kiunjuri said the five-year plan will improve the livelihoods of communities mostly in the 14 ASAL counties. "The program will focus on improving livestock water structures, water pans and boreholes, construction of sale yards and border inspection," the CS noted. He tasked MPs to oversight county government in its projects. Also read; Hundreds of Kajiado livestock on verge of death due to drought - Lenku  Click here for the latest political news