Kenya’s only medal hope in the men’s boxing, Shaffi Hassan, failed to live up to the expectations after falling to Uganda’s Juma Miro in the 46-49kg quarter final in the ongoing Commonwealth Games at Oxenford Studios here in Gold Coast. Shaffi lost 3-2 to the Ugandan in the event having dominated especially in the first and part of the second round. It was painful defeat for Shaffi, who was hoping to clinch a medal to save the face of the boxing fraternity after all his counterparts were cleared in the round of 16. “It’s very painful to have lost this bout because in my view, and without any malice, my opponent is no match to me on a good day,” he said . Shaffi said he had a problem with his left hand from the second round and his opponent seemed to have taken note and took advantage. “My left hand just went numb and It was very difficult for me to operate. My opponent must have discovered that I had this problem and decided to capitalise on the situation,” said the Kenyan light flyweight boxer. He, however, said he is happy that he is improving with every passing tournament and despite the defeat, he remains focused. “I know what I can do and I know I am rated among the top two in Africa and so my future is bright,” he added. Ugandan boxer admitted that the Kenyan was in a class of his own and he was surprised that he actually won the bout. “Prior to this tournament, Shaffi was my biggest threat but after I out-punched him, I think the road is very clear for gold,” he added. He said the fact that Shaffi had beaten Africa Number 1, Namibia’s Matias Hamunyela in the round of 16 meant he is more than a worth opponent. “ I have watched most of his videos and I must say he is a very super boxer. I do not take my win for granted but with Shaffi out of my way, I am inspired to go for gold,” he added. Shaffi observed that boxing like any other game, there must be a winner and a loser, adding: “Today victory belonged to the Ugandan and I want to congratulate him,” he added. Coach Patrick Maina reiterated Shaffi’s sentiments, saying the boxer’s main undoing was his left hand. “He told me to massage his left hand at the end of round 2 but there seemed to be no change as he continued to use only his right hand in Round 3. This really affected his performance going forward,” said Maina. Maina said having finished all the men’s matches without a medal, It was time for them to go back to the drawing board and focus. He said they will now rely on Christine Ongare who takes on Sri Lanka’s Dulani Jayasinghe in 51kg quarter final match at mid-day. He said it’s not all lost because Ongare is only a step away from the medal bracket. “It’s been a good experience and learning curve and we hope to live to fight again another day,” he noted. Shaffi won bronze medal in the World Championships qualifiers in Congo, Brazzaville and also represented Kenya at the World Championships in Germany this year. He also featured in the India International tournament this year but failed to get a medal.