Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege wants the national administration to arrest landslides' victims who refuse to relocate from their homes. The MP has expressed concerns that a section of the people affected the landslides that rocked several parts of Murang'a county have declined to move away from their homes to protect their property. She was speaking at Mutitu polytechnic in Mathioya subcounty where 47 families displaced by landslides are being accommodated. Chege said the people are endangering their lives as the village still has fault lines that could cause more landslides. She said this after it emerged that some people have refused to relocate to the polytechnic to take care of their cattle. Chege said the area is still receiving very high rainfall and that those still in their homes could end up losing their lives. "We should not sit back and allow people to put their lives at risk just so they can take care of their cows," she said. Several women said they had been separated from their husbands who refused to live in the polytechnic saying they prefer to live in their homes. The Kahoe village has been cut off from the rest of the area as roads have been destroyed. Two expectant women are among the displaced persons and will be hosted by well wishers. Three families lost all their property but other families asked for help to move their house hold items and cattle to the polytechnic in fear of more landslides. "I will facilitate transport for those who want to move their property from homes that can be accessed," Chege said. Chege however noted that she had communicated with the ministry of Devolution and Special Programmes to help relocate the families to a permanent area as the village has been made inhabitable. She noted that the families are in dire need of clothings, diapers and sanitary towels as the county government has already provided them with beddings. “I am also trying to see if NYS can assist us with safari beds so that the families will not have to sleep on the floor until a permanent solution is found,” Chege added. The families gave harrowing accounts of their near death experience when the landslides occured. Joseph Macharia said he sent his wife and five children to his parents home a few days before the calamity struck after noticing that a crack that had formed inside his house was widening. Macharia added that on that day, he sought shelter from his brother's home as he feared sleeping in his house. "We heard a loud thundering noise and when we went to check what was happened, we found that my entire farm had been swept away," the distraught man said. He said he did not salvage anything from his 2 acre farm that had coffee and foodstuffs.