Saw millers in Nakuru and Narok county have appealed to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko to rein in on forest rangers taking advantage of the ban on logging to brutalise them. They also appealed to the Cabinet Secretary to allow them move timber, which they cut before the ban was imposed, to safer houses. Speaking in Kuresoi on Friday, the lot said their attempts to move
them to safer stores have been frustrated by the Kenya Forest Service
warders. "We are concerned that security officers are taking
advantage of the ban to brutalise innocent farmers," Samuel Cherorot,
the saw millers association chair, said. They said moving the logs will prevent them from suffering losses as the timber is rotting in the forests amid instances of heavy rainfall. The government, on realising of the shrinking forest cover, imposed a ban effective March to June so as to tackle effects of massive deforestation. Also read: 90-day ban on logging not PR stunt, says DP Ruto Cherorot further said the saw millers, who have been unable to harvest trees, now risk losing property to banks and micro-finance institutions over unpaid loans. "The ban is good and we trust its good intent. But we are being agonised for the messes instigated by those who have failed to conserve their forests." Cherorot said they usually harvest trees on various farms after getting tree-felling permits from rural foresters. He said they have been crippled because they rely on the business for food and school fees for their children. "We want Tobiko to visit our farms and see how we can be helped so that we transfer the logs to safe stores before they are damaged by the rains," Agnes Kosgei said. For his part, Nominated MP Gideon Keter said commercialisation of forest reserves is to blame for the destruction of environment. "After the ban, we demand that 70 per cent of the allotted trees be given to the locals who understand the importance of conserving environment." He added that locals have been blamed for destroying the forests and yet it is done by businessmen out to harvest trees in various parts of the country. Click here for latest political news