An inter-agency team carrying out the crackdown on illicit brew and unlicensed alcohol sellers are accusing some senior police officers of interfering with their work. On Saturday, a team composed of officials from National Authority for the Campaign Against Drug Abuse, Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Nairobi County government, Public health and National Police service were ambushed by officers from Hardy Police Station. The officers claimed that they were not informed of the crackdown in a move that amounted to "invasion of their territory." "We are not aware of the crackdown and if anything, this is our territory,"Chelagat, an officer from Hardy Police station said at Beacons Inn. Efforts by the inter-agency team to convince them fell on deaf ears. "We ought to have known in advance that you are coming here,"Chelagat who was accompanied by Hardy OCS said. Related : Illicit brew crackdown launched in Kiambu The standoff which took almost half an hour saw Hardy Police Station OCS threaten to free those who had earlier been booked. After the stand off, the inter-agency team was forced to book other suspects in Langata Police Station. Nacada official who sought anonymity said all senior police officers were made aware of the crackdown when it was launched. "All senior officers were adequately briefed and urged to support the crackdown,"the official said. This was after the Interior CS Fred Matiang'i launched the crackdown March 1 in Kiambu County. The 100 days Rapid Results Initiative seeks to curb illicit brews and unauthorized outlets. Karen OCPD Cunningham Suiyanka said the local police officers ought to have been informed in advance "to prevent friendly conflict." "I'm not aware as I have not received any complaint. However, I will inquire,"Suiyanka said. During the first phase, 278 premises were closed down and 280 people were arrested. The crackdown focuses its attention to the validity of operating licenses,security of the premises, public health standards, validity of products standardization marks. Others are the validity of Kenya Revenue Authority excise stamps and distance of premises to learning institutions of persons below age of 18. Eight people were arrested arrested on Saturday and another four on Friday for various offences. Read : State officers warned in war on illicit brew Click here for the latest political news