This is all very new to me. Hanging out with someone I like without the wheels turning in my head. I feel almost… Normal. I’m being myself. I’m not watching what I say or weighing things in my head before I say them. I’m being me. Perhaps because I don’t view Mike as anything long-term — he likes Donald Trump for heaven’s sake — but I’m comfortable around him. His big girth doesn’t turn me off, I like it. If I’m being honest, dating someone who looks like this means you don’t feel like you have to look like Beyoncé, which is also new for me. All the guys I date are pretty hot and it’s gotten me nowhere. But for now I can forget all that. I’m here for the tongue. Yes, focus. We can hole up in here and have as many orgasms as possible before we face the world again. I never even need to see him again, after this. We are sitting on the balcony and he says he wants to make love to me out there in the open. “What if someone sees us?” I ask. He shrugs and says he doesn’t care. I look around. It looks pretty deserted. He starts to undress me and I don’t protest. What happens next is beautiful. It’s not ‘sexual’ like all our other encounters. This time, he takes his time. He makes me feel like we belong. Like we’re one. I thought his skills were only in the oral sex department because, hey, let’s face it, if you’re that good going down on someone, it’s usually because you have to overcompensate for being a mediocre lover. But this guy, inside me, is just as mind blowing, if not better. Lawd! Why did he take so long to try and make proper love to me? He feels so good, fits me so well and best of all, never breaks eye contact. I’m the first to do so as we fuse harder and harder. I catch some movement out of the corner of my eye. “Baby…” I say breathlessly. “There’s someone there…” He ignores me and doesn’t stop. “There’s someone watching us,” I say again. “You’re the boss lady,” he growls. “Do you want me to stop?” That’s the last thing I want. I let him continue. I actually don’t care that someone is watching. Voyeurism — the practice of gaining sexual pleasure from watching others whilst they are engaged in sexual activity — is not a one-way street. Getting your rocks off from being watched as you do the dirty, works as well. I remember back in college when I had to share a room with a friend, and my boyfriend wasn’t going to let that stop us. Your roommate can’t see anything but they can hear you. Of course you try to be as quiet as you can, but that’s BS. They can hear everything you’re doing and it’s exciting as hell. Especially when he tries to keep you from screaming out. That’s what it feels like now. We reach orgasm together and then he says it. “I love you.” What the hell? What does he mean he loves me? I ignore it. “Did you hear me?” he asks. “I heard you,” I respond, wondering if I’m getting punked or something. This is too weird. I get up in all my naked glory and turn to where I had seen someone. It’s actually not a human but a monkey observing us. I wonder what it thinks of all this. I point it out to Mike and he laughs.