Thirty families were left homeless following a landslide in Makueni county on Tuesday. Unconfirmed reports indicated that some of the victims may have been buried alive. Residents have asked the government to help with evacuations amid rescue operations. Via Twitter, Red Cross said: "Flash floods reported in Makueni after heavy downpour overnight. Red Cross action team activated to conduct assessment and help move locals to safer areas."  A view of river Muooni in Makueni county, which burst its banks after heavy rains, April 24, 2018. /MUTUA KAMETI Earlier, five families in Woolwa village in Nzaui sub-county called for evacuation after river Muooni burst its banks. The waters swept through the village submerging a number of houses following a heavy downpour. Sources said villagers climbed trees from where they made phone calls for help. One told the Star that he could not trace his family members who stay in the affected village. "We attempted to rescue them but we were unable to access the village. We appeal for immediate help for our neighbours." In Nunguni village, Kilungu sub-county, 37 homes have been affected by mudslides that left three people with injuries. "The mudslides toppled trees, demolished some houses and covered roads with a thick layer of mud, rendering most of them impassable," Kaiti MPJoshua Kimilu said. He said one man was taken to Makueni Level 4 Hospital with a broken leg after his house was party damaged by mud. Two women were taken to the facility after getting injured as toilets sank.  A view of river Muooni in Makueni county, which burst its banks after heavy rains, April 24, 2018. /MUTUA KAMETI On April 22, a woman and her daughter died after a dam overflowed with floodwaters. The dam supplies water in Wote town, Makueni county. The two died after the water destroyed their house in Kamunyolo village following heavy rains. More on this: Mother and daughter die after Makueni dam overflows Also read: 10,000 displaced by floods in Turkana Click here for the latest political news