Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko (pictured) is a man of surprises. On Friday, he caught his haters and admirers off guard when he accompanied NASA chief Raila Odinga to a meeting with former President Mwai Kibaki. Many didn’t expect Sonko, who occasionally throws tantrums at the ex-PM, to be in the delegation. He proudly posed for a photo with Raila and Kibaki as the handshake shockwaves continued to reverberate. However, critics on social media were sceptical he could have run to Raila following incessant turf wars with Jubilee power brokers in Nairobi. Others called his mission “suspect”. ***** Former Senate Speaker Ekwe Ethuro was in his element on Friday during the Turkana cultural fete in Lodwar. The politician, who was ditched by Jubilee in his botched bid to defend the seat, has decided to take a low profile since last year. However, on Friday, he surfaced in Lodwar and was cheered by celebrants at the event. So could he exploit his backyard to hit back at Jubilee in front of Deputy President William Ruto? Not, at all.  He hailed county boss Josphat Nanok for his “brave’ decision to work with Jubilee. So ironical indeed of a man who a few months ago was deserted by Jubilee honchos. ***** A powerful and influential political figure near President Uhuru Kenyatta, a former MP who has previously avoided running for a political office despite his connections, has gone underground. Not long ago he freely offered interviews to local media in the run-up to the botched August 8 General Election, but of late he has been hibernating. Corridors of Power overhead one Jubilee insider claim there could be bad blood between him and some members of the First Family, forcing him to make a strategic retreat as he is said to be plotting a political comeback. ***** Is a First Lady from the counties in Northeastern doing business with the county in blatant conflict of interest? While procurement laws frown on the office of the governor doing business with the county, it has emerged that his wife is the leading supplier of major consumables in the devolved unit. Through proxy, the county First Lady won a controversially inflated tender to supply computers to the executive. County contractors have threatened to move to court to block the tender award. This is  even after it emerged the county Woman Representative was also one of the bidders who was knocked out at the financial evaluation stage. Is supply of goods and services a preserve of the high and mighty or devolved to empower the disadvantaged?  Click here for the latest political news