Deputy President William Ruto yesterday opposed Opposition chief Raila Odinga’s proposal of radical changes to the Constitution. Ruto dismissed Raila’s push for a three-tier system of government saying the current devolved system is working and doesn’t need changes. He appeared to liken Raila to a poor workman who blames his tools to justify his failures. “A bad workman quarrels with his tools. If you are a bad workman, you will find all manner of excuses; blame the Constitution or the MCAs or senators. We built the SGR and didn’t need to amend any Constitution. It’s all about being focussed,” Ruto said. “Because he is a bad workman...he wants to quarrel with his tools and get excuses for his failure.” Ruto was among those who unsuccessfully opposed the 2010 referendum that paved the way for a new Constitution. “If there is going to be a suggestion on arranging or rearranging devolution, it cannot be creating another layer of government by engaging in a billion shilling referendum. These are issues we can deal with without amending the Constitution,” Ruto said. Read : Raila proposes three-tier government to enhance devolution He spoke in Kakamega where he closed the fifth Devolution Conference a day after Raila rooted for a referendum and 14 regional blocs that retain the 47 counties. Most of the 47 counties, Raila said, are uneconomical entities because of strained economies of scale. He said a three-level government structure would be a panacea to excesses of presidential system. “The Bomas Draft Constitution divided Kenya into 14 regions, each made up of several districts. The intention was to create units with the size and population that made them economically viable,” Raila said in his keynote address. “There is need for the country to adopt a three-tier system that retains the current counties, creates regional governments and retains the national government to create units with the size and population that are economically viable.” Raila had said the three-tier governance system was part of his deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta, a pact whose details are shrouded in mystery. But Ruto fired back at Raila, terming his suggestion ‘idle talk’ by a man whom he said likes scapegoats. Ruto told governors to be wary of Raila’s “tricks” for constitutional changes which he said would whittle down their authority and allow the former Prime Minister to create powerful positions for his allies. “It cannot be devolution upwards. It should be devolution downwards. That is where devolution needs to go and that is a discussion that we can have and we don’t have to change the Constitution to achieve that,” Ruto said. In what appeared to be a veiled reference to Raila, Ruto said the proponent of another constitutional review was like a bad workman who always blames his tools whenever he fails to perform. National Assembly majority whip Benjamin Washiali - a key ally of Ruto - warned against ‘knee-jerk’ constitutional amendments, saying a referendum was not welcome at the moment. “A referendum will mean we spend up to Sh13 billion, yet we are looking at mega projects that we need to implement to spur economic growth,” he said. Washiali, however, said there was need to reduce the number of counties to the 14 that were originallyin the Bomas draft.  MONGREL “We have too many counties at the moment. Perhaps this is a conversation we need to have to see if we can amend the Constitution in the future, but not now,” he said. National Assembly leader of Minority John Mbadi told the Star the time was ripe for Kenyans to hold a referendum and adopt the original Bomas draft which he said was mutilated. “It was not the wish of Kenyans to have the kind of architecture they have. It was because of politics that we left the Bomas draft and created another mongrel,” he said. Mbadi said the opponents of a constitutional review are part of a clique of politicians giving excuses for personal gain. “This is the right time for a referendum. We need it by mid-next year,” he said, dismissing those claiming Kenyans cannot have a plebiscite too close after a general election. “Immediately after an election that is when you can amend the constitution.” As the referendum momentum continues to underpin the Raila-Uhuru pact amid anxiety over the actual details, ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire said a referendum will entrench the kind structure of governance Kenyans intended. Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny of Jubilee warned Raila’s proposed three-tier system would be cumbersome, adding it would clash with the county governments. “We are agreeing in principle that everybody wants that we relook into the Constitution, but we should not create systems or institutions that are going to collide with the current administration,” he said. The MP who rooted for a hypbrid system of government said a Raila-Kibaki coalition government model of government would hold the country together. A hybrid system of government in the essence that you would have the President who has all authority, the vice president and the Prime Minister with the deputies used to hold the country together, he said. Click here for the latest political news