Kenya’s Shujaa collected 10 points from Singapore Sevens to move to 93 points with two legs to spare after suffering a 7-17 defeat to Commonwealth Games champions New Zealand in the fifth place Main Cup semi-final yesterday. All Blacks chalked up three tries, one of which was converted while the Kenyans managed only one converted try in a tough fixture at the National Stadium in Singapore. It was a bitter pill for the Kenya Sevens team to swallow after they failed to pull a replica of 2016 Singapore HSBC Series triumph. Their aspirations were nipped in the bud by South Africa, who eliminated them in the Main Cup quarters. With two legs remaining this season in London and Paris, Kenya have great opportunity to break the 100-point barrier and record their highest ever points tally in a season. New Zealanders tormented Kenyans from the thrill of the first whistle, winning the ball from the kick off with Kurt Baker racing down the left before dotting down and converting his own try. Kenya replied following some calculated attacks with Sikuta landing the ball and the try awarded after a TMO decision. Eden Agero added in the extras as Shujaa went level. However, New Zealand got back to the lead after capitalising on a Kenyan mistake on the counter rack with Dylan Collier dotting down for a 12-7 lead at half time. The second half was tough with both sides seemingly fatigued after a tough period in June that included two World Sevens series and the Commonwealth Games. There was room for only one try and it was Trael Joass who dotted down for the All Blacks. Kenya had done well to hold their defensive line, but they cracked when the ball was spread out to the left and Joass dotted down. The boys will now have slightly over a month rest before the final tour of the season in Europe with the London Sevens set for June 2-3 and the season-ending Paris Sevens a week later. Kenya had earlier lost 24-12 to South Africa in Cup quarters while New Zealand went down 24-19 to Fiji. In preliminaries, Kenya lost 28-19 to England but recovered to beat France 34-0 and USA 33-14. Fiji won the HSBC Singapore Rugby Sevens on Sunday for the first time since the series returned to the republic in 2016, beating Australia 28-22 in a dramatic final. Kenya won in 2016, with Canada winning last year—both first-time winners of a leg on the series. Sunday’s win saw Fiji overtaking South Africa on the log with 145 points, four ahead of the Blitzboks, who finished fourth in Singapore after losing 24-26 to England in the bronze-medal match. London and Paris are the last two legs of the 10-stop World Series.