Mombasa county intends to set up a Sh6.5 billion
recycling plant to tackle the garbage menace that has
overshadowed Hassan Joho's development record over the years. Joho’s administration has not provided specifics of the project but
says the plant will see waste from the county recycled into usable products. The governor has put a five-year time frame for the
project in a move considered to be about his desire to leave a legacy at the end of his two terms in office. It is understood he will seek the national government’s
approval for a loan to fund the venture since its annual Sh13 billion budget is not sufficient. The county anticipates a reduction in waste accumulation and reuse of waste products. Joho has placed a Sh3 billion budget for the venture. Plans to set up a recycling plant in Mombasa have flopped
several times. A Sh2 billion Private Public Partnership waste management
project conceived in 2012 did not materialise. The partnership would have seen Bamburi Cement
company construct a state-of-the-art recycling factory. Water CEC Fatma Awale, during her vetting, said the
plan hit a dead-end because the proposed site was private. In 2009, another Italian company — Jacorossi Imprese —  was
about to be awarded a tender to set up a recycling plant but the plans were
scuttled. This was when the French government, through the French Development Agency,
promised a Sh1.1 billion grant for a similar venture. In a tussle that sucked in the Tourism CS Najib Balala
and Opposition chief Raila Odinga, the council was ordered to stop any dealings
with the Italian company. The garbage issue has never been addressed in the face of residents
continuing to bear the brunt of poor waste management. Last week, Joho ordered the closure of Kibarani dumpsite
as a strategy to contain the situation. Mwakirunge dumping site will be used instead. However, the area is a flight path and the decision may be in futility. The governor’s critics have made political capital by exposing
his ineptness to keep the town clean. The debate raged during the last general election that
Joho won by a huge margin. Joho has admitted that cleaning Mombasa has been a mountainous
task and pleaded with
residents to help him. Diseases like Chikunguya and Cholera have been blamed for
the heaps of waste in residential areas. Streets are cluttered and there is bad
odours, clogged sewers and negative health and environmental impacts. Click here for the latest political news 