Former Ukunda ward aspirant Kombo Gude, popularly known as Kombo Chui, and his friend Nassib Diti were gunned down on Tuesday evening. The two were shot dead at 7.30pm near Wembley Video Hall in Kibundani village, Kwale county. Residents said the killings may be related to a land feud, as Gude was a land broker. The two were in a car heading from Mbuani to Ukunda, when the gunmen shot at the car, forcing them to flee. Nothing was stolen. Msambweni police boss Joseph Chebusit said they are and searching for the killers. Witnesses interviewed by the Star said the two tried to escape on foot after the attackers fired at their vehicle. “The politician and his friend were running for their lives after the attack and suffered several gunshots wounds that led to their death,” a witness said. Gude contested the Ukunda ward seat as an independent candidate after losing the ODM nomination to Omar Kitengele. Omar is now serving his second term. The bodies were taken to Msambweni Referral Hospital mortuary. They were buried yesterday at their homes in Kibundani. Kwale county commissioner Karuku Ngumo said, “Insecurity incidents have dropped in Msambweni. We will not allow a few culprits to cause tension. We will work day and night until we get all these culprits.” Ngumo urged residents to supply any kind of information that may lead to the arrest of the killers.  SURRENDER ILLEGAL ARMS “However little the information is, share it with us. It will assist us greatly. We will not expose you. Remember, security starts with you and me and not the police alone so let’s help each other,” Ngumo said. He also warned residents keeping unlicenced guns and ammunition. Ngumo said if they don’t surrender the weapons, they will be punished. “Surrender those guns to either police or chiefs because you will regret it if we find you in possession of an unlicenced firearm,” Ngumo said. In September last year, two AP officers who were guarding the ACK Church in Ukunda were shot dead by gunmen on a motorbike. The assailants escaped after stealing one rifle from the officers. Witnesses said two armed men made their way into the church compound and attacked the unsuspecting officers. “They sprayed them with bullets,” a witness said. In October last year, police recovered an AK-47 rifle they believe was stolen during the church attack. The rifle was left outside the area chief’s office. At the time, crime had been on the rise in the county, especially in Bongwe-Gombato ward.