A 17-year-old students last night was lynched by a mob in Gathumbi village, Murang’a county, after he was accused of raping and strangling a girl to death. The Form One student is said to have the 12-year-old into his bedroom where he allegedly defiled her before strangling her with a school tie. Duncan Wakahiu was lynched after the body of the Standard Five girl was found under his bed. This was after her family searched for hours. The girl’s grandmother said she had been sent to the shop by her sister when she met Wakahiu. She said the family started looking for the girl at 3pm after her mother came home from work and was told she was missing. “Other children told us the girl was seen in the company of Wakahiu and he had invited her to his house,” the girl’s grandmother said. The boy asked the girl to help him take some stuff to his home and asked the other children to wait for her by the road. After a while, he came back and asked them to go home, saying the girl had used an alternative route home. The girl’s grandmother said when they confronted Wakahiu on the whereabouts of her grandchild, he denied knowing where she was. He is said to have also declined to hand over the keys to his house. “He only gave us the keys after he was ordered to do so by his father and that is when we found her body in his house,” she added. The grandmother said the girl was disciplined and quiet, and her willingness to help may have landed her in trouble. She said she brought up the child as her own after her mother relocated to another area and the girl declined to follow her mother. The grandmother said the girl had gone to visit her sister after schools were closed and had been left in charge of her nieces. She said the girl was going to a nearby shopping centre to buy chicken feeds when she started playing with other children on her way. “The boy identified her from the crowd of other children as she was the oldest and asked her to help him carry some items,” she said. Area police boss David Kandie said residents beat him up before setting him on fire. He said the body had already been burnt beyond recognition when police officers arrived at the scene. Kandie said investigations will be done to establish the chronology of events and whether the student sexually assaulted the girl.