Beatrice Chepkoech yesterday won the women’s 1,500m silver that ‘felt like gold’ at the ongoing Commonwealth Games yesterday in Gold Coast. Chepkoech clocked a personal best of 4:03.09 to place second behind winner Caster Semenya, who posted a games and national record of 4:00.71. Welsh Melissa Courtney clocked 4:03.44 to complete the podium. Chepkoech admitted that though it was her first time to run with Semenya, it is always challenging to take on the South African. “There is no doubt Semenya was on everyone’s mind before the race but we had no option but to take her head on. This is why I decided to run my own race that eventually felt like victory. I feel like I have won gold because we all know what I am talking about,” she added. Chepkoech, whose specialty is 3,000m steeplechase, said she will go back to her comfort zone after the Commonwealth Games. “I was just using this race to build on my speed but I will be going back to steeplechase starting with Shanghai Diamond League next month,” she added. The All Africa Games bronze medallist said not even the 1,500m silver here will derail her from going back to what she loves most, the steeple. Semenya acknowledged that Chepkoech is a great talent but urged her to always believe in herself. “One needs to always run her race and believe in herself because that is how it is in sports,” she said. The race had faced a lengthy delay due to a broken timing equipment. Australia’s duo of Linden Hall (4:03.67) and Georgia Griffith (4:04.17) were next in line while Scotland’s duo of Eilish McColgan (4:04.30) and Stephanie Well ( 4:05.56) followed in that order. Kenya’s Mary Wangari was ninth in a season’s best of 4:05.88. Wangari on her part said running against Semenya is always great because she is one athlete who will always help you push your own clock. She, however, claimed that she felt like she was running in a men’s race at one point. “This one really took everything from me. I gave my all and I am happy to have run my personal best. At least we will go back home with a silver from our event and I am happy for Chepkoech,” she added. In the women’s 400m semis, Maximila Imali clocked 51.52 to reach the final. She led Nigeria’s Yinka Ajayi (51.81) and Australia’s Morgan Mitchell (52.65) to the finish. The second Kenyan Veronica Mutua bowed out after placing eighth in 54.84. Jamaican Anastasia Le-roy clocked 51.08 secs to win the heat while Botswana’s Amantle Months was second in 51.26.