Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has given rival Wavinya Ndeti seven days to apologise for slander, failing which he will sue. Ndeti linked Mutua to an alleged scheme to assassinate her. In a Facebook post on Monday evening, Wavinya asked residents to hold Mutua responsible should anything happen to her. “Today, at around 4:30pm, he was seen driving slowly by my gate in his white VX Landcruiser tailed by a grey Subaru. I don’t know what he is surveying,” Ndeti said. Wavinya said it was not the first time the governor was keeping tabs on her. “One of my workers recently confessed that he was offered Sh3 million by persons known to him, to relay information regarding my movements. I have since reported the matter to the police,” Ndeti said. Father shot The former Kathiani MP said threats on her life began in 2013 when she launched her Machakos gubernatorial bid. She lost to Mutua in both 2013 and 2017. “My father was shot just two days before I launched my gubanatorial bid in 2013. My neighbour’s Range Rover, which was similar to mine, was shot at near our gate on the day I served Mutua with court papers for my petition in 2013,” Ndeti said. Ndeti has also accused Mutua of intimidation. She said the governor opened his Maendeleo Chap Chap party offices 100 metres from her home. “My appeal is coming on Monday April 16,” Ndeti said. Mutua has asked Ndeti to apologise or risk being sued. “Unless you comply with this demand, our mandatory instructions are to institute legal proceedings against yourself, without any further reference to you whatsoever,” Mutua’s lawyers Mung’ata and Company Advocates told Ndeti in a letter. Propaganda Mutua demanded immediate admission of liability for defamation.The governor also asked the politicians to promise to end “any unfounded propaganda” against him. Mutua said Ndeti’s claims were “outright lies and propaganda” aimed at portraying her as a victim of imaginary persecution. “Your behaviour is criminal and portrays you as a liar, an inciter and a dishonest person who uses opportunistic, mischievous and scandalous ways to achieve her intentions,” the letter reads. The advocates said they will pursue charges of both defamation and criminal culpability arising from Ndeti’s “continued reckless statements”. “A police complaint has been lodged via OB No. 29 of 10/04/2018 at Machakos police station,” Mutua said. The governor said he was at the airport on the day Ndeti claimed to have spotted him near her gate on April 9. “Our client was 500 kilometres away waiting to board flight KQ No. JM 8645 to Nairobi,” the advocates said. “He was in clear view of hundreds of people including senior Kenya government officials. This fact alone exposes you as a shameless and blatant liar out to mislead the public and damage our client’s hard earned international reputation.”