So, he went to a river to quench his
thirst and took the bone along, as it was worried that some other dog might
take it away. As the dog stood on a bridge across the river, it looked around
to see if it could safely put the bone down while it quenched its thirst. By chance, he saw his reflection in the
water from over the bridge. He could not follow that it was his shadow. Rather,
he thought it to be another dog with a bone in his mouth. Being greedy by nature, he wanted that
bone too. So, he barked at the other dog, hoping to scare it into giving it
that bone. But alas! The bone that he held in its mouth fell into the river. This is what too much greed does to us
when we allow it to distract us from our present task and purpose. And we are
experiencing this today in the country, where we have leaders who should be
serving the people but are focussed on the next election — four years away. It was unfortunate to watch the leaders
wrangling in Kirinyaga recently over a political seat that is neither vacant,
nor will it be for the next four years. We are witnessing the same with people
plotting for the Presidency, yet there is an occupant at State House, who has
called on Kenyans to work together for development. So many Kenyan leaders have resorted to
early campaigns instead of focussing on service delivery, which the public is looking
to transform their lives, and ensure they secure a livelihood and a future. Contrary to what some leaders may want to
believe, Kenyans are not interested in 2022 politics at this time. When they
see their leaders, they want to be told when their local road is being
tarmacked, when their hospital is getting equipment, what industry is coming to
their area to provide jobs for the locals. Any leader who focuses on these issues
does not even need to start campaigning four years to the election. We had a long electioneering period and
we thought the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila
Odinga would end the election mood. It, however, seems to have opened a new
phase where people are focussing on the next election with what is now clear
early campaigns. More than half a year after the election,
most leaders have not delivered anything tangible to Mwananchi but have already
setup teams to start campaigns. We are seeing governors declaring their bids
for the presidency, while other many other politicians are already campaigning
to be Deputy President William Ruto’s running mate. It is clear the President and his Deputy
are focussed on delivering their promise of uniting the country and developing
it. The succession in Jubilee is clear and when the right time comes, Ruto will
guide the country on who his running mate will be. Therefore, this madness of leaders
standing up every time to express their sycophancy must stop. Instead of
talking about 2022, when they accompany the DP, they should use that
opportunity to lobby for their people so that Ruto leaves there knowing what
the needs of that area are. Service to the public is service to God.
This is not an opportunity to achieve personal self-actualization ideals. Nor
is it an opportunity to get a position so as to show power and to loot public
coffers We
need humble leaders who put country before self. Not vice versa. We want
leaders who are focussed on the task at hand and not distracted by the illusion
of future politics. The writer is a political and
communications consultant.