Mombasa residents have trolled Governor Hassan Joho for his involvement in the wedding of Tanzania musician Ali Kiba. Joho had been missing for weeks amid residents complains only to resurface during the Thursday wedding. The governor is an outspoken politician so his absence did not go unnoticed. Sources said he visited France, Spain and Australia since leaving the county last month. He flew back to the country on Wednesday evening after delivering a speech at a global water summit in France. Director of communication Richard Chacha said Joho attended Ali KIba's wedding as a friend and not on behalf of the county government Kiba wedded his Kenyan fiancee Amina Rikesh, whom he has dated since 2016. The official ceremony took place at Masjid Ul Kulthum mosque, which was built in honor of Joho's mother. A luncheon for the newly weds was hosted at Joho's palatial home in Nyaliu with an evening reception at the governor's other home in Vipingo ridge. In attendance were Joho and Nyali politician Said Abdalla among other top county officials. Residents “congratulated” Joho for the wedding, saying it was the development the governor sought abroad. Amina, who is in her mid 20s, works with the county assembly's department of finance in the budget section. She was born and brought up in Tel Aviv area of Kongowea in Mombasa. She attended stepping stone preparatory primary school before joining Star of the Sea for her secondary education . She is said to have enrolled at the United State International University for her degree studies. Amina who is at her mid 20s is said to have joined USIU for her degree studies. Born in a Muslim family where every child must undergo Islamic education at a tender age,Amina was enrolled at Bahrain madrassa for her religious education She currently works with the Mombasa county assembly at the Finance department as a FISCAL analyst in the budget section. The wedding was held at Masjid Ul Kulthum mosque,a mosque build in honor of Joho's mother. After the wedding,a lunch in honor of the newly wed was hosted at Joho's palatial home and an evening reception hosted at his home in Vipingo ridge. In attendance were Joho and Nyali politician Said Abdalla among other Mombasa county top brass. According to a source within the county government,Joho jetted back on Wednesday evening from France where he had delivered his speech at a Global water summit in France. The stylish governor has been splashing the social media especially his twitter and Instagram pages with his tongue-wagging photos leaving many jealous while others bitter of his lifestyle. In February,Joho posted a photo of him and Alikiba in a place believed to be Dubai. Weeks later he posted photos while in Estonia,Sweden and Spain before flying to Spain. His missing in action prompted a social media campaign dubbed #whereisJoho. His deputy William Kingi seem to have been the one running the county business with the help of Joho's aides. But residents have questioned why will Joho be missing for months only to re-appear few hours to Alikiba's wedding. Peter Ojowi accused Joho of neglecting his official duties, saying the county was choking in filth because of uncollected garbage. "Mombasa has turned into one big garbage bin while the governor is globetrotting," Ojowi said. He said it was wrong for Joho to make his first public appearance after a long time at the wedding. Ojowi said such a big treatment for Kiba was unnecessary when the county has often underpaid local artists who perform at county events. "Joho fails to recognise Kenyan artists but does big things to foreigners,” Ojowi said. Chacha said residents were blowing the matter out of proportion, saying Joho had a personal life outside his crown as governor. “Joho and Alikiba have been friends for a long time now. Joho's support towards Kiba's wedding was not on behalf of the Mombasa county government,” Chacha said. Chacha said any contributions Joho might have made came from his pocket and not county coffers. He added that the county has not spent even a dime towards the highly hyped wedding Alikiba has atleast five times performed at Mombasa county organized events including the annual Tukutane Mombasa in 2016,and the ODM at 10 celebrations alongside Diamond Platinumz.