Embakasi East MP Paul Ongili alias Babu Owino has urged the Court of Appeal to overturn the High court decision which nullified his election in August last year. Through his lawyers James Orengo and Jackson Awele, the legislator told the court that Justice Joseph Sergon disregarded the  evidence which he presented in his defence. He further told the court that the irregularities cited were not substantial to affect the election result. "I urge the court to uphold my election and reinstate me as the MP because even a scrutiny and recount of votes cast in the election did not change the results." See: [VIDEO] Babu Owino accuses UhuRuto of influencing court case Also read: High Court nullifies Babu Owino election over irregularities For his part, Babu's competitor Francis Mureithi of Jubilee Party urged the court to dismiss the appeal saying he presented evidence to warrant a nullification. The appeal is being heard by Justices Mohammed Warsame, Kathurima M'inoti, and Daniel Musinga. They are expected to deliver their verdict on the matter on June 6. In March, Justice Sergon held that the Embakasi East MP election was marred by violence and systemic irregularities which affected the results. Justice Sergon ruled that Mureithi had proven the entire exercise was marred by violence, intimidation and other electoral malpractices. "Considering all the evidence tendered before me, I find that elections in Embakasi East were not free and fair." "The entire process was dotted with violence occasioned by the voters and supporters of Owino," Justice Sergon stated in his ruling. Babu also wants the appellate court to set aside Justice Sergon's February 12 ruling on vote scrutiny and recount. He averred that the judge ignored the relevant and binding legal standards for the evaluation of evidence in election petitions. "In so doing, the judge ascribed excessive weight to irrelevant and weak evidence," Babu says in his appeal case. Read: Babu Owino appeals nullification of his election Click here for the latest political news