The Commonwealth summit has ended with agreements on mechanisms to boost trade within the group to the $2 trillion (Sh199.7 trillion) mark. The 53 countries also agreed to confront security threats and unite for blue economy growth. The summit gave Kenya another opportunity to play a leading role on the international stage, with President Uhuru Kenyatta aggressively pursuing the country's agenda of securing investment and bolstering trade. The President left London on Sunday after bilateral meetings with Pakistani Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi and President Yoweri Museveni - both focused on trade and security. "Trade with Pakistan has dropped below historical highs. The President engaged the Pakistani PM on getting it back on an upward trajectory," State House Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said. Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma will follow up, Esipisu said, adding Uhuru and Museveni will review trade and investment between the two countries. The leaders who attended the summit also agreed to unite and promote economic growth through exploitation of ocean resources. Related: Brexit poses a pressing trade problem for smaller nations KEY ROLES FOR KENYA Kenya was chosen to champion the development of blue economic growth through the Commonwealth Blue Charter adopted by CHOGM 2018. At the end of the summit on Friday evening, the Commonwealth Secretariat - which runs the organisation’s programmes - announced that the leaders had adopted a Commonwealth Blue Charter laying out the strategy for economic development through oceans. “The Charter will undoubtedly change the pace of global efforts on ocean conservation, unlocking the power of 53 nations on what is clearly one of the most pressing causes of our time,” said Commonwealth Secretary General Baroness Patricia Scotland. At the summit, Kenya stressed the need to prioritise the protection of oceans, and the need for the world to come up with better mechanisms to use oceans for economic development. Juma said the focus on oceans was more critical for Africa where at least 50 per cent of cities are at sea level. She said threats and opportunities related to oceans have a direct effect on at least half of the continent's settlement. Juma also invited all Commonwealth members to the Blue Economy Conference that will take place in Nairobi from November 26-28. The ocean resources subject is to be pursued at a Commonwealth summit and at the summit of the seven most industrialised countries (G7) in Canada. Both meetings will take place in June. Canada has already offered to co-host the November conference in Nairobi. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also invited Uhuru to the G7 meeting in Quebec as Kenya seeks to consolidate its place as the go-to country on key global affairs. Kenya emerged from the summit with an endorsement for its new role as a champion for blue economy development. Juma was appointed chair of the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group (CMAG) which deals with conflicts and governance issues within the Commonwealth. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed will co-chair a new global campaign to ensure that all girls have at least 12 years of basic education. It is an initiative by British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. This came after Kenya was given a key role in administering Commonwealth scholarships in order to restore integrity and efficiency to the process. Read: CS Amina nominated co-chair of Commonwealth platform for girls’ education UHURU CHAMPIONS AfCFTA The agenda for the Commonwealth leaders included talks on the promotion of inclusive and sustainable economic growth, supporting small and vulnerable states and recognition of opportunities for economic development. Trade and investment between Kenya and post-Brexit Britain were part of the priority issues on the President’s agenda during the summit. The UK has been a strong trading and diplomatic partner for Kenya. At least 220 UK companies, worth £2.7 billion, operate in Kenya and employ 250,000 locals. Uhuru is a strong supporter of intra-Africa trade and is championing the adoption of the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). Kenya is expected to be among the first countries to ratify the agreement. At the Commonwealth summit, Uhuru said the AfCFTA provides an opportunity for Africa to create prosperity and jobs for its youth. The President met leaders including Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, Prince Charles, Prince William and Prime Minister Theresa May. He and the Queen shared a table during a banquet hosted by the Queen on Thursday and discussed the shared heritage between Kenya and the UK. Read: The story behind Africa's free trade dream Also read: Trade treaty key to higher export revenues, experts say Click here for the latest political news