Kahawa Garrison, Bomet and Kiambu County are the new entrants in the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) national league. Kahawa and Bomet County will field both men and women’s teams while Kiambu have a men’s side. The teams will be part of the third leg cum the annual Africa Merchant Assurance Company Limited (Amaco)/Paul Bitok International tournament set for May 25-27 in Eldoret. KVF sports organising secretary, Ismail Chege, confirmed the five teams will participate in the league after the respective sides registered their players for the season. “It’s really promising and encouraging to see more county teams coming on board and that’s a prove that slowly but surely, the counties are embracing the sport and we encourage more to come and join the league,” said the international referee, who retained his seat in the just concluded KVF national elections. “We are particularly encouraged by how the women’s teams are gradually growing and that will definitely make the women’s league more competitive. If you look at the new teams, the players are young and that means there will be smooth transition from the clubs to the national team,” he added. At the same time said, Chege said the new teams will have to play at least three matches on the day to catch up with their compatriots who have been in action since Day 1. “KVF legs this time round may be more compared to the last season where we only had seven. For example, last season, there were no legs in Bungoma and Bomet but this season, we had them. This is good as we want the sport to grow at the grass root level and what a better way if not through the counties,” noted the official. Kahawa and Bomet County arrival brings to five, the number of new women’s teams that have joined the league this season. Others are Ashton, Kenya Defence Forces and DCI. Bungoma County have also returned to the league after skipping last season. The five will compete for the title against champions Kenya Pipeline, Kenya Prisons, Kenya Commercial Bank and Western Bombers.