Hawkers have flooded back into the CBD barely two months after police launched a much-publicised crackdown on vendors. The situation is back to normal: chaos. The city centre is also jammed with noisy matatus driving every which way, boda bodas, street families and beggars. Garbage is dumped illegally. The hawkers have occupied their usual streets Tom Mboya, Moi Avenue, River Road, Lithuli Avenue and Lagos Road. They have spread their wares everywhere, including back streets, pavements and right in front of licensed shops. They sell second-hand clothes, CDs, toys, fruits, vegetables and many other items. Store owners and residents complain. Reacting to rising crime, new county commissioner Kang’ethe Thuku in February ordered police to crack down on vendors, boda bodas and street families. Armed police were deployed strategically in the CBD while others patrolled in lorries and other vehicles. Hawkers, street children and youths were arrested and charged with loitering, obstructing pathways, causing a nuisance and petty crimes. But a spot check by the Star in the past week shows the vendors are back in force. Police are still patrolling but there’s little sign of a clean-up. “It was obvious the crackdown could not continue long because we were not involved and we were not given alternative places to work,” Hawkers Association chairman Kimani Waweru told the Star. City Hall sources said the county was to provide Sh6.2 million for police vehicles’ fuel and officers’ meals and allowances, however, it withdrew such regular support. That meant the crackdown was unsustainable. “The crackdown started on a wrong footing because the county was only involved when the money was needed. So it was doomed to fail,” the source said. Waweru from the hawkers’ association said the officers had turned the operation an extortion racket. “They started stealing from us. Instead of arresting those found operating there, they started carrying away our merchandise and that was illegal,” he said. When asked for comment yesterday, commissioner Thuku promised to call back, saying he was in a meeting. By press time, he had not returned several more calls. There was no response to messages and several phone calls to Trade executive Alan Igambi and county Enforcement director Peter Mbaya. The county is building at least 15 modern markets funded by the World Bank billion under the Nai- robi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project. The markets will accommodate more than 100,000 hawkers operating downtown. They include Karindini Market in Dagoretti, Mwario Market, Muthurwa, Uhuru Market along Jogoo Road, Wakulima Market and a retail market in Kangundo Road.