Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and two senior officials have appealed against their being found guilty of contempt of court and fined Sh200,000 by the High Court last week. Matiang’i, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Immigration Services PS Gordon Kihalang’wa want Justice George Odunga’s judgment suspended until the appeal is heard. Odunga fined them Sh200,000 each for contempt for ignoring court orders that required they present deported Miguna Miguna in court. Read : Maraga defends judges, tells Matiang'i to appeal decisions Through a constitutional petition filed on their behalf by the Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto, the three argue that Odunga sentenced them without any formal application for contempt. “The High Court fashioned and proceeded under the learned judge’s own rules of procedure contrary to express provisions of the Contempt of Court Act, the High Court Act, the provisions of the Constitution and the Evidence Act,” Ogeto states. No evidence was presented to the court either orally or by way of an affidavit. Ogeto further states that the record clearly demonstrates the court’s decisions were not based on any evidence. The court relied on oral submissions by lawyers, who never invoked the provisions of the Contempt of Court Act. “The said decisions were made under circumstances that indicate apparent bias against the three state officials by the judge,” Ogeto said.  NO LEGAL BASIS The fundamental rights of his clients to a fair trial, and fair hearing and administration action will be breached if the Odunga’s decisions are effected. “That under the guise of acting to protect the fundamental rights of Miguna Miguna, Justice Odunga acted in a manner that disregarded the fundamental rights and freedoms of the three officials,” the petition reads. Odunga did not ask and consider the report of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights. The commission had been specifically enjoined and ordered by the court to prepare a report on Miguna’s entry and government compliance with court orders. Also read : Government targets judges over recent rulings The petition states Kihalang’wa was not the director of immigration at the material time and was not responsible for implementing courts orders he was found to be in contempt of. On Tuesday, CS Matiang’i told a parliamentary committee there is a clique of judicial officers working with activist lawyers to undermine the Judiciary. Click here for the latest political news