President Uhuru Kenyatta visited Kenyatta National Hospital incognito and was displeased by the intense pressure at its facilities. Uhuru revealed this on Friday, without giving details of the visit to the facility that bears his name. He spoke during a meeting at State House in Nairobi with a team of officials charged with transforming the capital. "More accident and emergency centres are required. You have to get these centres working,” he told the officials led by Governor Mike Sonko and Toursim Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala. Healthcare is one of the four pillars of the President's healthcare plan, The others are affordable housing, manufacturing and food security. As a step towards Universal Health Care, Uhuru announced that all the three million students in public secondary schools will benefit from the NHIF comprehensive Medical Cover. Uhuru appointed David Kimaiyo as non-executive chairman of the KNH board. Kimaiyo's appointment comes in the wake of upheavals over the sorry state of services at KNH – the country's main referral hospital. The board recently suspended CEO Lily Koros and director of clinical services Bernard Githae over brain surgery on a wrong patient. More on this: Uhuru appoints David Kimaiyo chairman KNH board, Rege to lead Ketraco Also read: Ministry make changes to deliver on Big Four agenda Since taking over from Evans Kidero after the August 2017 election, Sonko has been trying to change the look of the city - the main challenges are the garbage collection menace, congestion due to traffic and the chaos brought on by unruly members of the transport sector. He is also under pressure to end the hawkers menace, rid the CBD of street children and ensure proper building standards so collapses are no longer the case. The Nairobi regeneration team includes national and county leaders who have set ambitious goals for themselves. They said garbage will be cleared from all 85 wards in Nairobi within 30 days and that a Nairobi River clean-up will be launched. The team set a three-month target for equipping high-volume health centres and improving trauma services at Mbagathi and Mama Lucy hospitals to ease pressure on KNH. Details: We'll resign if we don't transform Nairobi, Sonko team tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news