Tenants of the Sh450 million Hazina Plaza have expressed fear of losing their properties following renewed efforts by National Security Fund to kick them out of the building. They have obtained stay orders barring NSSF's auctioneers from evacuating them from nine-storey building, which is in the heart of Mombasa. According to the tenants, who have invested over Sh500 million to open businesses at  the building, NSSF leased the building to a private company, Techno Holding Limited in 2016. Techno Holding Limited, which had a 10-year lease contract with NSSF, then sub-let other clients to the building after carrying out renovation of the entire building. NSSF is accusing Techno Holding Limited of violating the lease agreement, therefore they want them vacate the building, which in turn means the clients who had been sub-let will also lose their property. Speaking to journalists yesterday in Mombasa town, the Tenants’ chairperson Dakane Sheikh Mohammed said they pumped over Sh100 million to set up the business at the building. Mohamed said there is a Supermarket- Jambo Mart, two car showrooms, a restaurant- Al Misbah, a multi-million furniture shop, apartments and high-end saloon, which are over Sh500 million investments at the building, which is on plot No. Msa/Block/328 &329. According to Mohamed, the decision by NSSF to kick out the tenants had caused anxiety among the investors at the coastal town of Mombasa. “We are being harassed unfairly by the auctioneers because of the dispute pitting Techno Holding and NSSF. We are worried that we might loose all our investment,” he said. The tenants obtained the restraining orders on April 18, 2018 barring NSSF, Techno Holding Ltd, their agents, servants and employees from interfering with the plaintiffs’ businesses at Hazina Plaza. The orders were issued by Mombasa Chief Magistrate Evans Makori, under the certificate of urgency, pending the hearing of the application on April 25, 2018. “This court is pleased to issue restraining order to the Dikemwa Auctioneers from proclaiming, attaching or removing the proclaimed goods from all the applicants’ premises on plot No. Msa/Block/328 &329 pending hearing and determination of the applicants’ application,” reads Makori’s orders. In a supporting affidavit, the tenants state they have fully complied with the lease agreement. “The defendant, NSSF intends to unjustly enrich themselves and to embarrass us incase our business are taken by the auctioneers,” reads part of the affidavit. In 2016, NSSF board of trustees moved to reclaim all its properties that were fraudulently acquired they include the Hazina plaza and a 14-acre prime land in Mombasa's Nyali area with a market value of Sh1.7 billion. The NSSF managed to kick out the tenants from the prime land situated along the Mombasa-Malindi after a 15-year legal battle between NSSF and the Koinange family.