The government has commissioned a Sh13 billion solar plant in Garissa as part of a wider scheme to reduce the cost of power generation. The solar plant, the biggest in East and Central Africa, is being set up on 80 acres. The project will inject an additional 54 megawatt of power into the national grid. The plant will consist of 300 solar panels and is expected to light up more than 200,000 households.  The project will reduce emissions by 43,000 tonnes. It is being implemented by the government and funded by Exim Bank of China. Energy CS Charles Keter yesterday said the government is investing more in solar power to bring the cost of power down from 35 cents to five cents per megawatt. He spoke in Raya, Garissa county, during an inspection tour of the solar power plant. “The government is determined to lower the cost of power. That is why we are going for cheap and cost-effective power projects,” Keter said. He said although the solar plant is not a 24-hour generating project, the government is exploring other forms of technology, where solar batteries will be used alongside the plant. The Rural Electrification Authority, Keter said, is implementing 25 solar mini-grids to power small towns in the off-grid areas such as Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Marsabit and Turkana. The government is looking for funds to finance power projects in off-grid areas to ensure Kenyans have power, he said. Keter, who was accompanied by top officials from REA, said he was impressed by the contractor’s work. The solar power plant will be commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta on September 24. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said the project is expected to further open up Garissa county, which is Northeastern region’s economic hub. “The project will enhance the economic development of the region by boosting business and other economic activities, such a tourism,” Duale said. He said the plant and the tarmacking of the 174km Garissa-Modogashe road are among the signature projects of Uhuru’s administration.