Calls to strengthen devolution yesterday dominated the opening of the Fifth Annual Devolution Conference in Kakamega. Top government officials and foreign diplomats said devolution has enhanced services in the counties. The national government was urged to ensure timely disbursement of adequate funds. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said the first term of devolution was hampered by unmatched or unmet expectations. There was continued conflict among key state institutions tasked with protecting devolution, he said. “The dust has settled, the scores are even, and our aim must now be to level expectations and forge a common ground for growth and development,” Lusaka said. “We will be in a much better position to lay an individual claim to the success of devolution only when we all pull in one direction.” He cited the wrangling between the Senate and the National Assembly, as well as between the governors and ward representatives in the last four years. “I believe relationships cannot be legislated, but are nurtured mutually. The county assemblies exercise exclusive oversight of the county executives,” Lusaka said. Senate Minority leader James Orengo put the national government on the spot for starving counties of cash. He dismissed cynics and the sceptical, who claim devolution is not working. “We should look for ways to safeguard devolution. More resources are needed in the counties. Structures should also be put in place to ensure devolution works,” he said.  OVERSIGHT The Siaya senator warned pessimistic Kenyans against accusing governors of squandering money before even counties receive their allocations. Orengo urged leaders to capitalise on the improved political climate after the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to enhance inclusivity. British High Commissioner Nic Hailey said devolution is working. He said Britain and other donors have given more than Sh10 billion since devolution began. “County assemblies have a lot to do to make sure their oversight deepens devolution. Counties should be in the forefron in fi ghting corruption,” Hailey said. Chief Justice David Maraga said the Judiciary is committed to ensuring devolution works. Kakamega Senator Cleopa Malala appealed on Senate to back a new Bill seeking the allocation of Sh20 million to MCAs for ward development every financial year. Malala said the passing of County Government Ward Development Bill 2018, which National Treasury opposed last week, will see absorption rate of devolved funds increase. The elephant in the room is poor absorption of funds in counties, he said.