Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe has told off Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi. The two linked a meeting between Western leaders and Deputy President William Ruto to 2022 politics. Wangwe said Western leaders met the DP to discuss regional development. “Did Malala want us to meet Raila Odinga and discuss development? Leaders are elected by the people to serve them, including bringing development,” he said. MPs from Kakamega, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties on Tuesday met in Ruto’s Karen home. The Uhuru-Raila unity pact is causing jitters in Ruto’s camp amid fears that it could jeopardise his chances and scuttle Jubilee’s 2022 succession plans. The Star has established that most of Ruto’s key allies are uncomfortable with the closing of ranks between NASA leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Despite public pronouncements of support, inside sources say Ruto’s allies are wary of the radical pact’s impact on the DP’s political future and have adopted a wait-and-see stance.  PACT AFTERMATH This came as the ODM Parliamentary Group resolved to work with Jubilee after a meeting with Raila. Wangwe said the meeting with Ruto discussed the stalled expansion of the Kakamega Airstrip, improvement of roads and revival of industrial projects in Mumias. “We met to strictly discuss development,” Ford Kenya secretary general and Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu said. Malala said the meeting was a political one meant for the DP to woo Western ahead of 2022. He said leaders need not beg for development since they are the ones who allocate project funds in the budget. The Uhuru-Raila unity pact could significantly change politics in Kenya ahead of 2022, analysts say. While Raila’s move immediately punctures NASA’s push for electoral justice, there are mixed feelings within Jubilee too, where analysts say Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid will be affected.  SAME TEAM “This deal evens things for everyone both in Jubilee and the Opposition,” says Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu. “Raila has not only proved that he is a statesman, but he has also placed himself very strategically to play a key role in 2022. All those with presidential ambitions will have no choice but to deal with him.” Osotsi said he had been left out of the meeting with Ruto, despite being an MP. Yesterday, Wangwe said he is ready to meet Raila to link him with donors who can invest in Navakholo. The lawmaker said the meeting was for elected MPs from Western and Malala is free to organise one for senators to meet the DP. On meeting the Jubilee and Nasa leaders from Kakamega, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia,Ruto said political competition is not enmity and that it happens in a season. It should not hinder leaders from serving Kenyans, he said. The Deputy President said time for politics is over and it is the duty of those elected to team up with others to develop the country. Wangwe said, “The type of politics being played by Malala and Osotsi has been overtaken by events. He is being used by some politicians to demonise the meeting yet the same people he is working for are working with the same government.” “What was Raila, who Malala now purports to work for, doing with Uhuru at Harambee House on March 9? Who said people must talk to the government through Raila?” he said. Wangwe said 2022 is still far and the country cannot be kept in campaign mode forever. He asked Malala to separate his plans to remain politically relevant from development discussions. 