Kenya Sevens team popularly known as Shujaa made a disappointing exit from the Commonwealth Games at the group stages despite winning two out of their three preliminary round matches here at Robina Stadium today. Despite having four groups at the games, the format is different from the World Rugby Sevens Series tournaments. Whereas top two teams advance to the quarters prior to semis in series, the Commonwealth Games format is straight semis from the group stages and this means only the group winners advance. New Zealand won Pool ‘ C' with a 100 per cent record. Kenya had the dream start as they came from behind to beat Canada 26-10. Up next was New Zealand in a repeat of the Hong Hong Sevens semi-finals which Kenya won. In this decisive match for both sides, the All Blacks were all out for revenge. They never let Shujaa off the starting blocks, stifling playmaker Collins Injera and locking up all the spaces. The long day for Shujaa started with ninety seconds on the clock as danger man Nanai-Seturo Ethene crossed over the whitewash. Molia Sione took the scores to 10-0 with Koroi Vilimoni converting as the All Blacks opened up a 12-0 lead. Senturo was on the mark again with Koroi converting for a 19-0 lead at the break. The All Blacks picked the momentum in the second half, and further tries from Regan Ware and Baker Kuru were converted by Baker and Curry Scott to put daylight between the two sides with the scores standing at 33-0. Knewstubb Andrew extended the lead to 40-0 with a converted try. Samuel Oliech scored Kenya’s consolation and converted his own try to for the 40-7 final score. Kenya had earlier dispatched Canada 26-10 with the two sides tied 5-5 at half time. Canada were the first to cross the whitewash through Hirayama Nathan but Injera drew level. Jaffery Oluoch then replaced Nelson Oyoo and immediately made an impact to take the scores to 10-5. Oliech converted for 12-5 lead but Canada’s Justin Douglas scored another try to trail Kenya 10-12. Nelson Oyoo’s converted try was followed by another quick try from the restart by Willy Ambaka, which Eden Agero converted for the 26-10 win. Zambia was one way traffic for Kenya as they rolled over them with ease. Try scorers in the first half were Arthur Owira, Oluoch, Oyoo, Odhiambo and Injera. Eden Agero converted four tries. Oluoch and Oyoo added two more tries in the second half with Ogero converting to seal the match 47-0. Coach Innocent Simiyu said they are hoping to finish fifth. “ It’s a very long learning curve and hopefully, we can finish on a high,” he said. He said they had very high hopes but they allowed some things to slip through their fingers. “ We are now focusing on Singapore,” he said. He refused to blame fatigue after the Hong Kong Sevens, saying: “ We did have very good recovery after Hong Kong. We let ourselves down coming into this carnival,” he added. He said: “ This was supposed to be the climax of our season with us winning a medal. We felt as though we were peaking at the right time with our result (second place) in Hong Kong last week, but everything is at stake here and competition is harder."  Click here for the latest political news   