Kenyan athletes are yet to receive Sh147 million awarded by the government since 2012, Sports PS Kirimi Kaberia has said. Kaberia yesterday told the National Assembly’s Sports Committee to petition the Treasury to release the funds quickly. He said they had a hectic time convincing the athletes to participate in this year’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia. Read : Kipruto wins gold, Kibiwott silver and Kirui bronze in 3000m race “We need to keep the promises we make to our athletes. We need to motivate and make them feel worthwhile for them to stand up, represent our nation and fly our flag high. They went to Gold Coast, came back and we still owe them,” Kaberia said. The government had promised to pay Sh1 million for each gold medal, Sh750,000 for each silver and Sh500,000 for bronze. At the Commonwealth event, Kenya sent a 132-member delegation that delivered 17 medals - four gold, seven silver and six bronze. The PS said the athletes will receive their cash before the end of this week. “From this time onwards, we have changed the way we operate to ensure we don’t get additional pending bills,” he said. In Uganda, President Yoweri Museveni splashed millions of Ugandan shillings to athletes who won medals at the Commonwealth Games. The winners will get Sh135,000 ) for each gold, Sh80,000 (bronze), and Sh26,000 (silver) monthly. Museveni said the payments will be effected in the government’s payroll. Meanwhile, up-and-coming boxer Brian Agina went missing from the Team Kenya Commonwealth Games camp. Team Kenya Chief of Mission Barnaba Korir confirmed the boxer was yet to be found. He said Agina left without his passport and luggage. “We really don’t know how he wants to operate because we have his passport, and part of his luggage is intact,” Korir said. Kenyan Ambassador to Australia Isaiah Kabira said protocol demands he waits for official communication from Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Australia before commenting on the issue. Click here for the latest political