Prominent Mombasa businessman Tahir Sheikh Said is on the verge of losing his multi-billion property to auctioneers. Graham Investment Auctioneers yesterday said they will put up five properties owned by the late tycoon for sale. Tahir Sheikh Said, better known as TSS, owned the TSS Towers in Mombasa, the TSS bus company, TSS milling factory, several commercial buildings and land. TSS died in January last year. The auctioneers said he failed to pay loans running into billions. Next Monday, April 30, Graham Investment Auctioneers, is going auction five prime properties located with the Mombasa central business district, which were owned by the late tycoon. The Tycoon, who owns the 15-storey TSS Towers along Nkurumah Road, the TSS bus company, the TSS milling factory among others commercial building in Mombasa died on January 2017. Despite the wealth he had accumulated during the former President Daniel Arap Moi’s reign, TSS died a heartbroken man and left his family in turmoil as his sons fight to control his wealth.  SH8 BILLION DEBT In 2016, the Kenya Commercial Bank took over TSS milling company after he defaulted on Sh1 billion loan. By that time, TSS is said to have defaulted on loans in excess of Sh2.7 billion. The loans were to be services by TSS Unga Millers. The businessman was also said to have accumulated Sh8 billion in non-performing loans with several banks. The loans were booked under subsidiaries in his vast business empire. Graham auctioneers yesterday said they will auction five properties registered under TSS Investment Limited and Juja Coffee Exporters Limited. The two companies were owned by TSS. The auctioneers will also go for vestment TSS's prime properties along Nyerere Avenue, Moi Avenue and Jomo Kenyatta Avenue in Mombasa. "We shall sell by auction the mentioned properties together with the building and improvements erected therein," the auctioneers said in an advert. The properties will be put up for sale at noon on Monday next week, the notice said. Other properties to be auctioned include parcels of land along Mji Mpya road.  SH5 MILLION FEE “These are contiguous commercial plots which are undeveloped plots used as yards," the auctioneer said. One plot has a dilapidated and abandoned bungalow. The property has a leasehold title deed for 50 years from 1997 with an annual ground rent of Sh25,000. TSS is said to have failed to pay the land rate for the two parcels. Interested buyers will pay a mandatory bidding fee of Sh5 million. Another prime commercial property located along Moi Avenue,  COUNTY GOVERNMENT The auctioneers will also sell Karimi Building located near the Elephant Tusks. The building comprise a three-storey wing A and a four-storey Wing B. The property's annual land rate of Sh484,540 is said to have accumulated to Sh2,126,071 as of March 23. The auctioneers have also set their eyes on a double-storey building located opposite Equity Bank along Moi Avenue. The third property on the verge of being sold off is a commercial property located along Moi Avenue directly opposite the Equity Bank. The commercial building lies on a 0.1986-acre plot. It has an outstanding land rates of Sh847,724. TSS was supposed to pay Sh193,200 annual rates to the county government. Also to be auctioned is a commercial building near Kilindini post office. The property with an annual land rate of Sh204,820 owes the county Sh894,714 in accumulated arrears as of March 28. The fourth property which will be auctioned is a residential building located along Moi Avenue. It is about 200 metres from the Kilindini post office. According to the auctioneer, the property has an outstanding land rate of Sh894, 714 as at March 28, 2018. The annual land rate is Sh204, 820. TSS will also lose a 0.1076 acre plot along Jomo Kenyatta avenue to the auctioneers. The property has a three-storey commercial building with a freehold title and annual rates of Sh94,420.