Siaya Senator James Orengo has accused Head of Civil Service Joseph Kinyua and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i of undermining the Uhuru-Raila unity pact. Orengo regretted that while they have supported the pact between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, some Jubilee leaders are against the same. Read more: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya The Senate Minority leader said this followed recent incidents where state officials disobeyed court orders requiring them to produce lawyer Miguna Miguna in court. He said the state actors blatantly defied the orders with the aim of wrecking the newly-formed working relationship between Raila and Uhuru. Orengo, speaking in Siaya on Saturday, said the newly formed unity must be guided by the rule of law. He did not specify what Kinyua has done to the effect of their claim. He said anybody, including Matiang’i, must obey court orders and stop creating anxiety among Raila's supporters over the unity pact. The senator told Jubilee leaders to know that Raila's desire is to bring peace and the whole country must rally behind the pact for prosperity. In what seemed to be a change of heart after showing signs of opposition to the deal, Orengo said the handshake must bring an end to tribalism, corruption, and blatant disregard for the rule of law. Read: Is Orengo out to scuttle Raila and Uhuru unity deal? Orengo was flanked by Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi who said the unity of purpose must not be derailed by two individuals. Atandi said he will not shy away from naming the head of civil service as the main stumbling block to the newly formed unity. "I know some of the Jubilee leaders including Kinyua are not happy with the pact but let them know that the deal is not for the benefit of any tribe but for the unity of the country." The Alego Usonga MP said the unity deal should bring the country together and ensure the two leaders' development plan is realised. "We want the president to know that one of his lieutenants (Kinyua) is playing monkey games in a bid to derail the unity between him and Raila," Atandi said. Atandi said the fact that things are not moving as expected after the unity of purpose is not by mistake but because of those opposed to the deal. He said before Kinyua and Matiang are "smoked out", things are not going to move as expected after the handshake. The sentiments followed fears that the famed handshake is in limbo, especially with the delays in the unity programmes the two leaders pledged during the March 9 handshake. Also read: Miguna woes: Did Uhuru-Raila handshake ignite more hate than love? Related: It was a painful handshake, Raila defends pact with Uhuru Click here for the latest political news 