Holiday makers are increasingly falling into the hands of fraudsters as demand for travel and hotel rooms rise, with most cottages and hotels fully booked for holiday seasons. Unsuspecting travellers have handed their earnings to conmen, only to end up cancelling their travel plans. Many cases go unreported because Kenyans are ignorant of the follow-up process and which authorities to report to. These limits erase the action taken, letting the alleged criminals off the hook. Tourism Communications director Mulei Muia said the ministry has compiled cases which forwarded to Tourism Regulatory Authority. The cases are then resolved by the tourism police unit and office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. “Those incidents of conning tourists can be blamed to briefcase companies and fake websites and although it falls under cyber crime, quite a number of suspects have been charged and forced to make refunds to the victims,” Muia said. Licensed tour operators and hotels are registered through Kenya Association of Tour Operators (KATO) and Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers. “Travellers should be conscious and check the legality of a tour company, hotel or stakeholders in the tourism industry on KATO, KAHC and Kenya Tourism Federation websites,” Muia said. The emergence of new markets, different niche groups, digital trends, new ways of travel, types of accommodation and even types of travelers have seen tour operators on the up. This has also seen the rise of sham travel deals. Bunduz Adventure Nairobi manager Dennis Masive said the business is capital-intensive and no registered company would compromise their code of conduct to defraud customers. “Such frauds are done by bogus companies who promise tailor-made trips and a safari to their clients but fail because they lack the required motor carrier services,” Masive. Domestic tourists remain resilient to tourism products and packages, citing the high numbers of Kenyans especially millennial group planning for local travel. In February, KTB said Kenyans took about 4.05 million bed nights in 2017, an improvement from 3.5 million beds occupied in 2016. A spot check with a number of hoteliers reported very impressive responses, with up to 80 per cent bed occupancy this Easter holiday. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers advised travelers to make bookings directly to hotels or make due diligence when booking for reservations to avoid such incidences. “As we head to the Easter holiday, Kenyans should not be worried of fraudsters. Kenyans should find time to visit local destinations during this holiday as government has put in place security to ensure to ensure their safety,” Muia said.