Last weekend, I appealed to Kenyans to give the handshake a chance. I argued that the political détente between President Uhuru Kenyatta and People’s President Raila Odinga opens up a window of opportunity for Kenyans to engage in a national dialogue about our future as a nation. It provides us with the rare chance of coming together with open minds to dialogue once more on the subject of the Kenya we really want after adopting the 2010 Constitution, and living with it through two disastrous elections. Where should we go from here? This weekend, I want to provide the subject matter of this dialogue. First, it must be national, democratic, honest, developmental and mature. Let us not be petty, personal, parochial and self-seeking: Therefore, beginning with trying to solve the equation of who will be our presidential candidate in 2022 misses the point completely. The question should be, how will Kenyans finally begin to build a national, democratic and developmental republic in 2022 after a truly free and fair election, which gives everybody a legitimate outcome? Second, we must all reason and not shout at each other. Remember what Mwalimu Julius Nyarere taught us about good and mature debating: Please don’t shout, reason. Kenyans are too fond of painting people in negative colours even before they debate with them. This never helps. It only reinforces one’s opinion without testing it with another equally valid opinion the Socratic way. This national dialogue we are just about to embark on needs really to be an open, where no sacred cows are spared. Third, we need to look into our past and exorcise the ghosts that have been haunting us for decades since Independence. This essentially means that the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission Report needs to be debated and dispensed with. We can no longer continue to pretend that our past is not ugly, and that we need to open it up, discuss it, accept the wrongs, forgive, reconcile and then we can move on. But to insist that we must just forget and move on is not only hypocritical but also self-destructive. Fourth, we all know that the ugliness of this past essentially comes from the pathological struggle for political power, which has been centered on the struggle for who becomes the President and hence which tribe becomes the ruling ethnic community. The imprisonment, detention, assassination and marginalisation of many of our political leaders are related to this pathological struggle. So, if we really want to build a healthier, more united and developmental nation, why should we insist on engaging in this inter-ethnic contest every five years? Is there any God-given reason why we must regularly behave so sadistically? What is our sense of being happy on this earth? Is it woven around feeling good only when the other community or communities are suffering? I think this is one of the ghosts we must confront from our past and present and exorcise completely if we are to build a new Kenya that is national, democratic and developmental. Fifth, in 2010 we made a very commendable effort to come up with a new constitutional dispensation that we are living under today. It brought many good things to Kenyans, one of which was devolution. The other one was the empowerment of our people to question and control their governors through public participation and more robust public institutions such as county assemblies, Parliament and the Judiciary. But one arm of government has somehow continued to behave as if colonialism is still with us: This is the executive arm of government. It operates in too much secrecy, gobbles too much of our public resources, shuns accountability and protects itself under some mysterious presidential powers and immunity. Before we go too far and become disillusioned with the good things that the Constitution made possible, we need to look again at it and ask ourselves a central question: What kind of republic did we want to build under the Constitution and can we afford to live under this republic as one united, democratic and developmental nation? If our unity has been shaky for the last eight years let us examine the reasons why and change tact. If our democracy has been found wanting let us retool our political system for the better. If we are constantly missing the opportunity to build a prosperous nation because of poor governance, corruption, conflicts every five years because of undemocratic elections, let us redesign our framework for governance that will make us get better results. I have a few concrete suggestions to put on the table. First, let us forget about a presidential system of government. It has not worked in Kenya. It will never work. There is no need hanging on to it. It is the source of our problems. It will continue to be our source of ethnic conflicts and irrational hatred. Those who want to be presidents, please spare us the trouble. You may get there and get the fame but you will have, in the meantime, walked on too many political skeletons which may not necessarily haunt you personally but will haunt this nation. Second, instead of the presidential system — which always tends to be authoritarian no matter the constitutional safeguards — let us adopt a parliamentary system of government. The Bomas of Kenya discussions preferred it because Bomas was full of the people — the ordinary wananchi. The Naivasha caucus, dominated by the elite from Parliament, trashed the Bomas draft and handed to us the present mongrel Constitution that has allowed the ghosts of the past to continue haunting us during the past two elections. Let us go back to Bomas and re-examine that draft. It is not perfect in itself. It will need some improvements. Let us discuss it in the context of the draft produced by the group of experts, where some patriotic Kenyan lawyers rendered us very good service. In doing this, we shall be building on what we have so far achieved and not reinventing the wheel. Professor Yash Ghai is here with us. He can render us some good service in helping us navigate through this. Let us not forget Nzamba Gitonga and his team. Could they please stand up? Finally, mine are but humble suggestions. I do not, like the Holy Father, speak ex cathedra. An opportunity to get like-minded Kenyans to discuss these ideas together is welcome. Former Attorney General Amos Wako has expressed the same concern. The sooner we get together the better.  Professor Nyongo is the Kisumu governor