Rebel Jubilee MP for Moiben Sila Tiren has sparked off a political storm in Uasin Gishu after he openly took on DP William Ruto and declaring that he will not be cowed by anyone. The MP’s move to align himself with Baringo Sentor Gideon Moi has also angered Ruto’s allies who accuse Tiren of being used by outsiders to undermine the DP. Tiren was among leaders who welcomed opposition leader Raila Odinga to Kabarak last week during a visit to retired President Moi’s home. During the homecoming of Trade PS Dr Chris Kiptoo last Sunday, the two time MP caused further surprise when he told the DP that he would only work with Jubilee if it deals with challenges facing farmers in Rift Valley. Two month ago the MP was among three others who were ordered by the DP to resign from parliamentary committee positions but they defied and were later removed by MPs on orders of the party. “Even if I was removed from the committee position, they did not take away my mouth and I will continue to speak for the rights of farmers”, said Tiren in the presence of the DP. He went on to praise Gideon at the meeting and said the Baringo Senator would have attended the function were it not for other engagements. His remarks angered Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Soy MP Caleb Kostany who were present and are close allies of the DP. “We will not allow you to work with brokers and outsiders to make money and then come here to lecture the DP. That is not acceptable”, Murkomen said. He accused the MP of pretending to be fighting for farmers rights while at the same time working with cartels involved in maize importation. “The DP has done a lot here in Moiben and Tiren should tell us what he has done”, said Murkomen. On Tuesday Tiren again took on the DP telling him to stop giving empty promises to farmers about payments for maize delivered to the NCPB. “Let the DP ensure that the government released the money he has promised for farmers because in the past we have heard of such promises which are never fulfilled”, he said. Tiren has however attracted wide support from farmers and Kanu leaders in the North Rift who say he has stood with the farmers in a manner that could either break or make his carrier considering that the DP comes from the same county. “We will stand with the MP because he has proved to be a leader. There is nothing wrong he has done by fighting for his people”, said Director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo.