People’s
Constitution Nearly eight years after the enactment of the
Constitution, the issue of its appropriateness has been raised. That
Constitution was eventually adopted—after a long period of struggle, fighting
strong dictatorial presidents and their colleagues, and after much
deliberation, agreeing on fundamental principles and goals, with the huge
endorsement of the people. On the one side,
civil society has raised questions—less about the appropriateness of
the Constitution than over the failure of governments to honour and observe it
(with particular concern on the dominance of the national government). On the
other hand, politicians have raised questions about the appropriateness of an
executive presidential system, which does not accommodate the diversity of
Kenya’s communities (abandoning their earlier period preference for the presidential
system). How come politicians and civil society see eye to eye? Well they don’t as I will try to show. Contemporary constitutions enjoy legitimacy for various
reasons. These are usually participation
of the people, articulating values and objectives dear to them, a team of
impartial and experienced experts to give shape to those values, particularly
the structure for achieving them, and finally the endorsement of the draft
constitution by their delegates (constituent assembly) or the people directly
(referendum). Almost all Kenyans have
embraced the current Constitution because it satisfies all these factors—and
they know it. Most Kenyans are content to follow and live by the Constitution.
It provides the best framework of values and institutions that Kenyans have
ever had.  Politicians’
shift to the more democratic system? Politicians, however, are not prepared to
respect and follow the Constitution, and they, ironically, are the group with the
major responsibility for implementing, following and sustaining it. Now, it
seems, many in that group want to change it—in ways that help them as a
class. It is not surprising that many of those who are beginning to campaign
for amendments played a key role in sustaining the corrupt and terrible regimes
of Jomo and Moi—and are now beginning again to pay homage to Moi. They are
maintaining the solidarity of politicians—class before ethnicity, and dynasty
before both. The Constitution does not accommodate the deals
that the leaders of politicians are hatching—handshake or not. The Constitution
has a strict regime of values and principles and a firm set of rules to enforce
them, in which the Judiciary has a critical role. It is to the credit of the Judiciary that so far they have upheld the Constitution, including under
pressure from the political class. We all have reason to resent the way Jubilee
politicians, particularly its secretary, have questioned the legality of judicial
decisions. It is time now for a more detailed analysis of
the proposed changes. It is true that political leaders would like to repeal
many more provisions than they disclose now (when they need supporters). They are keeping quiet, for example, about continued
discrimination against women and other marginalised groups, and the general
disregard of human rights. The principal
change they are aiming at is the transformation of the system of government at
the national level—from an executive presidency to a parliamentary system. There are many ramifications (and structures)
of this system, but they seem not to have paid the least attention to them.
Their main concern is to accommodate the leaders of leading political parties
within the national executive: A form of power sharing, not because they see
virtue in itself of power sharing, but because having stirred up tribal
sentiments in their electoral campaigns, now they find themselves the victims
of it. Their objective is to be achieved by creating
the posts of prime minister and a few deputy prime ministers, while
maintaining a weaker presidency (and no
doubt jobs outside Parliament) and dividing them among the key politicians of
the larger tribes. The most recent proposal of this genre, undermining the
logic of the parliamentary system, is
that no person over 70 years is eligible to stand for the presidency (a rule
that Mwai Kibaki fought in Bomas when he was about to touch that age). No prize
for guessing which political sub-group has forwarded this proposal, regardless
of the fact that it would undo all the efforts after the famous handshake—as—Will
Jubilee survive an internal dispute about the parliamentary system? How about Bomas in toto? While these “reformers” are tied to the accommodation (or
exclusion) of senior politicians from different tribes, there is another school
demanding the restoration of the entire Bomas Draft. Raila Odinga has long been
associated with this school, and fought hard for it at Bomas. Support has also now
come from the scholar-politician Prof Peter Anyang’ Nyong'o, current Governor of
Kisumu. The present Constitution does have many principles and institutions of
the Bomas draft—but not two critical features, resisted by politicians. First
was Kibaki. When in opposition Kibaki claimed to be bitterly against the
executive presidency, denigrating it as an “imperial presidency”. Once (thanks to Raila) he defeated Uhuru in
2002, he became a great champion of executive presidency. He and
Attorney General Wako amended the Bomas Draft to return to a presidential
system, which was rejected by all the people, except those in the Central province ethnic voting bloc. Kenyans were back again to the Moi draft until—in
the aftermath of the post-election violence of 2007-08—Kenyans and the team of
Kofi Annan and other eminent African statespeople forced the Bomas draft back
onto the national agenda through the Committee of Experts process. But again the politicians overturned the
proposals for a parliamentary system. When they got their hands on the CoE
draft, all political parties at one blow substituted an American style
presidential system—without understanding it. We have come full circle: At least on this
point, the talk is all of a parliamentary executive system. But the real focus
seems to be on the number of executive
jobs like introducing a number of
vice-prime ministers (and no doubt other deals). There is no discussion of the
way a parliamentary system really works. Not all politicians are enthusiastic:
certainly not Deputy President Ruto, who would normally expect to succeed President
Uhuru Kenyatta, despite not coming from a royal
family. Indeed, he comes from a rather modest one, though now apparently having
imperial ambitions, despite having been an ardent “parliamentarian” at Bomas.  Conclusion? I have taken you through this long history to
illustrate how unreliable politicians are when it comes to their interests
(which can change frequently)—or rather about our interests. Politicians of the sort we have should not be allowed to put their fingers on our, the people's, Constitution. Our
Constitution is not about institutional arrangements alone. First and foremost
it is about the people and their sovereignty—and their legitimate expectations
of national unity, the rule of law, democracy, participation, human rights
scrupulously observed and promoted, protection of the marginalised (including
women), and government which is transparent and has complete integrity. Reading
the Constitution carefully, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the two
governments since 2010 have grossly violated the Constitution, despite the
valiant efforts of the Judiciary to keep our rulers to the law. Unlike South
Africa where the movement for fundamental political and constitutional change was
led by the people, like Mandela, who, after assuming political power, ensured
that the Constitution was not merely
born but flourished, in our case the political leaders found themselves forced
into a Constitution by the people of a draft they did not like. Kibaki and
Uhuru, who or whose families amassed a huge fortune when they captured the
state after Independence, refused to kowtow to the poor people, and succeeded in
negating large parts of our Constitution. I am not opposed to review of the Constitution,
done properly, with as much consideration as went into the original, and done for the benefit of the nation, not of a
political class. More on this in a later occasion.  Yash Ghai chaired Bomas (the Constituent
Assembly) for drafting the Constitution.