The Technical University of Mombasa has begun recruiting a substantive deputy vice-chancellor in charge of academic research and extension. The appointee will serve for a five-year term subject to a final renewal based on the positive appraisal by the University Council. Deadline for application is May 24. Raphael Mutuku is the acting DVC. The advertisement follows the appointment of Prof Laila Abubakar as the vice-chancellor. Before her confirmation by Education CS Amina Mohamed on April 2, Abubakar acted as the institution’s head. She stood-in after her predecessor Josephat Mwatellah was fired by then CS Education Fred Matiang’i in 2016. Read: TUM begins search for new VC as Abubakar shortlisted Mohamed said Abubakar will serve for five years, with effect from appointment date. And on Friday, Abubakar said: "The advertised position is very crucial and that is why we need a substantive holder." Abubakar said by filling vacant positions, she intends to enhance service delivery. In an advert on Friday, TUM council said the DVC candidate must be a professor or associate professor and a holder of an earned Doctorate degree from an accredited and recognized university in Kenya. “[The candidate] should have at least seven years of administrative, academic, and research experience at a senior level,” the council chairman said. Among other qualifications, TUM said the applicant must be a member of a professional association, served at least as a Dean or deputy principal of a constituent university college The contender is expected to have proven track record of research and publications in peer-reviewed journals, monographs and books. Once appointed, the DVC will plan for academic programs, prepare syllabus and their regulations. He will be tasked to prepare examination, certificates, transcripts and graduation. Students affairs, university community welfare and counselling will be the mandate of the appointee. Council said the successful person will be responsible for academic support services, quality assurance and chair Senate committees The recruitment comes amid prolonged lecturers’ strike over counter offer on their Collective Bargaining Agreement. CS Mohamed asked Abubakar to “provide effective leadership and movement as you take up this post and steer the University towards embracing the reforms in the sector”. Also read: TUM vice chancellor sacked for funds misuse  Click here for the latest political news  