Four Nyanza governors will next month know whether they will retain their seats as the Court of Appeal starts hearings from May 7. They are Anyang’ Nyongo (Kisumu), Okoth Obado (Migori), James Ongwae (Kisii) and John Nyagarama (Nyamira). Hearings for eight MPs will also take place. Ugenya MP Chris Karan, whose election was nullified, will also seek a reprieve. On Friday, the parties involved in the appeals were directed to file their issues of contention within four days ahead of the hearing by judges Hannah Okwengu and Jamila Mohamed. The appellants were also told to ensure they file their submissions within 10 days after filing the contested and uncontested issues. On May 7, former Kisumu Govenor Jack Ranguma will challenge Justice David Majanja’s decision to dismiss with costs his petition against Nyong’o. Majanja dismissed the petition saying Ranguma failed to prove his case aginst Nyong’o. Victor Obondi, who represented Nyong’o, asked the court to order Ranguma to deposit before the Appellate court the Sh5 million costs before the case starts. Mohamed, however, rejected the move, told him to file a formal application and directed the parties to file issues of contention within four days. In Migori, former Cabinet minister Ochillo Ayacko’s appeal challenging the decision that upheld Obado’s win by Justice Hilary Chemitei will be heard on May 17. Ayacko, who ran as an independent candidate, claimed there was voter bribery, multiple voting and misuse of public resources. In Kisii county, the appeal against Ongwae by Joel Makori and Francis Omao will be heard on May 15, while that against Nyagarama by Walter Nyambati will be heard on May 14. Nyambati appealed against Justice James Makau’s decision to dismiss his petition saying the judge overlooked many illegalities during the election. For the MPs, Karan will be fighting for the seat he lost after a petition by former MP David Ochieng. Karan’s election was nullified by Justice Thrispisa Cherere on grounds it was marred by irregularities which started during campaigns. The court said Karan and the ODM fraternity engaged in a smear campaign against Ochieng.