President Uhuru Kenyatta and his newfound political soulmate Raila Odinga yesterday told off those linking their unity deal to the 2022 elections. Speaking together at one event for the first time about their famous handshake on March 9, the two leaders admitted that some of their allies were secretly opposed to the pact and had mistakenly linked it to succession politics. The stinging rebuke appeared targeted at Deputy President William Ruto's political allies who have been expressing fears that Raila is plotting to infiltrate Jubilee and disorient their succession plan. "And I know there are many who were not happy with what we did. We know! We are hearing from all sides. Some from my side, some from his [Raila's] side,” Uhuru said during the funeral service for multiparty democracy crusader Kenneth Matiba in Murang’a. "That is why I am surprised that when we meet with Raila and shake hands stories (have) started about 2022. As Raila has said, there will be 2022, there will be 2027, there will be 2020 until 2030. Let us leave these politics aside. Let us focus on what matters to our people,” Uhuru said. Read : Uhuru-Raila handshake to bring back Prime Minister Raila fired the first salvo against those opposing the unity deal when he stood to eulogise Matiba with whom he was at one time detained at Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. "We are not talking about 2022,” Raila said. “2022 will come and go. We are thinking beyond 2022." "We agreed the division that has failed Kenyans in achieving the Kenyan dream, as coined by our founding fathers, must be removed. It will end with us, Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta so that we can bequeath to the future generations a better country,” the opposition leader said. Uhuru branded those opposed to the deal as people who thrive on conflict and ruckus. "But we have said we don't want people who thrive on commotion; we want to thrive in peace and prosperity. That is the direction we wish and desire for our people,” Uhuru said in apparent reference to politicians exploiting their differences.  APPLAUSE Raila, who drew rare applause in Uhuru's backyard, said the handshake is about the future of Kenya. The former PM, who has fought and lost two elections to Uhuru in 2013 and 2017, vowed that the bitter ethnic rivalry that mars Kenyan politics will end with him and Uhuru. For the first time, Raila narrated how the unity deal was reached, rekindling memories of the acrimonious falling out between his father Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and Uhuru's father, Jomo Kenyatta. "When my brother sent a message to me that we should talk, I said that I am always ready to talk for the sake of Kenya,” Raila stated. The ODM leader said, “When we met, we sat down and talked for a long time. We went right to the beginning, the very very beginning where it all started. What happened? How did we become Kenya? And when did the rain begin to beat us? And why? And what do we need to do to get Kenya back on track so that we can be able to achieve the Kenyan dream as coined by the founding fathers of our nation?” Read : Will Ruto’s best-laid plans for 2022 succession be derailed? Uhuru and Raila, sons of Kenya’s two foremost political families, are seen as having held the country at ransom politically for the last decade. Their competition evokes memories of their fathers’ disagreement in the 1960s. Raila’s father, Jaramogi, deferred taking over the country’s leadership until Kenyatta was released from prison. When he was, and upon gaining Independence, Kenyatta became the Prime Minister and then President. He appointed Jaramogi Vice President before they fell out and he replaced him with Joseph Murumbi. Jaramogi formed an opposition party, the Kenya People’s Union, which became a thorn in the flesh of Kenyatta’s government. On a visit to Kisumu, Odinga’s home ground, disgruntled supporters staged a disruptive scene that was violently dispersed by presidential guards, leaving several people dead. That marked the turning point in the relationship between the two leaders, until Kenyatta’s death in 1978, and Jaramogi's in 1994. The hostility between supporters of the two spurred ethnic animosity between the Luo and Kikuyu that has defined Kenyan politics since. It spilled into decades of bitter ethnic antagonism that has threatened to dismember the country at every election.  POLARISED According to Raila, when they sat down with Uhuru, it was clear to all of them that Kenya is so polarised that there are many countries in one. “At the moment we have a country where if a child goes to do an interview for a job, the moment he or she mentions their names, the name is either a curse or a blessing,” Raila stated. But in a clear signal that the leaders were determined to carry their handshake through, Uhuru vowed that he will continue to work with Raila. "I will continue to walk with my brother here... and we want others to come closer to us so that we walk together. And those who have questions, ask us. But we should stop this thing of backstabbing each other secretly. What are we backstabbing each other for?” he asked. In his speech, Raila said that he believed strongly in what they signed and agreed on. Their nine-point plan to heal the nation covers just about everything that is wrong with Kenya. It includes ethnic antagonism and competition, lack of a national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, divisive elections, safety and security, corruption, shared prosperity as well as respect for human and civil rights. Details of how they will achieve these, however, remain unknown. The two-man team of Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani they appointed to develop and elaborate on deal is yet to make public its report, 46 days after the handshake. Yesterday, Uhuru said that after a divisive poll, it's time to ensure that everybody is accommodated and they cannot continue fighting when the country is suffering. Also read: Give the handshake a chance The President said it was time to focus on issues that matter to the nation, including healthcare, infrastructure, security and what he termed the future of young jobless people who need gainful employment. "If there is one spirit that I would like to percolate today, let it be the spirit of reconciliation, let it be the spirit of forgiveness, let it be the spirit of understanding,” Uhuru said He went on: “Let us fearlessly say we would tackle the issues that concern our people; that fearlessly we will tackle tribalism, fearlessly tackle corruption, fearlessly tackle all those things that divide our people, instead of sweeping them under the carpet.” Deputy President William Ruto who spoke after Raila did not respond to Raila. He scoffed at unnamed leaders whom he said did not believe Kenyans could be united.  Click here for the latest political news