Machakos governor Alfred Mutua on Monday dismissed as self-centered a unity meeting attended by Ukambani leaders. Mutua said the meeting held at Koma in Machakos County was turned into a Wiper Party affair against the intended purpose of discussing the economic, social and political development of the Kamba community. “The meeting has been full of insults, chest thumping and ultimatums that really do not lead to real unity of purpose. There was no development or economic empowerment agenda discussed. The meeting was all about the political interests of an individual and not the plight of over 4 million Kamba people," Mutua said. Read: Kamba leaders endorse Kalonzo's 2022 presidential bid, give nod to reach out to Uhuru The meeting, which was attended by leaders from Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties, endorsed Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as the community’s preferred presidential candidate for 2022. It was attended by Kitui governor Charity Ngilu, her Makueni counterpart Kivutha Kibwana and former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama. The leaders from the three counties gave Kalonzo the green light to reach out to President Uhuru Kenyatta and other communities in his quest for the top seat. “We remain united as a community and declare our unwavering support towards the presidency of H.E Kalonzo Musyoka in 2022 and now entrust him with the mandate to reach out to all the other 43 communities of Kenya towards uniting the country for prosperity of Kenya, now and beyond 2022,” they said. Mutua, who has on a number of occasions declared interest in the presidency in 2022, distanced himself from the resolutions and demanded for a "genuine" unity forum to discuss issues affecting the Kamba community. "As Maendeleo Chap Chap, we demand for a real and not a fake unity meeting. The meeting should be convened by neutral and respected religious leaders and elders. We are ready for such a neutral and well-meaning meeting that discusses the plight of our people in a respectful and organized manner,” Mutua said. Details: [VIDEO] 'Prepare for shock': Alfred Mutua announces 2022 presidency bid Also read: Fit for president in 2022? Alfred Mutua makes inroads in Rift Valley More on this: I'm happy and ready for State House race in 2022, Mutua says after win In this regard, Mutua said he will in the next two weeks arrange a meeting with Ngilu and Kibwana aimed at exchanging ideas on how best to alleviate their people from years of suffering. “I am very interested in seeing the lives of our people improve for the better through development by joining hands with leaders who are interested in development. Let us, as leaders, agree to respect each other and to work together, not for our personal benefit but for our people,” Mutua said. He said officials from his party will in the meantime start a countrywide tour to popularize its presidential bid as they wait for a fresh meeting to be organized. He said the tour will incorporate meetings with the common mwananchi from mama mboga to boda boda operators, to professionals and the business community. “But even as I reach out to others, we will be engaging in massive development projects that change lives. We want to bring roads, water, employment, health and create appointments for our people,” Mutua said. The governor said that it was sad that Africa as a continent is fraught of leaders who cling to power as other communities are forced to sing to their whims. He said he will marshal countrywide support to bargain on behalf of the Ukambani community, noting that the wind of change is in the air and no one can change its course. “There are those who oppose and fear change but there is nothing they can do because the wind of change has started blowing and it cannot be stopped. It is clear, especially to the majority youth that leadership is not given, it is taken”," he said. Related story: Raila's only option is to vie in 2022, Kalonzo a traitor - MP Odhiambo Also see: My Machakos victory sets pace for 2022 presidential race, says Mutua  Click here for the latest political news