Local banks continue to cash on Kenya’s huge appetite for loans, perhaps to insulate themselves from tough operating environment brought about by interest cap law. According latest Central Bank Weekly bulletin, banks continue to dominate local domestic debt market at 55.3 per cent, investing heavily in treasury papers. The country’s domestic debt soured to Sh2.4 trillion by Friday last week up from Sh2.34 the previous week Data show that the government is deriving most of its domestic facility through treasury bonds at 64.4 per cent followed by treasury bills at 32.6 per cent. CBK overdraft to government contributes 1.7 per cent while other domestic debt is at 1.3 per cent Last year, most banks increased investment in government papers and reaped heavily, a move that is likely to motivate them to lend more to the government. Equity Bank which pumped Sh128 billion into government securities up from Sh100.6 billion in 2016 registered a whopping 70 per cent increase in earnings from the segment, with interests growing from Sh7.8 billion in 2016 to Sh13.4 billion. KCB earned Sh12.4 billion in interests from Sh63.5 billion investment in government securities up from Sh10.9 billion the previous year when it invested Sh58.5 billion. NIC Bank invested seven times more in this segment last year to Sh21.6 billion up from Sh3.5 billion, earning Sh5.2 billion in interests. Stanbic Bank, Stanchart and Barclays Bank increased investment into government papers by 42.6, 27 and 20 per cent respectively, while DTB and Cooperative increased by 14 and 18 per cent in that order. Speaking to the Star a week ago, NIC Group managing director John Gachora said that banks will continue to invest in secure places with guaranteed returns as long as the interest cap is still on. He acknowledged that the trend is not healthy for the private sector and the country’s economy by extension. "The more banks lend to government, the more the credit profile for private sector shrinks. This affects job creation which is mostly spurred by Small Medium Enterprises. This is going to get tougher due to introduction of IFRS9. Interest cap law must be reviewed,’’ Gachora said. Click here for the latest political news