More than 2,000 Budalangi residents on Sunday held a peaceful demonstration demanding the release of their MP Raphael Wanjala. Wanjala was arrested in Kisumu on Saturday following Friday’s chaotic incident where his supporters allegedly attacked Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba. Carrying placards that read, "No Hon. Wanjala no peace, Shujaa wetu, Wanjala awe Huru, they chanted Ababu must-go slogans. The Budalabgi MP was briefly held at Kisumu Central police station before being transferred to Kakamega as police continue with investigations over the incident. They irate locals accused Port Victoria OCS Felix Forex of holding Wanajala and 12 others in custody in connection with the Friday's event. "Why is the OCS being biased by locking a section of those allied to Wanjala in police cells and leave others behind,? Stop discrimination and help everyone," they said. Read: Budalangi MP Raphael Wanjala arrested for allegedly attacking Ababu Bunyala South MCA Casper Ajuma who led the demonstrators reiterated that they will not relent until their MP is released. "This is Budalangi politics and we know Ababu Namwamba is involved. He is the one to be arrested. He started the violence and framed Wanjala, in what capacity did Ababu come to Sigiri bridge?" Ajuma wondered. He said that Ababu's position as a chief Administrative Secretary is not related to Budalangi projects whatsoever adding that Wanjala was the host. "The host had the authority to either welcome or not welcome Ababu. He (Ababu) forced himself into the meeting," the MCA said. He added," We know that the Deputy President William Ruto will need our votes come 2022, Wanjala has most of the votes and so he should work hand in hand with him to succeed. Former councillor David Majanja questioned why Wanjala is being held up in Kakamega County instead of Busia. "Wanjala is neither a criminal, a thief nor a murderer. The law has lost its course, he should be released with immediate effect failure to which we shall demonstrate to Busia County." Majanja said. Click here for the latest political news