The tender for the Sh20 billion power plant at the Dandora dumpsite will only be awarded to the firm with the most advanced technical know-how and financial capacity. City Hall is receiving applications; the deadline is close of business on Thursday next week. County secretary Leboo Morintat yesterday told the Star vetting will be strict and thorough before the tender is awarded. A firm contracted by the previous administration to build the plant for Sh28 billion withdrew. “We want to build the best plant. That’s why we don’t want guess work. We will be thorough and only the best will win the tender,” Morintat said. The recycling plant is expected to eliminate the need to relocate the dumpsite, as City Hall will use waste to generate clean, renewable energy. The plant is expected to produce 160MW per day. 3,000 TONNES Morintat did not disclose the number of interested firms. “Several investors have expressed interest, but it is difficult to know the exact number until we open the letters on April 19,” Morintat said. About 3,000 tonnes of waste is generated in the city daily. Only half is collected and dumped at Dandora. The rest is deposited illegally on roadsides and in other open spaces. City Hall has blamed residents for careless and illegal dumping. Some contractors have also been accused of dumping waste at illegal sites. Dandora, established in 1975, sprawls over 30 acres. It was declared full in 1996 but garbage continues to be dumped there. Waste has been compacted to make room for more. Several relocation attempts failed. Morintat said City Hall has already secured a title deed for the land. In 2016, German firm Sustainable Environment Management UG withdrew from the project, citing lack of a title deed for the city’s only legal dumpsite. ETHIOPIA ENERGY PLANT On March 13 last year, Ethiopia’s 50-year-old Koshe dumpsite in Addis Ababa collapsed and killed about 114 people. Ethiopia, meanwhile, has been building a waste-to-energy plant and has become the first African country to do so. It incinerates 1,400 tonnes of waste every day, about 80 percent of Addis Ababa’s waste. The Dandora power plant was muted long before the Ethiopian project. Morintat blamed the delay on lack of a title deed. “The project was our idea and we must do it better than Ethiopia. Nairobi is the hub of Eastern Africa. We must develop better ways of managing waste,” Morintat said. Last month, acting environment chief officer Isaac Muraya said about 30 of 60 garbage trucks owned by the county were grounded because of mechanical problems. Meanwhile, garbage continues to pile up and residents complain. Governor Mike Sonko made cleaning up the city fast one of his major campaign pledges.The city is currently choking with filth.