Is the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti set to overhaul two key formations within his department from next week? Corridors of Power is informed that panic has gripped a number of officers at the DCI over the impending shakeup set to affect the dreaded Flying Squad and the Anti-Terrorism Unit. Amid the reorganisation talk, word has it that some officers within the police department have applied for jobs  in the new structure. However, there is anxiety that the looming overhaul could lead to a major purge of targeted rogue officers.*****Was a powerful Jubilee hand behind the resignation of three IEBC commissioners Consolata Nkatha, Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat? This is the question a section of NASA lawmakers were heard asking around Parliament yesterday. The MPs believe the three commissioners did not quit the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on their own volition before their six-year non-renewable term expires. One of the MPs concluded that the move is a ploy by the top Jubilee leader to completely cripple the commission, sabotage chairman Wafula Chebukati and force him out.*****The revelation that Sh200 million will be spent on the governors’ devolution conference in Kakamega next week has not only shocked taxpayers, but senators as well. Our mole has told Corridors some senators were heard questioning how the colossal sum can be splashed within four days, yet lecturers, doctors and some senior citizens are starving. But senators are not the only ones, some local musicians are still smarting from the hiring of controversial Congolese rhumba maestro Koffi Olomide to perform at the conference for a staggering fee. One of the senators was heard wondering whether it is worth fighting for more funds given the governors’ spending spree. *****The Office of the President and State House were yesterday grappling with how to manage poor publicity after President Uhuru Kenyatta was greeted by protestors in London over his ‘poor’ human rights record. The protestors chanted “Born in Kenya, forever Kenyan” after Kenyatta delivered a speech at Chatham House on Tuesday. Our mole told the Star that a number of the publicity managers were mulling over sponsoring a similar protest against NASA principal Raila Odinga next time he travels abroad in order to mitigate the damage to the presidency.  Click here for the latest political news