Zukisa Wanner’s Men of the South (2010) tells the intriguing story of three men in contemporary South Africa, whose lives are connected to a woman called Slindile. Mzilikzai, Mfundo and Slindile were raised in a small town during the apartheid era. Mzilikali, known as Mzi, is a senior executive and seems to have the ideal marriage and family. Mfundo is a struggling musician, who is unable to find success in part because of past political activism. His career prospects are irreversibly shattered when he gets into an altercation with an important American musician. Slindile (Sli), the girlfriend of Mfundo, is a medical doctor and a woman with great aspirations. Tinyae, who joins the trio in their adult lives, is a highly qualified but underpaid immigrant from Zimbabwe. He frequently encounters hostility towards African foreigners. Tinyae believes the only way for to get job security and citizenship is to marry a South African woman. So he sets his sights on Grace, an infatuated receptionist from an NGO where he previously worked. The four companions realise that adult life can be complicated with choices and consequences to test the best of friends. Mfundo accidentally stumbles across Mzi’s covert life as a gay man. For Mzi, it is liberating to finally share a long-held secret, although he must still confront his family on the matter. Mfundo, however, is struggling to come to terms with this shocking discovery. However, Sli has no problem with Mzi’s sexuality and even tries to defend gay rights. But she finds herself increasingly unwilling to support her unemployed boyfriend, even though Mfundo aptly manages their home and takes care of their young daughter. Meanwhile, Tinaye is introduced to Sli and he falls deeply in love with her. But matters are complicated when Grace announces that she is pregnant. Tinaye must decide between doing the honourable thing or taking a chance at true love. Sli and the three men are the narrators of the book. Through their experiences we explore friendship, love and the social expectations that define success and manhood in South Africa. With compassion and humour, Wanner covers sensitive issues, such as homophobia. She makes us question whether anti-immigrant sentiments the result of high unemployment or whether it arise from mental inertia among some people who remain “stuck in a comfort zone, waiting for the government or someone else waiting to do something for them”? She also explores the quesion: why is it alright to have housewives but not stay-at-home fathers? Wanner’s characters are easy to relate to, the writing moves along energetically and the author comfortably portrays both male and female perspectives. Born in Zambia of a Zimbabwean mother and South African father, Wanner,42, is now based in Kenya. In 2015, she featured on Hay Festival’s Africa39 list that celebrates promising young writers from Africa south of the Sahara under the age of 40. This is her third novel, and Men of the South was nominated for the Commonwealth Writers’ Prize in the African region.