Anyone who has ever interacted with Miguna Miguna will confirm that the man considers himself a ‘mountain’; figuratively and literally. However some think he is just a molehill that uses camera angles to look like a mountain. The recent citizenship drama is a case in point. But let us look at the facts. Miguna acquired Canadian citizenship before 2010. This means he automatically denounced his Kenyan citizenship, because the law before the 2010 Constitution was that one could not be a Kenyan citizen and hold some other citizenship at the same time. If you took another citizenship, whether you renounced the Kenyan one or not, your Kenyan citizenship stood renounced. Up until August 27, 2010. The 2010 Constitution allows dual citizenship. Those who qualified to be Kenya citizens (by birth) but had taken other citizenship before the promulgation of the new Constitution still needed to regularise their Kenyan citizenship. Anyone who wanted to take back their Kenyan citizenship and have dual citizenship, or fully revert to only their Kenyan citizenship, needed to reapply for citizenship. A relatively simple process, but it needed doing. Finally — it is important to clarify that one cannot become a Kenyan citizen by court order. Justice Lenaola ruled on this in his 2014 decision when he said, “Dual Citizenship cannot be acquired by a petition to court at the first instance, the procedure for doing so is well set out in Section 8 of the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Act, cap 172.” I also came across something attributed to him that states he also added that to “… further argue that applicable law pre-2010 is irrelevant to the determination of citizenship today is mischievous and misguided”. Incidentally, my layman’s understanding of the need to regularise Kenyan citizenship is that not all those born Kenyan — and who thus qualify to be Kenyan citizens by birth — but have foreign citizenship, necessarily want to take up dual citizenship. It is quite possible that some ‘Kenyan-borns’ with foreign citizenship are happy staying ‘foreign’. I’m sure many have made that choice, even as others have chosen to retain single citizenship of their ‘foreign’ country of choice, or have dual citizenship. We must respect all such choices, which is why a person with another citizenship before 2010 is asked to choose which option they want, and fill in prerequisite forms. Now, Miguna is a smart lawyer. So why has he taken us through all this drama? Miguna’s lawyers insist he cannot apply for citizenship as requested by the Immigration department because this would confirm that the state was right to deport him to Canada a couple of months ago. In fact, the very essence of their case against the state is that the government unjustly deported a Kenyan citizen to a foreign land. I can see the logic. But it is being defeated by the facts. It is also the kind of thing that can be ‘politicked’ away, especially now that we are living in post-Uhuru/Raila-handshake days. So there must be another reason, maybe one even the lawyers do not know. In my opinion Miguna is refusing to accept the reality of his situation for a simpler reason. In 2017 all candidates running for office filled self-declaration forms that explained aspects of their lives, including their citizenship. I suspect Miguna declared that he is a Kenyan citizen, assuming that this would never be queried. Now he has realised that if he accepts to apply for his citizenship he will be officially admitting that he lied to the IEBC in 2017. This would make it difficult for him to run for political office in future, something that he is clearly planning to do. If I am right, then what we have seen is a molehill craftily made to look like a mountain — pun intended.