Governors are set to begin talks with the
national government towards developing a national policy framework for the mining sector. This will be on the need to set up legal, regulatory, and institutional framework which will guide how mineral resources are managed. Council of governors chairman Josphat Nanok said the policy framework will focus on taxation, sustainable production,
jobs, and environment. He told journalists after a two-day meeting in Malindi that CoG will prepare
an advisory on issues they want to engage the national government on. "This overarching policy should take into consideration
that mineral resources should benefit current and future generations,"
he said. Counties and national government are at loggerheads over the rate for revenue allocations to communities. The same was reduced from 10 per cent to five per cent. Nanok said they expect the matter to be finalised quickly
so that the mineral dividend boosts Jubilee's "Big Four" development strategy. Further, he said the CoG will continue to engage the Petroleum and Mining ministry to push for the amendment
of the Mining Act, 2016. The Turkana Governor said there have been challenges in implementing the Act, particularly in regards to the mining rights board. "There are also challenges in the processing of licenses
and permits due to lack of a standardised approach," Nanok said. "There is, therefore, need for
clarity in the content and enforcement of community development agreements." He said they will also push for policies that strengthen cooperatives, mining associations as well as guide on matters of patenting, and value addition. Nanok also said county governments shall
develop and design mechanisms for oversight on environmental degradation and also
regulations on artisan mining. Kajiado governor Joseph Ole Lenku who was also present said
talks for legal and policy were timely for the country. Also present was Nyandarua
governor Francis Kimemia, Kilifi deputy governor Gideon Saburi, Taita Taveta deputy governor Majala Mlagui among others. Click here for the latest political news  