Creativity and courage are closely
connected. Creativity - changing status quo, thinking independently, going
against conventions - demands courage. ‘Courage is another word for creativity’
said George Prince, co-founder of Synectics.  We live in the age of anxiety. We hear
about terrorism, climate change or wars daily, and we fear. It affects our
ability to think, make decisions and take risks. Fear turns us into the hollow
functionaries and stops us from getting what we want from life. We desperately
need courage. To be human is to be brave. To be successful is to show
courage.  But, courage is not the absence of
fear but the ability to move through it creatively – with new ideas and
visions. Both creativity and fear are about survival. Creativity is about
‘fighting’, fear - is about ‘flighting’. Being creative helps us to evaluate
fear and act rationally. As philosopher Eric Hoffer said: “Creativity is the
ability to introduce order into the randomness of nature.”  Can we learn courage? Yes, if we are
brought up creative from the early age. If we as children lack the creative
experience - opportunities to be curious and try new things – we learn fear
instead. Young people have a great need for action. Therefore, sanctioning
their creativity causes anxiety. Creative upbringing masters our courage. It
helps us to adequately cope with problems and overcome obstacles. To learn to
be resourceful, resilient and confident. To express ideas and improve
self-esteem. Practising creativity - is practising the acts of bravery.  If you are a parent, what can you do
for your children today? Nurture their
creativity. Encourage children to invent, experiment and imagine. Challenge them to think up new and unexpected
ways that solve problems in daily life, science, technology or even business.
Approve their ideas, however ‘crazy’, ‘bizarre’ or ‘impractical’ they might be.
The most common answer of people to ‘what are you fearful of?’ is ‘the
unknown’. Creativity by definition is going into the unknown. Allow your children to explore it.  Encourage them to play, to do arts.
Arts are the best way to foster creativity in the young. Ask them to draw,
paint, dance, perform or write stories. Let their art explorations be
spontaneous and rich in fantasy rather than imitate the nature. And the best
thing, you do not need money or training for this, just a change of attitude.  Some parents and teachers might think
that encouraging creativity in children - new ideas and their independent mind
– can be a threat to their authority. Fear not. Creativity is constructive and
altruistic, not destructive. When it is accepted and rewarded, creativity never
makes children hostile or delinquent. On the contrary, according to a study of the
Northwestern State University (Gail Lewis, ‘The need to create’, 1991), young
people are likely to become delinquent or emotionally disturbed when their
creativity is suppressed.  What about yourself?  Do you think of yourself as creative and
brave? How would you answer these questions:  Do you see creativity as a positive
force that improves lives and society? Are you creative, ie do you enjoy
new ideas for changing things, or believe in doing things as they have always
been done? Do you enjoy challenges and solving
them by your own efforts? Do you fear failure? Do you think of yourself as resilient,
ie quick to recover after a failure? 