A second victim of Monday's police shooting in Miritini died on Friday while receiving treatment at the Coast General Hospital. Samin Karisa, 37, was shot in the chest in what police say was in
self-defence. He was among four people shot in the coastal town for links to crime. Ramadhan Karisa, his elder brother, said Samin
asked to see his wife and two-year-old daughter moments before he succumbed. "It is painful to lose a younger brother this way.
All we want is justice to be done," he told the Star. Samin worked as a turn boy for a transport company
in Mombasa. Hussein Nduke, a 37-year-old driver, was shot in the stomach and died on arrival at the hospital. Changamwe police boss Peter Omanwa on Tuesday told
journalists that the police acted in self-defence after a crowd turned hostile. The crowd, he said, turned against officers who had gone to rescue a murder suspect from a
lynch mob. Nduke, Samin, Mohamed Rama, 20, and Santa Kahindi,
23, were shot in the process. However, Nduke’s father Mahaja Nduke said his son
was only a curious onlooker and did not throw any stone at the police. On Friday, Ramadhan said his brother had also
rushed to the scene to witness what was happening. This was after word went round that
police had come to arrest a murder suspect who had locked himself in a house. Rights groups Haki Africa and Muslims for Human Rights
(Muhuri) lamented over rising cases of extra-judicial killings in Mombasa. "This is the second person who has died in the
hands of police in five days. We haven’t seen any action taken on the
trigger-happy police," Haki Africa program officer Francis Auma said. Muhuri program officer Fredrick Okado said the
Independent Police Oversight Authority seems to be overwhelmed by the cases
they handle. "We have only seen one successful prosecution of
police officers in the last three or four years yet there are many cases of extra-judicial killings." The two spoke at the Coast General Hospital where
they helped the Samin’s family with the legal processes. They want the government to take such cases
seriously. "If Interior CS Fred Matiang’i is serious about
the reforms in the police service, this incident should not go unpunished," they said. They said it is wrong for police to use live
bullets to disperse a rowdy crowd. Read: Mombasa residents accuse cop of killing one, injuring three during chase Click here for the latest political news  