Kenyan sports fraternity received a major reprieve after members of National Assembly ordered for the reimbursement of an estimated Sh1.3 billion to the Ministry of Sports to cater for various developments. The money was initially deducted from last year’s Sh7 billion, which was set for refurbishment of the four stadia—Nyayo, Kasarani, Kinoru and Kipchoge Keino—earlier earmarked to host the Chan Championships last January. The MPs, through the Parliamentary Committee on Budget and Appropriation, approved Sh551.8m to be wired to the Ministry of Sports for completion of the four venues. The money was recalled to fund other purported urgent government programs after the country lost the hosting rights in September last year to Fifa, World Cup candidate, Morocco. “The Sh551.8m meant for upgrading of stadia must be reimbursed to the state department of sports to ensure Kenya has required facilities as per the Fifa and IAAF requirements,” read part of the committee’s recommendation to the treasury. The move by the government to recall the money later in October proved costly as construction works stalled at Nyayo and Kasarani, failing to realise the April 1 deadline. Contractors cited lack of commitment by the government to honour their promise of timely pay hence downed tools for the better part of March. The committee further asked the treasury to reimburse Sh1.7 million to Sports Ministry for completion of the works as well as cater for the soft services. “The Sh1,739,000 that was meant for the 2018 Chan Cup in relation to refurbishment of Chan stadia-soft services be reimbursed to the state department of sports to avoid penalties and pending bills that may be accrued.” The intervention by the committee is timely as Kasarani is set to host the much fancied SportPesa friendly that will pit either Gor Mahia or Leopards against English side, Hull City in May 13. Kinoru Stadium is also set to host the Madaraka Day celebrations while Caf Confederations Cup representatives Gor Mahia and the Kenya Premier League clubs will have the puzzle on venues solved. Besides football, athletics, national lottery, Academy of Sports and individual athletes are expected to benefit from the latest move. Almost 600 million was recommended for the lottery as last year’s IAAF World’s U-18 Championships was handed Sh157m to clear the unpaid bills. Over Sh147m was set aside to award outstanding performers as the Academy of Sports was boosted with Sh5.6m