The East Africa Community directorate of customs has urged more private companies in the region to join the Authorised Economic Operator programme to take advantage of the benefits. The programme was rolled out in 2015 to promote regulatory compliance, enhance trade facilitation and improve border security. “The program emphasizes partnerships based on trust between businesses and government regulatory bodies,” head of compliance and enforcement department at the directorate, Flavia Busingye, told journalists in Mombasa yesterday. So far, 73 companies are AEO accredited from 13 in 2015. Value of goods traded by AEO is about Sh150 billion in the last three years. German Government Development Corporation said the program has reduced cost of doing business in the region and improved lives. “The financial impact of the full implementation of the EAC AEO programme will be felt by many citizens through access to cheaper products as distribution costs are reduced in East Africa in the next two to three years,” Kirsten Focken, the GIZ programme manager, said. Rwanda has the highest number of companies in the program at 25, Kenya 14, Burundi and Tanzania 25 each while Tanzania has two. AEO accredited companies have preferential treatment in the management of customs operations. These include automatic passing of declarations, no physical examination of goods, except for random or risk based interventions, Guaranteed renewal of Customs license, Priority treatment in cargo clearance chain, Waiver of movement bond requirements for AEO, among others. Umoja Rubber Products and Mzuri Sweets MD Dilip Shah said revenues have soared by 20 per cent since joining the AEP two years ago. “Our cargo has been cleared faster and our demurrage costs have reduced by about 70 per cent. This means we save more and consequently the revenue increases,” Shah said. He said before joining the program, they used to make orders for raw materials about three months in advance but now they make orders only a month in advance with little demurrage charges.