Governor Mike Sonko apologised for the mess in Nairobi but blamed his predecessor when he met Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka on Tuesday. Sonko said former Governor Evans Kidero failed to fix problems such as clogged drainage systems that have resulted in flooding after rains. "Engineers qualified .. mambo ya takataka (the garbage problem) ... we are trying our best," he said. Sonko also touched on cartels that he says have ganged up to fight him over his leadership style. "The only problem is corruption because garbage collectors have been [doing this work] since 2011. Our hands are tied by laws; you cannot just come in with new contractors ... as we wait for recycling plants in Dandora, we need a temporary solution." He continued: "I admit this is a very big headache. The population is 6.5 million during the day and five million at night. "I am apologising and admitting that there are challenges in Nairobi. A committee was formed ... we are trying to decongest Nairobi and make it clean." Read: [Statement] I'm sorry about floods, drainage will be unblocked - Sonko Also read: Sonko banks on new funding strategy to tackle city garbage Sonko said many people are fighting his leadership because he has sealed all corruption loopholes. "Your Excellency, we inherited a dead system, in which huge amounts of money had been swindled. We have fixed all the loopholes ... we shall not allow graft to thrive in Nairobi," he told Kalonzo during their meeting in his office. The county boss reiterated that his focus is service to Nairobians, not to listen or react to what cartels says. He added it is good to unify the Kamba nation considering the peace and unity deal that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga signed on March 9. "Hakuna dhambi kwa viongozi wa ukambani kukutana. Siasa ya ukabila tumeweka kando (There is no sin in meetings by Ukambani leaders. We have left the politics of tribalism behind). We want to focus on service delivery and unifying Kenyans. Kalonzo has experience in leadership and administration," the Governor said. "TWO TERMS FOR HANDS-ON GOVERNOR" Kalonzo praised Sonko for his efforts against corruption and in providing quality services to Nairobians but noted that more work needs to be done. He wished the Jubilee Party Governor well in his war on corruption rings. "I'm very happy with your decision to construct a state-of-the-art recycling plant in Dandora, which will resolve the garbage problem in this city," he said. The Wiper boss added that the 2,700 tonnes of garbage being released by Nairobians can be used for renewable energy. "If you clean Nairobi River, you will have cleaned Athi River and eliminated deaths. The environment is a complete thing," he said. Kalonzo noted that Nairobians elected a hands-on Governor who should be allowed to lead for two terms. “You should go for 10 years. What you doing is remarkable and encouraging," he told Sonko. On April 20, Raila asked Sonko to put his foot down so his promises to Nairobians are fulfilled. The Opposition leader told Sonko to be firm when the Governor paid him a courtesy call at Capitol Hill in Nairobi on Friday. The meeting took place at the request of the Governor. More on this: Put your foot down to change Nairobi, Raila tells Sonko at meeting Click here for the latest political news