The Fifth National Devolution Conference is a unique event deliberately designed to anchor the delivery of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Council of Governors vice chairperson Anne Waiguru on Friday said the four-day forum, which begins in Kakamega on Monday, will give governors an opportunity to grasp Uhuru’s priority areas. She co-chairs the joint conference steering committee. The Kirinyaga county chief said the conference will create a platform for the two levels of government to harmonise their development agenda. The summit will arrive at action plans to power food security, universal healthcare, manufacturing and affordable housing — Uhuru’s five-year legacy agenda. Read: Devolution conference expected to rake in Sh200m for Western Also read: Uhuru, Raila top guests at fifth devolution conference in Kakamega Waiguru said the county and national governments will agree on a complementary funding model, given that most of the sectors driving Uhuru’s agenda are devolved. “We’ll agree on what the counties are able to do and establish how the national government can chip in to ensure universal health care,” she said. The government seeks to ensure 100 per cent access to affordable and quality health services in public hospitals across the country. “We must establish whether the counties have the necessary capacity to provide UHC so Kenyans from each of the 47 counties can be guaranteed uniform services,” Waiguru said. The Health ministry will take governors through a number of aspects, including the role of the counties, donors and the national government. Governors are expected to use sector discussions lined up after a plenum with experts and the Health ministry to share their experiences and take a critical view of prevailing health statistics. Prof Khama Rogo, the head of World Bank Group’s Health in Africa Initiative and Health PS Peter Tum are expected to lead sector deliberations. The objective would be to review the current health situation and systems. Details: Why governors hold their annual devolution conference  Click here for the latest political news 