Massive corruption, nepotism and favouritism are the “immediate threats” bedevilling the county governments, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga said yesterday. He said the governors, MCAs, county assembly leaders and the County Public Service Boards, which are tasked with hiring staff, are implicated and some are under investigation. The ODM leader said “self-enrichment” from public coffers must be curtailed for Kenyans to benefit from devolution. “Many governors and their executives are viewed with suspicion by voters and many are under active investigation by the EACC. MCAs and county speakers are particularly being accused of conflict of interest,” he said. Raila said his unity deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9 will ensure corruption and impediments to devolution are fought without partisan politics. “The President and I have agreed that we must fight corruption from a wide and common front. We shall not provide sanctuaries for perpetrators. We will strongly support whistleblowing from all Kenyans,” he said. “Very soon, the corrupt will be on their own.”  CONFLICT OF INTEREST Raila said they have tasked the public to report corruption whenever they witness it, but without witch-hunt. Conflict of interest by MCAs and speakers is rife in procurement because they want to be contractors, despite their oversight role, he said. He said leaders cannot do their work effectively once they are compromised and urged the counties to uphold the highest level of integrity. “People pursuing business with the counties also talk of an elaborate network of county assembly speakers, leaders of Majority, CECs, county works supervisors and county clerks, among others, whose sole purpose is to make money from public projects,” Raila said. According to the NASA chief, the officials use their capacity and to audaciously paralyse, delay and stall development projects until their selfish interests are met.  LIFESTYLE AUDIT He put MCAs on the spot for holding governors hostage by demanding payment to approve cabinet nominees. Some counties have yet to constitute their cabinets because of standoffs with MCAs, he said. Raila criticised MCAs for organising benchmarking trips, saying they amount to ulterior motives. He urged the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to conduct lifestyle audits on suspected county leaders who have become rich overnight. Raila warned, however, that some cases are based on hearsay. EACC chief executive officer Halakhe Waqo said corruption has entrenched in society and this is to blame for runaway graft both at the national and county governments. “There is a problem in Kenya. It is not about an institution or the government, but the Kenyan society. People fear to come to the EACC to report,” he said. “It is difficult to receive reports, but we have so far opened 50 desks at Huduma Centres for people to report.” The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions revealed that 300 cases of graft are pending in court. They involve top officials at the national and county governments, the office said, citing former Nyeri county executives. “Unfortunately, we recently got in a ruling that a case against a Cabinet Secretary was stayed. Some of these cases are stayed because of constitutional applications and judicial reviews for interpretations,” a Mrs Kamau from the ODPP said. “This is how corruption fights back. In this situation you find the witnesses wear out and lose hope. This is where you also find documents disappear.”