Most roads in Turkana have been rendered impassable following heavy floods. The rains have raised water levels at Kainuk bridge, Kalemorok and Kawalase rivers rendering routes to Lodwar, Lokichogio and South Sudan impassable. On April 8, flood waters paralysed transport for at least 24 hours on the road that links Kenya to Uganda, Ethiopia and South Sudan. Joseph Etabo a businessman in Lodwar town, said they are incurring heavy losses as their goods are not reaching them on time. "The flood waters have also swept the trailers that transport our goods to Lodwar. Others are still stranded on the banks of river Turkwel on Kainuk bridge," he said. Read: Turkana pastoralists, fishermen warned of possible floods A fruit vendor Esther Kathure in Lodwar town decried the issue of transport as a result of heavy rains in the region. "We get fresh fruits from Kitale. Kainuk bridge has been a mess for a long time when it rains. For now am unable to earn something as am counting heavy losses as my goods have overstayed at the banks of Kainuk." she said. On Friday two trailers heading to Lodwar were swept by river Turkwel. Since the heavy rains started Turkwel river has swept three trailers and two lorries headed to Lodwar. "The driver assumed the advisory that was issued on Monday by KenhA. He was unable to control the trailer that was later swept by heavy waters," a local resident said. The residents and travellers have blamed the roads agency for not constructing a long-lasting bridge to end the woes of the bridge. "It's not the first time we are raising alarm about Kainuk bridge. [The government should] construct a better bridge," James Ejore, a lorry driver said. KeNHA has warned motorists against using the Kainuk and Kawalase drift along the highway due to dangers brought on by flooding. In a statement on Saturday, the authority urged residents to exercise caution while approaching the section and not to cross flooded parts. A vehicle belonging to the Catholic Diocese in Lodwar was swept away in Kawalase river last Sunday as the driver headed to Moroto in Uganda. Witness Kevin Ekai said the driver lost control. Four people were saved. An Eldoret Express bus from Kakuma to Lodwar was also swept away but there were no casualties. James Lokwale, who is Turkana county's trade director, asked KeNHA to quickly construct a stronger bridge. "I was shocked when the floodwaters at Kainuk bridge nearly swept away a lorry [on its way to] Lodwar. Business people are unable to transport their goods to markets on time," he said. Also read; 18 rescued after bus gets stuck during floods in Turkana   Click here for the latest political news 