A private organization has partnered with the Community in Likia-Mau forest to plant over 300,000 indigenous trees, a move that will reverse environmental degradation by doubling forest cover. The Agrochemicals Association of Kenya (AAK) which is the umbrella organization for manufacturers, formulators, importers, distributors, farmers and users of pest control products (pesticides) said the initiative is part of its cooperate social responsibility (CSR). The tree planting exercise which began on Friday last week will is an ongoing activity until 100 hectares of forest cover is met. AAK CEO Evelyn Kusanaka said over 50 members have come on board to support the initiative dubbed “Adopt a hectare”. Each acre she said will cost Sh150,000 bringing the entire cost of the project to sh1.5 million. The project according to the Kusanaka involves the local community through buying of seedlings and engaging them as casuals to do the land preparation, planting and maintenance. The planting of the trees is done at Sh40 by the community in the area. “The community is benefiting from this initiative because we are buying the seedlings from them which is a source of income. They are digging and planting which is also another source of income. The project will also support the community to initiate other income generating activities,” said Evelyn. The exercise is part of a campaign launched by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko that seeks to increase forest cover to 10 percent by 2022. According to the 2015 National forest policy, the current forest cover in Kenya is 6.9 percent which is below the constitutional requirement of ten percent. An official from Kenya Forest Service Benson Mburu said the area had been encroached by land speculators and degraded it through cultivation. He commended AAK for taking up the initiative as it will restore the degraded forest and enhance the ecological function of the pristine ecosystem. He, however, urged the government to increase the number of rangers in Likia and provide them with a Van to patrol and man the area. Currently, there are only six rangers covering the whole of Likia-Mau forest. “The rangers in this area are not enough. We need more. The government should step in and help us with a patrol van so that we protect this forest,” said Mburu. Likia Forest is situated along the Njoro – Mau Narok Road some 15 km from Mau Narok town.  Click here for the latest political news