At least 76 people have been killed and 242,536 displaced by floods since the rains began four weeks ago. The Kenya Red Cross Society said their homes were either swept away by the floods or submerged by rain waters forcing the families to move out. Most victims are camping in schools. Humanitarian groups say they have been overstretched by the crisis. “Several households have been affected with people displaced, infrastructure and crops damaged and animals swept away,” Kenya Red Cross said in a statement yesterday. The Red Cross said the death toll stood at 76 by Saturday. Read:Six people perish as floods wreak havoc across the country The crisis has been triggered by flash floods, caused by heavy rains across the country. Head of meteorological services Peter Ambenje said the rains are likely to continue this week. Most rains will be experienced in the Lake Victoria Basin and highlands in the Rift Valley. “The Coast is likely to experience significant improvement in rainfall intensity and amount towards the end of the week,” Ambenje said. The Coast, Northern and Western Kenya are the worst affected by the floods. “This has led to spillage of water and breaking of river banks from dams and other water catchment areas exacerbating the situation of displacement and destruction of property in several counties,” Red Cross said. The society said 145,841 people have been displaced at the Coast, followed by 46,265 in Northeastern. Some 30,970 people have been displaced in the North Rift. In Western Kenya, 8,420 people have been displaced. “The total number of affected households is 44,858. At least 33 injuries have been reported,” Red Cross added. In total, 21,741 acres of farmland has been destroyed while livestock numbering 19,223 have been killed. Many refugees in Daadab have been forced to shelter in schools as the camp got flooded. Save The Children said it was not yet clear how many tents have been destroyed in the camp. The NGO's manager for Daadab, Caleb Odhiambo, said pit latrines were overflowing, creating a breeding ground for diseases like cholera. "The floodwaters are washing away people’s belongings, livestock and homes. Victims are living in open areas without food," Odhiambo said. Read:10,000 displaced by floods in Turkana Also Read:Weatherman warns of flash floods in Mombasa    