A majority of Kenyan youth aged between 15 to 24 years are worried about the massive unemployment situation. A report launched by the British Council in Nairobi indicate job opportunities remain a key determinant of where the youth in secondary schools, colleges and universities want to live. The report, Next Generation Kenya Report, showed that 71 per cent of the 4,014 respondents are willing to emigrate to other parts of the world in search of  better jobs. Some respondents said they want to live in other places within the country, mostly towns. Overall, the report says 38 per cent are willing to relocate to abroad  given the opportunity with a majority saying they would move outside Africa with the USA by far being the most popular preferred destination. The survey conducted between September 2017 and February this year indicates corruption, crime, violence, insecurity and unemployment as main reasons why they would leave. British Council country director Tony Reilly said the youth believe the problems will become more serious in future due to a ‘broken and rigged system’ in the country that doesn’t listen to the voices of young people. Reilly said the desire to emigrate is partly spurred by youth’s increasing connectivity with the outside world. He said 40 per cent of the youths have access to the internet through their mobile phones and believe social media is helping them integrate with the global community. “Only 88 per cent say it makes them more tolerant of other people’s point of view and 84 per cent say it has made them feel more of a global citizen,” he said. According to the report, though majority of the youth think education remains important and the quality improving, it is not yet up to international standards. About 63 per cent of those interviewed think that Kenyan education is no longer a guarantee for success or employment. Youth think the current education system does not equip them with adequate skills and knowledge needed for job market. “Some 38 per cent of respondents agree that you need to move to the West to obtain a good education,” Reilly said. 