Top government officials and politicians have been listed as “a clique of cartels” allegedly extorting from a private firm that recently received Sh1.5 billion partial payment for a prime land in Ruaraka. Afrison Export and Import Ltd and Huelands Ltd directors say they conducted a private probe and zeroed in on nine individuals being probed by the police and the DCI. Afrison and Huelands’s sister company – Whispering Palms Estate Ltd – was on January 29 paid Sh1.5 billion by the Ministry of Education then led by CS Fred Matiang’i following authorisation by the National Lands Commission. The amount was part of the Sh3.3 billion compensation for the 13 acres that host Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School. The directors say the nine individuals, whose identities remain withheld, hatched plans to extort Sh280 million from the recent compensation for land occupied by the two schools. “We had chosen to keep our peace and allow the rule of law prevail, but not anymore. We feel the ‘way for justice’ has been hijacked by well known individuals, whose only intention is to humiliate us and above all, extort from us,” the directors said. “The plan by the cartels was to extort Sh280 million from part of our claim of Sh1.5 billion as compensation for land occupied by the government institutions. As a result, they formulated lies and fabricated untruths against us.” The directors say the chain of cartels has been colluding with the media, politicians and officials in almost all sectors in government. “They are lethal and should be stopped if justice will be served to us and the tens of other people, silently suffering,” the companies say. The ‘grabbers’ have been frustrating any effort for the land to be compensated since some are politicians and senior civil servants. They fear the companies will demolish the illegal buildings erected on the land. “The question then is why would government institutions mandated to protect citizens be used by rogue individuals to harass us?” The directors faulted Parliament and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for probing the matter. “The EACC and Parliament are yet to say what they are investigating, given that the money we have received was paid following the due process,” they said. NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri on Thursday said the Ministry of Education will only receive title deed for the piece of land once the full payment of Sh3,269,040,600 is cleared. “We paid Sh1.5 billion only as part of the payment.” The management of the two schools told the Parliamentary Committee they rightfully own the land. According to the NLC valuation report on the land, under the instruction of the Ministry of Education, Drive Inn Primary School measures 6.9818 acres while Ruaraka measures 6.7883 acres. They claim the government set aside the land as a public utility in 1966. John Njogu, who served as board of management chairman of Ruaraka High for 18 years, said the institution’s land was acquired in 1981 through an initiative by former Nairobi Mayor Andrew Ngumba. “For all those years, I’ve never seen anybody or institution claim ownership of this land,” he said. But Afrison and Huelands say they acquired the same land in 1981 from Joreth Ltd. Read:MPs probe Sh3b payment for Ruaraka school land Click here for the latest political news