While legal
specialists agree that detaining a patient over a medical bill violates their
fundamental rights and freedoms, many hospitals are turning into detention
centres for people who cannot pay. Trans Nzoia medical
services director John Kisiangani said this habit is rampant in private and
public hospitals, and that such cases are easier to deal with in a public
hospital rather than a private facility. “In public
hospitals we have a waiver system, whereby if a patient is unable to pay their
bills, first we send a social worker for background check of the patient, to
ascertain if truly they cannot pay. Then the patient is released and the bill
is waived off,” he said. However, most
private hospitals do not have an opt-out system. “When it comes to a private
facility our hands are tied, because it is a reality that the owners have spent
their resources, they are in business, and you cannot just tell them to release
a patient,” Kisiangani said. A study published
by Chatham House’s Centre on Global Health Security in the UK last year ranked
Kenya among the most notorious countries in detaining patients unable to
settle medical bills. It fell in the same ranks as DR Congo, Ghana,
Liberia, Nigeria, Uganda and Zimbabwe. “Patient detention
deters healthcare use, increases medical impoverishment, and is a denial of
international human rights standards, including the right not to be imprisoned
as a debtor and the right to access to medical care,” the study reads. It noted that
victims tend to be the poorest members of society, who have been admitted to
hospital for emergency treatment. Many of them are subject to verbal or
physical abuse while being detained in health facilities. “At the root of
this problem is the persistence of health financing systems that require people
to make high out-of-pocket payments when they need healthcare, and inadequate
governance systems that allow facilities to detain patients,” the report
states. CASE STUDIES Trans Nzoia is one of
the most affected regions by hospital detentions in Kenya. Early this year, the
Star reported that Kelly Wanjala, a 12-year-old standard four pupil at
Koykoy Primary School in Kiminini constituency, was detained for a full year at
the Crystal Cottage Hospital because his parents could not pay Sh47,000 during
discharge, which had risen to Sh855,000. Wanjala was
admitted at the facility during the medics’ strike last year, when services in
all public hospitals were paralysed. His father, Edward Makhanu, said
even if he were given 10 more years to clear the amount, he would not because
he doesn’t have any stable income. “I have already
sold the piece of land I had to raise the Sh47 000. I don’t have a stable job
and I have nothing more to sell,” Makhanu said. Wanjala has since been released
after well-wishers cleared the money claimed by the hospital. The county
Children’s department, through the director Aston Maungu, and Education
executive officer Isaac Kogo distanced themselves from the issue, claiming they
have no jurisdiction to handle the case or demand the boy’s release. This is
after the Trans Nzoia Women Leaders reported Wanjala’s issue to the Children’s
department. When reached for
comment, Maungu told the Star: “We cannot handle that as that is somebody’s
business. It’s upon the parents to reach an agreement with the hospital,” he
said. Elsewhere, Veronicah Nyangai was also a
prisoner at Nairobi West Hospital. She was admitted on December 16, 2016, while
pregnant. She hoped to have a normal delivery but three days later, she
developed complications and a caesarean operation was done. Unfortunately, the
baby died. At this time, her bill stood at Sh410,333. She was discharged on
December 23, 2016, and moved to the general ward, where she became a prisoner.
She was released in March last year after a lawyer took her case to
court. And Rehema Katana, 12, was held at Kenyatta
National Hospital after she accrued a bill of Sh179,884. She was admitted at
the referral hospital after she was misdiagnosed with TB. Her family was only
given the option of paying the full amount or penning down how it would be cleared. Kisiangani said private hospital owner should get insurance cover that will take care of such
cases. During the doctors’ strike last year, Trans Nzoia county set aside an
emergency kit of Sh5 million, where they paid bills for patients who were sent
for treatment to various private hospitals.  “The money was not enough.
Within three months, we had to stop the scheme as it had gotten to Sh20
million,” Kisiangani said. “As a county, we still owe some of the
hospitals as we were not able to clear the bills at once.” As many Kenyans
cannot raise the National Hospital Insurance Fund monthly premium of Sh500,
Trans Nzoia county is partnering with Moi University through Ampath to create a
social scheme, where the community will be contributing for the premiums of the
vulnerable. Kisiangani said the
programme is still at the preliminary stage, and they have started to do
piloting in Saboti and Matunda. “We are still at a discussion point to see the
way forward. The programme will encourage the community to raise premiums for
the vulnerable. We shall also be looking for partners who can come chip in to
what the community would have raised,” he said. He said more effort
is needed to educate the community on the importance of NHIF. “This a scheme
that will cover all family members, but you find most Kenyans are so reliant on
the government. It’s not because they cannot raise the amount,” he said. In
2012, two women, Margaret Anyoso and Maimuna Awuor, sued Pumwani Maternity
Hospital for illegally detaining them in hospital for not paying their bills –
despite a government policy of waiving the charges for poor patients. The
petitioners argued that government-owned Pumwani Maternity Hospital subjected
them to inhuman and degrading treatment and violated their rights to dignity,
health and liberty. The
case was filed on their behalf by Nairobi-based Centre for Reproductive Rights.
It ended successfully in September 2015 when High Court Judge Mumbi Ngugi,
ordered the Nairobi County government to pay Margaret Sh500,000 and Maimuna
Sh1.5 million for their suffering, in addition to footing costs of the suit.
The court also directed the government to take necessary measures to eliminate
the practice of detaining patients who cannot pay their medical bills. KNH DISTANCES
ITSELF In Nairobi, Kenya
National Hospital management said they no longer detain patients who cannot
pay. “Every year, we have been writing off about Sh700 million in bills
owed by patients,” suspended KNH CEO Lily Koros said. Nairobi-based human
rights lawyer Laura Young said detaining patients is the worst kind of attack
on vulnerable people — those who are sick, in pain, are under the influence of
medication or have a new baby. She said not only does it violate medical ethics
— the key principle of do no harm — but it is prohibited by the constitution
and international law, as affirmed in numerous Kenyan judicial decisions. Laura said
non-payment of bills is, however, a critical problem facing hospitals. “Medical
professionals have an ethical duty to provide treatment, even to those who
cannot pay. But failure to pay puts the entire medical care system at risk by
undermining the financial stability of healthcare institutions,” she wrote in a
recent opinion in the Star. She said some
hospitals take patients’ ID cards as collateral for debt payment. “This is an
ineffective solution, as it violates civil and political rights,” she said. She
said a better solution is ensuring any patient who walks into a hospital is
aware of their opportunity to enrol in NHIF. “In partnership
with the government, hospitals should be effectively facilitating this process
for all their patients. Moreover, public and private hospitals should be
supported by the philanthropic sector to create funds to assist with payment of
bills for indigent patients,” she said. The Chatham
House report also noted that universal health coverage cannot be achieved
while people are experiencing financial hardship through their inability to pay
for healthcare. “Health financing systems should be reformed by moving towards
publicly financed UHC, based on compulsory progressive pre-payment mechanisms.
This would enable hospitals to become financially sustainable without the need
to charge significant user fees,” the report states.