The Kenya Editors Guild's has called for a special meeting on Saturday 21 to address serious crisis it is facing including deregistration threats by the registrar of societies. In a meeting called by the Guild’s assistant secretary Hassan Kulundu, the main agenda of the sitting will be to elect new leadership. A notice seen by the star indicates the meeting will take place at the Nairobi Club. In the notice to all the members, Kulundu said the special meeting is a follow-up on one that had been scheduled to take place on March 3, but aborted because the secretary did not issue a notice as per their constitution. Kulundu told the star on phone that the executive committee convened a consultative meeting at the Four Point Hotel in Nairobi and agreed that the Secretary calls for a special meeting as the registrar had advised. But since the secretary travelled out of the country, he did not comply as had been requested. “Due to unforeseen circumstances, the secretary did not issue a notice for a special general meeting … hence the assistant secretary was mandated to issue the said notice on behalf of the secretary,” Kulundu said. Kulundu further dismissed claims that the guild has had numerous leadership turmoil’s after the current chairman Linus Kaikai issued a contradicting statement with his vice Samuel Maina following the live coverage of swearing in of NASA candidate Raila Odinga as people president. Kakai said the Guild is gravely alarmed over a developing trend by the government to gag or threaten the media over coverage of the current political events in the country. “We have just learnt today that on Friday last week, a section of media managers and select editors from the main media houses were quietly summoned to a meeting at State House, Nairobi, for objectives that remain unknown. But the proceedings should be clear cause for alarm to the media and the public,” Kaikai said during the time. Read:Editors' Guild alarmed by State House secret orders to media But Maina who attended Statehouseouse meeting in defense said at no point did the President threaten to gag the media. "What is being termed as a "dress down" is a misrepresentation of facts. We had a fruitful discussion and we all agreed that media freedom has to be accompanied by a high degree of responsibility. At no point were any threats issued to media houses or any ultimatums given on how we choose to broadcast matters of public interest, or those relating to the current political situation in the country," Maina said. Read:News bosses differ over Uhuru threat on Raila's swearing in coverage The guild’s Executive Committee had to intervene by publicly adopting Kaikai’s position. The 17-member committee noted that although Kaikai had not consulted the top organ before issuing the statement, he is mandated to speak for the group. Kalundu dismissed reports that the SGM has been called wa ith sole purpose to remove the current leadership. He said elections of new officials were to take place last year but the exercise was crippled by prolonged electioneering period. “The notice is pursuant to a letter from the registrar of societies who notified us that we risked being deregistered for failing to file returns. However he gave us an excuse under the law to call for a special general meeting to right what we had wronged,” he said. He said the other reason why the SGM had been called was derived from the fact that members outside the guild who have been sabotaging the functions of the guild were masquerading to the public purporting to have conducted elections on behalf of the guild. Kalundu said logistical challenges are the main reason the guild has not yet conducted the election. Kaikai and Maina have been leading the news bosses since their election in July 2014. Capital FM’s Michael Mumo is the current secretary assisted by Media Consultant Hassan Kulundu. Former Nation Editorial Director Wangethi Mwangi has been serving as the Guild Patron a position that is not elective.  Click here for the latest political news 