Ukambani leaders on Monday held a meeting to chart Kalonzo Musyoka's future in the National Super Alliance (NASA). All leaders, including those from non-Nasa parties, were invited to the meeting at Koma Ranch in Machakos county. Politicians, religious leaders, professionals, and residents of Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties attended the meeting. This came against the backdrop of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga's unity handshake. Also read: Drop ill-advised plan for Mulembe party, Lusaka tells Wetang'ula The two 2017 poll antagonists on March 9 declared an end to their fights and pledged to unite Kenyans divided by the poll. Wiper, alongside Ford Kenya led by Moses Wetang'ula and Musalia Mudavadi's ANC party, formed Nasa ahead of the election. But with the ODM leader joining forces with Uhuru, the parties have been pessimistic of the coalition's future, hence the meetings. Ford Kenya and ANC held theirs at the weekend after which its leaders pledged to work as one united party. In a presser after the meeting, Wetang'ula and Mudavadi unveiled plans to form the Mulembe party in a bid to unite the Luhya community. Kalonzo's team, on the other hand, has maintained that their meeting is not unique since others of a similar sort have been held in other regions. Former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama told the press at Koma Ranch that they are keen on plotting their political future like any other community would do. Also read: Renounce opposition leader role, Coast ANC official tells Raila Read: NASA fallout as partners cry foul over ODM tyranny "Our meeting is like those that have been held in other parts of the country and hence is of no much difference," he said. He said they will push for a situation where a party attracts all Kenyans as a way out of the divisions spurred by ethnic biases. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau said they were disappointed after the Raila-Uhuru handshake, hence need to come up with a plan for their future in Nasa. Kalonzo, for his part, had proposed the formation of a political party called NASA, a move that is unlikely owing to Wetang'ula and Mudavadi's pursuit of the Mulembe party. The leaders are expected to make a declaration after the discussions. Click here for the latest political news   