Energy cabinet secretary Charles Keter came to the rescue of embattled Kenya Power after denying that the company enjoys monopoly status in the country. Keter said he would not comment further on the case that city lawyer Apollo Mboya has filed against the distributor but explained that there are a number of other electricity generating businesses mostly in offgrid locations that have been given the go ahead to distribute electricity. Energy PS Joseph Njoroge explained that the process of privatising the sector is complicated due to the nature of infrastructure that enable the running of the service, and asked Kenyans to stop comparing the industry with telecommunications sector which has seen impressive growth after entry of private operators. They spoke at a press meeting to explain how billing is carried out. The forum also addressed the issue of the prepaid metres. MD of Kenya Power Ken Tarus said the company had saved millions of shillings after cost of sending monthly bills drastically came down, from Sh75 million monthly to Sh6.6 million monthly. He said the new method of sending bills cost Sh3.8 million to run. He said consumers now have an opportunity to read their own metres and interact with the company for clarifications in a new move that would enable more customer interaction with the company. “Right now, most metres can be read by our staff, but a few are located where the metre readers cannot access them, therefore resorting to estimations,” he said The explanations came at a time the Consumers Federation of Kenya (Cofek) has started an online petition to President Uhuru Kenyatta against the electricity distributor. Cofek’s, plea outlines high and erroneous bills, inconsistent meter readings, and frequent black outs among the complaints that the public have against Kenya Power. It also points out the defective system used to buy prepaid tokens, the poor customer care and huge wastage, which could have been among reasons the company called a briefing to address some of the issues. Tarus said up to 74 per cent of Kenyans use electricity, with 7.6 million benefitting from electricity consumption. Of that number, 4.5 million customers are registered on the prepaid tariff, up from 22,000 in 2013. Post-paid consumers are 2.2 million. Mobile money transactions account for 60 per cent of transactions of all collections, though this is only a fifth of the value of all collections. At the same time, 65 per cent of all prepaid vending transations is undertaken through the company’s paybill numbers while third party agents move only 34 per cent of collections.