More than 5,000 boys and girls in the Kerio Valley have dropped out of school due to bandit attacks. Elgeyo Marakwet Woman Representative Jane Chebaibai said this on Monday, noting calm had returned to the region but that learners had been affected severely. The conflict involves the theft of livestock amid searches for pasture and water. Many have been killed, injured or left homeless. “So many of our girls dropped out of schools and got married off while the boys took up arms to defend their communities," Chebaibai said. “A very high number of boys is not attending classes ... the situation is worrying. Urgent measures are needed to reverse the destruction of young lives." Records indicate that more than 150 people have died while thousands of animal have been stolen in the last two years. The banditry menace has mainly affected Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Turkana and Baringo counties. The MP said schools that had more than 300 pupils now have less than 100 pupils and that at least 50 of them have been affected. She wants the Ministry of Education to help them come up with initiatives that will see the children return to school. “With the return of peace we will have to invest more in resources to promote education in the region and reverse the negative impact of banditry on our communities," she said. Speaking at Chesoi area in Marakwet East constituency, she asked the county and national governments to set up a special fund for vulnerable learners. Speaking separately, county Education director Joseph Wamocho said the governments and other development partners must invest more in sustainable projects that will quickly transform the lives of residents. On February 13, hundreds of pupils in Kerio Valley held demonstrations over escalating insecurity that has led to the closure of schools. Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen asked Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i to visit the region and help restore security. On February 19, the CS ordered the immediate re-opening of at least 50 schools shut down due to insecurity in the Kerio Valley. During a tour, he said schools would be secured by at least one police officer daily. More on this: Kerio Valley pupils hold anti-banditry demos, ask Matiang'i to end menace Also read: Matiang’i assigns one cop to each Kerio Valley school, orders reopening Click here for the latest political news