Opposition chief Raila Odinga has said he went to Jubilee to unite a country that had been polarised by ethnicity and political profiling. He attended a thanksgiving ceremony for ODM politician John Loisa at Enkorika, Kajiado Central, on Saturday. Loisa lost a ward election in Dalalekutuk. Raila said he is happy Kenyans are now united. “When I decided to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta, political temperatures came down. Everyone is now shaking hands for the good of our country,” he said. Read : Uhuru, Raila appoint advisors to steer unity talks Raila said he is not after jobs or political favours. The NASA leader added he took the first step to heal the country. Raila said his coming together with Uhuru will spur development and strengthen the economy. “Three days ago Korean leaders bonded over handshakes during a world summit, breaking a 65-year-old feud,” he said. When Kim Jong-un (North) and Moon Jae-in (South) shook hands, it was as if old friends were catching up after a long separation, and 65 years of animosity and occasional spilt blood seemed to wash away in an instant. Kim and South Korean President Moon met at the world’s most militarised border. There was no enmity as the two greeted each other at a uniquely peaceful point on the 155-mile ( 250km) border. Both men ensured their meeting produced a positive appearance. The Enkorika thanksgiving was attended by Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi, Kajiado East’s Peris Tobiko, Kajiado county ODM leader Tarayia ole Kores and businessman Jimmy Wanjigi. Jubilee’s Tobiko’s presence at the ODM meeting raised questions. She praised Kores and Raila, saying they are trusted leaders. Also read : Uhuru, Raila enter pact to end ethnic tension and heal wounds Last month, Tobiko said she will support Jubilee’s Governor Joseph Lenku in his second bid for the seat in 2022. ODM nominated MCA Sandra Marion and other elected opposition reps attended the ceremony. Meanwhile, in Kajiado West, Lenku was hosted by more than 3,000 people from the Keek-Onyokie community at the home of former ODM politician Joseph ole Simel, who said he will back him in 2022. Click here for the latest political news 