Kenya Forest Service (KFS) management and the board should be held to account for the depletion of forest cover in the country, a task-force has said. The team headed by the Green Belt Movement chairperson Marion Wakanyi noted that KFS is marred by corruption and incompetence. "These have made it impossible for KFS to tame the destruction of the environment," Wakanyi said. She spoke during a brief to the Deputy President William Ruto at his Karen office in Nairobi on Monday. The task force was formed in March to help the country restore its depleted forest cover. Read: Tobiko names task force on forest protection, promises support Moreover, the task force said the Kenya Forest Service is characterised by the lack accountability, unethical behaviours and limited capacity. As a result of illegal settlement of squatters in some forests, the report said the country was fast losing its indigenous trees such as cedar. While commending the team for coming up with the report, Ruto noted that environment issues have not only become national but also an international concern. He said the situation calls for "coherent and punitive measures" to tame degeneration further committing that the report’s recommendations will be implemented. "I appreciate the fact that some decisions therein would be pretty difficult to make but they will have to be done," the DP said. Also read: Forests task force wants KFS board out, lifestyle audit on senior officials Also read: Tobiko orders KFS to replace officers in forest stations Going forward, Ruto said the government may employ the services of the National Youths Service and the KFS in an aggressive replanting of indigenous trees. The DP said this will continue for at least three years "to help our forest cover regenerate". The implementation matrix of the task-force report is expected to be presented to President Uhuru Kenyatta in 10-days’ time. The government plans to have at least 10 per cent forest cover by 2030, a move the Deputy President says is part of the measures being undertaken to mitigate climate change. Present in the meeting were Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko, Environment PS Charles Sunkuli, among others. Click here for the latest political news