Some of our key opposition leaders - most notably ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya’s Senator Moses Wetang’ula - have been increasingly speaking of the unity they intend to achieve by the year 2022. This of course will be the year of the next general election. Such statements should come as a relief to anyone who values the long-term political stability of Kenya. For they reveal that, whatever may or may not come from the epochal reconciliation of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his former arch-rival, the former PM Raila Odinga, we have safely navigated one political cycle and are now embarked on the next one. Not to mince words, we have yet again dodged the bullet. Or for those who like to have their political analyses served with a sprinkling of spicy metaphor: The Kenyan Tribal Apocalypse has been officially postponed. So why am I so sure that the country is now perfectly safe and open for business? Let me begin by explaining that - until fairly recently - one of the long-established trends of Kenyan politics was that the coalition which won a general election was sure to break up by the next election. And additional to this, one or more of the prominent opposition leaders were bound to be absorbed into the governing coalition. Apparently, there is something intrinsic in the Kenyan electoral process, which does not allow for any long-term political partnerships. And this is actually one of the keys to our political stability. Let me expand on this: Foreign media commentators often bewail the strictly tribal patterns in our voting, and argue that if we could only get over such toxic tribalism, then all would be well in Kenya. But what such commentators overlook is that the tribal links which seem to bind us so tightly are not just linguistic or cultural. Far more important, perhaps, they are unbreakable regional economic ties. For example, the grotesque levels of corruption and unending policy failures in the sugarcane subsector in Kenya cannot stir any real interest in Northeastern Kenya or in Central Kenya. But to small-scale farmers in Western Kenya for whom sugarcane is the principal cash crop, these things matter greatly. They are perhaps the most significant factor behind the descent into poverty of entire communities in that region. This explains the Kenyan obsession with having ‘one of our own’ in State House or within easy proximity thereof. For in rural Kenya where the majority of voters live, what binds them to the tribal or regional leader who promises them salvation, is not just the common language they all speak. More significant is that key policy changes by the central government could lead to broad-based prosperity for all of them, or to long-term economic marginalisation. That is why flexibility in the formation of these political coalitions is so important. So long as no one coalition governs for too long, there can be hope that maybe ‘next time’, some new alliance will be more successful than the last one in delivering political benefits to ‘our region’. And that is why, with hindsight, it was so reckless of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to proclaim while still delirious with victory back in 2013 that what we had ahead of us was “10 years of Uhuru, followed by 10 years of Ruto”. Such a claim was interpreted by many outside Uhuru’s Central Kenya backyard, and Ruto’s Rift Valley base, to mean that the majority in this country were doomed to 20 years of marginalisation. For the Kikuyu and Kalenjin combined are barely 40 per cent of the population. It is this initial folly that fed the narrative of succession, which at one point threatened to tear the nation apart. But that is all history now. We notice that while Uhuru builds bridges to Raila’s supporters who had previously refused to acknowledge his legitimacy, Ruto is hard at work trying to gather unto himself the Western Kenya opposition political leaders who are disillusioned with Raila’s leadership. The old pattern of fluid and temporary political alliances is firmly back and that is a very good thing indeed.