ODM leader Raila Odinga and DP William Ruto on Tuesday met for the first time since the handshake between the former Prime Minister and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The two met at the late Kenneth Matiba's Limuru home where they had visited the family to condole with them. Matiba died on Sunday while receiving treatment at Karen Hospital in Nairobi. He was 85. Uhuru eulogised him as a true Kenyan patriot in a televised speech from State House. This is the first time, Raila is being seen with Ruto after the famous handshake between Uhuru and Raila on March 9. Raila called on the state to honour the late Kenneth Matiba. He said even though the courts had awarded Matiba compensation for his wrongful detention state is yet to pay him. “State should honour Matiba not just by burying him but also paying all that was due to him so that the family he leaves behind can know he did not fight in vain,” Odinga said. Related: Matiba was my role model and mentor - Uhuru Describing Matiba as one of the greatest Kenyans to have crossed into the 21st century Odinga said his life and death revives the need for national conversation on the country's past. “Matiba's life reinforces the need for the country to have a conversation on its past and chart a new path to the future,” he said. He recounted their life in detention with Matiba, saying that he (Matiba) would not have suffered a stroke had the state allowed him to seek medical attention in good time. “As Matiba's health deteriorated in detention, prison officers said he was pretending and was not allowed to see a doctor,” Raila said. I parliament, MPs paid tribute to the Matiba as an icon in the country’s fight for multi-party democracy. National Assembly majority Leader Aden Duale described Matiba as having played a crucial role in the country’s political development. He raised concern over the mentioning of the struggles of the second liberation fighter after he had passed on. “Let us take this opportunity to honor our heroes who fought for the rights were enjoying today and not use this as a platform to ridicule past leadership,” Duale said. Minority leader John Mbadi described the fallen hero as a patriot who contributed immensely to reforms in the country. He however took issue with the manner the Jubilee government  treated  self proclaimed NRM  General Miguna Miguna  by deporting him twice and harassing of journalists. Mbadi  said the death of Matiba should be an awakening call on the government to act on the Truth , Justice and Reconciliation Report that is gathering dust since 2013. Other who paid tribute to the late Matiba were Alice Wahome (Makadara), Simiyu Eseli (Tongaren) and Maoka Maore (IgemBb North).  Click here for the latest political news