From the dumbfounding union of two unlikely
allies, to the push and pull between the Executive and Judiciary, pundits are swimming material to debate. Much as we may enjoy the banter, we should also worry. The one politician, Raila Odinga, who has always been the beacon of hope in a
rotten state has now sold out, or at least that’s how it seems. After long liberation struggles he succumbed to the apparently transcendent
power that is the Jubilee Party, a perpetuation of the old regimes. It is his faithful followers we should empathise with. Even the most seasoned commentators were caught unawares by this phenomenal behaviour between sworn
rivals. Where does this leave NASA and more importantly, its faithful. It must be quite surreal suddenly be required to side with an entity with whom you shared toxic emotional rivalry. But what about the values you’ve been
fighting for? Do they no longer count? How sure are you that the one with
whom you’ve decided to call a truce will deliver on your demands, especially when
they never remotely seemed inclined to parley? It's worse for NASA followers. Raila has lost part of his following and a significant portion of his credibility. Permanently. The recent scuffles at JKIA involving Miguna Miguna also illuminated the weakened position of the former Prime Minister. He went to the airport seemingly to arrange
for Miguna's release. Since he's now on 'brotherly' terms with Uhuru, the negotiation should have gone swimmingly and Miguna should have been home free. Confusingly, the ODM leader failed to convince security officers — always acting on orders from above — to let the abrasive critic go. Seems like the two ‘Presidents’ are not as
close as they wanted us to believe. Or maybe, Raila doesn’t see value in associating with Miguna. I believe Raila and ODM in
general have covertly resigned to abandoning Miguna and the NASA
vehicle. Former Senate Minority leader and NASA co-principal Moses Wetang'ula has already unequivocally expressed discontent with ODM and its head. ANC boss Musalia
Mudavadi, another co-principal of the broken alliance, is supporting Wetang'ula. It's likely that Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka
will follow suit, given his  lack of options. The only thing for sure is the Raila-led NASAwe’ve always known is no more. Allegiances everywhere are shifting. Raila may be planning something. Either
that or he’s just tired of fighting. I
believe he’s just tired.  Click here for the latest political news