Incumbent Kenya Volleyball Federation chairman Waithaka Kioni will face Dominion Volleyball Club founder Martin Ochieng during the national elections set for this Saturday in Nairobi. Martin Makokha is due to defend his seat as the first KVF chairman and will for the second time face stiff competition from Kenya National Sports Council (KNSC) treasurer Charles Nyaberi and well traveled former national team player Phillip Maiyo. During the last elections, in 2014, Nyaberi lost to Makokha by a single vote in a closely contested affair. Kenya Prisons’ women’s volleyball team manager David Kilundo has thrown his hat in the ring for the second vice president’s position. Kilundo will compete against long-serving KVF Western branch chairman Ibrahim Efumbi, Jacob Onyimbi and incumbent Kipkemei Sirma. Vice president (women) has attracted Kenya Prisons Rose Moturi and Mududa Waweru from Coast. KVF secretary general Ben Juma will defend his seat against national beach team coach and former Nairobi Water women’s coach Patrick Owino. Under 23 women’s coach Cathrine Mabwi will defend her deputy secretary general’s seat against former Cooperative Bank player Samuel Gacharira. Western Bombers women’s team manager, Silas Cheren will battle incumbent Kenneth Tonui for the treasurer’s position alongside Thomas Moek. Martin Kimondo will not defend his position as the deputy treasurer, with Nairobi branch chairman Moses Mbuthia, Michael Ngatia, John Ogara and Esther Mutemi, interested. Veteren referee John Odundo will challenge incumbent Ismail Chege for the sports organising secretary’s position while Joseph Ndirangu will defend his deputy organising secretary’s seat against John Oronje and Arthur Kimani. Committee member positions have attracted Aisha Otieno, Alfred Chedotum, Ednah Rotich, Joseph Kosgei, Emily Mbotel, Paul Gitau, Charles Mureithi and Gideon Njine. KVF secretary general Juma said the executive have verified all the contestants’ documents and it is all system go ahead of Saturday’s exercise. “We didn’t want to lock out anybody and that’s why it has taken us time in as far as submitting and verifying of the document. Now we wait and see how the process pans out,” said Juma.