The government has extended by a week the deadline for the enrollment of elderly Kenyans under the cash transfer programme. In a statement to county coordinators and social development officers, the Labour ministry said the decision was occasioned by the prevailing rainy season that has hampered movement in various parts of the country. The registration initially set to end on April 27 will now end on May 4. “We have reviewed the progress so far made in enrollment of the beneficiaries by the four Payment Service Providers (PSP) and taken note of the prevailing weather conditions, circumstances, and challenges being experienced countrywide,” head of the social assistance unit Judy Ndung’u said. She directed county coordinators and social development officers to take advantage of the extension to ensure all citizens aged 70 and above are registered by the preferred payment service providers. Read: 13,000 elderly in Kisumu to benefit from Sh52 million cash transfer programme More on this: Ministry allocates Sh30bn to older persons cash transfer Beneficiaries must be extremely poor and vulnerable Kenyans. Each one will get Sh2,000 per month through a service provider of choice. M-Pesa and a number of banks have been approved as service providers under the Older Persons Cash Transfer Plan. The first payment for the new entrants will begin on May 23. Ndung’u said enrollment must be done electronically and that all the 10 fingers of beneficiaries should be captured in the bio-data system. “Caregiver details are no longer a mandatory requirement at this stage but they shall be taken during first payment,” she said. PSP branches can be used as registration centres for people with easy access who are on the list shared with them. By January, over half a million citizens had enrolled for the programme. In December, Sh1.1 billion was paid out to beneficiaries who included needy and vulnerable older people aged above 65. Also read: State enrols 500,000 elderly for Inua Jamii cash, says CS Click here for the latest political news