President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked Governor Mike Sonko to honour his pledge to resign if he does not clear garbage in Nairobi within 30 days. The head of state said if the regeneration team led by Sonko does not meet its timelines as agreed, should honour its words and resign. Uhuru in a statement read by Statehouse spokesman Manoah Esipisu on Sunday said the directive follows a meeting between the President and the team on Friday. Read; We'll resign if we don't transform Nairobi, Sonko team tells Uhuru The regeneration team is led by Governor Mike Sonko and Tourism CS Najib Balala. "Much has been discussed in the last few days on the 30-day agenda and the beauty of these targets and timelines is that those asked to implement the projects and programmes have agreed to resign if these timelines are not met," the State House statement said. Uhuru further said, "Nairobians want to see many things, but let me address just three. First, Within one month, there should be no piles of garbage in any of the 85 electoral wards of the city of Nairobi. Also, a clean-up of Nairobi River would have commenced, environmental awareness campaigns will be underway, and programmes for regular garbage collection should be in place". Uhuru also directed Sonko to ensure traffic congestion within the CBD is sorted in the next three months. "Traffic can be a nightmare in the city. Full car-free days for Westlands and the Central Business District, a traffic management committee, the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) system should all be in place, as well as the automation of bus termini and improvement of non-motorised travel," Manoah said in the statement. He said the launch of the Bus Rapid Transport will be preceded by the availability of 39 buses and infrastructure improvement on Langata, Mombasa, Jogoo and Juja roads, as well as Waiyaki Way. Earlier in the Month, Transport CS James Macharia announced that Thika Road will have a dedicated lane for public service vehicles. Macharia said the plan is in line with the government's plan for a Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS) to ease traffic flow on major roads in the city which shall include a commuter and light rail option. The government plans to introduce high-capacity buses of up to 100 passengers, Macharia added. "Plans are at an advanced stage and the first batch of about 50 buses should be deployed in the next 4 weeks." Macharia said apart from the NYS buses, the private sector is expected to bring in another 100 buses within three months. Read:State introduces dedicated lane for PSV buses plying Thika Road Uhuru on his third point said Health is a big issue and especially the lack of accident and emergency facilities in most parts of the country. He said this will take longer than a month to fix, but still, significant progress is promised within six months. "That progress will include the improvement of facilities available at Mbagathi and Mama Lucy hospitals in terms of their trauma care, as well as in order that they lessen the pressure on Kenyatta National Hospital so that it can do the work for which it is set up--which is referral care," he said. On Friday President Uhuru Kenyatta visited Kenyatta National Hospital incognito and was displeased by the intense pressure at its facilities. Uhuru said more accident and emergency centres are required to get the centres working. Read:Uhuru unhappy after incognito visit to KNH, demands changes  Click here for the latest political news        