City residents will continue experiencing water rationing until the end of next month when water levels at Ndakaini dam is expected to shall have improved. Addressing a press conference at Maji House on Friday, Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui said blamed human activity in the Aberdare region and climate change for low level of water in the dam. Aberdare is a catchment area for rivers feeding the dam. “The flow of water is 2.6 cubic metres per second. By next month, it should hit the normal rate of 9 cubic metres per second,” he said. Ndakaini supplies 84 per cent of water in Nairobi. The water has remained low – 33 per cent – despite heavy rains and flooding in various parts of the country. This has puzzled many residents. “There has been abundant rainfall in many parts of the country. However, we wish to clarify the catchment areas of Ndakaini dam depends on the Aberdare which has received lower rainfall including around Mt Kenya,” Chelugui said. “We urge water harvesting in schools and hospitals. We will enhance monitoring of supply lines to avoid losses.” Chelugui rubbished claims that cracks or open valves have been draining water at the dam. “This is not true because there is no evidence of earth movement near the dam. Monitoring equipment does not indicate an abnormal shift of the dam,” he said. Ndakaini was constructed under the Nairobi Water Supply project between 1989 and 1994 and has capacity of 70 million cubic metres. Sasimua and Ruiru are the other two dams supplying the city with water. Kikuyu Spring also supplies the city. Nairobi requires a daily supply of 770 million litres. As at Friday, the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company was supplying 526 cubic metres. The CS, however, said that all hope was not lost as the government has embarked on massive projects to increase water supply. They incude the Northern Collector Tunnel that is 35 per cent complete. It is expected to add 140 cubic metres a day when completed next year. “We are targeting in three months to have moved to about 55 per cent. By end of next year, this tunnel should be complete,” he said. The government is also constructing Maragwa dam that will store about 180 milliliters per day. It will supply Nairobi and Kiambu.