A row is brewing in Nandi County between Senator Samson Cherargei and Governor Stephen Sang over alleged graft in two key projects costing sh 400 million. Senator Cherargei has opposed plans to demolish a sh 150 million building under construction that was to be the county headquarters after it was allegedly condemned by the National Construction Authority (NCA) due structural weaknesses. "I have gone to the NCA to find out the truth and I learned that there was no report condemning the building. It seems some county officials wanted kickbacks from the contractor if additional funding is to be approved for the project”, said Cherargei. The Senator has also questioned the governor’s decision to purchase 18 lorry tippers at a cost of sh 15 million each. Cherargei argues that the cost of the lorries was inflated by more than sh 10 million each. The county used more than sh 270 million on the project. “We have the EACC and the Auditor General to move in and investigate ongoing corruption in Nandi where the public is losing a lot of money”, said Cherargei. He spoke to the Star after a meeting at the Nandi Hills Catholic Church on Monday. The governor could not be reached for comment as he had traveled to Kakamega for the devolution conference while his director of communication Gideon Rop did not respond to issues raised by the senator. Cherargei also questioned how sh 13 million meant for bursaries in the education department was converted into imprest for some staff yet hundreds of children are still waiting to be assisted through bursaries. "We need an explanation on this and the money should be refunded so that its used where it was intended”, said Cherargei. Last week speaking in Kapsabet the governor denied claims of graft and said his administration was undertaking all activities above board. A team of six officers from NCA led by Michael Walela was contracted by Transport and Infrastructure Executive Hillary Koech to audit the stalled county headquarters project and they visited the site last month. Cherargei has also claimed that there was skewed hiring of staff in the county and that the governor had given senior positions to people from other counties. Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei said the county was facing management challenges because the governor had sacked experienced staff and employed new comers even in critical departments like finance and procurement.