The ripple effects of the Harambee House handshake continue to shake up the political sphere, unfettered. ODM leader Raila Odinga seems to be delving further into political territories we never thought he would set foot in. The other day, he paid a courtesy call to retired President Daniel Moi at his Kabarak home, and the actors made sure enough cameras were there to capture the event. It indubitably made a political statement. Going by the general customs and practices in Kenyan politics, it’s quite obvious that this visit has everything to do with 2022 succession politics. Nonetheless, things are still a bit murky and political alliances are still at their conception stages. It’s, however, very well known that President Uhuru Kenyatta is a very close ally to Moi, and by extension, the family. Some would attribute this to the perceived relationship that is maintained by reciprocity, with Moi successfully paving the way for Uhuru, supposedly in return for inheriting power from Founding Father Jomo Kenyatta. Gideon Moi has expressed interest in the top seat in 2022, and the concurrence of these events is suspicious. Raila and Uhuru might very well be the players who are to aid Gideon attain the presidency — inherit something. Some within the Jubilee camp were not amused by the Kabarak meeting. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale, speaking in Parliament, blatantly and bitterly downplayed the meeting, terming it a non-event. It seems Jubilee may sooner or later split into two. Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka also trivialised the visit, despite expressing an interest in visiting the old man in the near future. Really? With Raila making enemies of his friends, they will definitely, in time, merge with his foes, who will most likely be allied to Ruto. The President and his Deputy appear to have already satisfied their respective obligations to each other, and thus they could be parting ways. Despite Uhuru being close with Raila, Ruto has exhibited no interest in meeting with the ODM leader, let alone working with him. This indicates Uhuru and Ruto are now on different political paths. The question, however, is: will Uhuru remain a solid voice within the Kikuyu community? Will he remain the de facto Mt Kenya chief? This may determine the fate of Gideon’s political ambitions. And what if indeed they endorse Gideon, who gets the secondary Deputy President’s position between Raila’s Nyanza and Uhuru’s Central? That’s still to be seen. On the other side, Ruto, having observed the developments, will travel across the country to seek allies, and the most promising actors are Raila’s disgruntled former foot soldiers, especially in Western. Given ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi’s heavy criticism of the Raila-Uhuru unity pact, and Moses Wetang’ula’s divorcing Raila, it’s safe to say the two won’t be dancing with Raila anytime soon. They also need strong allies sooner or later. Is there any better and more auspicious ally than the Deputy President? But again, if indeed Ruto teams up with the Luhya leaders, they’ll obviously have to settle for a lesser seat than the Presidency, because for one, Ruto has always been determined to get the top seat and most importantly, he will have exhausted his term limit as Deputy President. Honestly speaking and judging by the way things are going, a Luhya presidency is still far from being a reality. The leadership has always been to blame. That said, it’s clear that we already have two presidential candidates in Gideon and Ruto. Time will reveal the rest, and it will definitely gradually shock us as it unfolds. There’s still time, and this being Kenya, political dynamics will continuously change. The question is how?    