Five terror suspects accused of planning to bomb a court to rescue a suspected radical Marsabit cleric were charged yesterday with terrorism-related offences. Abdimajit Adan, Mohammed Nane, John Maina, Antony Kitila alias Rasta, and Lydia Nyawira appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi and denied nine counts of terrorism charges. According to the investigators, the accused were arrested on February 15, 2018, while on a mission to attack the Milimani law courts on February 16, the day Muslim cleric Guyo Gorsa was scheduled to be arraigned to take a plea — also on terrorism-related charges. “The attack was meant to illegally free him [Gorsi] from custody,” read an affidavit filed in court. The five were charged that on February 15, within and outside the Republic of Kenya and jointly with others not before court, conspired to carry out a terrorist attack. They embedded explosives in a vehicle, KBM 200D, turning it into a car bomb, the charge read. The court heard that Kitila engaged in taxi business through the online platform of Uber to cover up his criminal plans and was deeply involved in acquiring vehicles, including a Vehicle-Borne Improvised Explosive Device. Katila is charged with providing support to al Shabaab by acquiring motor vehicle KBM 200D on January 17 last year at Fortis Limited in Lavington, Nairobi, to have it used as Vehicle-Borne Improvised Explosive Device. He is also charged with dealing with a vehicle, KBE 449M Honda, owned by al Shabaab on January 17 this year at Lucky Summer, Nairobi. Adan and Nane were separately charged that on February 15 in Merti subcounty in Isiolo county they were found in possession of Improvised Explosive Devices — seven projectile bombs with an intention to commit a terrorist act. The pair faced another charge that on February 15 in Merti, they were found being members of al Shabaab. During their arrests, police recovered five AK 47 rifles, 36 loaded magazines, one magazine with 22 bullets, one empty magazine, 36 hand grenades, 18 IEDs, three military knives and a black al Shabaab flag. Maina and Nyawira were separately charged that on January 18 in Nairobi jointly with others not before court forged an ID card bearing the names of Jirma Huka Galgalo (deceased) — a former member of al Shabaab — to be used during the attack. Police say investigations and interviews with the suspects linked many phone numbers of persons believed to be part of the plot.