Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has condemned youths who heckled her when she accompanied DP William Ruto on a tour on Friday. The governor was heckled by boda boda riders at Gakoigo during the DP's visit to the county. The youths, who appeared drunk, shouted down Waiguru when Ruto called her out to address the crowd. "Waiguru must go! Waiguru must go!" the boda boda riders, who the governor suspects were hired by woman representative Purity Ngirici, shouted. At one point, she was whisked away into Ruto's vehicle as the youths charged. "A very unfortunate incident was witnessed in Kerugoya where a few goons hired by Purity Ngirici and Andrew Ngirici made attempts to disrupt the meeting," she said. In a statement on Saturday, Waiguru said the woman MP's acts are "an archaic style of politics that prides itself on ensuring the people remain in an impoverished state." "That politicians would want to disrupt a meeting aimed at bringing development and improving the living conditions of our people is not only selfish but also utterly preposterous." Waiguru said such politicians want to ensure that the people remain poor to allow them wholly depend on handouts from them. "We cannot allow this kind of politics in Kirinyaga. The people of Kirinyaga are and have always been for peace and development, not chaos and hooliganism." "The ill-intended move by the two is an embarrassment to the people of this county," she said. The governor said she will not be distracted in her drive to initiate development in Kirinyaga by premature contest over 2022 governor elections. "I urge the youth to join me in calling out these enemies of development and desist from being used to further their personal political ambitions," she said. "Politicians should seek remedy elsewhere for their campaign hangover, time for politicking is over. What the people of Kirinyaga want is development, and that is why they elected me." Waiguru was given a rousing welcome at Njegas after the Gakoigo incident as the crowd chanted her moniker "Minji Minji". During the visit, the governor called on political opponents in the county to desist from extending political rhetoric beyond the electioneering period. "It is also very disrespectful if politicians to prop their selfish agendas in front of a leader of Deputy President William Ruto’s stature," Waiguru said. More on this: Waiguru hits out at political detractors Click here for the latest political news