Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has promised to conduct an audit of Siaya Water Company to end perennial water shortage. Rasanga said he will conduct the probe in May to enable the county government end water problems. “Unless the problems bedeviling the water service provider are sorted out, we will not achieve our vision of providing clean drinking water to all by 2022,” Rasanga said. The governor asked Finance executive Joseph Warega to write a letter to new Siaya water MD George Alaka to conduct the audit in a month. The scrutiny will identify problems that have for years hurt constant supply in the county. Poor water supply in Bondo and Rarieda almost cost Rasanga votes in the last election. The matter forced Rasanga to distribute clean water bowsers for residents during campaigns, promising to rectify the problem if re-elected. After the elections, the governor fired top managers of water companies in Siaya, accusing them of denying residents water before and during campaigns. On Monday, the governor said a proper audit ought to be conducted by auditors to establish what ails the water company. CLEAN SLATE Rasanga said he wants the new MD and the board to mention those responsible for the company’s problems so they can be prosecuted. “We replaced the previous board that had outlived its usefulness. Competent people will put necessary strategies in place to cure the ailing industry,” the governor said. The audit will not run for more than a month. Rasanga was with chief of staff Walter Okello and board members Florence Okut, Elias Ongowo and Bishop Martin Arara. The governor has attributed the acute water shortage in the county to poor workmanship by engineers. Rasanga regretted that the Ndanu project that cost tax payers Sh2.1 billion was “shoddily” undertaken. The initiative was co-financed by the national government and African Development Bank. It started in 2016, the goal being to curb perennial water shortages in the county, and ended last year. But almost all pipes that are supposed to distribute water from the reservoir to taps are already worn out. Rasanga accused the Lake Victoria South Water Services Board of overseeing the poor work. The county chief faulted the management for allowing the use of substandard pipes that have not eased residents’ troubles. ACCESS DENIED “The national government and the bank made a decision in setting up the Ndanu water project, but the management allowed the use of faulty pipes, causing access to clean drinking water to remain difficult,” he said. “Since the commissioning of the project by Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa in 2016, we have encountered the burst of at least 16 pipes, denying more than 5,000 people access to clean and safe drinking water.” But board CEO Petronilla Ogutu dismissed Rasanga’s accusations when she led a group of water officials to the office of deputy governor James Okumbe. They discussed the shortages and Ogutu said the pipes are not faulty and that old ones were repaired. Click here for the latest political news