The fault lines that occurred in Suswa near Mai Mahiu were caused by environmental degradation in farms in the area, the government has said. Mining PS John Omenge yesterday dismissed earlier claims attributing the split to tectonic movements as baseless and untrue. Omenge said continued farming and destruction of environment contributed to the expansion of the fault lines. Addressing the press in Mai Mahiu, Omenge urged residents to plant trees to solve the problem. "Farmers have cut down trees to crate fields for plantation. The extent of the damage would have been minimal had they not cut down the trees," Omenge said. Read: New fault line swallows roads, farms and crops Geologists said Kenya was slowly splitting at the Rift Valley following the massive Earth movements that left deep fissures in Suswa. Arable land was reduced to a rugged expanse with huge tear that is as much as 50 feet deep and more than 20 metres wide running through it. Suswa lies in the Great Rift Valley. “The valley has a history of tectonic and volcanic activities,” geologist David Adede said. “Whereas the rift has remained tectonically inactive in the recent past, there could be movements deep within the Earth’s crust that have resulted in zones of weakness extending all the way to the surface.” Details: We’re not cracking up or drifting – geologists Omenge warned geologists against instilling fear among Kenyans with false information. He said the ministry will gt rid of quack geologists "We shall empower the Geologists Registration Board to come up with a data base of all qualified geologists," the PS said. Omenge, a trained geologist, said the ministry was responsible for all geo-science activities. He said the board will work with the Geological Society of Kenya to weed out quacks in the profession. GSK chairperson Gladys Kianji said the issue of quacks was serious. "We'll sort out these issues among ourselves so that Kenyans can have confidence in us," Kianji said. Farmer Mary Wanjiku said they had been forced to move out of the area after the fault lines expands following continued rains. More: Volcanic activities may split Rift Valley into two - expert Click here for the latest political news