Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has opposed the recent resettlement of 7,232 squatters on Mwea Settlement Scheme in Mbeere South, Embu County. Waiguru warned the move will “certainly explode” and result in “bloodshed” because Kikuyu elders from Kirinyaga County were not involved. “A forcible survey and allocation exercise, overseen by security forces and experiencing resistance from residents, will certainly explode into confrontation and result in bloodshed,” she said in a statement issued in Kimbimbi on Friday. The land was subdivided in 2016 and 7,232 title deeds issued but the squatters - who have lived there since independence - had not been shown their parcels. Surveyors from the National Land Commission camped on the 44,000-acre property from the start of April and this week finished erecting beacons, mainly to show land set aside for public utilities. More on this: Settlers reject Mwea division into 7,232 parcels by leaders Other details: Mwea scheme land demarcation ends under tight security The settlement scheme was maintained in the old Embu District in 1933 by the Carter Commission, which settled the traditional boundaries between Kirinyaga and Embu communities. However, Waiguru claimed the boundary between the two counties was not clear and that elders from the nine Kikuyu clans must be involved. “The purported surveying and allocation of land to 7,200 beneficiaries was not inclusive since there was no genuine public participation and the primary stakeholders, who are the nine Kikuyu clans, and Mwea Settlement Scheme residents were neither involved nor consulted,” she said. She addressed the press flanked by Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri, Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira and MCAs. Embu County Lands Executive Josphat Kithumbu said the process was final and that if entailed public education forums called Mashamba village. He said surveys and the issuing of titles were done according to relevant laws and that all stakeholders, including the Ministry of Lands, the NLC and the Attorney General’s office, were involved. But Waiguru criticised Kithumbu and the Embu government for surveying and allocating the land contrary to the dictates of an active court order. The county boss said she learnt of the sub-division through media reports and that when she sent her team to the ground, they found beacons in place. She called for Kithumbu's prosecution for the "fraud" and violation of an active court order barring the sub-division of the land. Waiguru said Kirinyaga leaders will not sit back and watch the people lose their birth right. While noting the seriousness of the matter, she recommended that officials from Kirinyaga and Embu counties meet for an out-of-court settlement. The Governor said a task force comprising members of the Interior and Lands ministries, as well as the county officials, should be formed to resolve the matter in 90 so violence does not arise. But Mbeere South Deputy County Commissioner Beverly Oporwa said the process went on smoothly and denied reports of tension circulated on social media. “The process began with the erection of beacons on land meant for public utilities such as hospitals, schools and markets. We conducted a series of meetings to marshal support from the public ahead of the exercise,” she said. The Mbeere council of elders known as Ngome has previously told off Kirinyaga leaders, noting that all records show the settlement scheme is in Embu County. Click here for the latest political news