The Mombasa business community has protested against KRA's decision to transfer a customs official currently under investigation for corruption. The businessmen on Monday expressed fears that Nicky Otieno, an assistant manager at the Trade Facilitation unit, will continue frustrating them. They said the official is being moved to a more sensitive area and is likely continue engaging in tax evasion schemes leading to loss of millions of shillings. An internal memo showed that Otieno, who was arrested in December for allegedly soliciting a Sh800,000 bribe, will be stationed at the Pre-Verification Office (PVoC). The official is still under investigation after his arrest for allegedly soliciting bribes in order to release containers from Mombasa Port. Read: Mombasa KRA official arrested over claims of bribery to release container "I wish to inform you that you have been redeployed to PVoC with immediate effect. Please arrange to report to Chief Manager - RHQ and Outstations for further instructions after the appropriate handover of your current duties, not later than April 3," the memo reads in part. The memo was issued by Nicholas Kinoti, the southern regional coordinator, on March 27. Abdallah Ahmed Amin, one of the businessmen who spoke to the press, said: "This is very frustrating. Some of us are not comfortable in dealing with him." He questioned the circumstances under which Otieno had been redeployed yet he has not been cleared in the corruption probe. Another businessman who did not wish to be quoted claimed Otieno was part of a cartel of KRA officers who collect cash for some seniors. He further claimed that officials of higher ranks in the tax agency are the ones protecting the official. "The officer has been collecting as much as Sh100,000 per container from frustrated business people in order to clear them from the port," he claimed. Mombasa deputy EACC boss Salat Ali said the officer is currently on bail. "We are waiting for consent from the DPP in order to proceed with the case. He, however, reports to us every two weeks meaning the case file has not been closed yet." Kinoti said the redeployment was routine changes undertaken by the parastatal. "We are aware of the issue. The officer is under surveillance," he added. Mburu Githii of KRA Integrity department said if an officer is charged with graft, he is normally suspended. "If the official has not been charged, the organisation takes him or her to another area of work," he said. "We are also doing our own internal investigations. Redeploying Otieno from one area to another is nothing irregular since he has not been charged," Githii added. The businessmen threatened to protest over the development if nothing will be done. Click here for latest political news