Kenya has received a Sh400 million HIV grant to buy antiretroviral drugs for children. The money was donated by the Children's Investment Fund Foundation. It will be channeled through the Global Fund, which supports HIV, TB and malaria control programmes in Kenya. Global Fund said 10 counties with the lowest testing, treatment and viral suppression rates of HIV will be the main beneficiaries. “Three hundred million will be used to procure pediatric ART commodities with the remaining amount to be used in essential supporting interventions related to service delivery,” the Global Fund said in a statement yesterday. Related : Thousands of HIV negative Kenyans to be put on ARVs to prevent infection Currently, Kenya has about 120,000 children aged 14 and below who are living with HIV. There are also hundreds of newborns with positive parents who need testing and specialised care to prevent infection. The children's foundation is a large NGO based in London. It has offices in Nairobi and New Delhi, India. In December, Kenya received a Sh38 billion grant from the Global Fund to fight HIV, tuberculosis and malaria. The money was not sufficient for all programmes. The Global Fund said additional funding would go to measures like children HIV prevention. “This additional investment will finance interventions on the register of unfunded quality demand for the Kenya HIV programme. It will reduce the ART service delivery gap,” Global Fund said. Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the Global Fund finances the entire programme of Kenya’s HIV, TB and malaria treatment in public hospitals. “With this new grant, we will continue to support prevention, diagnosis and treatment interventions for these three diseases. I encourage all Kenyans to utilise these services to improve the quality of life,” Rotich said in December during the Sh38 billion signing ceremony in December last year. Also read : 46% of new HIV infections among adolescents and young people The grant signed last year also supports TB and malaria control programmes. Head of Malaria control programmes Ejersa Waqo said HIV, TB and malaria were major contributors to Kenya's illness burden and deaths. "We must ensure we don't roll back the gains made," Waqo said. So we have to ensure we do not roll back the gains that we have made over the past six years,” said head of malaria control programme Dr Ejersa Waqo. With the help of the previous grants, Kenya has managed to put more than one million people on anti-retroviral treatment, distribute 15 million mosquito nets and support about 900,000 people diagnosed with TB. Kenya has received 19 grants worth Sh100 billion from the Global Fund since 2012. Click here for the latest political news