The latest Luhya unity drive by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula continues to divide Western leaders. While ANC and Ford-K MPs and MCAs support the initiative, their Jubilee counterparts feel the proposed 'Mulembe party' for the community amounts to marginalising it into an ethic cocoon. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula launched the “Project Luhya Nation” after senators impeached the Bungoma senator as Senate minority leader and replaced him with his Siaya counterpart James Orengo last month. The drive is seen by analysts and political commentators as a bid to end ODM’s dominance in the vote-rich region in 2022. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka have voiced their opposition to the unity plan. They said Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should instead form a national party that brings together all Kenyans. But yesterday, Lugari MP Ayub Savula asked them to keep off the initiative and concentrate on Jubilee affairs “in their pursuit of personal interests”. He said the two risk becoming politically irrelevant for “standing in the way of Luhya unity”. “Come 2022, Luhyas will ensure that Mudavadi, Wetang’ula and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya agree among themselves on who among them should be the community’s presidential candidate, and anyone opposed to this will find the going rough,” Savula said. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe (JP) said he supports the unity drive but wants everyone with interest in the presidency to be included. “The unity initiative should not be calculated at landing us in the opposition. We should come together to bargain for power in 2022 or engage as a community with the winning team,” he said. National Assembly chief whip Ben Washiali said he supports the idea of the community uniting in government. “We in Jubilee are not opposed to Luhya unity but we’re asking our two senior brothers to join us in Jubilee and unite the community within the government so they can work their way up from within,” he said. Lurambi MP Titus Khamala asked Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to expedite collapsing of their parties into one and seek partnership with other regions in readiness for the next general election. Should the current unity agenda succeed, it will be a repeat of 2002 when the community solidly voted for Ford-K under the Narc coalition that ended retired President Daniel Moi’s 24-year rule. Political commentator Martin Andati sad Jubilee will resist the new unity drive because it cannot penetrate the region once united.