Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has assured Kenyans affected by floods that the government has enough food to sustain them during the crisis caused by heavy rains. Wamalwa said at
Kakuyuni primary school on Saturday that there is enough rice, maize, beans, and cooking oil which shall be distributed
to the affected counties. He said the government would use Kenya Defence Forces and Police helicopters to
supply relief food to all those who are in areas that cannot be accessed by
roads. Wamalwa said his ministry
will hold talks with the Education ministry to ensure learning is not disrupted when schools reopen for the second term next week. Most of those fleeing flooding are camping in various schools across the country.  The
Devolution CS toured
Garashi in Tana River before leaving for Marsabit and Mandera. He said the ministry will also work with county governments to ensure the families affected are
assisted to rebuild their homes and get seeds, fertilisers and other farm inputs. The CS was accompanied by the Devolution Chief Administrative Secretary Hussein Dado and Kilifi deputy governor Gideon Saburi. "We appreciate the efforts laid down by our KDF troops and police in the rescue mission to ensure those
affected are assisted," he said. He said, housing
which is part of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda, shall ensure victims
get proper houses. More than 3,500 people, among them children, men and
women together with elderly people, are camping at Kakuyuni primary school after they were displaced from their homes. Health
officials at the camp said they are dealing with case of diarrhoea and dysentery that have been detected in the said camp. Kakuyuni
Member of County Assembly Nixon Muramba said the major challenge was where the
IDPs would be taken when schools reopen next week. Kilifi
governor Amason Kingi has been touring the area for the last two days assisting
the flood victim’s evacuation and supporting in food supplies. Also read: Three killed in Murang'a landslide after heavy rains Related: Weatherman warns of flash floods in Mombasa Click here for more political news   