Kenneth
Stanley Njindo Matiba impacted my life in more ways than one. When I was
growing up, I was one of the beneficiaries of a student bus ride introduced by
Matiba and his team when he was the top honcho at Kenya Breweries Limited. This is how it
used to work. The buses would leave Ruaraka to the city estates, picking
staff as well as their children. They would drop the children in their schools
and come back for them in the evening. This was one
of the many welfare initiatives that made KBL employees some of the most
pampered in the country. An avid sportsman, Matiba ensured all manner of sports
were available to KBL employees. Most of those
engaging in sports were professionals in all but name. If ajua caught your
fancy, then all you needed to do was report to work in the morning, don your
company issue tracksuit, then spend the whole day playing. Then there was
the boxing team managed by Marsden Madoka and coached by Charles Anjimbi. This
was a terror gang that spread fear and despondency to many parts of the
country. This is where my later friend Robert ‘Aruba’ Wangila reigned supreme,
beating opponents like rented donkeys. In the
football field, KBL FC (later Tusker) had in its ranks people like Dino Kitavi,
Elly Adero and perhaps the roughest man ever to take to a Kenyan football
pitch, the late Mulupi Makuto. Everybody
loved Matiba at KBL. Years later, I would receive a phone call from a long-time
friend, Mwenda Njoka (now the spokesperson at Interior Ministry). The good man
was offering me a job at the Matiba-owned The People weekly. The paper had
established itself as a must-read among the political class as well as the hoi
polloi. Its starting was a Matibaesque masterpiece. You see, the man had a
hard-hitting statement that none of the then established newspapers would
carry. Matiba had a
royal outrage at this snub, which led him to assemble a team that launched the
weekly that launched the paper. To his credit, Matiba gave the editors a free
hand on the day-to-day running of the newspaper. We used this to the full
advantage, where nobody was spared. We were also helped by the fact that unlike
their political counterparts, the Matiba family was never in any scandal.  VENTURE INTO
POLITICS The Matiba
that would vie for President in 1992 and become a staunch oppositionist was
very different from the one that was a corporate titan. This was thanks to the
stint he served in detention that left him almost a vegetable after he suffered a stroke. Opinion is
divided on what really happened to Matiba while in detention. There is the
school of thought that claims the Special Branch people, having known that
Matiba had a morbid fear of snakes, would bring a huge python into the man’s
cell, scaring the living daylights out of the man. This apparently contributed
to the man’s deteriorated mental health. Another school
of thought holds it that there was a particular government-friendly doctor who
was tasked with injecting Matiba with poison, which messed up with his mental
faculties. For his gallant contribution to the country and the field of
medicine, the doctor was later rewarded with the directorship of Kenyatta
National Hospital. He has since died. Matiba held
many firsts. He became one of three permanent secretaries before Independence
at only 28; was the first black chief executive officer of East African
Breweries Ltd; was the first African to head Kenya Football Federation; and was
the first minister to break taboo and resign on principle during the Moi
regime. In the 1979
elections, shortly after Jomo Kenyatta’s death, Matiba took on and fell a giant
in then-Mbiri constituency in Murang’a — Gikonyo Kiano, a Cabinet minister who
was one of the blue-eyed boys in Jomo’s regime. Years later, I
would speak to the long-serving provincial administrator Philemon Mwaisaka, and
he told me that period preceding the elections was one of the toughest for him.
You see, Mwaisaka had just left the university and got his first job as a DO in
the very area where the battle between Matiba and Kiano was playing out. The main issue
was the Mbiri Water Project, and the two gentlemen would each grab the water
pipes and take them to their homes with the ultimate aim of being seen as the
benefactor. An exasperated
Mwaisaka had to call President Jomo Kenyatta, seeking guidance. Kenyatta
retorted: “You are my representative there and that water project belongs to
the government. Take full action.”  NO-NONSENSE
MINISTER It looks like
Matiba had a lasting effect on those he got in touch with. Rachel Keino says: “As
a young, budding journalist, a few months into my posting to Kisumu KNA Bureau,
I had a chance to cover Matiba touring Kisumu district as Minister for Health
(Kipsanai as PS). “At Jaramogi
Oginga Odinga (Russia) Hospital, the then Nyanza PC (the late Amos Bore), PMO,
Kisumu MOH (James Ongwae), and others did a thorough job of cleaning and paving
the way for him. What chaos when the dignitary dismissed all protocol and
decided to lead the ‘tour’! Bwana waziri, this way, an official would tell him.
He would look at the officer in the face, then turn in the opposite direction,
discovering the filth in the wards, morgue and kitchens (at some point, a cook
nearly fainted when the minister asked to taste the food).” On her part,
Monique Muthwii says: “I remember one day when working for The People,
Matiba came to the office and went round as usual, saying hello to everyone.
When he reached my desk, there was a broken chair next to me and he went like, ‘I
have been reliably informed that you are the one who broke this seat’ “So I went on
to defend myself because newsroom desks were rotational then, only senior editors
had permanent desks. But Matiba insisted that I needed to own up or tell him
who broke the chair. You can imagine the shiver that was going down my body. I
could hardly sit and was mumbling stuff I can’t even remember. “So when he saw
the fear in my eyes, he broke into a loud laughter.  Those who know him will tell you he has a
hearty one. It was so infectious, I found myself bursting into laughter and
holding back tears.”  LIBERATION
WOES However, not
all see the man in a positive light. Ayoki Onyango claims the man took his
family through financial ruin. “Matiba sacked
my father Jacob Ayoki, when my dad was a senior manager with the Kenya
Breweries, on false claims that my dad was a member of KPU. KPU was an
opposition party formed by Jaramogi Oginga Odinga in 1966 after falling out
with Jomo Kenyatta. Matiba was KBL executive chairman. We subsequently suffered
as a family due to the sacking. And as the official spokesman of the Ayoki
family, we have forgiven Matiba and let his soul rest in peace.” Then there are
those who accuse Matiba of the stillbirth of the country’s second liberation.
According to those holding this opinion, had Matiba supported the late Jaramogi
Oginga Odinga in 1992, the opposition would have sent Moi and his Kanu henchmen
packing. It would have worked out better for Matiba, in that Jaramogi died
only two years later, meaning Matiba would have ascended to the
presidency.” All said and
done, all these nice and not so nice opinions about Matiba go to prove that he
was a mere mortal like all of us — capable of doing good and evil at the same
time. My condolences
to the Matiba clan I interacted with at The People: Ivy, Susan and Raymond. May
the Lord grant your family His peace that surpasses human understanding.