National Lands Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri could face up to six months in civil jail for disobeying a court order and paying Sh1.5 billion to two companies in the disputed Ruaraka GSU land. Activist Okiya Omtatah said Swazuri paid the money despite an order stopping him from doing so. He wants the NLC boss punished for disobeying the court order. Parliament is investigating the circumstances under which the NLC paid the money to the firms. In a motion filed at the Environment and Lands Court yesterday, Omtatah wants Swazuri and the directors of Afrison Export Import Ltd and Huelands Ltd held in contempt. Omtatah said Swazuri paid the money as part of a Sh3.3 billion compensation for part of the 96 acres. The activist says payment of the Sh1.5 billion was made in deliberate violation of the orders issued by judge J Okong’o on December 13, 2016. The order of the judge prohibited the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, the National Land Commission, the Lands CS and the AG from making further payments to the two companies. According to Omtatah, Swazuri has undermined the course of justice in the case and must be punished. Read: MPs quiz Swazuri team over Sh2.8bn payout for SGR land He wants the court to deny audience to the directors of the two companies alongside Swazuri until they refund all the money paid in contravention of the orders. Omtatah says the orders issued prohibiting the payment of the money to companies were issued in the presence of all those involved. “If the said orders are not obeyed, the main motion pending before this court will be rendered nugatory,” Omtatah says. In 2016, Okong’o issued orders barring Kura, NLC and the Lands CS from making any payments to the two companies directly or through their agents, in respect of compensation of the land pending the hearing of the petition filed by Omtatah. The activist and Wycliffe Nyakina moved to court to stop further payments of the disputed land, which they say is owned by the GSU. It was acquired for the Outer Ring Road improvement project on Thika Road. The two said unscrupulous public officers at Kura, the NLC and the Lands ministry had embarked on a plan to resell 6.7 of the 37 acres public land. They told the court the NLC acquired the said plot from the two companies and handed it over to Kura to be used to improve the stretch between Outer Ring Road and Thika Road Junction and the Eastern Bypass. Also Read:EACC recovers Sh17m after raids at Swazuri, senior NLC officials' homes Appearing before the National Assembly Lands Committee, the NLC said two city public schools occupying the land in Ruaraka do not possess the said prime land and it was justified in awarding the private firm Sh3.3 billion as compensation. The commission’s vice chairperson Abigael Mbagaya told Parliament that Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School do not have valid documents to show ownership of the land at the centre of the dispute. Mbagaya said the allotment letter possessed by the learning institutions was irregularly issued. “It was illegal for the Commissioner of Lands to issue an allotment letter to freehold land,” she said. The allotment letter was cancelled, leaving the schools with no document to justify possession. Click here for the latest political news