The sudden about-turn and criticism by some Nyanza ODM legislators on self-proclaimed General for National Resistance Movement Miguna Miguna has surprised many. Word has it that the MPs are very worried that Miguna's political profile is rising to pose a threat to succeeding the ODM leader Raila Odinga who seem to have hang his boots after four unsuccessful stabs at the presidency. One ODM lawmakers who initially stood by Miguna, surprised his social media followers over the weekend when he disowned the NRM general and even vowed not to represent him in court again. ***** A pressure group made of youth and a number of civil activist have hatched a plan to push for screens to be mounted at the office of President Uhuru Kenyatta, office of Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and that of Nairobi governor Mike Sonko for them to see how traffic police and traffic marshalls from City Hall are conducting their work. According to those in the know of the petition which is said to be almost complete, the group has been concerned of how the police and the marshalls board vehicles at various points within the CBD and make no arrest but only alight after being given "chai" while others are seen just watching matatus picking passengers at undesignated areas - worst affected is the area near the Railways roundabout. ***** A flamboyant MP from Nyanza has found a new home in the city, months after he received a huge loan from Bunge Sacco. The vocal MP is now facing a major marital problem after his wife decided to go public over the lawmaker’s illicit affairs. The MP in his 30s, decided to leave his wife behind in the constituency and instead moved in with a fresh university graduate at a house in Nairobi’s Zimmerman estate. Surprisingly, the MP doesn’t visit his rural home and only winds up his tours at the constituency office, sparking outrage from the ‘official wife’. The wife who claims the MP was advanced a loan from the Bunge Sacco is planning to set the record straight in the next few days if the lawmaker doesn’t shape up. Word has it that the MP is busy squandering the loan without looking at viable investment options. ***** A head of a key institution has become the talk of town after he suddenly develop an insatiable appetite for traveling abroad. In the last three months, the man has made several trips not only within the Africa but to severel Western countries. Those he leads have advised both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to keep a close eye on him as the man is turning out to be another joyrider.