Nandi and Trans Nzoia have hinted at withdrawing from the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) over the slow implementation of legislative frameworks. Last week, Governors Stephen Sang and Patrick Khaemba and other officials from their counties attended a meeting on the formation of the Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB). This signalled their exits from Noreb whose other member counties are Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, West Pokot, Turkana and Samburu. The two said they will issue statements on their positions next week. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok had requested leaders in the region to speed up the process of forming Noreb whose establishment was mooted about three years ago. “We need to speed up the process so and move things as fast as possible," he said. On Saturday, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, who is Noreb Chairman, downplayed the exit of the two counties saying Sang and Khaemba had not sent official notices. “Counties are free to belong to any regional grouping but as far as I am concerned they are our members because I have not seen any letter of withdrawal." Analysts say Trans Nzoia was more comfortable being in the same economic bloc as Bungoma and Kakamega and that Nandi is more likely to benefit from the Western bloc because of its products. The other counties in the LREB are Bomet, Homa Bay, Kericho, Kisii, Kisumu, Nyamira, Busia and Vihiga. Mandago said the counties are free to join more than one grouping depending on the benefits and programmes they want to persue. The Chairman noted he still believed the Noreb idea was the best for the region. The process of forming the bloc is ongoing, he told reporters, adding Assemblies will soon establish laws for their secretariats to implement programmes under the Noreb agreement signed in 2015. Each Assembly was to come up with an Act that would, among other things, define operations of the economic bloc. This would ensure residents enjoyed opportunities in the region. Mandago expressed hope that Noreb will come to fruition, noting projects worth more than Sh200 billion have been lined up. Related: Plans to revive North Rift bloc Also read: North Rift governors push for Sh150 billion projects promised by Jubilee Click here for the latest political news