Thousands of patients have flocked Kenneth Matiba Eye and Dental hospital to receive free treatment being offered by Murang'a county government in honor of the late Matiba. The county government announced last Monday that the hospital that is named after Matiba will offer free eye and dental hospital in his remembrance. Since then, patients have continued to flow into the hospital from the entire Mt. Kenya region with over 800 being treated everyday with long queues meandering outside the facility. Governor Mwangi wa Iria has said the free services will be offered until the veteran politician is laid to rest but may be extended for two more days to cater for the high number of patients visiting the hospital. "So far, we have treated over 6,000 patients and more continue to trickle in. Today, the number has risen as 3,000 people have been registered for treatment," Wa Iria said. Wa Iria said Matiba was an embodiment of good leadership and transformation and that offering free eye and dental services is one way of immortalising his spirit of servant leadership. He said the county government named the hospital after Matiba to honor him in 2015 and that the hospital has so far treated over 400,000 people. "Matiba stood for the interests of the poor who are the majority and offering free services to people ensures his spirit lives on," Wa Iria said. Some patients from far flung areas are being forced to seek shelter at Kenol town town to help them arrive at the hospital early enough. Wa Iria however said the country should take lessons from Matiba's life and his political frustrations to ensure what happened to him will never happen to any other leader. He said Matiba's 'let the people decide' should be used to ensure is a conducive environment for Kenyans to be led by the people they vote for. "We lost such a visionary leadership in Matiba which should never happen again. We should immortalise him by letting people be led by the leaders they chose," the governor added. He said as a governor, he will continue being a proponent of Matiba’s mantra. He added that the Kenneth Matiba Eye and Dental Hospital will be expanded to a national status to accommodate patients from other parts of the country. He noted that the hospital’s expansion budget will be included in the next budget.