More than 1,000 families will be resettled and compensated after leaders from Elgeyo Marakwet approved the construction of the Sh63 billion Arror and Kimwarer hydro-power projects. The two had been derailed for a year by compensation rows. More than Sh80 billion will be spent on compensation for families to buy alternative land in Trans Nzoia and Elgeyo Marakwet. The government has started relocating the families. Kerio Valley Development Authority chief executive David Kimosop yesterday said the project contractors have started work on the ground. A meeting of key leaders from the county and community representatives resolved that the projects should be implemented by the KVDA. Governor Alex Tolgos, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and MPs from the county said they approved the families be displaced and compensated. “After lengthy deliberations as leaders from the county we have agreed to support the two projects to help the people,” Kimosop said. Tolgos said the families will be compensated well. The projects will be implemented according to the law and views and input of the local communities will be considered. “We will go to the grassroots to talk to the communities on the need to back the projects,” he said. MPs Julius Murgor (Keiyo North) and his Keiyo South counterpart Daniel Rono, together with Elgeyo Marakwet county assembly speaker Phillemon Sabulei, said the projects will be implemented. Kimosop said the project contractors have been asked to move to the site. The National Land Commission chairman, Muhammad Swazuri, toured Eldoret last month. He said the commission will start the process of land acquisition. After Monday’s meeting in Eldoret, Tolgos said they also discussed the security situation in Kerio Valley. He said security has been restored, with no incidents of banditry last month. Tolgos said leaders from counties in the region are discussing how to sustain the security through implementing development projects. The governor said joint community projects will ensure residents participate in sustaining security in the Kerio Valley.