Irregular clearance of containers from the Mombasa port, resulting in a Sh106 million revenue loss, was a well-orchestrated plan, a witness told court yesterday. Danstan Majanja, a KRA investigating officer, told senior principal magistrate Francis Kyambia the containers were moved from the port to Benevict Warehouse, a private facility. Twenty-five KPA, KRA and clearing agents are charged with fraud for illegally removing containers from the port, causing the loss. Five firms were also accused of causing the loss. They were jointly charged with conspiring to release 124 cargo containers without paying custom duties between May and August 2016. They denied the charges. Majanja said the parties involved hid the consignments as they awaited further transportation. Mwote Transporters, which moved the containers from the port, bought several trailers from other transporters, to ferry the containers, he said. Detectives used security registries to track the trailers and their drivers, he said. The drivers disclosed their destinations, Majanja said. The investigators stopped all transporters from moving containers out of the port to avoid further theft. Majanja said the registries indicated the containers may have been sneaked out through two gates. The initial investigations targetted three containers. In the course of the probe, the detectives realised 121 more containers were missing from their data. The KRA usually clears a container before it orders the Kenya Ports Authority to release it, Majanja said. On these occasions, data was manually entered into the system — an unusual step, he said. Those charged include Vincent Nyatundo, Benedict Kisilu, Susan Kagira, Anthony Maina, Paul Makau, Benedict Opiyo and James Kato who work for the KRA. Others are Joshua Misoi, Mathew Owiti, Reuben Onsongo, Matari Ali, Bobson Amani, Fatuma Nabhany, Eddah Mwake, Dzila Bweni, Bernard Adungo, Mohamed Kangao and Binti Nuri who worked for the KPA. On Wednesday, witness Rose Musau, who retired from the KPA in 2016, blamed the KPA’s IT department for the loss. She said her old password was used long after she left the state agency. The password was used to aid five companies evade taxes for consignments they had imported. Musau said the departments issued her with clearance certificates, indicating she had surrendered everything belonging to KPA. “Someone must have had my password. But I blame the IT department. If they had removed my check number from their system, no one could have hacked my password,” she said. Another witness Benjamin Mwawuda said the former check number of Florence Langat, a former employee, was used months after she had quit. Mwawuda is a KPA officer in charge of electronic data.