More than 20 years ago in 1997 Sheikh Khalid Balala sued the government for general damages and specific relief over his incarceration. A ruling is due shortly. Balala wants the court to find that he was subjected to malicious prosecution for treason in the early 1990s and declare his constitutional and human rights were violatedwhen his passport was seized and cancelled in 1994. He wants the court to find that the seizure and cancellation subjected him to statelessness and immense suffering for years in a foreign land in violation of his human rights and Kenyan law. He wants the state ordered to return his passport seized in 1997 which must have expired and declare his detention without trial for three years till 2001 illegal and an unconstitutional violation of his rights. Balala has asked the court to assess these violations and compute due and appropriate compensation. He is not seeking enrichment.“I am not suing for money. I am only interested in establishing the principle of human rights for posterity. The figure does not matter. Let the court calculate the damages. I am not materialistic,” he says. Balala lives in an apartment in Mombasa’s Bombolulu area with his wife Nadiya who has stood by him throughout his tribulations. She was away in Nairobi with her children during the interview. Nadiya has been away enrolling their daughter Labeeba in an undergraduate degree course in architecture at the University of Nairobi and visiting their only son Mohamed, an aviation engineer at Wilson Airport in Nairobi. Fatma, another daughter, teaches computer science at Strathmore University in Nairobi, while Sara and Sajida work in the United Arab Emirates. Maryam lives in Canada. Nadiya played a crucial role in raising the children.“She takes care of them more than me and was instrumental in moulding them,” he said. Last year Balala played a pivotal role in the campaigns of Raila Odinga and Hassan Joho but declined ODM’s offer for a nomination to Parliament. He says he has no interest in power and is living comfortably from his earnings as an adviser to the governor. He receives financial support from his children and extended family in Kilifi and Mombasa. He says they never forsook him. “I am a modest man and don’t need millions to survive. I have a new car. My immediate family members help me a lot. I am not greedy.” Balala says he is not bitter about what has happened to him. “It is not personal whatever happened to me. I was fighting and continue to fight for the future of my country and I am glad I played a role.”