President Uhuru Kenyatta has congratulated incoming Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. Abiy was chosen to lead the ruling coalition following the shock resignation of Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn in February. Ahmed becomes Ethiopia's first Oromo leader - an ethnic group which has been at the centre of anti-government protests since 2016. “I write to convey my warm congratulations following your election as the chairperson of the Ethiopian Peoples Revolution Democratic Front and endorsement by the Ethiopian Parliament as the Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia,” Uhuru said. Read: Ethiopia's new polygot Prime Minister must ease ethnic, youth tensions President Kenyatta said the election of Ahmed was a clear demonstration of the trust and confidence that members of the EPRDF have in his ability to lead the party and the country in its aspirations for unity in diversity, peace and national development. “More significantly I also wish to congratulate you and the people of Ethiopia for the manner in which you have managed the political transition. You have made Africa proud,” Uhuru said. Uhuru said he looked forward to working closely with Ahmed to consolidate the partnership between Kenya and Ethiopia. The two countries enjoy excellent bilateral relations and a strong cooperation in regional and multilateral issues. “I particularly look forward to our joint efforts in the pursuit of regional and continental peace, stability and development within the framework of the Inter-Governmental Authority for Development and the African Union for the benefit the people of our region and beyond,” Uhuru said. Related: Who will succeed Hailemariam as Ethiopia's Prime Minister? Ahmed pledged his readiness to resolve disputes with neighbouring Eritrea. Speaking on state television after his swearing-in ceremony, Ahmed called for an end to "years of misunderstandings". He said Ethiopia was ready to resolve differences between the two peoples, who are "not only intertwined in interests but also in blood". "We will stand by our African brothers in general and our neighbours in particular, during good and bad at times," Ahmed said. Hailemariam, while in power, had accused Eritrea of backing anti-government protests in Ethiopia.  Click here for the latest political news