The Independent Policing Oversight Authority on Monday appointed Maina Njoroge as the authority’s chief executive officer replacing Joel Mabonga whose tenure has ended. Njoroge’s appointment follows an interview on Thursday last week where he beat four other contenders who had been shortlisted from 100 applicants. “Mr. Maina Njoroge emerged the highest scoring candidate and by a unanimous decision of all the 8 members of the Board, it was resolved that he be appointed to the position of the CEO and Secretary to the Board,” IPOA chairman Macharia Njeru said in a statement. IPOA is an independent authority established under the Independent Policing Oversight Authority Act (No. 35 of 2011) to oversight police operations including probing death and serious injury to civilians as a result of police action. Prior to his appointment, Njoroge was the director in charge of business services at IPOA for the last five years. He also held the CEO’s position in an acting capacity for nine months between September 2013 to May 2014. "He subsequently acted in the same position on many occasions whenever the CEO was away,” Njeru said. Before joining IPOA, Njoroge was the Finance and Investment Manager with the Kenya Institute for Public Policy Research and Analysis (KIPPRA). Njoroge also serves as a member of the Audit Committee at the Director of Public Prosecution’s Office. He is a Certified Public Accountant and holds an MBA (Finance) and B. com (Accounting) degrees from the University of Nairobi. Njoroge is also a certified investment and financial analyst, a member of the Institute of Certified Investment Financial and Financial Analyst (ICIFA), a member of the Institute of Directors and Kenya Institute of Management.’ “Through his efforts, IPOA won FIRE awards in 2016 for 2015/16 financial year. IPOA remains one of the few public institutions with clean books of accounts as audited by Kenya National Audit office arising from Mr. Njoroge’s efforts in streamlining business processes within the authority,” Njeru said.  Click here for the latest political news