The fifth annual Devolution Conference starts in Kakamega county today. Devolution has reconfigured the spirit of civic enterprise for the 21st Century. Democratic county governance is the galvanising force for building a more productive and competitive economy, and better public services. Devolution is game changer in politics, governance, service delivery and economic development. Local ethical and accountable leadership is pivotal for stronger governance, sustained efficacy, improved efficiency and more responsible financial management. Transparency matters for sustainable development and quality services. A lot need to be done to force both the national and county governments to become more open; allowing oversight agencies, citizens, and the media to scrutinise how money is spent and enable people to hold their governments to account. Shining a light on planning, budgeting, financial flows and decision-making, reduces opportunities for corruption and citizens get value for their money. A more transparent business environment makes it easier for responsible businesses to operate. The county government occupies a very unique space in public life, emphasising on the importance of its role and capacity to add value as a community leader. The county government is the lead engine, having the responsibility for setting the vision for its county and working with partners and communities to deliver what matters most to the people. By embracing functional powers and resources, the county governments can serve people even better, reduce inequalities and facilitate achievement of the country’s progress ambitions. The county governments need to become increasingly innovative and effective at producing good quality services and value for the taxpayer's money. They now need to look ahead positively. Policy change by the county government should have a huge impact on local population lives. It is crucial to ensure the devolved institutions function effectively. It is also important to have wider civic engagement on how to improve county governance. Deepening devolution must happen, giving local people more say and control over spending and investment to promote growth, job creation, stronger communities and prosperity for all. For this to happen we need a true commitment to devolution. Devolved powers to the counties have already created a huge difference, regardless of momentous challenges. This needs to be built on across the whole country. The county governments are closer to the communities they serve, and are therefore better placed to deliver locally. The county government does not exist simply to provide services. It has to facilitate meaningful participation of the local population in designing policies. Kenyans want a proper relationship between those who provide a service and those who rely on it through stronger local democracy, more effective scrutiny, and proper accountability channels. Kenyans have suffered for 50 years under an unaccountable, bureaucratic, opaque and centralised national government. In voting for the 2010 Constitution and devolution, they sent a strong message: They want well-run county authorities, which operate transparently and openly, which plan effectively, which use the resources available to them prudently, and which work collaboratively and in partnership with others. Kenyans want to have a stronger voice and more influence over how services are designed and delivered. To deliver this, the county governments will need to continually assess and improve their own performance. A closer relationship between the county government and local communities is key. It will strengthen governance and make it clear how decisions are made and who took them. It will help local representatives provide effective challenge and scrutiny. It will encourage innovation and the sharing of best practice, to drive excellent performance and services that meet people’s needs. The future role of the county governments needs to be about collaboration based on an understanding of local needs and clear governance structures, not just the current emphasis on service provision. They will only achieve this through partnership among sectors. The county governments should seize the opportunity to shape their own and the country’s future in building more equal, prosperous, innovative, and healthier people living in safe, cohesive and resilient communities, who have wide range of opportunities.  Executive director, International Center for Policy and Conflict @NdunguWainaina