Deputy President William Ruto on Friday urged Kerio Valley leaders to use cultural exchange programmes to foster peace and reconciliation.Ruto urged leaders and residents to use the positive aspects of their cultures to promote peace and harmonious relations.He urged the communities in Turkana, West Pokot, Baringo and Samburu counties to use cultural festivals to preach peaceful coexistence. The DP spoke during the Turkana Cultural Festival in Lodwar town.Ruto told the communities that the government is committed to ensuring peace and stability prevail. “It is your right to be protected. We don’t ration peace and security. It is the responsibility of the government to protect the lives of its people and their property,” he said. Related: Turkana MPs dismiss cultural festival as 'waste of resources' Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok said leaders in the Kerio Valley have resolved to work together to end banditry and cattle rustling. “As leaders, we have decided to show the people a peaceful way that can accelerate development,” he said.“We want to assure the government that we are putting in place proper mechanisms aimed at ending the perennial problems of cattle rustling.”Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki, eight governors and a host of MPs from across the country attended the function. He praised the county governments for working closely with the national government.The governors were Nanok, Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Joseph Lenku (Kajiado), Samuel Tunai (Narok) and Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor (Daniel Chemno).Dignitaries from Ethiopia, South Sudan and Uganda also attended.Turkana South MP James Lomenen urged the government to consider removing capping on the county’s share of revenue from oil exploration in the area. He said capping would scuttle development because there wouldn’t be enough funds for development.Ruto said the government will work with leaders to solve problems arising from oil exploration. He said the government is looking for ways to address the issue. Let’s preserve diversity of our cultural heritage - First LadyHe said the move by the government through the Petroleum Exploration, Development and Production Bill to alter percentages from five to 10 in the community allocation of the national government’s share is a clear indication of the commitment.“We have done a lot of adjustments to the 2015 Bill for the benefit of the people of Turkana. The remaining part, which includes capping, is a small matter that can be solved amicably,” Ruto said.He said the government appointed John Munyes, who is from Turkana, as Petroleum and Mining Cabinet Secretary to help solve problems arising from oil exploration.  Click here for the latest political news