Four teams will make their debut at the East Africa Seconadry School Games set for August in Kigali, Rwanda. The four teams are Rugby 15s runners up Menengai High (Nakuru), boys’ and girls’ basketball finalists Sigalame and Butere and handball bronze medalists St. Joseph’s Kirandich Girls . The quartet booked tickets to Rwanda after excelling in their respective disciplines in the just concluded Brookside Term One Games held at Kangaru High, Embu over the weekend. Event surprise package,Butere who had a good run in the preliminary stages dismissing regulars and two times national champions Kaya Tiwi and Buruburu , later failed to extend the good form against Kaya Tiwi in finals going down 36-31. Butere coach Chris Odeka said they exceeded their objectives at the national having been away for over a decade and believes their presence at the East Africa games will come with new energy. “We have achieved more than we expected. We beat Kaya Tiwi who reach the semis at East Africa and that means we can outdo teams from other participating countries. We weren't lucky to beat them twice but we will hope to beat them at the EA Games,” intimated Odeke. In rugby 15s, Menengai who romped to the finals for the first time ever showed they are a force to reckon with after they swept aside giants and 2017 holders Kakamega High 20-16 in the semi-final before they succumbed to eventual winners Upper Hill 15-12 in the finals. Kakamega however, have chance to atone themselves at the EA Games after they defeated Yala in the third position play -off Teams coach James Njenga noted his players mental strength was wanting in the event but remained positive of a good show at the EA Games. He said,“For us it was tough luck and lack of mental strength amongst the boys. I have noted our gray areas abd we hope to work on them prior top the event . For us, Kenyan sides are beatable so will strategize against the other countries especially Ugandan team,” In the boys basketball , Sigalame from Busia went down to champions Laiser Hill in the finals after having a good run in run the group stages and in the last four. Sigalame’s coach-cum-principal Joseph Were applauded the boy's achievement and noted they can only get better going forward. The girls’ handball bronze medal playoffs, St. Joseph’s Kirandich edged out Kwanthanze 20-18. Kirandich will join champions Moi girls Kamusinga who saw off At Annes Sega 18-16 in the finals.