After the forced pretence of democracy — for years we tried to believe we could feel the fragrance of a democratic society — the regime finally decided that enough is enough. Why put so much effort into an exercise so many of us don’t really care about? The divided, brainwashed Kenyans — they assumed at least — would accept and move on, as they always did — all through the years. Does anyone still remember the talk of a ‘benevolent dictator’? The anger and disbelief it caused? They just tested the waters! The democratic game is up! We didn’t get one benevolent dictator — no, this is Kenya after all — we got two! A man who always stood for democracy and change in Kenya and who solemnly swore to never accept a regime that had fraudulently stolen the votes of fellow Kenyans, tortured and killed its opponents, ordered an illegal shutdown of the media and has repeatedly disrespected the Judiciary — this very man stepped out with the oppressor and called him “my brother”. Overnight the liars and pretenders broke out in song and dance. Politicians, journalists, artists tried to outdo each other in praise of the wisdom and selflessness of the two benevolent ‘leaders’. Young activists — weeks ago loudly proclaiming their willingness to bring this regime down at all costs — are now stumbling through well-choreographed press briefings and referring to the events on March 9 as the “Golden Handshake”. A “Golden Handshake” it is, a “Handcheque” to be precise. Mercy for those innocent Kenyans who still believe this “Golden Handshake” could be about them. The lives of millions of Kenyans don’t matter to the rich elites who pretend to work towards a reconciliation where there wasn’t any division before. We can witness political enemies embracing each other with tears of joy streaming from their bloodless eyes. For some unknown reasons, we missed their tears a few months ago, when their now new political ‘brothers’ were killing babies and teenagers in the streets of Nairobi! In times like this the true character of a person becomes clearly visible. Alleged heroes betray their followers while notorious cowards discover their bravery. A well-known elderly writer who pretended to be on the side of the oppressed people of Kenya recently discovered her love for the oppressors. She published a long essay defending a ‘government’ that doesn’t respect the law it wrote and the institutions it tried to buy. Maybe the lady from Great Britain believes that by tarnishing the name of the Kenyan freedom fighter Dr Miguna Miguna she would gain political mileage for herself and her paymasters within the new dictatorial environment in Kenya and demonstrate her firm believe in? Well, a firm belief in what, Sarah Elderkin? SE might think that her statement in the Star (Weekend April 7-8 ) is a well-written masterpiece that condemns the General of the NRM Kenya rightfully and reinvents herself as a crusader for justice in Kenya under the administration of the two brothers in crime. You are mistaken, Elderkin. Your alleged ‘masterpiece’ is nothing but disgusting evidence of just how low writers can sink if they give up their independence and their principles and joyfully join the oppressors. Your article is a compilation of lies and cheap hateful propaganda. We won’t argue with you. Your offensive language speaks for itself. You have joined the traitors — the countless writers who sold their principles and reputation to the regimes of Hitler, Stalin or Pinochet. History will judge you. The great poet Pablo Neruda — a true friend of the socialist President of Chile Salvador Allende who died during a military coup in 1973 — once said: “Someday, somewhere — anywhere unfailingly, you’ll find yourself, and that, and only that can be the happiest or bitterest hour of your life!” Lilian U Asiimwe on behalf of NRMKe    