The death toll of people whose homes were swept away by landlslides in Murang’a county has risen to five amid calls to families to relocate to safer areas. Four of them were a couple and their two children whose home was washed away while they were sleeping at
Inoi village in Kahuro sub-county on Saturday at dawn. Deputy county commissioner Amos Ogendi said one person died later on Saturday at Muriranjas hospital where he was rushed. He said rescue efforts were led by the county
disaster management team and security officers and asked 14 families to
relocate from the village. The administrator asked locals to accommodate the affected families
for the night as the disaster management team comes up with measures to assist
them. Read: Three killed in Murang'a landslide after heavy rains In another incident, rescuers recovered the body of
a 70-year-old man whose home was swept away by another
landslide at Gitugi area in Mathioya sub-county. Charles Laboso, an administrator, said the government will evacuate
over 20 families living in landslide prone areas until the rains subside. Laboso also noted that the area received heavy
rainfall on Friday night which triggered the landslide. The over 20 families are now being accommodated at Mutitu
polytechnic where the county government provided them with foodstuffs and
beddings. The DCC also cautioned locals to avoid the Gitugi
bridge that connects the area to the Kangema Murang’a road as it has been
destroyed by the raging Mathioya river. The road was rendered impassable,
forcing locals to find alternative routes out of the village. The Mathioya Kiria-ini road was also closed owing to the destruction of the Mathioya bridge. Motorists now use the
relatively long Gakonya Mukurwe-ini road. In Kangema, minor landslides occurred in Gitugu and
Kiangunyi areas causing destruction to properties and putting the lives of
locals at a great risk. Read: Fears after heavy rains sink graves in Nyandarua Click here for the latest political news