The government will allocate funds for the establishment of modern eye and dental facilities in referral hospitals, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Uhuru said the new facilities must be built within 12 months. He said the government will set aside Sh300 million for each referral hospital including Kenyatta National, Moi Teaching and Referral, Nyeri and Mombasa hospitals. Read; Normal services resume at Tenwek Hospital after inferno The President spoke at Tenwek Hospital grounds after unveiling a Sh275 million ultra-modern Eye and Dental  Centre put up with the assistance of donors. The new centre has a capacity to handle 20,000 clients and conduct 5,000 surgeries annually. “I have seen what less than Sh300 million can do to uplift the lives of Kenyans. I want to see similar facilities at Kenyatta, Moi, Nyeri and Mombasa [hospitals],” Uhuru said on Wednesday. He said he had learnt great lessons from the Tenwek Hospital example which his government is ready to transfer and replicate elsewhere. “I have picked several lessons from here. You will not be able to blind me again,” he told top officials from the Health Ministry led by Cabinet Secretary. Cleopa Mailu. He said he did not see any reason why the government, with "all its huge resources", has not achieved the successes Tenwek has with its meagre resources. The President said the national and county governments will work towards achieving universal healthcare, a crucial pillar in the Big Four Agenda which also includes manufacturing, affordable housing and food security. The President, who was with DP William Ruto, put on notice government officials who use their positions to enrich themselves. “Those who thought they had blinded me should now know they are on notice,” Uhuru said adding that top Government officials -starting with Cabinet and Principal Secretaries - should be fully accountable for their dockets. He said he will no longer be deceived by dishonest activities and manoeuvring by those charged with running public institutions. The 81-year old Tenwek Hospital, which started as a dispensary in 1937, is under the management of the Africa Gospel Church of Kenya (AGCK). The President congratulated its management and health experts who enabled the setting up of the eye and dental care centre and said their services will be sough when need arises. “The government will support this great work. We appreciate the great work you have done here," he said, adding Sh20 million will be given to the hospital for the repair of the kitchen and other facilities destroyed by fire. Uhuru donated a school bus to Tenwek High School and praised Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso for nurturing unity for the sake of developing the county'a agriculture sector. Deputy President William Ruto said every sector will be mobilised to cement Uhuru's legacy of transformation. “The transformation of Kenya will not happen if we do not mobilise every resource and every sector - NGOs, religious organisations and the public sector - so that we can push the transformation of our country under the agenda four items," he said. Laboso  pledged to help the President fulfill his development agenda by working closely with the national government. Also read: Tenwek Hospital operates 20 kids with heart problems Click here for the latest political news