Taking a break from Facebook could be the key to lowering your stress levels, new research has found. A University of Queensland study looked at the effects of a short break from Facebook on a person's stress and well-being. "Taking a Facebook break for just five days reduced a person's level of the stress hormone cortisol," said Dr Eric Vanman of the School of Psychology. "However, while participants in our study showed an improvement in physiological stress by giving up Facebook, they also reported lower feelings of well-being. "People said they felt more unsatisfied with their life, and were looking forward to resuming their Facebook activity." Dr Vanman said there were a number of reasons behind the varied results. "Abstaining from Facebook was shown to reduce a person's level of the stress hormone cortisol, but people's own ratings of their stress did not change — perhaps because they weren't aware their stress had gone down," he explained. "People experienced less well-being after those five days without Facebook — they felt less content with their lives —from the resulting social disconnection of being cut-off from their Facebook friends. "We don't think that this is necessarily unique to Facebook, as people's stress levels will probably reduce anytime they take a break from their favourite social media platforms." The study involved two groups of Facebook users, with one group instructed to stay off Facebook for five days and the other group using Facebook as normal. The researchers collected saliva samples from the 138 participants at the beginning and end of the study to measure changes in their cortisol levels. Dr Vanman's own experience of quitting Facebook from time-to-time prompted the idea for the study. "When I told colleagues about my ''Facebook vacations'', I found I wasn't alone," he said. Others admitted that they took similar breaks from Facebook when they found it too stressful or overwhelming - quitting Facebook for several days or weeks but then reconnecting. He said that although Facebook had become an essential social tool for millions around the world and had many benefits, it could also be taxing. "It seems that people take a break because they're too stressed, but return to Facebook whenever they feel unhappy because they have been cut off from their friends," he explained. "It then becomes stressful again after a while so they take another break. And so on." Click here for the latest local political news