President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday warned state officers using their offices to enrich themselves that their days are numbered. He said officers must use their positions to serve wananchi. Public servants must deliver or be forced out of their offices, Uhuru said at Tenwek Mission Hospital in Bomet. He opened a Sh300 million ultramodern eye and dental centre. Uhuru said all employees must live up to citizens’ expectations so the Jubilee administration can achieve its development agenda. Citizens yearn for better services and those given responsibilities must deliver. The President said his administration has allocated funds for mega projects meant to uplift Kenyans’ living standards. It is, however, saddening that only a little improvement has been felt, he said. “We have all seen that funds used to put up this facility were huge and have been utilised well. Something big, worth it and pleasing can be seen. So why can’t we also see this in our public facilities?” Uhuru asked. The centre will mainly serve residents of the South and North Rift. Head of the hospital Geoffrey Langat said they can serve more than 15,000 patients a month. It is possible to put up such facilities in all the counties if leaders commit themselves to their development agenda, shun negative politics and use spend cash on intended projects, he said. Uhuru said funds for building similar centres at Kenyatta National Hospital, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Nyeri and Mombasa will be made available and the projects will have to be completed by next year. “If they are not completed by next year, those responsible should get prepared to be sacked because we have many energetic Kenyans capable of doing that work and we can give them the opportunity,” he said. Uhuru also pledged Sh20 million for the construction of a kitchen and a restaurant at Tenwek Hospital. Present were governors Joyce Laboso (Bomet), Samwel Tunai (Narok), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho) and senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo-Marakwet) and Christopher Langat (Bomet).. Others were former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto and MPs Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central), Wilson Sossion (ODM-nominated) David Sankok (JP-nominated), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Gideon Koskei (Chepalungu) and Dominic Koskei (Sotik). Deputy President William Ruto said it is possible to achieve the Jubilee agenda because leaders are united. He said they will focus on improving the economy.