Attorney General Paul Kihara has said a prime land belongs to a private firm demanding Sh3.2 billion compensation from the state. It hosts two city public schools. Kihara and his team told the National Assembly Lands Committee yesterday Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn were illegally constructed on the 13.7701 acres. Deputy chief counsel Thoithi Kanyuira said the two institutions were illegally constructed on the land belonging to Afrison Export and Import Ltd and Huelands Ltd. “The putting up of the schools on this land was illegal. It is occupied because of parties that invaded it,” Kanyuira said. Separately, the companies’ MD Francis Mburu vowed to sue the Attorney General and the Ministry of Education. He demanded additional compensation of Sh6 billion for rent, plus interest accrued over the years. “The land belongs to those companies today and tomorrow, until I transfer the title to the Education ministry. The schools built on my property, educated our children over the years and I have never been paid a penny.” Read : Schools don’t own Ruaraka land, says NLC Kihara said his office was not sought when the Ministry of Education and the National Land Commission were processing the partial payment of Sh1.5 billion on January 29. “No advice has been sought in regard to the recent compensation. I cannot tell you whether the NLC fulfilled the requirement of the Lands Act during the compensation,” Kihara said. Ruaraka High School board of management chairperson Nafula Kuria said the school acquired an allotment letter in 1999. It paid Sh3,066 to the then Lands commissioner. They are still waiting for a title deed. But Kanyuira told the committee chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai the issuing of the allotment letter to the school was illegal. “The allotment would not have existed and whatever was there as an allotment letter was not proper because the land has not been subdivided,” Kanyuira said. Mburu said some cartels are colluding with government officials to extort Sh82.1 million from him. “I want to face the accuser elbow to elbow. These people have been trailing the compensation process, demanded Sh82.1 million and threatening that I will face the same fate [former Devolution CS Anne] Waiguru faced,” Mburu said. Click here for the latest political news