State House official Peter Kariuki is new Nairobi secretary. The county assembly yesterday approved a report by the vetting and appointments committee that recommended his appointment. The committee chaired by speaker Beatrice Elachi said in the report that Kariuki was suitable for the position of County Secretary having met both the constitutional and the statutory requirements. “The committee recommends that this Assembly approves Mr Peter Kariuki for appointment by H.E the Governor to the position of County Secretary,” reads the report in part. Kariuki is currently a governance advisor at the office of the President. Governor Mike Sonko ha dnominated him in November last year to be vetted by the MCAs but recalled the name in February "to consult further". Sources at City Hall had told the Star that Sonko wanted to stamp his authority and ward off outsiders. Kariuki was reportedly seconded to City Hall by State House. On Tuesday, Sonko wrote to Elachi asking her to reactivate the confirmation process after due consultation. Kariuki previously served as the executive director of the Social-Economic Rights Foundation (2005 and 2012), Basic Rights Campaign National Coordinator (2002-2005), a programme assistant at the Public Law institute (1998-2001) and counsel at Ombaka and Associates (1998-2001). According to the report, Kariuki also served a consultant at UNICEF, Inter Parliamentary Union, Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya, and Ministry of Planning and Finance as a member of the technical working committee on social development. “He was competitively sourced from among persons interviewed by the County Public Service Board, has been cleared by the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission,KRA, has never been charged in a court of law and does not exhibit a conflict of interest,” reads the report. He takes over from Lebo Morintat who has been holding the position in an acting capacity. Morintat returns to the position of Public Service Managment chief officer that he held during former Governor Evans Kidero' s tenure. Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok said, "He has a lot of experience but let's give him time. As the opposition, he should expect proper oversight from us." Kariobangi South MCA and Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia also lauded the move to appoint Kariuki, saying that his administrative background augured well for the future of the County. “My interest is to see a working Nairobi and with the appointment of the Chief Officers and now the dully appointed County Secretary I am sure we shall move forward as a County,” stated Mbatia. On Tuesday, Sonko forwarded a list of 22 chief officers and and County Attorney nominees to the assembly for vetting and approval. Also Read: Sonko caves in, accepts State House nominee for County Secretary Click here for the latest political news