NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi has defended the planned merger of ANC and his counterpart Moses Wetangula's Ford Kenya party. In an interview with the Star, the ANC leader said their new found relationship with Wetangula is meant to solidify their support base. He said they severed their relationship with ODM' Raila Odinga so as "to build a strong momentum to sustain the push for reforms, good governance and electoral justice." "The coincidence that Wetang’ula and I happen to be Luhya does not qualify the new formation to be called Luhya party." "We are talking about merging two national parties ANC and Ford Kenya," Mudavadi said on Saturday. He spoke after Wetangula on Saturday said that "Mulembe marriage with Raila is officially over and will not be renewed by any means." The senator accused Raila of being a traitor to other NASA principals for "sneaking to meet Uhuru over his own personal issues." Read: Mulembe 'marriage' with you is over, Wetangula tells Raila Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, and his Sports counterpart Rashid Echesa have dismissed the proposed merger. Supporters of the merger and political pundits believe that it will unify the region into a strong voting bloc ahead of the 2022 vote. "The two parties have elected leaders throughout Kenya. The reason for the merger is to take advantage of the numerical strengths of a unified party," he said. Both Lusaka and Wamalwa are jostling to be William Ruto's running mate. Ruto is President Uhuru Kenyatta's heir apparent. Mudavadi said the merger is meant to strengthen the opposition with a view of forming a strong party that can field a single candidate in future polls. He said that those against their plan have a hidden agenda that they must tell Kenyans. "Any time you talk about western uniting for a cause, everyone shouts about ethnicity yet the same is the situation in their own backyard," Mudavadi said. The former Vice President said the Western region is multi-ethnic. It comprises of the dominant Luhya; as well as Teso, Sabaot and Luo communities. "I must state we are not advocating for a Luhya community party. That’s what the forces that want to keep the community in captivity will sell to you." He said Jubilee MPs are not afraid of the new party to be formed after the merger, but a strong voting bloc vote which will be created. Mudavadi said the new voting bloc will create a strong political bargaining power base to push for the interest of masses. He said it is sad that some leaders in western are agents of the said storyline. "And yes, Western is predominantly Luhya. And in Kenya, a party must have a regional base," the ANC boss said. "Unfortunately too, the base is often always ethnic. So, what is wrong if the base of the new outfit is the western region! I think the fear isn't about the ethnic composition." Also read: Luhyas won't be used and dumped again, Bungoma politician says after Weta ditches Raila Click here for the latest political news