President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday urged world leaders to embrace healthy political competition and foster global democracy. He said nations can only achieve their goals if they move away from confrontational politics and endless rivalry, and prioritise the needs of their people. Uhuru said his March 9 truce with opposition leader Raila Odinga was motivated by the need to end confrontational politics and to put the interest of Kenyans first. “We can have opposing views, but still reach bipartisan agreements for the people. My reaching out to Raila and the opposition after the elections must be seen in this context,” Uhuru said. Read: Raila-Uhuru handshake erased poll feud, ended opposition politics Also Read: Uhuru to deliver State of the Nation address on May 2 The handshake was also premised on the realisation the opposition was pushing for issues the Jubilee administration identified with in its quest to deliver its manifesto. They are health, education, peace and stability. “We need one another to deliver,” Uhuru said. Uhuru spoke when he delivered his speech at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, commonly known as Chatham House, in London last evening. He was the first Kenyan President to speak at the institution. On security, Uhuru asked the UK to compliment Kenya’s efforts in trying to restore peace and stability in the region, particularly in Somalia and South Sudan. He said technological advancements had created challenges in dealing with terrorism and urged the UK to help Kenya handle the challenges. The President said terrorism remains a major challenge for the entire world, especially in the new era where extremists employ technology to advance their agenda. “Our friendship needs to respond to enemies of democracy, rather than leave the battlefields and retreat behind walls. We must continue to work together to defeat terrorism groups that threaten much of our people and our countries,” Uhuru said. Read: Brexit to raise bilateral link between Britain and Kenya He asked the UK to use its position in agencies such as the United Nations to fight terrorism and weaponised information. Uhuru noted that insecurity in Africa results to insecurity in the Western world as a result of an influx of refugees to Europe. On trade, the President emphasised the need for the UK to remove trade barriers to make doing business with Kenya a lot easier. He said Kenya has been at the forefront of improving the ease of doing business. Uhuru further emphasised the need for the UK to collaborate with Kenya in creating jobs as a way of fighting poverty. He said there is need for the youth in Kenya and the UK to have access to economic empowerment through entrepreneurship and trade. “London is a global centre of banking and investment. It’s a city that urgently seeks out more investments and opportunities. Kenya and East Africa as a whole is full of energetic people. We need to do more to lower the cultural bureaucratic and communication barriers to that investment,” Uhuru said. More: UK to inject Sh30bn to ease cross-border trade The President told the UK to take advantage of Kenya’s Big Four agenda – Agriculture, Manufacturing, Health care and Affordable Housing. “The Kenyan and British people are marked by their pragmatism. We must marry that sense of practicality, to ambition, optimism and courage to embrace a future that is already here to deliver success.” Uhuru assured Kenyans in the diaspora that plans are being made by the relevant agencies to ensure they participate in the 2022 General Election. On conservation of forests, Uhuru said the government is working on restoring the forest cover without hurting indigenous communities that are native occupants of the ecosystem. He said the concern is mainly with evicting those who have encroached in the forests for economic purposes. “Ours is not to interfere with traditional communities who have live there,” he said. Earlier this year, the government banned logging in effort to conserve the environment. Deputy President William Ruto asked the concerned authorities to take the 90-day ban seriously “since it is not a government PR stunt”. “There will be no logging and felling of trees in gazetted government and community forest for 90 days,” Ruto said. He said Kenya has close to 120,000 plantations with no trees.  Click here for the latest political news