Appeal judges have been given two months ultimatum to deliver delayed judgments totaling to 116 countrywide. Of the 116 delayed judgments 43 are in Nairobi, 67 in Kisumu and 6 in Nyeri appeal courts. These 116 cases were concluded more than a year ago and the judges have not yet delivered their decision. The two months deadline was reached at a meeting between the judges and Chief Justice David Maraga. Appeal court President William Ouko said that the appeal judges agreed to give themselves the two month deadline. Following the meeting Judge Ouko wrote to different presiding judges seeking explanation as to why the judgments delayed. And so far, he says, one judge whom he did not name had sent eight judgments to be delivered. Justice Ouko who spoke to The Star said judges listed bereavement, sickness and spending time in different committees within judiciary as chairman as things that led to delay in delivery of their judgments. Earlier the Chief justice gave directions to all courts that come December all cases that are five years and above be dispensed with. In compliance with the directives by CJ, judge Ouko says, the registrars have already started to sift through the files with an aim of sorting those that fall within the bracket of five years and above. "Registries are going through files to sort those that have taken five years. Once I get the list I will do a crash program. We will work with LSK and we ensure once we start hearing those cases we don’t adjourn at all," said justice Ouko. Justice Ouko who recently got elected to the position of appeal court president promises in his first 100 days to address the issue of infrastructure. For example he says his colleagues don't have convenient toilets whereas their secretaries and research assistants are all cramped up into one small room. "Our secretaries and researchers are squashed in rooms shared by 20 people. We need rooms where they are not overcrowded because they deal with sensitive things like rulings and judgments," he said. Justice Ouko has so far has identified some land in upper hill area which belongs to judiciary for purposes of constructing appeal court complex at an estimated cost of Sh1.2 billion. He has so far asked for Sh100 million next year to start the construction project."We have drawings and we have asked for funds to start construction next year," said the judge in an interview with The Star.