German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and US President Donald Trump were unable to overcome
differences on trade on Friday at a White House meeting where
they nonetheless put on a show of warmth and friendship despite
tensions between the two allies. With Trump poised to impose tariffs on steel soon that will
impact European exports, Merkel said the decision is now in
Trump's hands on whether to grant exemptions to European Union
nations. "The president will decide. That's very clear," Merkel told
a joint news conference with Trump after the US president
complained about the US-European trade imbalance, particularly
in regards to automobiles. "We had an exchange of views. The decision lies with the
president," she said. Merkel also said she could see negotiating a bilateral trade
deal between the EU and the United States, saying the World
Trade Organisation has been unable to deliver multilateral
agreements. Trump said he wanted a "reciprocal" trade relationship with
Germany and other European nations and wanted Germany and other
NATO allies to pay more for the common defense. "We need a reciprocal relationship, which we don't have...
We're working on it and we want to make it more fair and the
chancellor wants to make it more fair," Trump said. After their last White House meeting drew attention when the
two leaders did not shake hands in the Oval Office, Trump made a
point of doing just that, twice, while congratulating the German
chancellor on her recent election win. "We have a really great relationship, and we actually have
had a great relationship right from the beginning, but some
people didn't understand that," Trump said in the Oval Office,
calling Merkel a "very extraordinary woman." MANY DIFFERENCES Merkel acknowledged that it took a while to form a
government after heavy election losses to the far-right, but she
said it was important to her to make her first trip out of
Europe since establishing her administration to Washington. The cautious Merkel has not established a particularly
strong personal rapport with the brash Trump, and the mood of
her one-day working visit contrasted sharply with the tactile
"bromance" between Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron. Chemistry aside, Merkel will try to make more progress than
Macron, who, before heading home after a three-day state visit
to Washington, acknowledged that Trump was likely to pull out of
the multinational Iran nuclear deal. The Iran deal, looming US tariffs on European steel and
aluminium products, a planned Russian gas pipeline running under
the Baltic Sea to Germany, and Berlin's military spending are
issues that divide Merkel and Trump. When asked if Germany was doing enough to reach a NATO
target for member countries to spend 2 per cent of economic
output on defense annually, new US Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo told a news conference in Brussels: "No...(Germany) should meet the goals that they agreed
to...that's the expectation, not only for Germany but for
everyone. We're hopeful that at the NATO summit that every NATO
partner will deliver a credible plan to achieve that goal." Macron made the European position on the Iran nuclear deal
clear ahead of Merkel's visit. On Wednesday, he called on the United States not to abandon
the Iran deal as Western envoys said Britain, France and Germany
were nearing agreeing a package they hope could persuade Trump
to save the pact. This gives Merkel something to
work with. Trump will decide by May 12 whether to revive US sanctions
on Iran. Doing so would be a serious blow to the nuclear deal,
which many Western countries sees as essential for stopping
Tehran developing a nuclear bomb. Click here for the latest political news 