Gor Mahia have been handed a boost in their playing unit after their utility player and Ugandan international Godfrey Walusimbi walked back to the club after a one and half month. Walusimbi had declined to play for the club, protesting payment of his allowances and signing fee arrears hence vowed not to don the clubs colours unless his demands are met. The Ugandan refused to board a plane at the eleventh hour for Caf Champions League return leg match against Esperance at Tunis on March 16 He subsequently missed Kenya Premier League assignments and the historic Confederation Cup triumph against South African side SuperSport United which guaranteed Gor a place in the group stages. In his absence, Kenyan international Wesley Onguso was summoned to man the left flank and the former Sofapaka and Western Stima man proved to be equal to the task. The win against SuperSport, which came with Sh27 million and the return of sports betting firm, SportPesa in the Kenyan football market cooled the financial turmoil at Goras the club signed a three-year deal worth Sh198 million. With money available, the Walusimbi debacle is understood to have been solved and the player has already resumed training as revealed by the team manager, Jolawi Abondo. He also confirmed that injured right-back Karim Nizigiyimana had began light training after sustaining a career wrecking injury in November last year after tearing his Achilles. “I can confirm that Walusimbi is back in the squad after the management solved the money issue. He is an important player to the club and we are happy to have him back ahead of the continentals. However, I am not sure if he is in the coach’s plans for this weekend match against Mathare United. We are also happy that Karim has begun light training though he might take a little bit longer to be fully fit.” Gor have been drawn in Pool ‘D’ of the confederations cup against Rayon Sports of Rwanda, Tanzanian giants Yanga and USM Alger of Algeria. The 16-time Kenyan champions will launch their bid to sail past the group stages against Rayon Sports which is under the tutelage of former AFC Leopards coach Ivan Minaert on May 6 before hosting the Algerian outfit in May 16. K’ogallo will later host Yanga on July 18 before crossing the border for the return match a week later. The final preliminaries will be played on August 19 (home) and 29 (away) against Rayon and Alger respectively.