China warned on
Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter
strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows
through on President Donald Trump's threat to slap tariffs on an
additional $100 billion of Chinese goods. Trump, in light of what he called China's "unfair
retaliation" against earlier US trade actions, had upped the
ante on Thursday by ordering US officials to identify extra
tariffs, escalating a tit-for-tat confrontation with potentially
damaging consequences for the world's two biggest economies. China's Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng, calling the
US action "extremely mistaken" and unjustified, said the spat
was a struggle between unilateralism and multilateralism and
that no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances. "The result of this behaviour is to smash your own foot with
a stone," Gao told a news briefing in Beijing. "If the United
States announces an additional $100 billion list of tariffs,
China has already fully prepared, and will not hesitate to
immediately make a fierce counter strike." The dueling trade threats rattled Wall Street on Friday,
ending a volatile week with major indexes
closing down more than 2 percent on the day. The
dollar also fell, while safe havens such as the Japanese
Yen and gold futures rose. The week started with China imposing $3 billion of tariffs
on US fruits, nuts, wine and pork, and rapidly escalated to
threats that could seriously curtail hundreds of billions of
dollars in trade between the world's two largest economies. While US officials said they were prepared to talk the
issues through with China, there was no clear path to
negotiations. Both Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Trump
economic advisor Larry Kudlow were on television to promote the
idea of talks, with Mnuchin telling CNBC "we are in
communication regularly". Gao's comments came shortly after Trump defended his
proposed tariffs, saying the move might cause "a little pain"
but the United States would be better off in the long run. Asked in an interview with New York radio station WABC about
the effect on US stock markets, Trump said the market has gone
up (since he took office) "so we might lose a little bit of it." "So we may take a hit and you know what, ultimately we're
going to be much stronger for it." Kudlow told Bloomberg Television Trump and America's top
trade official Robert Lighthizer were "thinking about submitting
a list of suggestions to the Chinese." On Wednesday, China unveiled a list of 106 US goods
including soybeans, whiskey, frozen beef and aircraft targeted
for tariffs, just hours after the Trump administration proposed
duties on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport
and medical products. Washington called for its initial $50 billion in extra
duties after it said an investigation had determined Chinese
government policies are designed to transfer US intellectual
property to Chinese companies and allow them to seize leadership
in key high-technology industries of the future. China said it was not afraid of a trade war, even though it
did not seek one, and accused the United States of provoking the
conflict. Gao said comments from US officials about ongoing
talks about trade issues were incorrect. "Under these conditions, the two sides cannot conduct any
negotiations on this issue," Gao said, without elaborating. Kudlow, who has repeatedly sought to soothe markets with
mention of possible talks, told Bloomberg Television there were
always ongoing bilateral discussions on trade but that
negotiations on tariffs had not begun. Seeking to tamp down alarm, he told reporters outside the
White House, "so nothing's happened. Nothing's been executed ...
There's no 'there' there yet, but there will be." CHINA'S ROLE While Beijing calls Washington the aggressor and says it is
spurring global protectionism, China's trading partners have
complained for years that it abuses World Trade Organization
rules and propagates unfair policies that lock foreign firms out
of some sectors. China has promised repeatedly to open up
sectors such as financial services. President Xi Jinping is expected to unveil reform measures
next week and his country's opening up while attending the Boao
Forum, China's equivalent of Davos, in the southern island
province of Hainan. So far, US information technology products from mobile
phones to personal computers have largely escaped the ire of
Beijing, as well as telecoms equipment and aircraft larger than
the equivalent of a Boeing 737. Among sectors most affected by a trade war could be
technology, particularly chipmakers. The U.S. semiconductor
industry relies on China for about a quarter of its revenue. It also remains to be seen if the dispute would trigger a
nationalistic backlash. When ties between Beijing and Seoul
chilled, Chinese tourism to South Korea plummeted and Chinese
consumers shunned Made-in-South-Korea products. On Chinese social media on Friday, among the most searched
phrases were "China hasn't grown up afraid" and "China will
follow through to the end." The China Chamber of International Commerce said the Chinese
business community would firmly support government efforts to
counter "irrational and erroneous" U.S. words and actions, the
official Xinhua news agency reported, and urged Washington not
to go "further and further down the wrong path." DAMAGING CONSEQUENCES Analysts at Oxford Economics, referring to the fact that
the tariffs are not yet in effect, said in a note to clients
that, "Importantly, these threatened tariffs will be subject to
negotiation, and therefore shouldn't be considered as final." However it added a full-blown trade war "would have a more
pronounced effect. The US and China would suffer significant
slowdown in real GDP growth – a cumulative loss around 1.0
percentage point." It cut global economic growth to 2.5 percent
in 2019 from 3.0 percent in its baseline scenario. "This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have
warned against from the start," said National Retail Federation
President and CEO Matthew Shay. "We are on a dangerous downward spiral and American families
will be on the losing end," Shay added in a statement, urging
Trump "to stop playing a game of chicken with the US economy." 