Farmers have been urged to consult agricultural offices for advise on the right pesticides to control armyworms. The pest have invaded farms in the North Rift. Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur yesterday confirmed
the armyworm invasion, saying there is little the government can do. “The
pest is here with us and like they say in Brazil, the armyworm
invasion is like a marriage which has no divorce because it is very
difficult to get rid of it," Tuimur told the Star. "For now, all we can do is find short term
ways and means of controlling it. It should not go beyond the acceptable levels of
less than five per cent." “Spraying should be done at
night or very early in the morning,” Tuimur said. Kenya will borrow from Brazil on the use of biological control to deal with the armyworm. A
team of technical officers from the Agriculture ministry
visited Brazil last month to learn how to
control the pest. Brazil has been able to control armyworms for the last two decades. “Brazil has discouraged the use of pesticides because they
are expensive and have negative effects on the environment. They are now using the biological control method where they introduced
other insects to kill the worm at the larvae stage,” Tuimur said. The
ministry, through the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research
Organisation, will work on the method to
control the armyworm. “This is a long-term solution. We may be able to use it next year if the researchers manage to develop the method," Tuimur said. "It has been effective in Brazil and I believe it can also
work in Kenya.” The ministry has dispatched officers to the counties
to advise on how to control the pest using mixtures of pesticides. "Even though spraying of
chemical is expensive, we do not have another way out," Tuimur said. Last
year, the government said more than 800,000
hectares in Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Kericho, Nandi, Bomet, Narok,
West Pokot, Baringo, Nakuru, Bungoma, Busia, Kisumu, Siaya, Kwale and
Central Kenya counties were affected by the worm. The invasion led to a 30
per cent reduction in production.