Violent extremism through al-Shabaab is increasing its foothold in Kwale, as youths continue to be recruited and taken to Somalia by the terror group. County commissioner Karuku Ngumo says there are still youths in Somalia. There region is known to host a number of al-Shabaab returnees, with the whereabouts of others still unknown. Families in Kwale have lived in misery and frustration for years, searching their sons and fathers, who got lost mysteriously but are suspected to have joined the militant group in Somalia. Many have searched in vain and the authorities usually tell the families that their children are likely to have joined al-Shabaab, hoping to earn huge sums of money , which they can send back home and help their families. What saddens Damaris Limba is the whereabouts of her husband, who got lost in February 2014 and has not contacted his family since then. The family of Hamisi Likungu lost their son, Salim Likungu, to what police say to be the lure of al-Shabbab. Salim is said to have been kidnapped by unknown people at Ibiza town in Ukunda, Kwale County, when he was going for lunch after working at his workshop. Salim, 42, left two wives and eight children when he was seen forced into a probox by his employees. Limba, the second wife, had just left him after a short visit to the workshop. “He had asked me to have lunch with him but since I had left my children at home, I decided to take my lunch when I returned. I never knew that would be my goodbye,” she said. The wife said Salim was not a very religious person and he had few friends. She added that he was a hardworking man, who took care of his polygamous family without any financial problems, wondering why he could have joined al-Shabaab. “The government says my husband crossed over to Somalia willingly and was not kidnapped. But why hasn’t he communicated back home for four years now?” Limba, 34, posed. She said the mystical disappearance of her husband could be a plot by jealous people who set him up as her family was abandoned and no extra efforts were made in finding him. She says she has been to Diani, Kwale, Shimo la Tewa, Uhuru na Kazi and Urban police stations but she couldn't find him. “We wanted to pursue the case further but the relatives said going to Nairobi to pursue it might expose his siblings and father which could endanger their lives,” Limba said bitterly. Speaking to the Star at her home village in Kinarini, Kwale, where she had gone for her holiday, Limba said she has now lost hope of ever seeing her husband after four years of intensive searching. “He left when I was six months pregnant with our youngest son. I have now lost hope of ever seeing him again and I can’t even remarry because of the trauma I went through,” she said. Her children have been asking about their father’s whereabouts, to which she doesn't have an answer. “I have been left with nothing for my children to inherit: The house he built me leaks when it rains. I depend on my vegetable vending business to take care of our three children,” she said. This was different to the family of late Subira Sudi, who was murdered in cold blood after he allegedly surrendered to the authorities after coming from Somalia at the government issued an amnesty to the returnees. Mama Shafi (not her real name) said her husband was among three eleders who were killed by suspected al-Shabaab militants for being alleged to have been passing information to the police. She has now relocated from Shamu village to Likoni, where she is operating a hotel business. But life has not been the same to these families. Anytime an attack occurs in the area, their houses are always searched or broken into by police supposedly to search for firearms hidden by the returnees. “In the recent attacks, we were visited by security teams and my neighbours were beaten so badly. I wished my husband was around,” Limba said. Hundreds of returnees are believed to be in neighbouring Tanzania after a police crackdown was launched in the area. Ngumo confirmed there are al-Shabbab returnees in the county, with some youths still being recruited to join the group in Somalia. Ngumo asked parents to ask their children to come back home, as the government's amnesty is still open to returnees. “The returnees can come back to us through religious leaders and we can help them reform. We have helped many of them so far,” Ngumo said. Ngumo told the Star that intelligence reports indicate there are still al-shabbab recruits in the county and have been in some instances been using youths in causing havoc and attacks. A senior leader in Kwale, who refused to be mentioned for personal reasons said the returnees are afraid of surrendering to the government as they have seen leaving examples of their colleagues who have been killed after exposing themselves. He asked the government to ensure the amnesty is done in an official way which will make an effect to the returnees saying the original one was nothing but a press statement issued by the Minister for Interior and Coordination of National government. “There was no evidence that the amnesty was backed by a police framework, gazette notice or legislation and as such, it was not taken seriously by the community and the governments’ departments that were to implement it. Amnesty for the al-Shabaab returnees is not a simple thing,” said the source. Bongwe Gombato area in Ukunda is among the hotspot areas where it is said to host many al-shabaab returnees and recruits. Muslim clerics interviewed by the Star said the group is increasing its stranglehold on Kwale as locals have low education levels on Islam. A research by Human Rights for Development Agenda group in Kwale said 42 per cent of the Muslim population does not understand the teachings of Islam. “The majority of Muslims cannot recite a prayer in Arabic, which some selfish imams take advantage of and lure them into radicalization,” the 2016 report by HUDA indicated. Chairman of the National Sheikh Kassim Banda said al-Shabaab take advantage of poverty and low education on the Islamic doctrine and lure youths into joining the group. In a bid to fight radicalization among youth in the region, several empowerment programmes have been initiated in the county to counter violent extremism. Kenya Red Cross Society has so far recruited 412 youth who have been encouraged to form groups and then supported through their proposed livelihoods options.