A senior Bungoma county doctor has been dragged to court after he declined to bury his wife. The body has been abandoned at the Moi Referral Hospital mortuary for the past three weeks. But seething mother-in-law Gladys Chai, unable to stomach her anger any longer, has now dashed to court to compel Dr Patrick Wambisi to take responsibility and bury his wife. The doctor’s wife died three weeks ago, but efforts to have him bury Florence Chai’s body have all failed. The in-laws having failed to persuade the Webuye subcounty boss, have decided the law could come to their rescue. “We have no option, but to seek legal redress since Chai was married under customary law and the bride price was paid,” lawyer Geoffrey Okara said. Gladys filed the case before principal magistrate Harrison Barasa, who ordered both parties submit relevant documents and evidence before the matter is mentioned on April 30. Wambisi was in court. He accepted the order from the magistrate and said he is ready to explain why he does not want to bury Florence. The doctor said in the course of their marriage, he learnt Florence had a previous marriage which collapsed. He is worried burying the body may spark off lengthy and costly court battles with the first husband. “There are other reasons why I will not take the body for burial, but I will file the details in court,” he said. He has significant reasons why he is not ready to obey the wishes of his in-laws. “Only the court will decide if the burial will proceed. I will share the details either in the chambers or publicly,” he said. Gladys told court Florence was married to Wambisi in 1998 and dowry was paid according to Luhya customs. She wondered why Wambisi is claiming Florence was married to someone else and so will not bury her according to tradition. “We fail to understand why our in-law has disowned his wife. They even have three children,” Gladys said. The mother-in-law spent cash, though she did not make the figure public, to treat her daughter after Wambisi refused to settle medical bills.