KDF troops have been deployed to areas affected by floods as heavy rains continue to pound various parts of the country. A team of Kenya Airforce personnel rescued 175 people who were marooned by floodwaters in Garashi, Kilifi county. The floods hit the village after River Sabaki, which stretches from Athi River, broke its banks on Thursday night. About 3,000 people in Kakuyuni, Garashi, and Sabaki wards were rendered homeless and are appealing for aid. In a statement, KAF said it will continue to assist and cooperate with other authorities in situations of emergency and disaster. On Thursday, the troops alongside Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and the Kenya Red Cross evacuated 65 people from Mbogolo. Kenya Red Cross has put the number of those affected in Kilifi to over 18,000. Tana River Woman Representative Rehema Hassan has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to
declare floods as a national disaster. She said there is
urgent need for more logistical support to be provided to reach out to those
who have been marooned by the waters. "Once floods are declared national disaster, the
international community and well-wishers shall come in to support the victims
in the country." The county MP spoke at Witta Omara and Mwangaza
villages of Hola town where she oversaw the distribution of Kenya Red Cross rations to about 100 families. Read: Deforestation: Met warns Kilifi of severe drought Also read: Kilifi leaders ask for relief food despite rains The search and
rescue operation was conducted in other parts of the Coast region where the troops distributed food and food items to the displaced persons. Troops from the Kenya Navy were also involved. Coast Regional
police commandant Noah Mwivanda told the press at the regional
police headquarters that no deaths have been recorded so far. He
said areas of Tana Delta, Gamba, Garsen, Wema, Panda Nguo, Galana Kulala
and Sabaki ward are among the worst hit. "Kilifi is the worst hit as over
70 per cent of the landmass is flooded.  Police and military choppers
have been handy in the evacuation," Mwivanda said. The heavy rains have also destroyed  Garsen-Garissa road. "We
are still appealing to the residents to heed to meteorological and
security advise to relocate to safer grounds as we continue to monitor
the situation," he added. Mwivanda said Kiambere dam has also
complicated the flooding situation after it overflowed on Tuesday
displacing residents in lower Tana River. The dam, which is part of Tana's seven Forks, rose by 1.6 metres since Monday. Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) says the water rose above the maximum design level of 700 metres above sea level The
operation continued amid the Kenya Meteorological Department's warning of more long rains. The showers have
so far left behind a trail of destruction, and deaths in various parts
of the country. Elsewhere, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana formed a committee
to coordinate flood emergency responses in the county. The county boss cut short his stay at the 5th devolution conference in
Kakamega to address the disaster. He dispatched a team
of executive committee members to various sub-counties to assess the
damage and interventions required to restore normalcy. So
far, 24 dams across the county have been breached and washed away
resulting into a serious water challenges. Boreholes, water pumps, water
pipelines and kiosks have also been damaged leaving the affected
residents with no clean water. The county estimated the losses following the flooding situation to be more than Sh300 million. "I have personally witnessed
acres of crop that have been flattened, uprooted water pipelines and pumps," Kibwana said at Nguu ward during a tour of the affected areas. He said at least Sh2 billion will be required to restore normalcy across all affected sectors in the entire county. Read: Mother and daughter die after Makueni dam overflows Related: Uhuru, Kalonzo mourn dedicated cop who drowned in Makueni Reporting by Lillian Mutavi, Calvins Onsarigo and Alphonce Gari Click here for the latest political news 