Gor Mahia capped a perfect week by moving to the top of the Kenyan Premier League table after they twice coming from behind to beat struggling Thika United 5-2 in Machakos yesterday.
There has been no love lost between the two sides since Thika famously denied Gor the title six years ago and have since taken on the pantomime villain role in the eyes of the K’Ogalo fans with glee.
And just ten minutes into the match, they looked to continue down the destroyers path when Eugene Mukangula gave them the lead to stun the partisan crowd.
Thika frustrated the Gor attackers led by Jacques Tuyisnge and Ephraim Guikan for much of the first half but a momentary lapse in concentration allowed Guikan to fire in the leveler on the stroke of half-time.
Having felt the full force of Thika determination, it was expected that the champions would look to move up a gear and take all three points but it was Thika who struck again with an hour played as Ernest Mata shot past Shaban Odhonji to put the visitors in front yet again. This time, though Gor hit back almost immediately with Owiny deflecting the ball into his net when trying to deal with a Samule Onyango shot.
With 13 minutes to go, K’Ogallo took the lead for the first time when Samuel Onayngo  thunderd a shot past Alana Owiny. Having gone behind, Thika lost their heads and conceded twice in the final three minutes with Meddie Kagere and Francis Kahata on target.
Gor are now two points clear at the top with 25 points after Mathare United suffered a second successive defeat after losing 1-0 to unfancied Wazito
Earlier, Ulinzi Stars came from behind to defeat basement club Nakumatt 3-2. Nakumatt were the first to score through Brian Nyakana but Elvis Nandwa leveled for the soldiers midway through the first half. The second half was a tale of three penalites as Oliver Wamalwa netted from the spot after Cliff Kasuti was brought down in the box 20 minutes to time. Nakumatt leveled in the 87th minute after a handball from Mohammed Hassan gave Donald Mopsit a chance from the spot. The drama went into the final minute as Wamalwa netted his second penalty.