The Kenya Medical Supplies Agency was taken to task yesterday to explain why it has continued to engage services of a law firm to secure land titles. Members of the National Assembly’s Public Investment committee told Kemsa to consider terminating the services of KTK Advocates. They pressed acting CEO Fredrick Wanyonyi to explain why the institution has failed to secure the title deeds of the prime plots, despite being awarded letters of allotment and leases 10 years ago. The committee grilled him over the Auditor General’s 2012-13 report. Kemsa hired the law firm KTK in 2013 to help process and get the title deeds. Read Also: Kemsa to end repackaging and sale of donated medicine Wanyonyi said KTK has only managed to deliver two title deeds for the Kemsa depots in Embakasi, Nairobi, and another located in Nakuru. The firm has already been paid Sh2 million. The payment varied depending on the location and valuation of land. Wanyonyi added that he is also concerned about the slow pace and he will propose a review of the contract. He blamed the delay on the manual system at the Lands ministry. “We want this committee to step in and help us. This problem of title deeds is not only faced by Kemsa, but also other parastatals. It is frustrating. Today you get a file containing your documents, the next day the file is missing,” he told the committee chaired by Mvita MP Abdullswammad Nassir. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his report said the medical agency had no title deeds for its depots in Meru, Embakasi, Kisumu, Garisssa, Kakamega, Nyeri, Mombasa and Nakuru. Nassir accused KTK of not doing enough to help Kemsa. He wants the contract reviewed immediately. “We need all the documents on how this law firm was procured and the amount of money it has been paid. It is not possible that since 2013 only two title deeds have been delivered,” he said. The tough-talking Nassir pinned down Wanyonyi who was accompanied by other senior officers to explain why they failed  to engage the Health ministry. “It cannot be that in the whole country, it’s only title deeds of Kemsa that are missing. It is clear there is also lack of enthusiasm and commitment from Kemsa,” he said. Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh blamed Kemsa for hiring a firm that has not delivered to the expectation. He questioned if clauses in the contract allow termination. “You can’t just enter into an open-ended contract that the firm will forever be in service. The challenge of acquiring title deeds lies with the lawyer it hired,” he said.  Click here for the latest political news