One clinical officer at Nakuru Level 5 Hospital serves more than 100 patients a day, as opposed to the recommended 20-30 patients. Medical Superintendent Dr Joseph Mburu yesterday said shortage of medics and health workers has undermined services. The hospital serves more than 1,800 patients a day from Nakuru and neighbouring counties. The shortage has resulted in medics and health workers being overworked, hence, compromising the quality of services. Problems of congestion have also plagued the facility. Because of the staff shortage, outpatients spend long hours in queue waiting to be attended to. “However, we want to ensure that shortage of staff will not hinder delivery in collaboration with other stakeholders,” he said. The hospital is receiving a Sh330 million upgrade. In Mid-March, it received a Sh4 million dialysis machine from the Safaricom Foundation. Mburu, who has served at the hospital for four months, also said a modern, one-stop maternity wing will be opened in July. It is 90 per cent complete and will reduce overcrowding. The maternity wing, where 30-40 newborns are delivered daily, is stretched beyond its capacity. This forces pregnant mothers to share beds. “Our maternity wing has a total bed capacity of 500 but as we speak, there are 700 mothers occupying the ward. We want to correct this as soon as possible,” Mburu said. “The new wing will reduce pressure on the current ward but we are also focusing on enhancing services,” he said. “We are committed to ensure women who seek services at our maternity wing are given the best and most comfortable service,” Mburu said. The hospital will also digitise its 10-year-old manual records system make operations more efficient. It will also address problems of non-productive staff. Customer care agents have been introduced to guide patients seeking services and to answer their questions. “I have placed my contacts in most of departments for easy sorting of issues. Patients or their relatives can contact me directly if they have an issue with our service delivery mechanism,” Mburu said. He called on the general public and residents of Nakuru county to support the facility an provide information and suggestions to help improve services. In March, Nakuru Governor, Lee Kinyanjui said it would hire 200 nurses to address the shortage.