A group of teachers who moved to court to have Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion removed from office yesterday told court they have been receiving threats. They said unknown people have been threatening them for filing the suit. The teachers suspect Sossion and the Kenya National Union of Teachers are behind the threats. The primary school teachers, through Akello Advocates, accused Sossion and Knut of intentionally delaying the course of justice by failing to respond to their suit. They asked the court to hear the case expeditiously to protect their fundamental rights and freedoms. When the matter came up for mention yesterday, Sossion and Knut, through their lawyers, sought adjournment. They are yet to respond to the suit. continued stay hurts union? Sossion told Employment and Labour Relations Court Judge Onesmus Makau there was a similar matter to the petition and requested that the two be consolidated. Justice Makau directed the case be mentioned on Thursday for further directions. In their suit papers, Kenneth Bande, James Kung’u, Gladys Andambi and Lucas Oluoch accuse Sossion of illegally holding two fulltime jobs. Sossion was nominated to the National Assembly by ODM after last year’s General Election. They say his continued stay at the helm of the teachers’ union is killing the once-vibrant voice. divided loyalty The petitioners say the secretary general position is crucial and a person “with divided loyalty” is not fit to hold it. “If he is allowed to continue holding the two fulltime jobs, we who pay monthly subscriptions are likely to suffer irreparable damage,” Gladys Andambi says in court documents. Being fully paid-up members of Knut, teachers are entitled to fair representation, especially by the union officials, they say. The teachers say Sossion is barred from holding parallel gainful employment because he is a state officer. They said Sossion’s attention is divided, considering his parliamentary duties, and cannot fully discharge his Knut roles. The teachers argue that their rights to effective representation have been compromised. Sossion has diminished capacity and this grossly violates Section 26-1 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, they said. The petitioners want the court to stop further violation of the Constitution and to ensure teachers’ rights are protected.