Lake Region Economic Bloc member counties yesterday received a financial boost after the Ford Foundation pumped in Sh18 million to strengthen the secretariat. The funds will also be used to operationalise the pillar committees of the bloc. Ford Foundation regional director Maurice Makoloo yesterday said the group has previously given the bloc Sh25million. “We are committed to continuing to support the LREB to realise its various development agenda aimed at improving the livelihoods of residents of the bloc,” Makoloo said during the meeting between the bloc summit members and the foundation in Kisumu. Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Anyang Nyong’o (Kisumu), Joyce Laboso (Bomet), Stephen Sang (Nandi), Okoth Obado (Migori), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), James Ongwae (Kisii) and Paul Chepkwony (Kericho) were present.  FOCUS ON ICT, HEALTH Oparanya, who is the bloc chairman, thanked the foundation for its support. “The Ford foundation has been a critical partner in our integration processes and played a key role in developing our economic blueprint,” he said. Oparanya said member counties are committed to leveraging economies of scale in the lake region - including shared resources such as Lake Victoria - to improve the lives of residents. Member counties are Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Bomet, Kericho, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga and Busia. Among the developing key areas being pursued by the bloc are infrastructure, ICT, health, tourism, education, agriculture and financial services. Others include developing regional centres for excellence, promoting inter county comittees and facilitating access to wider markets nationally, regionally and internationally. During the meeting, the member counties resolved to organise awareness programmes for the respective LREB county assemblies on the bloc legal instruments. “The counties have also agreed to second staff to the secretariat to aid the running of the programmes and objectives,” Oparanya said.