Governors are concerned implementation of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda may be hampered by lack of active involvement of county governments. The county chiefs are pushing for a central coordinating organ to address the gaps. It will bring together representatives from the county and national government who will be tasked to integrate the devolved units’ development agenda and that of the Big Four. The Big Four agenda forms the bedrock of Uhuru’s legacy. It involves food security, affordable housing, universal healthcare and manufacturing. Read: Uhuru's Big Four agenda facing opposition in NASA counties As the 5th National Devolution Conference gets underway in Kakamega from Monday next week, governors hope the national government will move swiftly to bridge the financing gaps. Kakamaga Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who chairs the Finance Committee of the Council of Governors, yesterday emphasised governors need to be adequately prepared before the President’s grand projects are rolled out. Finances not provided He said the current budget does not provide for resources for the Big Four agenda. Oparanya urged the national government to explain to governors the financing model during the conference. In the Division of Revenue Bill 2018, there is no proper mechanism for enacting Uhuru’s  agenda in the counties, he said. “We are doing the first quarter of the 2018/19 financial year and there is no clear indication the Big Four agenda is being addressed inthe counties,” Oparanya said. Read: The Big Four are the biggest pledges since Independence His remarks come on the backdrop of concerns that Jubilee’s ambitious plan lead to duplication. Most of the items are devolved. If there is no deliberate effort to have proper coordination, it will result in chaos and confusion in the counties, Oparanya said. The theme of the devolution conference – Sustainable, productive, effective and efficient governments for results delivery – has been crafted to enable the two levels of government to integrate the Big Four agenda. President Uhuru who will officially open the conference on Tuesday next week at Kakamega High School. Details: Big Four agenda mid-income economy  Click here for the latest political news