A Kenyan journalist, who had flown to India for a bone marrow transplant, is stranded at Apollo Hospital due to lack of Sh8 million for treatment and other expenses. Dennis Omondi, a 31-year-old West Media photojournalist, was diagnosed with acute leukemia (cancer of the body's blood-forming tissues) at Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi on January 10. Since then, life has not been the same for him and his family. The young father underwent several blood transfusions at KNH and was to fly to South Africa at a cost of Sh12 million for treatment. He opted for Apollo, as the costs were cheaper, and travelled in February. Omondi told the Star that he had tried in vain to get help from President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. By March 31, he had spent Sh1.7 million and had an outstanding balance of Sh800,000. "I have undergone the first chemotherapy. I have two steps remaining. The second therapy costs Sh2 million while the bone marrow transplant costs Sh3.5 million," he said. "The hospital however says I should have about Sh7.5 million and the bills are likely to rise bearing in mind that they have kept me here for the last four weeks with charges."  'Omosh' is a father of one and his wife will deliver their second child in may. He says his father died in 1997, forcing their mother to move to their Butula home in Busia county. "After my dad's death, my two sisters followed. One died shortly after and another in 2013," he said, adding he is the only one with a white collar job. He has four brothers. “Kenyans, I’m saddened. I have been in Apollo Hospital for more than three weeks without treatment. I have made appeals to all government institutions, non-governmental organisations, and the public but I’m yet to receive enough money to resume medication,” he said in a video posted on his social media platforms. "My state of health is deteriorating. I am appealing for help from all Kenyans so that I can continue with my medication. I am admitted at a hospital with all the facilities I need but I can only be treated if I have [at least] Sh6.5 million. "For more than three weeks, the hospital has abandoned me. I have to pay a debt of Sh1.5 million and another Sh6.5 million to resume medication. Please hear my appeal and come to my aid." Omondi hopes he will recover and reunite with his family. "I am missing my family. I know my wife is strong and will give us our second child. I can't wait to see them when I get back. I m grateful to the media and friends who have stood with me." To send donations, use M-Pesa pay bill number 138182, account number 1222903350 or KCB Milimani Branch, account name Dennis Musindi, account number 1222903350 Read: Journalist Dennis Omondi seeks Sh12 million help for bone marrow transplant Click here for the latest political news