Poor management of Mama Lucy hospital has returned to haunt medical superintendent Musa Mohamed who has been nominated for position of chief officer. Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Mwangi, in whose constituency the hospital is located, has opposed Mohamed’s nomination. In a letter to Governor Mike Sonko dated April, he called for the revocation of the nomination. The MP says he is unfit to hold the position. Mohamed is among 22 individuals Sonko nominated as chief officers. He forwarded the names to the assembly for vetting and approval. He was nominated as Medical Services chief officer - an equivalent of a Principal Secretary in the national government. “I wish to express dissatisfaction with the way he has managed the hospital leading to a big outcry from my constituents and Kenyans at large. There many complains including deaths. Find someone else competent for the position,” Mwangi said. But Mohamed, who will be vetted by the Health Committee on Tuesday, has defended himself. He said the hospital has improved significantly since he took charge five years ago. “I served as a consultant in Marsabit for three years. I was also in Garissa for three years and there were no complaints. At Mama Lucy, the number of patients going to the facility medical care and deliveries have improved,” he said on the phone yesterday. Mohamed’s tenure at Mama Lucy Hospital has been marked infant deaths, staff negligence and perennial lack of medicines and other essential medical supplies. Doctors and the hospital were on the spot in February 2016 when a mother was forced to carry her dead baby for six hours while waiting for a mortuary attendant who was reportedly “stuck in a traffic jam”. Three-month-old Dominic Otieno died at the hospital after waiting for five hours for an ambulance to be taken to Kenyatta National Hospital sparking a public outcry. He had meningitis complications. Although the administration of former Governor Evans Kidero cleared the facility of negligence following a probe, the incident hangs over Mohamed’s appointment to the plum job.tors in the next three months. In January, residents complained to Sonko about lack of professionalism by staff, negligence, and the long wait for treatment. “Nurses are very rude and slow, especially in the maternity section,” resident Lynne Wosoh said. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his 2015-16 audit report, revealed Sh907, 704 drugs were transferred from the hospital on various dates did not reach intended pharmacies. ”The stock control cards for the drugs specified had no matching entries to confirm receipt by the reported recipients,” reads the report in part. Ouko also faulted the hospital for failing to keep cash book and bank statements to authenticate Sh32.2 million it claimed was in its accounts as at the end of the financial year.