The Ministry of Information Communication and Technology has lost Sh500 million in the new supplementary budget. The cash was meant for President Kenyatta’s much talked about computer to schools. The money has been re-allocated to Konza Complex. Another Sh50 million has been slashed from the ministry to fund Konza Technopolis Development Authority. The committee on Budget and Appropriations chaired by Kikuyu legislator Kimani Ichung’wa also slashed Sh146 million from policing services programme. The money was channelled towards population management services — all within the Interior ministry. National Treasury was not spared in the cuts as Sh69.8 million was reallocated to the department of East African Integration to cater for salaries, operations and maintenance. Read : Laptops to be updated with new content Another Sh300 million has been slashed from the Treasury to fund coordination of National Government administrative services in the counties. Some Sh112 million has been reallocated within the department of Natural Resources, from the green school programme to farm and dry land forest development for model nurseries. The House agreed with the committee and quashed Sh500 million from the National Youth Service meant for commuter buses under the recent Operation Okoa Abiria initiative. The committee had reservations on the hurried introduction of the NYS buses without a feasibility study. The team said the objectives of the project are unclear, whether the buses are commercial or for providing community services and whether it is a function of the national or county government. The MPs said under Schedule Four of the Constitution, the provision of transport is a function of the county and should not be undertaken by the NYS. The committee channelled the Treasury’s Sh150 million to the Judiciary to settle pending bills arising from construction of courts. The MPs asked Treasury CS Henry Rotich to provide the unspent Sh57 million to the Judiciary. The money was allocated to it through external funding from the Ford Foundation. “This will reduce possible escalation of pending bills from completed projects, possible litigations, penalties and fines,” the committee said. The lawmakers recommended slashing Sh416 from Galana Kulalu irrigation scheme, Sh1.8 billion from the National Expanded Irrigation Programme and Sh1 billion from Thwake Dam. The cuts were informed by the Irrigation department’s inability to spend the allocated funds before June which is the end of the financial year. The committee members said it is necessary to conduct a special audit of the Galana Kulalu project before additional funds are allocated. “Despite the massive injection of funds, its achievement was minimal,” the committee said. Some Sh540 million has been allocated to the department of Crops Development and Management to fight the armyworm menace. The funds will be spent on chemicals, sprayers and related equipment. It will also be used to purchase protection equipment and enhanced sensitisation and publicity. Click here for the latest political news