DP William Ruto has directed the ministries of agriculture and ICT to
register all the 2.5 million farmers in the country in a bid to deal with what
he termed as cartels and brokers who have taken control of agriculture sector. The registration will start next week and Ruto said all details concerning
the farmers will be used to identify those who are genuine to benefit from
government subsidy programmes. He said the government does not have money to pay brokers and conmen who
fleece farmers. “With data on the farmers we will be able to plan well for the subsidized farm
inputs and also payments when farmers deliver their produce to NCPB”, said Ruto He also directed treasury to pay maize farmers sh 2 Billion which is part of
money owed to them at the NCPB. Ruto complained that brokers and some farmers had teamed up to import maize
from Uganda and Tanzania then sell it to the NCPB. He said the government last used sh 3.5 Billion to buy maize last year. This year he said the government had bought 3.5 million bags of maize and
half of it was imported by the traders who were now busy organizing
demonstrations against the government to demand payments. “We have never paid farmers in the
history of NCPB the amount of sh 7 Billion so far given to farmers”, he said. He said the NCPB was in a crisis because of the brokers who had imported
maize and flooded the same at NCPB stores. The importers have been buying the
maize at less than sh 1,800 per 90 kg bag and selling the same to the NCPB at
sh 3,200. He was speaking in Uasin Gishu County at the thanksgiving service for Trade
PS Dr Chris Kiptoo at Moiben. Present also were Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok,
Finance CS Henry Rotich, Senators Kipchumba Murkomen, Harun Cheruiyot and
Margaret Kamar and Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut, area MP Sila Tiren among
others. Also present were governors Alex Tolgos and Stanley Kiptis. Murkomen claimed that one of the traders from Moiben had teamed up with
politicians and imported 90,000 bags of maize to sell to the NCPB. “We said the jubilee government is for delivering and not empty talk” said
Ruto. He said the government was tamarcking more than 400 kilometers of roads in
is Uasin Gishu to ensure residents enjoy better transport. The DP said 30,000 elders in the county would benefit from monthly stipends
under the cash transfer prgramme and they would also be enrolled under the NHIF
so that they benefit from improved healthcare. “In five years every household will be under the NHIF programme so that all
Kenyans enjoy government sponsored healthcare”, said DP Ruto. He said as from Thursday the second phase of the last mile electrification
project would be launched at a cost of Sh 15 Billion.  