One girl has died, three children are missing and more than 700 families in Nyatike subcounty have been displaced by flash floods. Conjestina Achieng, 11, drowned in the raging waters. Her body was recovered on Thursday. Residents have called for help as they intensified search for the three missing children, who were also swept away by floods in Kanyasa. The displaced have found refuge in schools, hospital compounds and churches. The worst-hit areas are Kabuto, Nyora, Angugo and Modi of North Kadem ward. About 150 families camp at Nyora Primary School. They have appealed for clean water, tents and food. Several homesteads and farms have been submerged. Livestock were swept away after Migori and Kuja rivers burst their banks and overflew dykes. “I was sleeping in my house when I was woken up by chicken sounds. When I got out of bed, I stepped into knee-deep floodwaters. It was around midnight,” Jane Achieng from Modi village said yesterday. She said before long, more than 200 homes in Modi were flooded. “We’ve never been affected by floods. The drainage towards Lake Victoria has been blocked and this caused water from the highlands to flow into our village. The village has turned into a mini lake,” Achieng’ said. Alfred Ageke incurred huge losses when her three acres of maize and beans and five goats were swept away. On Thursday, some residents ferrying the body of their relative for burial had to use a boat to navigate the floods from Sori town. They then carried the coffin on their shoulders over a muddy area to reach home. “The flood has made roads impassable. No vehicle could reach the homestead. Our roads are ruined,” resident Joseph Aludo said. The retired teacher urged the government to act swiftly and complete the Sh5.4 billion irrigation project to control floods. The Lower Kuja Irrigation Scheme was launched four years ago by the National Irrigation Board. It covers more than 22,938 acres. This week, local leaders plan to distribute food to victims. “We have called on residents to move to higher grounds. We will push for the completion of the irrigation project and building of dykes,” Kanyasa MCA Jackiepol Ongoro said. County leaders meet today to chat the way forward. “From Monday, we will put in place the amount needed to mitigate against drought and roll out a programme for that,” county disaster management officer Joshua Ngwala said.