Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company has lost more than Sh1 billion to illegal water connections and leakages in 2016-17, an audit report has revealed. Auditor General Edward Ouko, in his report on the financial statements of the water company, says out of 181,363,932 cubic metres the firm produced during the year, only 112,787,621 cubic metres ( 62 per cent) was billed to customers, earning the firm Sh5.1 billion. The remaining 38 per cent of the supply was non-revenue water. The water wasted is above the allowable loss of 25 per cent according to the Water Services Regulatory Board guidelines. “The excess non-revenue water of 13 per cent may have resulted in the loss of revenue estimated at Sh1,044,873, 270,” Ouko said in the report. Cartels running water points, especially in slums and old pipes that frequently burst, have been blamed for the loss and water shortage. City residents, especially those living in slums and Eastlands, go for days or even weeks without water. They buy from hawkers who get the commodity from the cartels running water points. Water rationing looms as the reservoirs holding the city’s supplies continue to drop. The Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company now pegs its hopes on the April long rains. Acting MD Nahashon Muguna said Thika dam’s storage stood at 34 million cubic metres, representing 49 per cent of its full capacity. “Today, we are supplying the city with 505,000 cubic metres of water a day, against a demand of 760,000 cubic metres a day,” Muguna said in January. He added that due to the water supplied to the city being lower than the demand, they are forced to ration through the equitable distribution programme. Water rationing affects informal settlements, exposing many to diseases such as typhoid, cholera and other diseases as a result of poor sanitation. However, Muguna said his company will strive to ensure slums receive adequate water to avoid such outbreaks. He said with the equitable distribution programme, “water supply is stable and should anyone not receive water, they should contact his office.” On Tuesday, Muguna told a county assembly committee the firm will continue to ration water, despite the rains that have been pounding the capital and its water catchment areas. The MD said water levels at Ndakaini dam – the main reservoir that serves the city – had not improved in the last three months. Only little rain has been experienced in the Aberdare and Mt Kenya regions – catchment areas for the rivers feeding the dam. The auditor queried the expenditure by the board of directors, especially on foreign trips. Ouko said the board spent Sh15.4 million above the amount budgeted for in trips. Some members travelled in business class, contrary to the company’s human resource policy. “Some board members changed flights by either returning earlier or later than scheduled time, occasioning extra payments worth Sh468,001.” The board has been at loggerheads with the management and staff union.