Police are investigating an incident of a man in police uniform who was caught on camera stepping on the neck and head of a civilian. In the 97-seconds video, the attacker is seen apprehending a civilian, and forcing him to lie down on the ground. The officer then steps on the neck of the man as he struggles on the ground for rescue, an indication that he was suffocating. After the man turned to lie on his belly, the officer is seen climbing on top of him while stepping on his head. The helpless man surrenders completely. "Chini! Chini! Chini! (Down! Down! Down!)," the policeman is heard shouting even as he keeps on mistreating the man. The officer then holds the man's hands as the latter pleads for mercy from the officer. "Ni sawa mkubwa, ni sawa....pole.. (It's okay boss...I'm sorry)," the man is heard saying but the officer proceeds to step his head with his two feet as he continues to shout "Chini wewe!" (Remain down there). It is not clear where, when and why the officer was when he was caught assaulting the man. Charles Owino, the National Police Service communication director, said if the video will be found to be authentic, stern action will be taken on the officer. "Our attention has been drawn to a video clip circulating in the social media of a police officer allegedly assaulting an individual. We do not approve of it. We are reviewing the video clip to verify it’s authenticity and shall take stern action against the officer once proven." The police have been on the spot for meting brutality against citizens, a situation that featured mostly during the demonstrations against the IEBC ahead of the 2017 elections. Notable case was that of Boniface Manono, who was caught up in the fracas, being stepped on by an officer in anti-riot gear. On April 1, 2017, IG Joseph Boinnet ordered a probe into a viral video depicting the alleged extrajudicial killing of two suspects gang members in Eastleigh. The minute-long clip that surfaced showed a person alleged to be a police in plain clothes apprehending a suspect. More on this: Cops caught on camera killing suspected Eastleigh gang members, Boinnet orders probe On July 19,2017, a video emerged of a person believed to be a KDF soldier shooting multiple times at a helpless man who was already grounded. The shooter in a military uniform continued to fire after killing the victim while others, also in uniforms, watch from a truck. More on this: KDF soldier caught on camera shooting multiple times at civilian Click here for the latest political news