The World Health Organisation has issued a warning on the world's first-ever vaccine for dengue, a mosquito borne disease prevalent at the Kenyan coast. The WHO said the vaccine should not be given to people who have never been infected by dengue. WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunisation said the vaccine can leave such people more vulnerable to severe reaction if they are subsequently infected. "For countries considering vaccination as part of their dengue control programme, a 'pre-vaccination screening strategy' would be the preferred option, in which only dengue-seropositive persons are vaccinated,” WHO said in a statement last week. The vaccine, called Dengvaxia, is produced by French drugmaker Sanofi Pasteur. Head of neglected diseases in Kenya Dr Sultani Matendechero last year said Kenya had not approved any vaccine for dengue. Read : How we pinned down what attracts mosquitoes that carry dengue fever The WHO's recommendation will make it more difficult for Kenya to adopt the vaccine in future, because there is no rapid test to tell if someone has had the disease. Dengvaxia has been approved in 19 countries mostly in Asia and Latin America and it was expected more African countries would adopt it. Philippines is now demanding from Sanofi a refund of about $69 million it spent to vaccinate more than 730,000 children. Dengue, also called breakbone fever, can be excruciating, with high fevers, headaches, muscle and joint pains and lingering weakness. Kenya experienced an outbreak of the disease in Mombasa last year and Nairobi and Kisumu remain at risk. The WHO warning comes after Sanofi last December issued a recommendation that the vaccine should not be used on people who have never had dengue. Sanofi said in a statement it still has full confidence in their vaccine. The company said the product – which took 20 years to develop - still works well in people who have previously been infected. “Our priority is ensuring the safety of our vaccines. Throughout the vaccine’s development and launch, we followed all international regulatory standards and were transparent throughout the process,” the company said in a statement. “In clinical trials of individuals aged nine and above, Dengvaxia resulted in a reduction in severe dengue by 93 per cent and in hospitalizations by 81 per cent. No causal-related deaths were reported in 15 countries after clinical trials conducted for more than a decade with 40,000 subjects involved. There continues to be no evidence that any deaths have been causally linked to our vaccine.” The company last week opened a regional office in Nairobi to co-ordinate its commercial activities in the country and neighbouring states including Uganda, Tanzania and Ethiopia. Researchers worry the development could stoke mistrust in vaccines around the globe. In October this year, Kenya will test the first ever malaria vaccine in 120,000 children mostly in Western Kenya and at the Coast. Click here for the latest political news