According to laid-down procedure, when audit queries arise, it is important to give the accused the right to reply. We have due process to be followed so that he/she can give their side. Justice is served when that person is given the right to reply. The problem with the IEBC is not individually-based but there are a number of people who should take responsibility. Above all, the problem and problems are systemic in nature. They should be examined closely. The Kriegler Commission report of 2008 says that time to address electoral reforms, election matters and electoral issues does not expire when the country has held the elections. There's no deadline for justice. All issues around the elections should actually be managed from the beginning. And when I say from the beginning, I mean that this is the right time to revisit how the IEBC conducted the 2017 polls, now that political temperatures have cooled. It's time to audit the systems and individuals within the electoral commission. The mistakes committed cannot be undone but we can all learn from past experiences as we move forward. This will address issues raised by both sides and ensure all Kenyans trust the IEBC, irrespective of their tribal and political affiliation. Reading the Supreme Court ruling, it is very clear that even if it didn't find some people culpable of electoral injustices, some individuals did not execute their responsibilities well. And it is very clear in that ruling. Of course, there are also other processes, like those involving the Auditor General, which can support  current arguments or provide a basis to push for justice. There is need to conduct an independent audit of the last election within IEBC to tell us who is culpable. It should tell us what happened and the areas to improve. The last elections raised many misgivings; the commission was not intact, the commissioners were pulling in different directions, the chairman looks very confused, the other commissioners were looking clueless. This is the right time to address the issues raised by all parties. It is the time to rebuild the IEBC and ensure the election process remains peaceful and trusted by all Kenyans, irrespective of their tribes, race and status. The writer is a political pundit.  Click here for the latest political news