There are no camps in Jubilee Party, Deputy President William Ruto has said, noting oneness. Addressing leaders at the home of Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri on Sunday, Ruto said what President Uhuru Kenyatta says is final, and is on behalf of the ruling coalition. “Those claiming there are camps in Jubilee are day-dreamers," he said, adding that those in the Opposition are used to groupings because Nasa comprises of different parties with different ideologies. “We have to work together. Even those who were in opposition are joining our efforts to bring the country together to help address the needs of the people." Read: Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila Earlier, while addressing a congregation at PCEA Tabuga, the DP asked leaders to embrace the politics of empowering Kenyans. Ruto observed that Kenyans are tired of the politics of power-sharing, having come from the general elections a few months ago. " It is time leaders realised Kenya is greater than the political class," he said. “Millions of Kenyans want universal healthcare, decent housing, high quality education and proper infrastructure.” Ruto said the government is keen on pushing for further development and that within a year, the standard gauge railway will have extended to Nakuru. Coupled with the construction of one of the largest industrial parks in Kenya that will be based in Naivasha, thousands of jobs will be created for youths, the DP said. Ruto announced that roads totaling at least 400 kms were being worked on in Nakuru, in an ambitious plan to boost its investment climate. He added that Sh700 million more will also be put into power connections n the region. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika noted that the country cannot afford a referendum at the moment. “We have just started working for the people who elected us. We want more development and less politics,” she said. Her sentiments were echoed by Ngunjiri who said there should be no debates about Kenya's President come the 2022 general election. Related: [VIDEO] Don't worry, Kikuyus will elect Ruto in 2022, Waiguru tells Rift Valley Twelve Jubilee MPs who accompanied Ruto dismissed calls for a referendum saying it is time for development. Kenyans, the MPs said, cannot be in perpetual campaigns. Among those who attended the function were Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Kuresoi MP and Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi, Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara, Nakuru Town East's David Gikaria and Subukia's Kinuthia Gachobe. Others were Kuresoi South MP Joseph Tonui, Njoro's MP Charity Kathambi, Woman Representative Lizah Chelule, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, Molo's Kimani Kuria and Kabete's Githu Wamashukuru. Also see: Jubilee won't change Executive, law will decide IEBC's fate - Tuju Click here for the latest political news