The government has asked public university administrators to take stern action against lecturers who fail to report to work on Monday. This follows Friday’s ruling by the Employment and Labour Relations Court that the ongoing lecturers’ strike, now on its 37th day, is unprotected. The Inter-Public Universities’ Council Consultative Forum said on Saturday the continued defiance of court orders by lecturers was making it difficult for negotiations on the 2017-2021 CBA to begin in earnest. "IPUCCF is greatly concerned about these developments when there has been all indications that there is goodwill from IPUCCF and key government stakeholders to address the matters in the CBA to ensure successful conclusion," chairman Paul Kanyari said. Kanyari raised concerns that the country was yet to recover from last year’s three strikes that destabilised normal learning across all public universities. The court has twice ruled that lecturers should call of the current strike and return to work pending the negotiations on their CBA. The initial ruling was made on March 16 by Justice Onesmus Makau but the University Academic Staff Union appealed the same saying the orders did not specify when the talks would begin. On Friday April 6, Justice Makau dismissed the appeal and reinforced his earlier directive for the dons to return to work by Monday, April 9. Following the orders, Kanyari said in a statement: "Therefore, IPUCCF urges the management of public universities to take stern action on staff in their respective institutions who do not report on duty on Monday as directed by the Employment and labour Relations court.” In an anticipatory twist, however, UASU Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said the union filed an appeal on Friday against Makau’s ruling. He urged lecturers to stay on strike pending the hearing of the appeal on Monday. The UASU boss asked lecturers not to be intimidated by sack threats by their respective university vice chancellors saying they will draft a watertight return-to-work-formula to protect them from victimisation. Read: Lecturers strike continues, UASU officials say after filing appeal "Be rest assured that your sacrifice will be rewarded. Disregard all memos or directives emanating from management. During the pendency of the strike, actionable communication only comes from the Union," Wasonga said. He said inasmuch as higher Education PS Japheth Ntiba promised to consult representatives from Ministry of Education, Treasury and university councils on how to decisively resolve the issues, it was imperative that they stay on strike to safeguard their negotiating position. Wasonga said staff affiliated to UASU, Kenya University Staff Union and the Kenya Union of Domestic Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers will hold consultative meetings from Monday on the way forward. He said a conciliation meeting with IPUCCF will be held on Thursday, April 12 “during which IPUCCF will be granted another opportunity to present a counter-offer”. The strike, which kicked off on March 1, has stalled learning and research work for over 600,000 students across all the 31 public universities. The lecturers are pushing the government to agree to a Sh38 billion payout to the new CBA to go towards salary increases, car loans, mortgages and health insurance. They also want universities to sign internal CBAs and vice chancellors to remit about Sh3.56 billion in accrued pension arrears from the 2010-2013 and 2013-2017 CBAs. Click here for the latest political news