Modi Shume could not live to celebrate his son’s first birthday on Thursday. Police on Tuesday last week pumped three bullets into his body — two lodged on the thighs and one ruptured his nose, penetrating through the nape. Shume, 26, died hours later. Police said he was among the most dangerous criminals on their watch list. The family denies this, claiming their son was a saint. Muslims for Human Rights termed it “extrajudicial killing”. Shume’s death is among at least 10 killings carried out by either police or mobs in Mombasa since the year began. The families of the deceased are still writhing in pain. Three went on record. The rest declined to be interviewed.  AMBUSHED IN PUBLIC A purported lone ranger believed to be a policeman, who was riding on a motorcycle, knocked Shume down. Shume, a bodaboda operator, was carrying two passengers at the time. The commuters fled. The policeman in civilian clothes drew his gun and pointed at him. Fearing for his life, Shume lifted his hands in submission. The cop yelled, reportedly saying: “Leo tumekupata (we have cornered you today).” Then he called for reinforcements. Six other law enforcers, all in civilian clothes, arrived in a speeding Land Cruiser, guns brandished. By now, the public had begun milling around the scene at Mtongwe Donaulinda Primary School, Likoni. One of the six cops fired at Shume, hitting his leg. The gun explosion prompted onlookers to bolt for safety. A double gunshot followed. Shume was still breathing. News that Shume was being gunned down quickly reached his wife, Rehema Omar. She was just a kilometre away. Shume’s sister, who requested anonymity, his mother Saumu Shume and the father also received the distress call. Minutes later, the sister and the father arrived and found Shume lying helplessly in a pool of blood. Police had taped the scene. “We were blocked 50m from where my brother was,” the sister told the Star. “We could see him moving. He was alive. We requested to take him to the hospital, but the plea was turned down.” It was now 12.30pm. The sister said the police instructed them to pick the body from Coast Provincial General Hospital. “That is when we realised they were determined to kill him,” she said. Shume was bundled into the Land Cruiser, which sped off. He was not immediately taken to CPGH, the sister said. Neither was he taken to any hospitals in Likoni, nor the two police stations in the constituency. The family later received a call from CPGH morgue, with instructions to pick the body. That was around 5.30pm. Where Shume was taken to before he was reported lying dead at CPGH is still a mystery. What happened between the five hours his family last saw him alive and finally dead also remains a secret, whose answers lie with the police.  ‘KILLED THE WRONG PERSON’ The father was allegedly coerced to pen a statement admitting his son was a dangerous criminal before the body was released. Police deny this. Shume was buried the following day at his home. “Police were heard saying they had killed the wrong person,” the sister said. Mother Saumu was inconsolable when the Star visited her home on Tuesday. She cried throughout the interview. “I don’t even know what I want. I’m confused. Who will bring Shume back? Who will take care of his wife and the kid?” Saumu said as she sobbed. Omar said her husband was a simple man and hardly picked quarrel with others. “I miss him. He should be here,” she said. Shume’s sister admitted there are gangs in Likoni but accused the police of hitting the wrong targets. Likoni OCPD Benjamin Rotich said Shume was member of a criminal gang, Wajuku Wa Bibi, which is terrorising residents. The family denies this. Rotich hinted at more deaths, if not arrests. “We have over 10 criminals on our wanted list. Some are already in courts, others dead, while a few are still roaming,” he said. Muhuri has termed “alarming” the rate at which youths in Mombasa’s Likoni and Kisauni areas are succumbing to lynching and gunshots. The matter, it says, is getting out of hand. Executive director Hassan Abdille said killing is not an option. “The alleged criminals, most of them juveniles, must be arrested and taken to court if not rehabilitation centers. One is innocent until proven guilty,” he said. Abdille said the killings will instead radicalise more youth, escalating insecurity. “Losing a life is detrimental to Kenyans. We can’t keep losing lives every day. Can’t police think of better ways of handling the juvenile gangs, apart from executing them?” Muhuri senior human rights officer Topister Juma said four juveniles in Likoni and three in Kisauni were killed two weeks ago. Many cases are unreported, she said, terming the figures “overwhelming”. “The dead are believed to have been members of dreaded gangs in the county,” Juma said, adding that parents and politicians are abetting crime. However, police say the killings are in retaliation to crimes committed. Rotich said those killed are mostly under 20. Juma said if juveniles are not kept in check, more deaths will be reported. She said the best bet is for parents to take their roles seriously. “Our parents brought us up well. I don’t know why we are overpowered by our responsibilities. We have tasked their teachers with taking charge, yet these youths don’t report to school,” she said. Abdille said family and societal structures have failed. “This is why you see gangs sprouting up. It is upon us to come up with a workable solution.”  DISTURBING ATTACKS It seems the police have been directed to gun down suspects on sight. On Monday, another three suspected criminal gang members were shot dead in Likoni. The three juvenile gang members were gunned down in Mtongwe area after they slashed and robbed residents at around 5.30pm. Rotich said the suspects were in a group of seven. They demanded cash and other household goods from locals. “Four suspects, among them their gang leader, escaped with bullets injuries, and police are pursuing them,” he said. Another disturbing attack took place on Tuesday in Likoni at 8pm. Hanigtone Msagha, 53, was murdered in retaliation for the killing of machete-wielding gangsters. Msagha worked with an insurance company. He was stabbed and slashed with a panga outside his house. The gang said Msagha played a role in the killing of their member two weeks ago. Rotich said Msagha might have ruffled feathers of the criminals. “I was informed that it was the third time the man had been attacked by the same gang,” he said. 