Kenya Sevens utility Dennis Ombachi will be part of the Simbas trials on Sunday as the team management assesses his match fitness ahead of the final two legs of the World Sevens Series in June. The Nondies winger has been out since December with a leg injury sustained at the season opening Dubai Sevens tournament. He has been under rehabilitation for the better part of the year and has now been given the green-light to engage in competitive situation come Sunday. Team manager, Eric Ogweno, said they are happy that Ombachi has been selected for the Simbas’ trials. “We are happy for him. We want to see how his leg will take contact. We have instructed the technical bench to also keep an eye on his sharpness, speed, decision making and give us feedback,” added Ogweno. Ombachi’s return to training is a timely boost ahead of the London and Paris Sevens Series in June as well as the Rugby World Cup in San Francisco, California a month later. “It won’t be easy for him to break into the team since we have a very competitive group of players and everyone wants to make the final cut,” he added. Ogweno observed that they are relishing the challenge of playing at the Singapore Sevens this weekend. “This is where we won our first title and it’s a good hunting ground for us. Our main target is to qualify for the Main Cup quarters then wait and see what happens in the knockout rounds on Sunday,” he noted. Kenya were losing finalists in the past two tournaments in Vancouver and Hong Kong and Ogweno wants to go a step further and grab their second ever title. Elsewhere, Godwin Karuga and Raymond Oruo will be in charge of tomorrow’s KRU Championship semi-final fixtures in Nairobi and Nakuru respectively. Karuga will oversee the fixture between Mean Machine and Western Bulls at the UoN grounds assisted by David Muinde and David Orato with Charles Mbogo as the Citing Officer. Oruo takes charge of the Menengai Oilers/Kisumu clash in Nakuru with Brian Kipkoech and Kelvin Ndirangu the assistant referees. Edwin Teya is the Citing Officer for this encounter.