Outgoing US Ambassador Robert Godec yesterday urged Kenyan security forces to safeguard human rights and life by using maximum restraint when dealing with the public. He said human rights abuses by police are not limited to Kenya but exist everywhere, including in the United States. “What’s important is when there is a report of police abuse, it should be thoroughly and independently investigated. And when law enforcement officers, whether [or not they are] superiors have perpetrated a crime, they should face justice,” Godec said. He spoke during the launch of a Sh650 million US-funded public complaints platform. The event was organised by the Independent Police Oversight Authority (Ipoa). The IPOA cloud CONNECT complaint management system was launched. The project has been piloted since April 3, 2017. It was designed and built by a US firm, INFO Gains Division of Dominion Energy. “No one is above the law. No one should protect an individual who has committed abuses just because that person wears a uniform. Everyone has the duty to uphold human rights and to ensure the rule of law prevails,” Godec said. The US and the Kenyan government have been deeply engaged in developing accountability in the Kenyan Police Service, in assisting Ipoa in its work. The US has supported technical experts who have helped Ipoa develop operating procedures, including setting up investigations unit and training officers. Godec said Ipoa has proven it is able to investigate allegations against police using excessive force and to bring cases to court at appropriate time despite it “being young”. “Kenya is up to the challenge of holding security services to account, of being self-critical and looking at problems to fix them. The very existence of Ipoa is emblematic of the profound social change Kenya is undergoing, the values enshrined in its Constitution and the culture of accountability and integrity that Kenya is striving to adopt,” Godec said. He said Ipoa played a critical role in probing allegations of abuses by police in the August 2017 General Election and October 26 presidential rerun. Godec said Ipoa is critical when Kenya is confronted daily by unexplained killings, police abuse and corruption. He praised police, saying the majority perform their duties with courage and professionalism. Read:Godec-NASA brawl: Respect Kenyans' electoral rights, MP Ken Okoth tells US government  