Hundreds of hotel workers in Malindi and Watamu are to be laid off this weekend as resorts close for the low season until July. Most resorts, particularly those attracting international tourists such as Italians, usually close after Easter for renovations. Quite a number of hotels will remain in operation, especially those targeting domestic and conference tourism. Some hotel managers said there were high bookings after the election tensions eased. Others said there was a slight reduction in the number of guests, compared with previous years. Their major concern was flights, which were few but expensive during the Easter holiday. Some guests had to cancel their bookings. Those affected are domestic tourists who had booked for holiday in Malindi and Watamu. Jacaranda Beach Resort, Watamu, managing director Daniele Tirito told journalists he had a group of 25 local tourists who had booked the resort, but missed a flight on Good Friday. He said being the last week of flights from Europe they will be closing the hotel on Saturday and reopening in July. “We are not complaining because we had good occupancy during the holiday,” Tirito said. The Plan Resorts international group of hotels, which runs three hotels in Malindi, said only one will be closed for the low season. The general manager of Dream of Africa, Dream Garden and Tropical Village Resort, Alexander Zissimatos,said during Easter they recorded 80  per cent occupancy. He said Dream of Africa and Dream Garden will remain open. The One Watamu Bay Resort general manager Ravi Rohra said they will remain open in the low season. They have low season packages for domestic tourists. Rohra said they will capitalise on the local market and conference tourism. “During low season we’ll have a fixed package of not above Sh13,000 to enable clients to come,” he said. A guest booking for three days will get one day free. Temple Point Resort deputy director Ian Langer said they won’t close as they plan bringing in clients from different parts of the world.