The Ministry of Lands is fighting to reverse orders that blocked digital land transactions it unveiled three weeks ago. PS Nicholas Muraguri on Monday accused the Law Society of Kenya of failing to disclose to the court, material facts that culminated in the process of online land transactions. In an affidavit, the PS further said the orders obtained by LSK on April 18 are neither clear nor precise. He avers that they are capable of various contradictory interpretations, and ought to be clarified to avoid causing confusion in the land registration system. "If the court does not stay, set aside, vary and or review its orders, the ministry, and the general public will be greatly prejudiced and subjected to disproportionate hardship." In a ruling, Justice Wilfridah Okwany ordered the ministry to continue processing land documents manually until the case filed by the LSK is heard. The judge stopped the PS and Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney from implementing and acting on electronic filing of conveyancing documents. This was after LSK argued that there was no consultation of all the relevant stakeholders. However, in response, Dr Muraguri says LSK failed to disclose that it was involved in consultations. He says the lawyers were engaged just like representatives from the Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) who were trained on the use of the system on March 27. "Meetings were held with representatives of the Petitioner which culminated in the release of a joint public notice published on April 8, 2018, clarifying the concerns that had been raised by the Petitioner." The PS adds that other stakeholders are scheduled to be trained on the use, benefits, and access to the Land Information Management System. The process that was rolled out in 2014 as an internal administrative process whose aim was to create a culture of efficiency, accountability, and transparency in the administrative process of land administration and management. "It is apparent that the petitioners have come to court with unclean hands as did not disclose all the material facts when they appeared before the court." Muraguri explains that the digitisation process is an exercise conducted in collaboration with the National Land Commission. He says this is done under the National Land Information Management System (NLIMS) and has been a participatory process. Stakeholders, including the public, have been involved in land administration and management, the PS says. The affidavit further states that the ministry notified the public that certain services will only be available online through the government service portal on e-citizen. "My Ministry has always been willing and open to consultation with all the diverse stakeholders." "So, it was in bad faith on the part of the petitioners that after we had constructively engaged them, they have turned around rushed to court, he says. Muraguri avers that the LSK move "is a demonstration of bad faith on their part as they have been at the forefront of demanding reforms in the land sector." Also read: Digitised land registry system prone to manipulation, LSK warns Click here for the latest political news 