31 years after the greatest moment in the club’s history when they won the Mandela Cup, Gor Mahia rewrote the history books by becoming the first Kenyan side to reach the group stages of the Caf Confederation Cup on Wednesday night.
Though they lost 2-1 to SuperSport United in Pretoria, the equalising goal at 1-1 from Francis Kahata proved as important as the one scored by Jacques Tuyisenge in the first leg, as it helped the Kenyan champions progress on away goal rule with the two-legged tie deadlocked at 2-2.
“I am really excited and happy for what this group of players has achieved. We have made it for Gor Mahia, we have made it for Kenyan football. The journey has now just began. We want to make a mark in this tournament and take this great football club where they deserve to be, among the continent’s elite,” head coach Dylan Kerr said on the CAF online platform after the historic achievement.
Reaching the group stages has guaranteed Gor at least Sh27m in prize money and with it, hopefully, an end to their financial woes this year.
During the second leg in Pretoria, an own goal by skipper Harun Shakava put SuperSport ahead few minutes into the second half, but almost immediately, Francis Kahata drew the two sides level. Thabo Mnyamane gave Supersport some hope with a 68th minute strike, but Gor did just enough to hold out for the result and book a historic group phase berth.
After a goaless first half, the hosts were relentless in their drive in their second period but had to wait until the hour mark when, in a bid to clear out a cross, Shakava instead swept the ball into his own net. But the joy was short-lived and no sooner had the fans gone back to their seats from celebration than Gor broke their hearts.
They started off fast with the ball being played wide to George Odhiambo. The winger created space on the wing before cutting back a cross that was swept home by Kahata.
The goal now meant that Supersport needed at least two more goals to progress. They mounted pressure to achieve that feat and they got half the desired result with Mnyamane beating Oluoch with a sweet strike from 15 yards out.
It was now just a matter of a goal for last year’s finalists to book a second consecutive group stage slot. They were almost doing that but were kept out by outstanding Oluoch in goal who pulled two brilliant saves to deny Darren Smith as Gor managed to guard their rear and ensure the result was boxed home and dry.