Suspended IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba should have stepped aside instead of waiting to be pushed out, chairman Wafula Chebukati has said. He told IEBC staff in an internal memo that Chiloba himself had suspended staffers to pave the way for investigations, setting the integrity bar high. “Following the precedent set by the CEO as the champion of transparency, integrity and accountability in the commission, in which he suspended staff on allegations touching on integrity issues, the plenary decision was in order,” Chebukati said. “Having set the standards, it would have been good practice for the CEO to voluntarily step aside immediately such queries were raised to allow unhindered investigations on the use of finances allocated for use during the 2017 election.” The memo dated Saturday last week is the first communication the chairman made to the electoral agency’s staff since Chiloba’s dramatic suspension and the resignation of three commissioners. Chebukati and Chiloba continue to tear into each other in court and it is improbable the two will work together again. Chebukati said he will not resign, despite pressure from the political elite. He urged the staffers to discharge their duties without fear. In the memo, he said his oversight over the secretariat is a mandate given to him by law and other commissioners. “It’s, therefore, important that I guide the commission in ensuring the resources allocated for use during the 2017 election at any given time are utilised for the intended purposes and prudently,” Chebukati stated.  MASSIVE FLAWS IN PROCUREMENT In his response to Chiloba’s case in court, he said there were massive flaws in the way the commission purchased key materials for the 2017 polls — an exercise that was overseen by the CEO. “The commission realised there was a need to expand the audit into the procurement of 2017 election materials and the majority of commissioners resolved to send him home. He is lying when he says we lacked quorum to suspend him,” he said. Last week, three commissioners resigned, saying they lacked confidence in Chebukati. Vice chairperson Consolata Nkatha, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Wanjala said the CEO’s removal was a weighty matter that ought not to “have been introduced as a by-the-way” during their meeting. They said the chairman should have “waited for an appropriate time — when all the commissioners are in the country — to properly call a sitting to deliberate on the matter”. But Chebukati, in a statement, dismissed claims they were not consulted. He said two of the three commissioners supported the decision.