Former Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye risks being jailed for six months for leading an assault on a hazardous waste management plant in Stony Athi last January. High Court judge Pauline Nyamweya has ordered Ndekianye to appear before her in person for mitigation and sentencing. The judge said Nkedianye defied a court order issued in 2014. He ordered Environmental & Combustion Consultants (ECC) to shut down its waste management plant. The ECC said in its application to jail Nkedianye the former governor hired goons to invade the plant, before police arrived to intervene. Nkedianye later in the day walked into the plant and ordered ECC to shut operations. But Nkedianye denied hiring goons, and said the crowd outside ECC’s plant was a group of residents. He added that the residents were protesting foul smells that emanate from ECC’s plant, and that they want the firm to close all operations. But the judge said Nkedianye, in directing the firm to shut down, was in contempt of the 2014 court order. Under the Kenyan law, contempt of court attracts a fine of up to Sh200,000 or a maximum civil jail term of six months. Judges, however, have the discretion to slap a contemner with both the fine and a jail term. “The [former] governor would like the court to believe the agreement to close ECC’s factory was mutually arrived at. One then questions why ECC insisted he puts down the directive in black and white.” Nkedianye told the judge he called the police to the plant after getting calls that residents had converged at its entrance to protest. The governor said he and ECC had a mutual agreement to have the plant shut down. But ECC denied the claim, and said the former governor was annoyed during a meeting between them and Nema. It stated relocation from the Stony Athi area would take at least 10 years. ECC at the meeting told the former governor the only other alternative was for Kajiado county to buy out the firm then shut down the plant. The battle to shut down ECC plant dates back to 2014. Nkedianye said then that the plant was emitting repugnant smells that made life difficult for residents. But ECC has since then insisted the plant is not close to any homes.