More than 30 officials at the Eldoret International Airport are under investigations following the seizure of mandrax drugs. The illegal drugs seized at the airport are worth more than Sh35 million. They had been concealed as multivitamin capsules. Senior government officials are expected to visit the airport this week to make operational changes. Three Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) officials and one from the Poisons and Pharmacy Board were arrested at the airport on Friday. There was commotion at the airport during the operation when KRA officials tried to block investigators from accessing stores where the drugs are kept. The GSU officers helped police force their way in. A new team of GSU officers are guarding the airport. Officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are probing the matter. The investigations may lead to prosecutions and interdictions against those involved in the drug syndicate at the airport. The consignment was seized at the airport on April 16 and samples taken to the government chemist for testing. The results were released yesterday, revealing the consignment was mandrax drugs. The airport has 16 agencies involved in clearing cargo. The agencies flagged the consignment as suspect, but sources indicated the flagging was turned into ‘usual occurrence’ by KRA officials. "The same KRA officials clear the consignment and release it from their stores, claiming all procedures had been followed,” a top police officer at the airport said. But KRA regional coordinator Florence Otory said the matter should be investigated thoroughly. Sources said the KRA top officials may be reshuffled. Police in Nairobi arrested the main suspect following a raid at his office in Kasarani and at his home in Kileleshwa. Investigations have been ongoing for a month. Senior government officials led by Rift Valley regional commissioner Mongo Chimwada were at the airport on Saturday. Chimwada said the syndicate may involve many officials from KRA who import the drugs from Dubai.The syndicate has allegedly been operating for years at the airport that is largely idle. The airport has three cargo flights every week from Dubai, carrying textiles and electronics. The airport has on several occasions been in the media for working with businesspeople who evade taxes. Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno condemned the seizure of the drugs at the airport and called for tough action.