What is happening at the IEBC is not good and I have said it before. It's shameful. Right now after an election, the IEBC has as lot of work to do. They have to write the mandatory post-election evaluation report. After every election, the Commission must prepare a report — looking at what happened, what succeeded, what did not succeed and why — and that report must be tabled in Parliament. It's sad the Commission is fighting even before the report is done, yet they have a lot of work, including preparing the country for future elections. It's so unfortunate, really unfortunate. This is a leadership crisis and the Commissioners must get their act together. They are actually failing the Leadership and Integrity Chapter of the Constitution. Article 73 of the Constitution says that authority assigned to State Officers is a public trust to be exercised in a manner that brings honour to the nation and dignity to the office. It also says such officers must promote public confidence in the integrity of the office. However, they are terribly failing in this aspect. This is not the first time the infighting has become public. It actually started before the elections. Chairman Wafula Chebukati needs to provide leadership. The IEBC must not come to the public fighting because their credibility is at stake. A commission like the IEBC must gain public confidence. It's more of perception. What does the public perceive about the Commission? The infighting is opening them to ridicule and painting a picture of a dysfunctional commission. I am not saying they need to cover up things like procurement. But isn't there a better way to handle such challenges? If I were the chairman, I would have started, for example, by inviting the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate so any decision taken is backed by a report. Parliament has summoned them, and that's just the beginning of their troubles. People would start saying these people are unfit to lead IEBC. Very soon you will see somebody filing a petition for their removal. I would not be surprised. One or two petitions would be filed. Such petitions were filed against us but we were a very strong and cohesive team. In our commission, we never voted on any issue. If we disagreed, we said, "let's go and sleep, meet tomorrow and think through it again." The writer is a lawyer and a former IEBC commissioner