The society is disturbed to see young people sleeping at trading centres, weak and inebriated, especially in the morning. The most affected regions include Nairobi, Central and parts of Nakuru, where people get drunk with different brands of second generation wines and spirits. Women have held protests urging the government to stop the sale of alcoholic drinks, saying their men have turned useless. Limuru resident Salome Wanjiru says men comes home drunk, producing a bad alcoholic odour from their mouth, staggering, having urinated on themselves, and they leave very early. “Some end up being beaten by their wives and sleep under the bed. They cannot perform sexually, provide food and any other thing at home. What are they for?” she asked. Hotel manager Gatimu Nyoro from Rironi village in Limuru constituency was sacked from Florida hotel in Nairobi for being drunk all the time. “I was a public nuisance, I was almost bringing down the hotel. I was drunk nearly all the time, staggering, appearing sleepy, and I used to insult anyone who would question me,” he says. Nyoro says his wife and children ran away from him, but when he joined the rehabilitation centre, he was informed she returned. “Alcohol ruined my life. I could be very far. I never provided for my family with anything. I was just drinking cheap alcoholic drinks. I stayed at home disturbing people for almost two years,” he says. The hotel and management graduate from Maasai Mara University says now he is reformed after attending a month’s rehabilitation course at Ahadi Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre in Kiambu. “I now believe there is addiction. I will be speaking to people against drug abuse and alcoholism” he says. Due to cases such as Nyoro’s, President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a national crackdown on dangerous alcoholic drinks on July 4, 2015, which he called the eradication of the “business of death”. A lot of bars were closed down, illicit brews destroyed and the society noted a reduced intake of alcoholic drinks. However, after two years, the drinks started coming back, and the society started complaining that there was no follow-up with the drunkards. On March 1, Interior CS Fred Mating’i relaunched the war on alcoholism, directing government administrators to wipe out the dangerous alcoholic drinks. It begs the question of what was not done in the first war to eliminate the vice once and for all. KEEP YOUTHS ‘BUSY’ Pastor Timothy Kimani of Jerusalem Church in Limuru urges governors, MPs and MCAs to come up with strategies of monitoring youths and keeping them busy. “When people are busy, they gain focus in their lives and it will be hard for our people to go looking for alcoholic drinks, when they are tired and have responsibilities ahead of them” he says. Some governments, such as Kiambu county, have started recruiting young people in casual jobs to keep them busy from morning until evening. Governor Ferdinand Waititu says the programme, which was launched in early March, has seen 50 youths from each ward being recruited to clear bushes, open drainages, collect garbage, trim hedges and other casual jobs. Speaking at Kimende, Waititu said the youth are entitled to a wage of Sh300 per day, including Sh100 for lunch. Limuru East ward resident Margaret Muthoni, populary known as Wa Faith, thanked the governor, saying most of the young people used to drink to kill idleness, since they didn’t have anything meaningful they were doing. “After a given period of time, the youths will have taken life seriously, and sure no one will ever go back to alcoholism again in their lives,” she said. Muthoni says residents are now urging the governor to expand the programme so that many youths can be accommodated.