 Cash strapped Uchumi Supermarket is banking on Short term funds from financial institutions in the Country to boost its Human capital and boost operations. In a one on one interview with the Star, Uchumi chief executive Mohamed Mohamed said He has to satisfy the human capital first for him to achieve his strategy of restoring Uchumis lost glory. “ I am pursuing several channels of financing such as stop gap measures, short term fundings from financial institutions which is where am talking to people like Kenya Commercial Bank, Nairobi Securities Exchange...,” Mohammed said, adding that “ even when the strategic investor comes on board it will take a while before the process is complete and I still have to pay salaries , buy stocks and pay landlords.” Apart from KCB, its annual report shows that they seeking support from United Bank of Africa and NIC Bank. The expected strategic investor is expected to pump in Sh5 billion. Also an extra sh3.5 billion is expected from an unknown potential investor through the issuance of new shares. “Engagements are ongoing and the Board is confident that the transaction will eventually be completed,” Mohammed says in their annual report. As at last month, the government owned retailer had not paid its workers for atleast three months, according to Kenya Union of Commercial, Food and Allied Workers. In its latest annual report for the year ending June 30, 2017 the retailer announced having a total of 1,446 employees down from 2,317 employees recorded in 2016. Online Shopping As international players such as Careffour , the Game and Shoprite flock the Kenyan market, Uchumi intends to re-locate some of its branches to areas that are less saturated. This is in addition to launching an e-commerce platform to be tested next month and be officially launched in the third quarter. The platform is part of the retailer s plan top reduce its operational expenditure. “ I want to see if it can have a combination of things in order to be different from the rest, and break even... later we can get to franchise investment,” Interms of investment capital to be pumped in the online portal, the embattled retailer is considering a revenue share model. The retailer reported Sh1.68 billion losses, from Sh2.83 billion in 2016. Its revenue flopped to Sh2.58 billion from Sh6.4 billion in 2016. Government funding of Sh1.8 billion to bail it out was approved by Cabinet, and the first portion of Sh500 million released in January 2017. The second portion of Sh700 million was received in December. The remaining Sh600 million set aside for Uganda and Tanzania operations will be released when the Kenyan operations are stable enough.        