Is the National Youth Service (NYS) sliding into another scandal? Well, youths who graduated last year, after months of paramilitary training, are cursing their bosses for unfairly withholding their Sh500 monthly stipend without justification or explanation. Our mole intimated that the youths, who have been out for seven months doing voluntary work in different government installations, are yet to get their monthly stipend despite records indicating that they have received the money that now runs into millions. The dejected young men and women are now appealing to NYS Director General Richard Ndubai to intervene and save them from their rogue seniors. ***** A senior government official from Western continues to shock residents after losing his seat on August 8 last year. The Jubilee man is still smarting from the defeat and is finding it difficult to move on. Residents have been left wondering why the official, despite landing a top seat in government, does not stop complaining about how some individuals from the region plotted and celebrated his downfall. The official, who used to control billions before the ouster, recently launched a vicious attack on planners of his downfall now leaning toward Jubilee as they push for a united front ahead of the 2022 poll. ***** A day after social media reports went viral allegedly from Benson Masubo aka Wazir Chacha aka Chief Whip that he has a video of himself and some female MPs, one of those who suspects she could be in the list is a worried woman. The former legislator in the 11th Parliament, according to a reliable bird, has been trying to reach out to Chacha's associates to confirm if she is on the list. ***** A top banker, with wide ranging commercial interests countrywide, is believed to entertain an interest in land owned by Del Monte and has been pushing top Murang’a county officials to terminate the lease that ends next year. The billionaire wants to take over the firm and has vowed to achieve his dream. Our mole tells us that the Murang’a officials want to have a percentage of the firm before they renew the lease. ***** There is nothing politicians crave than power. Take the case of the indefatigable lawyer and senior counsel James Orengo. Since he was unanimously elected, albeit reluctantly, to the plum Minority leader seat, the Siaya man's demeanour has changed. After a trip to Siaya last week with all the trappings of the office, the humorous veteran is now poised to formally take the oath of office today and occupy his freshly spruced up office complete with a name tag.