Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has called on political opponents in the county to desist from extending political rhetoric beyond the electioneering period. Speaking while hosting the Deputy President William Ruto she said that it was important for leaders to focus on service delivery for the public. "It is distasteful for politicians in the county to go around undoing Jubilee party’s goodwill in a bid to divert the overwhelming support that the people of Kirinyaga it. It is also very disrespectful to the Deputy President for politicians to prop their selfish agendas in front of a leader of Ruto’s stature," Waiguru said She was speaking after a group of youths suspected to have been paid attempted to disrupt the tour by the DP. Their boos were however by residents who cheerfully welcomed Ruto. The Deputy President responded by issuing a stern warning against detractors of development saying that they were there to "work and not to make noise." Waiguru added: "If someone tells you he really cares about you, ask him what he is doing to create sustainable employment for you other than paying you a few shillings to carry twigs and shout on the streets." "Leaders who really care for the people of Kirinyaga are not out there on the streets holding demonstrations; they are in meetings trying to find solutions to the problems facing the residents." Waiguru said that in the few months her government was in office, it had managed to repossess the 250 hectares of grabbed land in Ndia. The land had been earmarked for the construction of an industrial park, which will create jobs for our youth, the Governor said. "We have also made strides in empowering women by creating jobs under the Wezesha Mama Kirinyaga programme which enables women to gain income by making hospital linen including bedding, staff apparel and patient’s gowns not just for Kirinyaga County but the entire Mt. Kenya region," she said. Waiguru also said that the Kirinyaga has already operationalised the renal unit in Kerugoya hospital which has been a life saver for most kidney patients in the region. "We have also enabled expectant mothers to receive free prenatal and postnatal care through the national-government-sponsored Linda Mama initiative," Waiguru said. She also said that her government is on course to completing murraming and grading of the 217 km of roads she had promised at the beginning of her tenure to make them passable during both wet and dry weather conditions. "We were elected to serve the people, to create jobs for the youth and women, improve agricultural production, provide water for domestic use and irrigation, upgrade road network, improve drainage and provide affordable healthcare and that is what we are doing," she said.