The construction
of the Sh35 billion Arror dam in Elgeyo Marakwet is likely to take longer
as locals opposing it have resorted to court action. The multipurpose
dam is funded by the Italian government and is to be implemented by Kerio Valley
Development Authority. Families opposing
the project wrote to the Italian embassy after KVDA defied court orders temporarily restraining works until a case at the High Court is determined. Through their lawyer David Omboto, the residents went to the High Court in Eldoret to halt the project and secured orders on November 8. On Tuesday, those drawn from three affected villages – Kipsaiya, Kamok and Kaptul - threatened
to sue the Italian government for trespassing onto their land. The complainants told the Italian government that they were being forced to accept the project. “Residents opposed to the construction have been intimidated, harassed and even arrested to accept [it]. The resistance is due to the skewed mode of consultation and public sensitisation," they said in a letter signed by Omboto. "Facts placed before us indicate that the construction of the dam is simply opposed because there has not been adequate village representation, consultation or participation as provided for under the Constitution." Read: Police intimidate us to accept Sh30 billion Arror Dam, residents say Their letter which the Star has seen accuses local administrators and politicians of working in cahoots to achieve unwarranted targets to the detriment of affected locals. The residents further told the court that the dam will have adverse effects on their livelihoods as they may be evicted from their ancestral land. The proposed dam will occupy 2,000 acres of land and lead to the displacement of 800 families in Kipsaiya, Kaptul and Kamok villages in Marakwet West. Resident John Kibor said KVDA is looking for land to give them as compensation yet proper consultations have not been done. “We have heard that a committee comprising those supporting the project and the KVDA is looking for land to resettle us in Trans Nzoia county without our knowledge,” he said. Residents claimed on February 24 that local police officers arrived in two Land Cruisers and intimidated them so they would accept the project. Italian citizens were chased away by irate villagers a week before an protests that involved a shooting. The dam will supply irrigation water for drier areas of Kerio Valley. Also read: Stop opposing Sh30 billion Arror Dam, Kerio Valley residents tell Governor Tolgos Click here for the latest political news     