Kenya is down to one man in triathlon after Mohammed Said Suleiman was ruled out following a finger injury as the Commonwealth Games started in Gold Coast, Australia yesterday. Suleiman was due to represent the country alongside Hanifa Said, who will now have to stand up and be counted in a one-man army. Team Kenya Chef de Mission, Barnaba Korir, confirmed Suleiman’s withdrawal, saying the athlete was injured during training. “The athlete underwent operation yesterday but I can confirm, he will not compete,” said Korir. The CDM said the exit was a major blow to the team as they seek to develop the so called small sports. “The agenda of such games is to develop and expose the so called small sports and this was an opportunity for the young man,” he noted. Team doctor Victor Borgoria also confirmed the athlete had undergone the operation at Gold Coast University and he was fine but was not fit to compete. The athlete expressed disappointment, saying he had trained very well for the games. He said he had injured his right hand ring finger while he was transiting from swimming to cycling in training. However, he remained confident his partner will deliver good results. Suleiman, a national junior champion, finished ninth at the 2017 All Africa Championships in Mauritius and was sixth at the 2014 Africa Youth Championships. Unlike Suleiman, who was supposed to make her debut in Gold Coast, Hanifa will be making her second appearance having featured at the 2014 Games in Glasgow, Scotland. She will be working towards improving her performance especially after recording a ‘Did Not Finish’ in Glasgow. The UK-schooled Hanifa was seventh in Maputo. In Glasgow, Kenya fielded four athletes and with the quota having been slashed to half, pressure will be on Hanifa to deliver. Also to watch out for today will be lawn bowls, squash and swimming. In lawn bowls, action begins at 2am Kenyan time featuring Eunice Mbugua against Botswana’s Nelly Senna in women’s singles Section ‘C’ Round 3, She returns on the court at 5am to face Canada’s Kelly McKerihen in Section ‘C’ Round 4. In squash, Khaaliqa Nimji and Hardeep Reel carry the country’s hopes as they kick off their campaign in the men and women’s singles round of 16. It will be Khaaliqa’s third attempt at the games and she hopes to make it to the medal bracket. “My target is to win several games and, if possible, reach the medal bracket. My dream is to win gold,” he said. Kaaliqa was the youngest player to have ever represented Kenya at the multi-sport championships at the age of 12 at the Commonwealth Games in Delhi. Swimmers also splash off their campaign between 3:31am-2:50pm Kenyan time. Sylvia Brunlehner, Maria Brunlehner, Steven Kimani Maina, Issa Muteti and Emily Muteti will all be in action. Benjamin Ochoa also takes to the field in weightlifting at 2:42am. Click here for the latest political news 