The video of a naked Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri with an unidentified woman is "strange", police have said. The clip that surfaced on Tuesday was reportedly shot in Kakamega town, where leaders are attending the 5th Annual Devolution Conference. Ndambiri and the woman are grilled in a room by a number of men who ask him to identify himself. Reports indicate the ordeal may have been part of a set-up. Police said they had not received any report of the incident but that investigations were underway. They said they will arrest the person who recorded it for presentation in court. "The video and the statement circulating in sections of the social media is strange to police," the National Police Service said in a tweet on Wednesday. "Police have not received any report concerning an assault. Equally, the Spokesperson has not issued any statement concerning the same." The men in the video speak Kiswahili and Kikuyu. "Majina yako kamili, mzae.... wewe ni Deputy Governor (Your full names, mister. You are a Deputy Governor)," one tells Ndambiri. The DG says: "Mimi ni mwanasiasa. Mimi si Deputy Governor (I am a politician, not a Deputy Governor). The man then slaps Ndambiri and forces him to state his position while the woman tries to cover her nakedness. After many slaps, the DG confesses to having an affair with the woman who is seen crying. Ndambiri also notes that he had planned to visit the woman’s parents for dowry talks and apologises to her supposed husband. "I want to tell that man that I’m very sorry. I did not know she was married, I was even planning to meet her family," he says. Gatundu MP Moses Kuria blamed the DG saying he did not report the alleged extortion immediately. "If it were me, I would simply have paid them off, not with money but with the middle finger. These cartels are rampant especially in Kiambu county," he said via Facebook on Tuesday night. "I urge him to report [the matter] to police. It is the right thing to do. I always say it is nonsensical to pay anyone not to give a story to the media. That breeds extortion and encourages criminal networks to thrive." Click here for the latest political news