The behaviour of accusing Governors of squandering county resources must stop, Siaya Senator James Orengo has said. At the 5th Annual Devolution Conference on Tuesday, Orengo said "some cynics make noise even before the funds reach counties". "Many a time people say there is corruption. People think negatively before the money lands," he said at Kakamega High School. "..and you will hear them say ...ooh the governor has eaten that money." In March, a report by the EACC ranked Murang'a county as the most corrupt but Governor Mwangi wa Iria dismissed the claims. The report indicated that most county level corruption cases are reported in the sectors of public works, education, childcare and medical services. More on this: Wa Iria dismisses EACC report ranking Murang'a as most corrupt Orengo further said the national government should ensure funds reach counties in good time. "[This] should be a priority," he said. "The national government must ensure it allocates resources in time so counties feel the impact of development." The law demands that county shares of revenue be transferred without undue delays and deductions. Orengo, who is the Minority leader in the Senate, also asked the government to also increase resource allocations to counties. "There is need to put a case for more resources for counties. Structures should also be put in place to ensure devolution works," he said. He noted their duty is to protect and advance devolution yet blame game has been shifting from the national to the county government. "I would like to plead that in the current political climate and in the spirit of the handshake, we need to embrace inclusivity in devolution," he said. Read: Follow up handshake with inclusive talks, UK tells Kenya The conference was jointly organised by the Council of Governors, Assemblies and the national government for the first time. This critical meeting gives the country an opportunity to reflect on problems and progress in devolving power to the people. Great strides have been made in implementing devolution but some counties have almost nothing to show for it. More on this: Devolution meet a chance to take stock of progress, problems Click here for the latest political news