The number of Kenyan babies vaccinated against life-threatening diseases has fallen dangerously, to the lowest level since 2013. The 2018 Economic Survey indicated that only 63 per cent of children under the age of one year were vaccinated last year, compared to 76 per cent in 2013. The survey showed the rates have been falling every year since 2013 and sank to the lowest last year. The drop is largely blamed on the five-month-long nurses’ strike that began in June last year. Only 1,014,894 children were vaccinated last year. “The national full immunisation coverage for children below one year decreased from 69 per cent in 2016 to 63 per cent in 2017,” the report says. “The situation continues to pose substantial risks to the well-being of children. Continued accumulation of children who have not received any life-saving vaccines has created a great risk of an outbreak of vaccine-preventable diseases,” Unicef representative in Kenya Werner Schultink said. The survey was released last week by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. Read:Vaccinations saves lives ‘Herd immunity theory’ holds that if most people are immune to a disease, then it’s unlikely that anyone will get sick and infect anyone in the herd — including those who are unprotected. Immunisation coverage is measured as the proportion of infants who have received their third dose of diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough vaccines. “The highest decrease in coverage occurred in Narok and Nyamira counties at 24.1 and 22.3 per centage points, respectively. Laikipia and Turkana counties had the highest increase at 22.9 and 16.5 percentage points, respectively,” the survey said. Kenyan babies must be vaccinated against 10 childhood diseases by their first birthday. These diseases include pneumonia, polio, tetanus, diarrhoea, measles, whooping and diphtheria. In October, the government and Unicef moved to vaccinate 300,000 children aged below five in 11 counties worst-hit by the strike. They were Turkana, Lamu, Marsabit, Isiolo, Wajir, Mandera, Garissa, Tana River, Samburu, West Pokot and Baringo. Kenya’s aims to protect 90 per cent of children with vaccines. Kiambu has 100 per cent coverage. Mandera has only 25 per cent coverage. Also Read:Hospital holds birth certificates to compel vaccination of babies