More than 120 Kanu branch officials in Rift Valley have asked Senator
Kipchumba Murkomen to explain the source of the money he uses to hire a
helicopter to attend political rallies countrywide. They have also asked Murkomen to stop attacks on the family
of retired President Moi and ‘play his political sycophancy elsewhere’. Tiren claimed that Murkomen is part of the cartels importing
maize and selling to the NCPB at higher prices. Moiben MP Sila Tiren has also strongly criticized Murkomen over the attacks on Gideon who is also the Kanu party leader. “We all see him going round the country throughput in a
chopper yet he is just a legislator like us. He claimed that I am working with
maize cartels yet we all know he is the one who knows the cartels and that us
why he is able to fly any time he wants”, said Tiren. Tiren wondered why
Murkomen was talking ill of the Moi family following the visit by former PM
Raila Odinga to Kabarak. Odinga was with Tiren among other MPs. On Sunday speaking during the homecoming of PS for Trade Dr
Chris Kiptoo Murkomen accused Baringo Senator Gideon Moi of blocking a section
of Rift Valley leaders from visiting retired President Moi. Murkomen claimed that only those
loyal to Gideon were allowed to see Mzee Moi. “It has been very difficult to see Moi because Gideon only
allows that who are loyal to him to see mzee Moi”, said Murkomen. But Tiren has told off Murkomen over the claim and wondered why
Murkomen desperately wanted to meet Moi. Kanu branch chairmen from Rift Valley led by Paul Kibet and
Joseph Amdany met in Eldoret and said Murkomen was disrespectful to elders and should not be
allowed to meet Moi. “Moi’s home at Kabarak is a like holy place and people with
dirt can be allowed to visit. Murkomen must learn manners and respect elders
before he is allowed to even move near the place”, said Kibet. They warned Murkomen that he was turning into a political
liability to DP William Ruto because of frequently abusing other leaders. "He
has turned himself into a sycophant who enjoys making enemies for DP
Ruto.His utterances and abuses against other leaders only help to dim
Ruto's political future", said Kibet. 