Traditional arch rivals Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards will renew their football rivalry on May 1 in a SportPesa-sponsored friendly with the winner is set to face English side Hull City. The two teams, who renewed their sponsorship with the gaming firm yesterday, will clash as part of the deal and the victor will face Hull in a friendly that will also be used to officially open the Moi international Sports Centre Kasarani on May 13. SportPesa’s chief executive officer, Ronald Karauri, revealed that the English club would tour the country to play either of the two and later conduct football clinics. “To mark our return to football sponsorship, we are looking forward to welcoming Hull City to Kenya. Our partnership with Hull is expected to benefit local players and that is why they will be also be involved in conducting football clinics. The team is expected in the country on May 11 for a five-day tour that will also feature several other activities.” A KPL All Stars team toured England in February last year and played Hull’s Under-16 team at KC Stadium, where they went down 2-1. In a phone interview, Hull City coach, Nigel Adkins said: “This is an exciting opportunity for the club to be able to play in Kenya. The passion for football out there is enormous and we can’t wait to interact with the local teams. I’m much honoured to be the first coach to bring the team to Africa.” Meanwhile, Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia has expressed hopes to have three stadia ready by the end of June. Kaberia, who graced the return of SportPesa to local football, announced that the ministry had partnered with the gaming firm to hasten renovation works ahead of the much-fancied friendly match. “I can confirm that three stadia will be ready by June. We have partnered with SportPesa to hasten renovation works at Kasarani Stadium where the friendly between a Kenyan club and Hull City will officially open the facility. Kinoru is set to host Madaraka Day celebrations and we expect it to be ready before then. We have experienced challenges with Nyayo Stadium and we hope it shall be ready before the June deadline,” he said.