Raila Odinga is once again the talk of town. The ODM leader flew to Kabarak mid morning yesterday to visit retired President Daniel Moi. The meeting elicited speculation that the man whose handshake nowadays causes ripples is perhaps crafting a 2022 deal with Moi's son, Gideon. Well, the two have a history: Moi detained Raila without trial, formed a cooperation pact with him later and made him secretary general of his Kanu before he walked out in 2002 and handed Moi's candidate, Uhuru Kenyatta, a resounding defeat. Since he shook hands with Kenyatta, Raila has kept many guessing as to what he is up to. Now, some people find it hard to believe he just went to shake Mzee's hand and say pole!. Deputy President William Ruto may be ahead of the pack in the race to succeed his boss, Uhuru Kenyatta. But does he know there are people from central Kenya who are busy plotting how to stop him from taking pover? The group, comprising of a few rich and influential people, is consulting intensively who the region should back and keeping all their moves very close to their chests. Question is will they spring a surprise on the former chicken seller and consign him to the fate of many a Kenyan vice-president? Still on matters Ruto, did the DP ask ANC and Ford-Kenya MPs to join him during CS Amina Mohammed's homecoming in Kakamega tomorrow? Amina has scheduled a thanksgiving ceremony in Kakamage township where MPs from the two parties who met Ruto two weeks ago in Karen are expected. The DP asked them to attend to prove that they are serious about working with him. Just what is former Kiambu governor William Kabogo up to? The (former?) flamboyant politician met ODM Leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday then met ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Wednesday in a meeting that he did not want made public. We are told that Kabogo is looking for a party to join as he plots his come back in 2022. Those in the know whispered to Corridors that Kabogo wanted to know what the Raila-Uhuru deal was about so that he is not caught wrong-footed since he is interested in taking up a senior position in Mudavadi's party. Relief food meant for victims of the recent floods in Nyanza region has been 'rotting' at a local administration office for three weeks as two leaders engage in a vicious fight over who to take credit. The leaders — both contested the same seat before the loser was nominated — claimed to be the 'owner' of the consignment and want to oversee its distribution. The County Commissioner has halted the distribution until it is ascertained who of the two women leaders 'begged' for the food. *****************    