Between 2012 and 2016, cases of terrorism gained momentum in Kenya, leading to the arrest and prosecution of several people. In 2016 alone, at least 30 cases of persons facing terror related charges were recorded at the Mombasa and Shanzu courts. However, only two people were found guilty and convicted. Ninety per cent of the cases were dismissed over lack of sufficient evidence to warrant conviction. Mombasa chief magistrate Evans Makori has cited failure of several agencies to work together to achieve a successful conviction of a terror case. Makori said the blame could not be shifted to a single agency, but there was a need for all stakeholders involved in terrorism fight to work together. “According to reports, Mombasa has the highest numbers of terror cases in whole of Horn of Africa,” Makori said. After acquitting an accused person charged with terrorism, Makori said lack of consistent evidence has been the main reason for dismissal of many cases. He said the prosecution and the police from time to time fail to link the accused person to the offences they are charged with. He said this can only be achieved if thorough investigations are done before the cases are brought to court. Makori further said the police should use the intelligence they receive to investigate the suspects, since such information cannot be used in court. “Intelligence cannot be produced in court as evidence but the police can use it to further their investigations hence coming up with proper evidence,” he said. The head of Mombasa station further said the anti-terror department needs to adopt the counter-terrorism resolutions. He said the guidelines, which focus on preventing terrorism, are doing well in he European states. Mombasa assistant director of public prosecution Alexander Muteti agreed that there are loopholes that need to be covered before stories of successful prosecution and conviction of terror suspects are told. Muteti said terror cases being new criminal offences in Africa, there is much to be done. “It is not easy to link a suspect to a terror group like al Shabaab or any terror group. They do not have identification cards to show which group they belong to,” he said. He said most cases involve transnational investigations, where investigators need to extend their investigations to other countries that should be approached in a systematic way. Muteti said it has been a hard task to obtain evidence from other countries whenever it is required. “You cannot go to another country and just carry out investigations. It is hard to that,” he said. Being an emerging crime, Muteti said the government needs to invest in empowering the police on how to handle and carry out investigations on terror. Some of the reasons given for the dismissal of cases include failure to positively identify the suspects, failure to produce exhibits recovered during the arrests and failure to place the suspect at the scene of crime. However, the prosecution has been able to secure two convictions, including the sentencing to 10 years of Haniya Saggar, the wife of slain controversial Muslim cleric Aboud Rogo. In the judgment, senior principal magistrate Diana Mochache said even though the evidence adduced before her was circumstantial evidence, the police had been able to link Haniya to a Central police attack in 2016. She was charged with failure to disclose information that could have stopped the police station attack on September 2016. In 2016, Samwel Wambwile, alias Salim Mohammed, was sentenced to 20 years in prison for radicalising young boys. Wambwile, who served as madrassa teacher at a mosque in Kilifi county, was accused of using his powers to manipulate the boys aged between five and 16 years.