A petitioner wants Interior CS Fred Matiang’i removed from office for gross violation of the Constitution during the second deportation of self-proclaimed NRM general Miguna Miguna. Mohamed Mohammud Sheikh from Wajir wants Parliament to initiate an impeachment motion against Matiang’i. He says the CS violated Chapter Six of the Constitution, and is therefore unfit to hold public office. Read : Why Miguna Miguna was deported a second time In a suit dated yesterday, Mohammud wants the National Assembly to propose a motion to President Uhuru Kenyatta for the purpose of removing Matiang’i from the Interior docket. “Matiang’i’s continual stay as Cabinet Secretary serves as a threat to the Constitution and the sovereignty of the people of Kenya. Unless he is removed from office, the public confidence in his oath, roles and responsibility will further eternally diminish,” he argues. Mohammud says the CS “deported Miguna” for a second time “under regrettable conditions”. The ministry had disregarded court orders and this prompted Justice George Odunga to hold Matiang’i in contempt of the orders and slapped him with a Sh200,000 fine. “Matiang’i has loudly demonstrated his lack of understanding of the Constitution and the values and principles underlying the new constitutional dispensation,” it adds. Also read : Miguna leaves Dubai for Canada under UAE police escort Miguna was forced into a Dubai-bound plane by Kenyan authorities on March 28 after he was denied entry into the country. A court had directed that he be facilitated to acquire a passport so he could enter Kenya and attend hearings. On Sunday, Miguna hailed “the professional and humane side of the United Arab Emirates” after Sheikh Khalid, a senior UAE government official, escorted him to get proper medical tests and treatment. He accused Kenyan police of “barbaric assault, torture and chemical poisoning.” The lawyer arrived in Toronto, Canada, on Monday, after spending four days at the Dubai International Airport. Click here for the latest political news 