Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi has accused police of dragging their feet in the search for five bodies of people who drowned in River Enziu. He said yesterday it is disturbing the bodies are still in the water for more than two weeks. The body of a student who drowned has also not been found. “Police are harassing and beating up innocent people at Nguni market instead of finding the missing bodies. Their loved ones are devastated. They are in agony. Where do they turn to for help?” he saked. I have tried everything I can including contacting the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Mulyungi said. He told the police to put themselves in the shoes of the mourners. Mulyungi said a human being whether dead or alive is important. Families need the bodies of their loved ones to bury so they can have peace of mind. Mulyungi wondered how a Probox with four bodies could remain in the river for days because the police are unable to find them. Bereaved families have been camping at the river. David Matambo, an uncle of the deceased Probox driver, said his nephew sent him a text message that they were stuck at the flooded River Enziu and he did not know if they would make it. “That was the last communication I got from him. He was in the company of three other people heading for the burial of my nephew. The deceased’s sister was also in the Probox. It is a double tragedy. Their mother died last year and their father passed on three years ago. What a misfortune,” Matambo said. Families are pleading for help to trace the bodies of the four who were travelling overnight from Nairobi to attend the burial in Nuu the following day. Matambo’s family hired a bulldozer but their search was futile. Diver John Musyoki said their efforts are frustrated because the ditch beside Enziu drift is too deep they would be risking their lives. Experts are needed to retrieve the bodies. Mwingi East police boss Paul Munene said they have sent a signal to headquarters and aksed for experts to retrieve the bodies since local divers are unable.