Boda boda riders in Nairobi have fought the directive by Governor Mike Sonko calling for their eviction from the central business district. The governor on Sunday said the motorbike operators will be removed from the CBD alongside street families and hawkers. But the group has rejected the proposal saying the directive is contrary to the agreement they reached with the county government. Kevin Mubadi, chairman Boda Boda Association of Kenya, said they had agreed with the county government that they would adopt self-regulatory measures. Among the measures, the association chairman says, is an online portal they launched to keep track of those operating within the CBD. "The registered 4,000 bodaboda riders in Nairobi have been given a special code which will be mounted on their motorcycles for identification," he said. Mubadi said that the stickers will assist in the identification of riders who break the law or those who are reported to be involved in crime. "In our last meeting with the governor, we were only told we would be directed on the designated areas from where we can operate," Mubadi said. He said they will plan a consultative meeting with Sonko in order to address the issue on the status of boda boda operation within the city centre. The riders were exempted in the ongoing operation to rid the city of hawkers. In January, Sonko banned boda boda operators from ferrying people to and from the city centre in the wake of surging crime. In February, the riders had staged a protest outside City Hall against extortion by inspectorate officers. They claimed the county inspectorate officers have been demanding money from them despite paying the monthly license fee of Sh3,000. Also read: Court declines to suspend boda boda CBD ban, asks Jaguar to serve Sonko Early this month, the county government announced 300 boda boda operators, hawkers, and matatu operators will be taken for a benchmarking trip in Rwanda. Read: Sonko to take 300 hawkers, matatu drivers to Rwanda for benchmarking Click here for the latest political news