President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda to deliver affordable housing to Kenyans has sparked a rift between the Ministry of Lands and the National Lands Commission. Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri yesterday told the National Assembly Lands Committee the Public Land Information Management System needs to join all stakeholders. Muraguri told the committee chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai there is a need to create a centralised data centre to avail survey plans to investors. “We need one system that captures all units,” Muraguri said. But the NLC vice chair, Abigael Mbagaya, told the committee separately they will adopt the integrated system once a database for all public lands is finalised. “The country is crying because huge chunks of public land are in the hands of private individuals. The quickest way to deliver land for the Big Four Agenda is developing a database,” Mbagaya said. “We must first develop the systems as the NLC to hand over to the integrated system. What will we hand over to the Ministry without developing a database?” She insisted on a streamlined plan to address land management and recover public land held by private developers and state corporations. The NLC director, Mercy Nyamwea, said the commission has issued title deeds to 2,070 public schools, out of the 27,000. Nyamwea said the majority of schools are in settlement schemes, urban areas, adjudicated areas and community ranches, making it difficult to offer titles accordingly. Mbagaya said, “We have revoked titles and reinstated lands back to the schools. We have defended the cases in court.” Muraguri said the Ministry suffered a budget cut of Sh751.5 million in Supplementary Budget Estimates II for implementation of the Big Four programmes. “We wish to request for your committee’s intervention for reinstatement of the funds to enable the Ministry to implement 2017-18 programmes and clear pending bills,” he said. In February, the National Assembly Committee on Delegated Legislation asked the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning to improve regulation. The committee is chaired by Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei. It told outgoing Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi and NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri there is a need for public participation, consultation and approval from Parliament before regulations are implemented.