Tea farmers may from next year have to bear the high cost of fuel following the ban on logging. Lerionko Tiampati, the Kenya Tea Development Agency chief executive, yesterday said the agency supports the government on the ban on logging, but the move is likely to hurt the income of tea farmers in 2018-19. In February, the government issued a ban on logging and suspended timber and log movement permits indefinitely. Many of the 68 tea factories in the country have enough wood fuel stocks to produce tea in this crop year, but with the ban on logging taking effect, this could affect tea production. Read : Blanket logging ban to cost businessman Sh650m loss The ban on logging will affect operation at the factories which will be forced to look for alternative sources such as use of furnace oil which is very expensive, and costs 30 times more than using wood fuel. This cost will be incurred by the farmers and it may affect their monthly payments. Tiampatia said they hope to get a better and cost effective solution to fuel cost so that farmers continue to enjoy good payments. The agency has so far acquired about 20,000 acres to plant trees and encouraging farmers to plant more. Tiampatia confirmed this has been a good year for tea farmers and prices have been steady. “We do not know if production will be too high in the three months remaining to the end of the crop year due to the heavy rains. With too much production, tea prices are likely to reduce or fluctuate,” he added. Tiampatia flagged off 56 rainwater harvesting tanks worth Sh6.8 million in Industrial Area. The tanks will be distributed to 56 primary and secondary schools in catchment areas around KTDA tea factories. Also read : Ruto logging ban is a costly PR ploy Last month, Kenya Tea Development Agency Board chairman Peter Kanyago said they risk losing at least Sh5 billion if the government does not allow it to harvest its own trees for tea processing. Kanyago said the 68 tea factories run by small scale growers will be affected. “The ban affected us badly, despite the fact that we have been growing our own trees which we harvest for tea processing,” he said. The firewood is used in the factories for tea manufacturing. The only alternative is the costly furnace oil. A factory like Iriaini Tea Factory has been growing trees on 494 acres, which it is now not allowed to harvest. Click here for the latest political news