The government has sidelined Kisumu county in the distribution of food for flood victims, Ruth Odinga has said. The former deputy governor, who now serves as director of special programmes, said deputy county commissioners were working with politicians without involving the county. As a result, genuine flood victims have been sidelined in favour of masqueraders. "This must end. Only genuine victims camping at evacuation centres should benefit from the aid," Odinga told the Star on the phone on Friday. She called for a joint effort to mitigating floods in the region, saying majority of those affected risk being left out during disaster responses. Odinga accused politicians of giving government aid to their supporters at the expense of flood victims. She said some MPs within the county have received food for distribution to flood victims, but were yet to visit centres where those affected were camping. Odinga claimed that relief food was being sold in some local markets. “We have received reliable information that food meant for flood victims are sold at Ahero in Nyando subcounty. We want security agencies to probe the matter,” Odinga said. Floods have hit Nyando, Muhoroni, Nyakach and Kisumu East constituencies with more than 2,000 families affected. Odinga called for the investigation of local administrators for the misuse of relief food. “This nonsense of seeking popularity with relief food meant for flood victims must stop,” she said. Attempts to reach county commissioner Pauline Dola for comment were futile. Dola had earlier in the week told the Star that 1,313 families had been evacuated to camps after their homes were flooded. Most villages in Nyando have been flooded for weeks after River Nyando burst its banks following heavy rains. The floods have also destroyed maize, sorghum and vegetables in most parts of Kisumu. Several houses were submerged. Some health centres have also been flooded, making it impossible to access medical services. More than 400 homesteads were affected in Nyando subcounty while a total of 980 people have been displaced in Muhoroni. Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili said they have been supporting more than 1,000 households since the rains started last month. The county has distributed rice, maize, beans, cooking oil, sugar, nets, blankets, sleeping mats and tents to victims . Owili said they had allocated Sh113 million to buy relief food. The money is meant for food and non-food relief items, including mosquito nets, soap, water purifiers and blankets. Several houses have been marooned, some submerged, leaving many families out in the cold. Health facilities are also flooded, making it impossible to access medical services. Owili said medical tents have been set up in evacuation centres. As a long -term solution, he said the county is planning to put up dykes, water pans and overflow canals in flood-prone areas.