For the second day running, Kenyans were forced to play second fiddle after failing to shake off the Ugandan challenge in the women’s 10,000m race at the ongoing Commonwealth Games at Carrara Stadium in Gold Coast. Just a day after Uganda’s Joshua Cheptegei took off with the men’s 5,000m race, Stella Chesang added salt on the wound with another gold in the women’s 25-lap race. Chesang won the race in 31:45.30, relegating Kenya’s medal hope Stacy Ndiwa to silver in 32:46.36 while another Ugandan Mercyline Chelagat took bronze in 31:48.41. The second Kenyan, Beatrice Mutai, placed fourth in 31:49.81 while Sandrafelis Chebet was a pale shadow of herself as she faded to ninth in 32:11.92, behind another, Ugandan Juliet Chekwel, who timed 31:57.97. Ndiwa said it was painful losing the second gold to Uganda, who have always lived in the shadows of Kenyans. “We planned very well but I guess the Ugandans were better prepared,” she noted. Kenya won gold in both the men’s 5,000m and the women’s 10000m at the last games in Glasgow in 2014 through Caleb Mwangangi and Joyce Chepkirui respectively and what unfolded here in Gold Coast was a ‘major coup’ by the Ugandans. Ndiwa said while her pace during the race was good in the opening rounds, she couldn’t take it to the next level when it mattered most. All the same, she said the race was a good way of gauging herself ahead of the Shanghai Diamond League meeting next month. Winner Chesang said Kenyans have been winning all through and had mistreated her in the two World Champions and it was her time to smile . “It isn’t a bad idea for the Ugandans to smile for once. There is nothing wrong snatching gold from my border neighbour Stacy Ndiwa,” she quipped with a smile. The race had started on a slow note and it wasn’t until the 15th lap that the three Kenyans swung into action with Ugandans hot on their heels. However, the leading pack of about 10 runners followed and Kenya’s bid to shake off the rest of the field early was thwarted by the Ugandans who scattered them upfront. This prompted the rest of the field to follow suit and in the process spoiled any plot the Kenyans may have harboured. Chesang then took advantage of the situation to steal the show and run away with gold. Click here for the latest political news