An Ol Kalou woman is nursing wounds after three thugs armed with AK-47s attacked her yesterday morning in a home invasion in Kianda village. Her 20-year-old daughter is traumatised after she was kidnapped and later abandoned in a forest a kilometre away. Police are investigating. Beyond theft, the motive was not immediately known. Homeowner Geoffrey Njogu said the criminals jumped over a perimeter wall at 1am and broke the window of his children’s bedroom. He and his wife rushed there after realising something was amiss. They found themselves under siege. "I moved back, but my wife, who had already entered the children’s room, got trapped inside,” Njogu said. He said the hoodlums pursued him, he struggled with them as they attempted to force their way into his bedroom. They said they were after him and and shot at the bedroom door, he said. By then they had taken his wife and children captive. "I had a panga and I used it to hit the bedroom window, to see if I could escape. They stopped pushing and went to open the sitting room door, which we normally lock with a padlock,” Njogu said. "As they struggled to break the lock, I removed my shirt, crawled to the children’s bedroom and escaped through the same window they used.” After the thugs realised Njogu had fled, they savagely beat his wife and broke her hand, demanding cash. She only had Sh2,000, which they took. They also took away two Dell and HP laptops worth Sh80,000 and three phones. They had difficulties leaving the home. The remote-controlled main gate could not open. They shot at it nine times, but it didn’t break. They beat Njogu’s wife further and ordered her to open the gate. They then abducted Njogu’s daughter, a first-year university student. The thugs used her phone to call her father, demanding his phone password and M-Pesa Pin number. He obliged. Njogu said he later realised they did not withdraw cash. The phone was dropped in nearby thickets. The daughter was left tied up. She struggled and freed herself. Then she grabbed her father’s phone and rushed home. Njogu’s daughter said the thieves kept communicating on the phone with someone who was issuing instructions. She overheard one of them say, “We did not get the man, but we have his daughter.” Njogu said he did not understand the motive. He has no grudge with anybody, he said. “I don’t know why this had to happen. I have no enemies,” he said. The girl was taken to J.M. Memorial Hospital, Ol Kalou, for examination and counselling. She was traumatised, but had no physical injuries. The mother was also hospitalised. Nyandarua Central police boss Wilson Kosgei said they will interrogate them once they recover.