For Nakumatt, the only positive coming their way so far in the 2018 Kenyan Premier League campaign is that there are two teams worse than them. If the league were to end today, the fallen Supermarket giants will at least survive until the playoff. That case of schadenfreude will not flutter Nakumatt at this time when their officials are reportedly in discreet search for a takeover or possibly a sponsor. That could only become a reality if they remained in the top division. Today, they take their fight for survival to Ruaraka where they face off with title contenders Mathare United. On paper, this tie is a mismatch with Mathare eyeing top spot with victory while their opponents are seeking to get from the bottom three. Nakumatt must be wary of Cliff Nyakenya, a striker who has taken the league by storm, scoring four times in as many matches including their winner in the last outing. Matahare have rarely been prolific in front of goal than they are now, a situation that must please coach Francis Kimanzi as midfielder Crispin Oudor and Francis Omondi have chipped in goals too to ease the scoring burden on their front men. It’s a luxury that has eluded Nakumatt and as their placing suggests goals will have to start flowing or their future could be in the red. At the same venue, Sofapaka will be hoping to take advantage of any slip up in the early kick off as they host Nzoia United. Nzoia have been in a rich vein of form recently and their top scorer, Elvis Rupia, will have to show that he is not just a flat-track bully and hit the net against title challengers like sofapka. “This is an important game against a side who are getting their form back. We must not take their standing in the table to judge them because they have shown in the last month that they are a dangerous opponent. If we want to challenge for the league, we must be consistent against any opponent,” said Sofapaka defender Humphrey Okoti. The first match of the day, however, will be in Awasi, where Chemelil host struggling Thika United who could fall into the bottom three if they lose. Resurgent Ulinzi Stars will be at home to Vihiga United while Posta Rangers host Kakamega Homeboyz. Click here for the latest political news