Author: Jagi Gakunju Publisher: Wajee Nature Park  Retired insurance executive Jagi Gakunju has lived a life full of adventure. For years he would recount his exploits to family and friends until finally his sons convinced him to write his autobiography called Living on the Edge. He begins with the story of his father, a World War II veteran who survived being murdered because of witchcraft. Born in Nyeri in 1948, Gakunju is a child of traditional and modern crossroads during the Mau Mau era. Much has been written on this subject but Living on the Edge brings new personal experiences such as Gakunju’s life in the concentration villages during the State of Emergency. A natural storyteller, he writes about engaging episodes from his youth such as how he orchestrated his own circumcision or attending an all-Asian high school. Being in a school far away from his home region instilled in him a strong national identity. This, he believes, is the panacea for killing “the cancer of tribalism” that plagues Kenya today. Gakunju retired in 2014 as the CEO of AAR Holdings after a long and successful career in various African countries. A man of strong work ethics, it was interesting to read of the various fraud schemes he unearthed, sometimes at great personal risk. I was amazed at Gakunju’s adventurous spirit. He recounts road travels and walking safaris around Africa, sometimes arranged with minimal resources. He has climbed Mt Kenya 14 times and once climbed Mt Kilimanjaro when he was quite unwell. “There are times when I have pushed myself to a level where I was reckless,” he writes. Along the way, this career executive developed a strong love for nature and conservation. Despite his farming heritage, Gakunju took the unusual step of converting his coffee farm into a forest conservancy for birds and wildlife. His Wajee Nature Park has been designated an Important Bird Area of Kenya. Gakunju says, “Environment should go hand in hand with development.” From founding the environmental club Uvumbuzi, to saving the lives of snakes and lobbying for the development of urban bicycle transport as a form of green infrastructure, Gakunju’s passion for conservation is impressive. I would have liked to hear more about his family and his views on fatherhood, having so ably described the disparate parenting styles of his mother and father. In recent years, writing one’s memoirs has become all the rage in Kenya, with mixed results in terms of critical and commercial success. Jagi believes it is important for Kenyans to document their life experiences, saying, “That is the way the history of a people is told to ensure that future generations do better than their predecessors in their achievements for humankind.” For him, a key ingredient for a good memoir is truthfulness. “Hiding the truth is like hiding a pregnancy, telling lies is a very-short term alternative truth.”