MPs will tomorrow to question Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed and her Lands counterpart Farida Karoney over the disputed claimed by two city public schools and a private developer. The National Assembly Lands Committee committee chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai is also expected to hear the directors of Afrison Export and Import Limited and Huelands Limited which are battling out with Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School over land ownership. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission will also appear before the committee to provide the progress on their probe on whether Afrison and Huelands's sister company – Whispering Palms Estate Limited – was justified to receive Sh1.5 billion from the State on January 29. But as the probe continues, the Star has established the committee is split on who between the private firm and the learning institutions owns the 13.7701 acres in Ruaraka. Some MPs seems to have made a u-turn by rallying behind the company. “We have looked at the documents and it is like the company followed the due process in acquiring the parcel of land,” an MP who sought anonymity said. But Nyamai has trashed the claims, saying the committee is united and focused on probing the matter. “No, we do not have any split in my committee. There is no infighting and what I know is that we are working together,” Nyamai said National Lands Commission vice chairperson Abigael Mbagaya told the committee last week that the schools do not have valid documents to show ownership of the land which is at the center of dispute. Mbagaya that the allotment letter was since canceled, leaving the schools with no document to justify their procession of the 13.7701 acres which neighbours the General Service Unit headquarters, De La Rue Company and Kenya School of Monetary Studies. The company has maintained that they acquired the same land in 1981 from Joreth Limited. They claim the then directors of the two firms were former Central Bank of Kenya governor Duncan Ndegwa, the late Njenga Karume and the late Arthur Magugu. The directors have faulted Parliament and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for probing that the matter, saying that due process was followed. “EACC and Parliament are yet to say what they are investigating, given that the money we have received was paid following the due process,” the said. “In 1986, the government controversially constructed two schools within the land, and just like in the previous moves, no payment was made to the owners. We have been complaining for the past 30 years.