The government has refuted claims that Ndakaini dam is recording low water levels due to cracks and open valves. Water CS Simon Chelugui said on Friday that they have investigated the allegations and can confidently report that there is no evidence of "earth movement" that might have caused the low levels. Chelugui attributed the low levels to massive deforestation of the Aberdares which is the dam's catchment area. The CS said there should be no cause for alarm as the Nairobi water company operates three dams including Ndakaini, Sasumua and Ruiru with when combined have a storage capacity of 89million cubic meters. "We want to clarify on the false perceptions that the dam has cracks and open valves that are draining the dam. There is no evidence of earth movement or abnormal shifts around the area and the only two valves releasing water and the other for distilling are closed," the CS said. Earlier on the government had also dismissed reports that the construction of the Norther collector tunnel was to blame for the misery at Ndakaini. Read:Collector Tunnel not lowering level in Ndakaini dam – official He said the overall water supply for the month of March was 507,600 meters per day from Ngethu, Sasumua and Kabete water treatment plants. Chelugui said Ndakaini alone supply 440,000 meters cube a day of all water supply to Nairobi and its environs. "This dam is like a buffer storage. It is not the main storage but helps during the dry season to increase the flow of River Chania that feeds the Ngethu treatment plant," he said. He added, "The water level in the 65 meter high dam with a capacity of 70 million meter cub depends on the recharge from river water contributed by rainfall in the Aberdares but has been affected by climatic change. We wish to clarify that Ndakaini depends on the catchment area of Aberdare which as we speak has received very low rainfall". The CS said the current river flow though has increased from 2.6 cubic meters per second to 4.6 cubic meters per second, it is supposed to be flowing at 9 cubic meters at such a high rainfall season. Chelugui argued the fact that the dam has been in existence for the last 25 years there could be some natural factors also contributing to the low levels. He maintained that water rationing in the city will continue until the dam gains high water level to allow free flow. He said Nairobi needs a total of 770 million cubic meters of water a day but Nairobi Water only manages to supply about 520 million cubic meters with a deficit of 250 million cubic meters. The CS said with the completion of the Northern collector tunnel, it will add some relieve to the deficit with an additional of 140 million cubic meters in a day. Chelugui said the tunnel at 35 percent completion is expected to be fully operational by end of next year. Also Read:Water rationing to continue as Ndakaini Dam level remains low  Click here for the latest political news    