The courts declared plans by the government to tap private mobile conversations through broadband communications networks illegal and gross violations of consumer rights. What the Judiciary is doing is telling the government to go slow on the legislative process. Remember, the Judiciary is one of the arms of government meant to check each other, ensure respect for human rights and maintain law and order. The other two arms of the government are the Executive and Legislature. We already have very extensive provisions within the regulation and the rule of law. The court was protecting the privacy and freedom of expression of Kenyans and those visiting the country. The message that should go out is that our freedom to communicate should be within the law and must be respected. The government should not be enthusiastic to listen to our communications, unless they are criminal activities. I don’t think we have adequate laws to handle emerging criminal challenges but we shouldn’t get overzealous  with crafting new laws. We might end up over-regulating. The greatest danger with over legislation on areas of privacy is that the state will then pursue all spheres of life, which is not what we desire as citizens. It should be confined within the limits of the Constitution. Kenyans should jealously protect their rights to freedom of expression. That includes being able to communicate without fears the government is secretly listening or tapping. However, all of us must use our gadgets and channels of communications responsibly for the protection of all of us. We should not infringe on the rights of others or use them for criminal activities. Even as the state continues to exercise its mandate to access private communication to protect us, we should also be able to set up adequate oversight mechanisms for such provisions. Anytime the state accesses private communications, it has to account for the reason it accessed. If we let the state have all power, it means people in high places or within the system will access our private conversations for individual interests. Some might use the information for criminal activities against citizens. I have to say we have a potential area of abuse and demand an oversight authority over the state jurisdiction to ensure our private communication are strictly safeguarded. There must be a parallel mechanism to ensure accountability.  The writer is Executive Director of Independent Medico-Legal Unit.     .   