The declining water levels at the Ndakaini Dam in Murang'a county despite heavy rains wrecking havoc in various parts of the country has left the Athi Water Services Board puzzled. In the last two months, over 70 people have died since long rains started. Athi Water Services Board acting CEO Michael Thuita yesterday expressed frustrations that the heavy rain was pounding low lands and not the upper. “The rain in Nairobi is not in Aberdares hence little run off. All the rivers from Aberdares have not improved,” Thuita told the Star on phone. Thuita said all is however not lost as improvements are expected. He said the levels currently is at about 30 percent. "This can be attributed to climate change as there has been an abnormal behaviour,"Thuita said. Last week, Thuita distanced the Sh 6.8 billion Northern Collector Tunnel from declining water levels. Thuita said the two-year-long drought contributed to the low level. “This drought has depleted the aquifers that recharge the rivers that feed the dam. Therefore, the ongoing rains have to contribute to aquifers filling and then increase river flows,” he said. The tunnel is only 35 per cent complete. About 4.5km of 11.7km of the tunnel are complete. Initially, the tunnel faced strong opposition from Murang’a residents and opposition political leaders who expressed fears the project would deplete underground and cause earthquakes. ODM boss Raila Odinga said it would turn five counties into deserts. Thuita said the little rains being experienced in Aberdares was charging the acquifers. He hinted that water rationing may not be in sight soon. However, the Acting director of the Kenya Meteorological Department Peter Ambenje told the Star last week that the region has been receiving good rains and the dam level may rise. Ndakaini dam can store 70,000,000 cubic metres at full capacity. It is 2,041 meters above sea level. The dam is 65 meters deep. It produces 430,000 cubic metres daily, about 84 per cent of total supply to Nairobi residents. The dam’s catchment area measures 75 square kilometres. It includes Kimakia and Gatare Natural Forests in the Aberdare Ranges.The main rivers draining into the Dam from are Thika, Githika and Kayuyu.