Radio Africa digital editor Oliver Mathenge is a recovering alcoholic. For the first time, he has spoken about his addiction, which twice drove him to attempt suicide. The soft-spoken boss quit drinking a few months ago, and he tweeted that he has finally marked 100 days of soberness. "For two years, I struggled with the urge to be high, and since I do not do any drugs, alcohol was a quick solution. I had given up on life in a manner that pushed me to escape reality and seek to avoid everyday challenges. I could not survive a day without alcohol, unless I was too hangovered to get out of bed," Oliver wrote. "In between the day in the office, I would go out to have a few shots of whatever drink I thought my system needed. Some Fridays, drinking would start as early as midday and would sometime go on until Sunday." His journey wasn't easy. He told Word Is: "During those 100 days, something stressful came up and I needed a drink, but I kept telling myself, 'You're in this for a reason. If you go back you're going to suffer.' I didn't want to go through what I was going through the previous year." While battling alcoholism, Oliver says his lowest moments were: "Putting the post on Twitter, trying to take my life twice, and not being there for my family — letting them down — and not working as required by the management. "I tried to take my life twice. I lost friends because I could not be there for them unless there was alcohol involved. I also had friends who were cheering me on as I wasted my life, which was seemingly coming to a halt. Alcohol took a lot from me. It took control of me." But what was going through his mind when he tried to commit suicide? "I felt alone. Life was no longer what I wanted it to be. I had set too many goals for myself and couldn't manage them. I disappointed so many people in my life, both at work and family. I was at my lowest where I felt I really needed to get away from all this that's going on and the best way is exit. I never told anyone about it and tried but it didn't work. God had a reason as to why." Oliver said he sunk into debt, and that there's a time when he couldn't even afford to buy a shirt for himself but would never lack money for alcohol. He decided to take a different path and give life a second try, and he says he's working on fixing his past life. He's looking forward to growing the Radio Africa digital team and says he is aiming on being the top in Africa.