Deported lawyer Miguna Miguna finally arrived in Toronto, Canada, yesterday, after spending four days at the Dubai International Airport. Lawyer Nelson Havi said Miguna travelled to Canada on his own volition and with assistance of the Canadian consulate in the UAE. He left for Canada to seek medical examination, Havi said. “He will undergo toxicology tests and treatment for the chemicals used to sedate and poison him. He will return thereafter,” he said. Havi said Miguna would have returned to Kenya if it were not for his health. “Bearing in mind his health, it was quickly decided by family members that he takes a flight to Canada,” he said. [Statement] Why I refused to hand over my Canadian passport - Miguna The self-styled National Resistance Movement ‘General’ had earlier maintained he had no travel document with him, insisting he would only board a Nairobi-bound flight. The Star established that Miguna’s Canadian passport was being held in Nairobi by two of his lawyers, despite the fiery activist claiming he had lost the travel document at JKIA, Nairobi. The United Arab Emirates had by Friday given Miguna 48 hours to produce his Canadian passport for stamping by immigration officials, or be jailed in Dubai. The Canadian High Commission in the UAE and Miguna are said to have been informed about the drastic step. Yesterday, the embattled opposition activist left the airport aboard Air Canada 57-ACA57 flight, a few minutes to Sunday midnight after he presented his Canadian passport. Read: Miguna leaves Dubai for Canada under UAE police escort The plane touched down at Toronto Pearson International Airport at 12.15pm yesterday after a 13-hour-and-25-minute flight, amid reports he was escorted by UAE police. Photos shared after his arrival showed he was attended to at Mackenzie Richmond Hospital. He has maintained he will plan his trip back to Kenya after being cleared by the doctors. “I intend to immediately return to Kenya and to continue the struggle for a better and just society that Kenyans have been yearning for over 55 years,” Miguna said. “The way I’ve been abused and tortured reflect the state of our society where a rogue regime of the rich oppresses millions of Kenyans to protect their ill-gotten economic and political interests.” The fiery opposition figure has twice been deported from Kenya. He had claimed his passport disappeared without trace at JKIA when he was manhandled by police during a three-day impasse. Watch: [VIDEO] Miguna refuses to get into London plane, says he is sick Miguna’s nightmare at JKIA had lasted close to 72 hours in a toilet where he was locked up by Kenyan agents after failing to produce his passport. “UAE authorities have started investigations on how he got his Canadian passport back after failing to produce it to the authorities on departure from Kenya and arrival in Dubai,” a highly placed source in government said. The source added that Kenya might also investigate how that passport got back to him after he accused local authorities of having stolen it during a nasty scuffle at JKIA last week. On Saturday while being held in Dubai, Miguna blamed NASA chief Raila Odinga for not securing his reentry into Kenya. In a statement from Dubai, Miguna accused Raila of sitting pretty with his oppressors even though his tribulations began when administered the controversial January 30 oath as People’s President. “Raila Odinga cannot and should not be enjoying Easter abroad and dining with the tyrants when the person who swore him in as the People’s President is being ‘murdered’ by those who stole his election and who have killed and maimed his supporters,” Miguna said in a statement. More on this: I woke up in Dubai, despots forcing me to go to London - Miguna ODM leaders cautioned Miguna against his continued attacks on Raila. They said the NASA chief made efforts to save the lawyer from deportation. The leaders said they sympathised with Miguna over his ordeal, but would abandon him if he continued accusing the Raila falsely. Miguna was forced into a Dubai-bound plane by Kenyan authorities on March 28 after he was denied entry into the country. He was heard expressing his intention to sue Emirates Airlines for taking him back to Dubai against his will. A court had ordered that his entry into Kenya be facilitated to enable him to attend hearings. On Sunday, the lawyer hailed what he termed “the professional and humane side of the United Arab Emirates”. This was after Sheikh Khalid, a senior government official, escorted him to get proper medical tests and treatment. He accused Kenyan police of “barbaric assault, torture and chemical poisoning.” Read: Why Miguna Miguna was deported a second time  Click here for the latest political news