Education CS Amina Mohamed has been nominated co-chair of the Commonwealth Platform for Girls’ Education. The Platform will be chaired by UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs,  Boris Johnson. Introducing CS Amina as Co-chair in London, Johnson described girls’ education as a moral imperative and hailed Kenya for demonstrable efforts towards addressing barriers to girls’ education. Read:CS Amina asks UK for more scholarships for Kenyans Accepting the nomination, Amina stressed the importance of girls’ education adding that Kenya had stepped up various policy interventions to ensure girls have access to education up to the highest level of their capability and interest. “In Kenya, we fully agree with the Foreign Secretary Johnson that girls’ education is a moral imperative. We also recognize that the education of girls is smart economics, given its potential to transform entire economies,” Amina said. Championed by the UK Foreign Secretary, the Platform for Girls’ Education brings together 12 leading advocates to build political will towards the achievement of ‘the 12 years of Quality Education for all Girls Campaign.’ “The campaign’s vision is to ensure that all girls get 12 years of quality education,” Johnson said. “We want to break down the barriers preventing girls from gaining 12 years of quality education, improve the quality of teaching, support the reform of education systems and help the most marginalised girls to learn,” he added. Read:Will Amina Mohamed fit in Matiang'i shoes as Education CS? The Platform will seek to sustain momentum, influence debate, build political will and report back on delivery of declared commitments during the 2018-2020 period in which the UK will be chair of the Commonwealth. The cabinet secretary said that although Kenya has almost achieved gender parity in education, certain factors, social norms and practices continue to impede progress in girls’ education. Read:Kenya agrees to host 2021 Education Ministers conference “Among these key impediments is poverty, female genital mutilation which is estimated to affect 21 per cent of girls in the 15-49 age group; early marriages with an estimated 23 per cent of girls marrying before their 18th birthday especially in ASAL areas, abuse and gender-based violence, long distances to school and lack of hygienic wear for girls” she said.  Click here for the latest political news